03-08-2021||Business||Vodafone loses 2,700 crore after Kumar Mangalam Birla’s letter||Vodafone Idea Limited, struggling to pay more than Rs 50,000 crore AGR arrears, lost more than Rs 2,700 crore in market cap on Tuesday, a letter from chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla was released to cabinet secretary Rajiv Gowda in June. “It is with a sense of duty towards the 27 crore Indians connected by VIL, I am more than willing to hand over my stake in the company to any entity- public sector/government /domestic financial entity or any other that the government may consider worthy of keeping the company as a going concern,” Birla said in the letter. The stock plunged 10.30 per cent to close at Rs 7.40 on the BSE. During the day, it tumbled 13.09 per cent to Rs 7.17 — its 52-week low. At the NSE, it closed at Rs 7.40, lower by 10.30 per cent. According to official data, VIL had an adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liability of Rs 58,254 crore out of which the company has paid Rs 7,854.37 crore and Rs 50,399.63 crore is outstanding. VIL along with Bharti Airtel had approached the Supreme Court for correction in the government calculations, but their plea was rejected. In the letter, Birla, who holds around a 27 per cent stake in VIL, said investors are not willing to invest in the company in the absence of clarity on AGR liability, an adequate moratorium on spectrum payments and most importantly floor pricing regime above the cost of service. Without immediate active support from the government on the three issues by July, the financial situation of VIL will come to an "irretrievable point of collapse," Birla said in the letter dated June 7. Following are the top 10 points of the big story: 1. Bir Birla warns of a “growing crisis” and his 27.66 per cent stake in 27 troubled telecom companies may be deemed worthy by any public sector / government / domestic financial entity, or any other government – to keep (VIL) an ongoing concern. “ 2. Aditya Birla Group Chairman said that despite “all possible efforts to improve operational efficiency”, VIL’s financial condition has “rapidly deteriorated” and “Rs 25,000 crore is required to manage VIL activities and pay the regulator / government debt”. 3. “… without the immediate assistance of the government … by July 2021 … the financial condition of VIL will (reach) to an irreplaceable point” connected by 270 million Indian VILs “. 4. Birla said potential (non-Chinese) investors wanted to see “clear government intentions to market three-player telecoms … through positive action on long-term requests, such as clarity on AGR liability, adequate suspension of spectrum payments and, most importantly, A floor pricing system is above service costs “. Apart from this, investors are showing “understandable hesitation”, he said. 5. No immediate comment was received from VIL or any other concerned party including the government. It is also unclear whether there was any communication between the government and VIL after the letter was submitted. 6. VIL AGR owes Rs 50,399.63 crore; It has already disbursed Rs 7,854.37 crore. The balance due after today’s crash is more than double the current market cap of Rs 21,264 crore. In addition, till March 1, 2021, the total debt excluding lease liability and AGR arrears is Rs 1,80,310 crore. This includes Rs 96,270 crore of late spectrum payment obligations and Rs 23,080 crore of banks and financial institutions. 7. Faced with a letter warning of “immediate” danger, VIL stocks fell today, hitting a 52-week low of 12 percent before recovering somewhat. With the Sensex and Nifty hitting record highs in one day, various macroeconomic indicators point to a revival of demand in the economy as optimistic about the rapid pace of economic recovery. 8. Last month, the Supreme Court in January dismissed an application filed by telecom majors, including VIL, seeking a recalculation of the AGR, citing “mathematical errors” in the accounting of the AGR. In September last year, the court said the arrears could be paid over a 10-year period, but added that 10 percent had to be paid by March 2021. 9. Telecom companies Vodafone, Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio are embroiled in a two-decade-old revenue-sharing dispute with the government that focuses on AGR, or collects total revenue. The government wants to include revenue license fees from non-core businesses, but companies say such revenue should be excluded. 10. In December 2019, Bir Birla warned that Vodafone would be forced to shut down if the government did not provide relief on AGR and other liabilities. “If we don’t get anything, I think it’s the end of the Vodafone Idea story,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
03-08-2021||Business||Total debt of GDP expected to increase to 61.7% in 2021-22: Centre||The government on Tuesday informed Parliament that it expects the total debt as percentage of GDP to increase to 61.7 per cent (provisional) in 2021-22 from 60.5 per cent (provisional) in the previous fiscal. At the same time, public debt would rise to 54.2 per cent in the current financial year from 52 per cent in 2020-21. In a written reply in the Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary said the government's amendment of the FRBM Act will target a path of fiscal consolidation aimed towards reaching a level of fiscal deficit below 4.5 per cent of GDP by 2025-26. The government expects fiscal deficit to come down to 6.8 per cent in the current fiscal from 9.3 per cent estimated for 2020-21. Amendment to the FRBM debt targets will be in consonance with the broad fiscal deficit path, he added. Replying to another question, Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Karad said the RBI through a circular on ''Storage of Payment System Data'' in 2018 "had mandated all system providers to ensure that the entire data (full end-to-end transaction details / information collected / carried / processed as part of the message / payment instruction) relating to payment systems operated by them is stored in a system only in India." They were also required to report compliance to RBI and also submit a board-approved System Audit Report (SAR) conducted by an Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) empanelled auditor, Karad said. In response to requests for clarifications on various issues from Payment System Operators (PSOs) on the above notification and for expeditious compliance by all PSOs, he said the RBI also issued Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) on the subject on June 26, 2019. RBI has informed that American Express Banking Corp (Amex), Diners Club International Ltd (Diners) and Mastercard Asia/Pacific Pte Ltd (Mastercard) failed to comply with the requirements of the above circular, he said. "Accordingly, Amex and Diners were prohibited by RBI from on-boarding fresh domestic customers onto their card networks from 01.05.2021 till the time full compliance with the requirements of the circular was ensured and a satisfactory SAR was submitted. A similar prohibition was imposed on Mastercard from 22.07.2021," he said. Domestic banks already have substantial credit card business in the country, and there is no restriction on them on running such business, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
03-08-2021||Business||Parliament passes Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill||The Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill, 2021 following a brief discussion amid ruckus created by Opposition parties over the Pegasus snooping row and other issues. The Lok Sabha had passed the bill on July 28. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill, 2021 provides for a pre-packaged insolvency resolution mechanism for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). After moving the bill for consideration, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said "this bill has been brought keeping in mind the situation in which MSMEs require a lot of help post the pandemic..we are increasing the threshold and coming up with a pre-pack." "There was this feeling that there could be a lot more surge of insolvencies among the MSMEs...but there is no surge in the insolvencies of MSMEs..the options available for the MSMEs are not very many..by this, there will be a better way in which these MSMEs can seek to have a solution... "It is less costly..it is hybrid in nature...the debtor will still be in control and the creditors will be working together and, therefore, it is actually going to cut the cost and speed up the process because the whole thing will be over in 120 days," she said. She urged all members in the House to consider and pass the bill. After a brief debate, Sitharaman in her reply said, "I will ensure we are also working to fill the vacancies in the (NCLT) benches..So, I do not want you to worry about vacancies and causing any further delay." Addressing a query of Amar Patnaik (BJD), she said, "The process can be initiated only with the consent of 66 per cent of unregulated financial creditors and consent of special majority of shareholders... Also, civil and criminal liability is attached to any act of wilful misinformation or omission of information." "Insolvency professional is tasked with clear duty to report mismanagement on fraudulent practices," the finance minister added. She opined that pre-package is flexible, cost effective, time bound and therefore very suitable for MSMEs. Supporting the bill, Patnaik initiated the debate and said,"I welcome the bill in its entirety, I foresee the problems that will come in the implementation of the bill. Number one is the valuation of the company..the base resolution plan...and no Swiss challenge or any such arrangement should go below it. Otherwise, it should automatically be referred to the CIRP (Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process)." He also expressed concern about minority stakeholders' interest in the pre-pack. "Currently, there are about 50 per cent vacancies in the NCLTs of the country," he added. Others who participated in the debate included Banda Prakash (TRS), M Thambidurai, K Ravindra Kumar (TDP) and V Vijaysai Reddy (YSRCP). After a brief debate by few members, the bill was moved for passage in the House. It was passed with voice vote amid the din by the Opposition. The bill seeks to replace the IBC Amendment Ordinance, 2021 promulgated in April which introduced pre-packs as an insolvency resolution mechanism for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) with defaults up to Rs 1 crore. The proposed amendments will enable the government to notify the threshold of a default not exceeding Rs 1 crore for initiation of the pre-packaged resolution process. The government has already prescribed the threshold of Rs 10 lakh for this purpose. The bill proposes a new chapter in the IB Code to facilitate the pre-packaged insolvency resolution process for corporate persons that are MSMEs. As per the statement of objects and reasons of the bill, it seeks to specify a minimum threshold of not more than Rs 1 crore for initiating the pre-packaged insolvency resolution process as well as provisions for disposal of simultaneous applications for initiation of the insolvency resolution process and pre-packaged insolvency resolution process, pending against the same corporate debtor. There would be a penalty for fraudulent or malicious initiation of the pre-packaged insolvency resolution process, or with intent to defraud persons, and for fraudulent management of the corporate debtor during the process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||Zeeshan Bhatt Created ZB Digital with Scarce Liquidity & High Goal Orientation||Self-employment has been blossoming over the past few years. In this era of the internet and digital technology, people can now try and sell their ideas and hit the road to success. Zeeshan Bhatt is a young entrepreneur who had high ambitions and determination to achieve his ambitions from his childhood. As he began exploring the digital world at an early age, his interest in digital marketing also ignited the spark of entrepreneurship at a young age. Zee was experimenting with various things at such an early stage. He created a Youtube-resembling website in collaboration with one of his developer friends when studying in 10th standard. He also started a platform, ‘Adscoop,’ before the advent of demonetization in India. Although sudden demonetization came as a bolt from the blue, yet as a robust optimist, Zeeshan took it as a blessing in disguise, and he overcame it by looking at things objectively through a different ‘scope’ and laid the foundation of ZB Digital at the age of 20. Input Methodology Analysis From the point of view of a layman, capital investment is the only way to establish or start any business. But Zeeshan’s business philosophy has been somehow different than a layman. He believes that it is the right combination of ambitiousness and proper utilization of meager funds that bears fruition. In other words, input comprises of ambitiousness, dedication, hard work, and the appropriate utilization of whatever available scarce funds. He knew that to make his dream a reality, he had the required skill set and strategic mindset, which are even more influential than the required capital. Thus, he did not consider the shortage of funds as the barrier in his way to reach his destination. He wanted to develop a brand, so he continued working his fingers to the bone to build his brand. Ultimately, his credibility and reputation led him to build a brand that resonates with his customers/clients. How ZB Digital Came Into Being Although you need funds to start your company, some non-monetary resources might be more helpful in setting up a successful business. Zee knew that he must put in ample energy and discipline if he aspired to grow his business despite scarce capital investment and liquidity. He knew that if he works hard, he will improve himself, and he will persist. Zee put in his time, courage, determination, and hard work to make ZB Digital come to life to overcome the lack of liquidity. The two curves (the curve of ambitiousness, hard work, and the curve of scarce funds), when properly drafted, will automatically meet at a point of equilibrium just as it occurs in the ‘Law of Demand and Supply’ and ‘Law of Input-Output Analysis.’ He never let that shortcoming become a hindrance in his way to achieve his dreams. Eventually, Zee was able to get projects based on his knowledge, expertise, and skill set. He decided to hire a team of creative professionals. In this way, the right combination of less capital, rigorous hard work, and commitment resulted in the formation of ZB Digital. The Thriving Culture and ZB Digital The world is in a fluctuating digital era, and billions of people spend a lot of their time poking around online platforms. Businesses are now aware of this fact, thus leveraging these platform's popularity to advertise their goods and services. Regardless of your industry type, you can benefit tremendously from subscribing to digital marketing services. ZB Digital is also playing an essential role in this transformation. They have helped many solopreneurs, individuals, startups, and companies of various niches expand their online businesses and leverage the power of Artificial/Machine Intelligence for human prosperity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||Markets hit fresh highs: Sensex zooms 873 points to close at 53,823||Equity benchmark Sensex skyrocketed 873 points to a fresh closing peak while the Nifty finished above the 16,000-mark for the first time on Tuesday, driven by gains in index heavyweights HDFC, Infosys and TCS. The 30-share BSE index ended 872.73 points or 1.65 per cent higher at its lifetime high of 53,823.36. The broader NSE Nifty rallied 245.60 points or 1.55 per cent to record 16,130.75. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by HDFC, Nestle India, IndusInd Bank, UltraTech Cement and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Tata Steel and NTPC were the laggards. "Bulls pulled off the 16,000 mark on the Nifty effortlessly buoyed by positive news flow on GST and export data as domestic fund houses poured Rs 280 billion during the first four months of the current fiscal," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. The journey past 16,000 quite clearly has been led by the retail investors who have allocated more into equities even as FIIs sold worth Rs 95 billion during this period, he noted. "The present rally is all the more significant since it provides enough opportunities to the new investor coming in now as several pockets of the economy still offer value going forward," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong ended with losses, while Seoul was positive. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.47 per cent to USD 73.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||Sensex jumps nearly 245 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped nearly 245 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC, TCS and Infosys and supported by positive macroeconomic indicators.  The 30-share index was trading 244.77 points or 0.46 per cent higher at 53,195.40 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 56.85 points or 0.36 per cent to 15,942.  Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Titan, PowerGrid, HDFC, M&M and Tech Mahindra.  On the other hand, HCL Tech, Bajaj Auto, Tata Steel, ICICI Bank and NTPC were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex rallied 363.79 points or 0.69 per cent to finish at 52,950.63, while Nifty surged 122.10 points or 0.77 per cent to 15,885.15.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,539.88 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.  According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, fundamental support to the bulls has been coming from good corporate results.  "Now the macros are turning very positive with the declining fiscal deficit, rising tax collections, and now the excellent performance in exports which shot up by 48 per cent in July. The PMI at 55.3 indicates a potential sharp turnaround in economic activity.  "This can embolden the bulls to take Nifty beyond 15,950 early in August unless FIIs turn massive sellers at those levels," he said.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Hong Kong were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Seoul were positive.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.07 per cent to USD 72.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||Auto Expo postponed amid concerns of Covid third wave||Auto Expo, India’s premier auto show, which was scheduled to take place in February next year at Greater Noida has been postponed amid concerns of a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The last edition of the biennial automobile show took place in February 2020. “The magnitude of the risk of the spread of infection is extremely high in a business-to-consumer (B2C) show like the Auto Expo which is visited by large crowds and maintaining social distancing would be difficult. It has, therefore, been decided to postpone the Auto Expo for now,” the Society of Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) director general Rajesh Menon said in a statement. The exact date for the next edition of the motor show would be finalised later this year keeping in view the Covid situation and in alignment with the calendar of other global auto shows, he added. The auto industry body may host the show in late 2022 if things improve, Reuters said. “The Auto Expo is like a celebration  for the Indian auto industry and we look forward to receiving maximum people with no fear of spread of infection,” Menon added. The car show in India is a platform for domestic car makers such as Maruti Suzuki  and Tata Motors as well as global companies such as Hyundai Motor Co and Daimler to showcase new models and technologies. Companies have to spend a lot of money on the display and with the uncertainty of a third wave it was thought best to postpone the event, one of the sources said. Auto Expo 2020 saw total footfalls of over six lakh visitors. Around 70 products were launched at the country’s flagship auto show. Around 352 product were displayed from 108 exhibitors. Keeping in pace with the trend of eco-friendly vehicles, the expo had also showcased 35 electric vehicles. Tata Motors raises prices Tata Motors on Monday said it has increased prices of its passenger vehicles by 0.8 per cent with effect from August 3. The prices will be raised on an average of 0.8 per cent depending on the variant and model. The company will offer protection from the price increase to vehicles that will be retailed on or before August 31 With inputs from Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||India's exports grow 47.19 per cent to $35.17 billion in July||The country’s exports grew 47.19 per cent to $35.17 billion in July on account of a healthy growth in the shipment of petroleum, engineering goods and gems and jewellery, according to provisional data of the commerce ministry. Imports during the month also rose 59.38 per cent to $46.40 billion, leaving a trade deficit of $11.23 billion. FIEO president A. Sakthivel said the export figures were a sign that global trade was recovering fast. However, Sakthivel asked the government to soon notify the RoDTEP rates, release the necessary funds for the Merchandise Exports from India scheme and clarify the benefits of the Service Exports from India scheme. The FIEO president also asked the Centre to augment the flow of empty containers and establish a regulatory authority to oversee the freight hike and imposition of various charges by the shipping lines. Exports of petroleum increased to $3.82 billion in July, while shipment of engineering items rose to $2.82 billion and of gems and jewellery to $1.95 billion. Imports of petroleum, crude and petro products rose 97 per cent to $6.35 billion. Imports of gold were up 135.5 per cent to $2.42 billion, while shipments of pearls, precious and semi-precious stones stood at $1.68 billion in July. “With the continued unlocking of the economy and a surge in gold imports, trade deficit  widened to a three-month high in July 2021, in spite of merchandise exports clocking an enthusing record-high performance,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at Icra. Nayar said “with a robust services trade surplus in June 2021, in addition to the state lockdown-compressed merchandise trade deficit, we expect a small current account surplus of $2-3 billion for the first quarter of FY 2021-22”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||Unacademy raises $440 million in Series H funding round ||Bangalore-based  edtech startup Unacademy has raised $440 million in its Series H funding round led by Singapore-based Temasek that valued the start-up at $3.44 billion. The round also saw participation from global investors — SoftBank Vision Fund, General Atlantic, Tiger Global, Oyo founder Ritesh Agarwal’s Aroa Ventures and Zomato’s Deepinder Goyal. Some existing angel investors have exited the start-up in this round, the company said in a statement. The investment comes after the edtech startup closed a secondary transaction round in January that saw participation from Tiger Global, Steadview Capital, General Atlantic and Dragoneer. The edtech unicorn has, according to market estimates, raised an amount of more than $800 million, including the current round. Unacademy said its valuation has risen 10-fold in the last 18 months, one of the fastest growth witnessed by a mid-stage consumer internet startup in the country. The latest investment also comes on the back of Unacademy acquiring online game streaming platform Rheo TV for an undisclosed amount, the 10th acquisition of the company. WifiStudy, Kreatryx, CodeChef, PrepLadder are among the other key acquisitions of the company. Founded in 2015 by Gaurav Munjal, Hemesh Singh and Roman Saini, Unacademy at present has over 50,000 registered educators and more than 62 million learners. The startup offers learnings in 14 languages across 5,000 cities. Last week, the company announced stock options for teachers on its platform. Startups have raised an estimated USD 7.25 billion in the second quarter ended June 2021. This is a significant jump compared to USD 1.1 billion raised during the corresponding quarter a year ago. Pharmeasy, Byjus, Grofers, Whatfix were among the top funding rounds in June 2021 according to data compiled by Tracxn.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||HDFC reports marginal fall in net profit for June quarter||HDFC on Monday reported a marginal fall in its net profit for the quarter ended June 2021 because of one-off items. The mortgage lender posted a standalone net profit of Rs 3,000.67 crore compared with Rs 3,051.52 crore in the same period of the previous year. The housing financier said the profit figures were not directly comparable with the previous year’s numbers because of the profit on the sale of investments of Rs 263 crore in the reporting quarter compared with Rs 1,241 crore in the year-ago period. Dividend income, too, was lower at Rs 16 crore against Rs 298 crore last fiscal. Moreover, it incurred employee stock options charge of Rs 146 crore compared with Rs 1 crore in the same quarter of last year. Further, there was a rise in the effective tax rate, which stood at 23.1 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21 against 15.4 per cent last year. HDFC said during the April-June period, its core net interest income rose 22 per cent. “The demand for home loans continues to remain strong. While disbursements during April and May were somewhat impacted, business has reverted to normalised trends in June and July. July 2021 disbursements were the highest in a non-quarter end month,” it said, adding that during the quarter, individual loan disbursements grew 181 per cent over the corresponding year-ago quarter. PNB net jumps State-owned Punjab National Bank on Monday reported an over three-fold jump in its standalone net profit at Rs 1,023.46 crore for the first quarter ended June 30, mainly because of a fall in operating expenses and good recovery. The bank had posted a net profit of Rs 308.45 crore in the same quarter last year. Sequentially, net profit was up from Rs 586.33 crore in the March 2021 quarter. Interest income fell to Rs 18,921 crore from Rs 20,638 crore. Meanwhile, small-sized private sector lender RBL Bank on Monday reported a loss of Rs 459.47 crore for the June quarter against a profit of Rs 141 crore in the year-ago period as the money set aside for future loan setbacks shot up nearly three times. The bank said 97 per cent of its gross slippages of Rs 1,342 crore came from the retail segment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||Emami records 97 per cent growth in profit after tax ||Emami has recorded a 97 per cent growth in profit after tax on the back of a 37 per cent rise in revenue in the first quarter of this fiscal over a lower base in the same period last year despite the disruptions in the marketplace because of the second wave of Covid-19. Even though revenue and profit decelerated sequentially from the fourth quarter of the last fiscal, the headline and bottomline performances are better than the pre-pandemic first quarter of 2019-20. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 660.95 crore in the April-June quarter of this fiscal compared with Rs 481.34 crore recorded in the same period of last fiscal. Profit after tax stood at Rs 77.79 crore during the quarter under review compared with Rs 39.58 crore in the first quarter of of 2020-21. Revenue and profit were at Rs 730.76 crore and Rs 87.73 crore, respectively, in the fourth quarter of the previous fiscal. While domestic business grew 42 per cent over the previous year, it grew 5 per cent over the first quarter of 2019-20 despite the raging impact of the second wave. Further, all major brands grew handsomely by more than 50 per cent during the quarter, except Navratna which posted a growth of 21 per cent. Modern trade grew 63 per cent and e-commerce continued its robust run growing 3.7 times. Mohan Goenka, director of Emami, said, “The overall demand since early June has once again been showing improvement with the Covid positivity rates dropping to pre-second wave levels.” Harsh Agarwal, director of Emami, said: “We recognise that e-commerce today has become the channel of choice for many which led us to launching our exclusive e-commerce business, Zanducare.” In the first quarter, contribution of e-commerce rose 300 basis points to 5 per cent of domestic revenues. Emami’s international business grew 17 per cent. Except the Middle Eastern geographies, all other regions posted strong growth during the quarter. While revenue and profit grew by 2 per cent and 98 per cent over the Q1 of 2019-20, they fell over the January-March of 2020-21. Revenue and profit were at Rs 730.76 crore and Rs 87.73 crore in Q4 of last year, representing 9.5 per cent and 11 per cent dip over the last quarter. While the initial weeks of April witnessed sustained growth momentum, subsequent increase in COVID cases led to a challenging phase over the month of May.  While personal care products were impacted, demand for health and hygiene products was also muted compared to the first wave phase, Emami admitted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||Privatisation of state-owned banks to be deferred to next fiscal ||The privatisation of state-owned banks that was announced in the budget could be deferred to the next fiscal as the Modi government is yet to initiate the legislative procedures in Parliament. The government has to amend the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970, and the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980, before proceeding with the privatisation exercise North Block officials said the amendments have not been scheduled for the current monsoon session of the House, though they have started the work to bring about the changes. At the earliest, it could be tabled in the Winter session, which would leave little time for the privatisation to be completed before the end of this fiscal. While presenting Union Budget 2021-22 in February, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said three PSU banks and one state-run general insurance company would be privatised this year. “Other than IDBI Bank, we propose to take up the privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company in the year 2021-22,” Sitharaman had said. Though the Centre has not said which two banks would be privatised, the names of Central Bank of India and Indian Overseas Bank are doing the rounds. “The bold move to privatise state-run banks faces risk from political opposition and structural challenges, including heightened balance-sheet stress due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which is likely to keep bank performance subdued for the next two to three years,” Fitch Ratings has said. The rating agency said the structurally weak governance frameworks of PSU banks have resulted in persistently weak performance, reflected in significant asset-quality problems. Meanwhile, the Lok Sabha on Monday passed a bill to amend the general insurance law to allow the government to pare its stake in state-owned insurers. In its statement of purpose, the Centre has said the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 will enable the general insurers to raise funds from the market and design innovative products. The bill seeks to remove the requirement that the central government should hold not less than 51 per cent of the equity capital in a specified insurer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||India's manufacturing sector grows at strongest rate in three months||India’s manufacturing sector grew at the strongest rate in three months in July amid improved demand conditions and easing of restrictions, which prompted companies to create new jobs for the first time since the onset of the pandemic, a monthly survey said. The seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) rose from 48.1 in June to 55.3 in July. In PMI parlance, a print above 50 means expansion while a score below 50 denotes contraction. “It’s encouraging to see the Indian manufacturing industry recover from the blip seen in June. Output rose at a robust pace, with over a third of companies noting a monthly expansion in production, amid a rebound in new business and the easing of some local Covid-19 restrictions,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Lima noted that “should the pandemic continue to recede, we expect a 9.7 per cent annual increase in industrial production for calendar year 2021”. China slips China’s manufacturing growth in July slowed to its lowest level in 15 months as export demand weakened and factories coped with disruptions in supplies of raw materials and components, two surveys found. Coal India offtake Coal India on Monday said it has recorded its best performance in terms of offtake, production and overburden removal in the month of July. A large part of the demand for the fuel was from power plants with electricity consumption gradually inching up to pre-pandemic levels. Offtake of the power sector in July 2021 was 39 million tonnes (mt), posting a 17 per cent growth compared with 33 million tonnes in July 2020. Overall offtake of the coal fired plants during the April-July period was 166.3mt compared with 127.2mt a year ago. CIL’s supply accounted for three-fourth of India’s total coal based power generation of 82.11 billion units during July 2021, which includes generation through imported coal. Total supply in July, including non-power users was 50.5mt compared with 43.3 MT in July 2020 at a growth rate of 16.7 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
03-08-2021||Business||Kumar Mangalam Birla ready to sell Vodafone Idea stake||In a desperate attempt to save cash-strapped Vodafone Idea, Aditya Birla group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla has offered to hand over his stake in the debt-laden company to the government or any other entity that the government may consider worthy to keep the company operational. “I am more than willing to hand over my stake in the company to any entity — public sector/government/ domestic financial entity that the government may consider worthy of keeping the company going,” Birla said in a letter addressed to cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on June 7. Birla owns more than 27 per cent stake in Vodafone Idea Limited (VIL), while British giant Vodafone Plc holds over 44 per cent. According to official data, VIL had an adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liability of Rs 58,254 crore of which the company has paid Rs 7,854.37 crore with Rs 50,399.63 crore outstanding. The telecom operator has to pay nearly Rs 1,500 crore to the DoT as AGR dues every quarter over the next 10 financial years between 2021 and 2031. Vodafone Idea also owes Rs 96,270 crore in deferred spectrum payment obligations and another Rs 23,000 crore to banks and financial institutions as of March 31 this year. In the letter, Birla warned that without immediate active financial support from the government and  clarity regarding AGR liability, moratorium on spectrum payments and a price floor above the cost of service, VIL’s financial situation will drive its operations to an irretrievable point of collapse. Birla said that in order to actively participate in fundraising, foreign investors want to see a clear government intent to have a three-player telecom market. “With the absence of definitive steps on the three key issues of concern for VIL by the government, potential investors have been hesitant to invest,” the letter said. This is the first time one of VIL’s parents have spoken to the government of their plans to offload their stake, fearing a collapse of the loss-making telco. The government so far has remained silent on having a price floor, while the Supreme Court has rejected the operator’s plea to recalculate the AGR dues. “It is with a sense of duty towards the 27 crore Indians connected by VIL, I am more than willing to hand over my stake in the company to any entity — public sector/government /domestic financial entity or any other — that the government may consider worthy of keeping the company as a going concern,” Birla said. There were no immediate comments from either the Aditya Birla group or VIL. It could not be ascertained whether there were any other communications between Birla and the government after the June 7 letter. VIL had received approval from its board to raise up to Rs 25,000 crore. However, the company has not been able to raise the funds so far. According to Birla’s letter, VIL has not yet approached any Chinese investors. Foreign investors, mostly non-Chinese, are hesitating in making investment in the company for understandable reasons, he added. Possible option The government must merge Vodafone Idea Limited with PSU Bharat Sanchar Nigam (BSNL) and recapitalise the private operator, brokerage Deutsche Bank had said. The only viable solution is for the government to recapitalise VIL by converting its debt into equity, preferably while merging it with BSNL, and then providing it a clear commercial mandate based on profitability targets and incentives. In December 2019, Birla had said that VIL would have to shut shop if the government did not provide relief on the liability it faces in past statutory dues. “It does not make sense to put good money after bad. That would be the end of the story for us. We will shut shop. If we are not getting anything then I think it is end of story for Vodafone Idea,” Birla had then said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
