04-08-2021||Business||Kumar Mangalam Birla steps down as Vodafone Idea chairman||Kumar Mangalam Birla has stepped down as non-executive director and non-executive chairman of Vodafone Idea, the company said on Wednesday. Himanshu Kapania, a nominee of the Aditya Birla Group, has been appointed as the non-executive chairman, Vodafone Idea Ltd (VIL) said. The changes come at a time when VIL is struggling to stay afloat. "The Board of Directors of Vodafone Idea, at its meeting held today, have accepted the request of Kumar Mangalam Birla to step down as Non-Executive Director and Non Executive Chairman of the Board with effect from close of business hours on 4 August, 2021," it said in a regulatory filing. Consequently, the board has "unanimously elected" Himanshu Kapania, currently a non-executive director, as the non-executive chairman, the company said. Kapania is a telecom industry veteran with 25 years of experience, including significant board experience in telecom companies globally. He has also served on the Global GSMA Board for two years and was also chairman of the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) for two years. "Further, based on recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Board has appointed Sushil Agarwal, a nominee of Aditya Birla Group, as an Additional Director (Non Executive and Non Independent) with effect from 4 August, 2021," VIL added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
04-08-2021||Business||Markets at new highs, Sensex rallies 546 pts to scale 54K||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 546 points to finish above the 54,000-mark for the first time on Wednesday, tracking strong gains in financial stocks amid positive cues from global markets. After scaling its lifetime peak of 54,465.91 during the session, the 30-share index ended 546.41 points or 1.02 per cent higher at a record 54,369.77. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 128.05 points or 0.79 per cent to its all-time peak of 16,246.85. It touched a lifetime intra-day high of 16,290.20. HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 5 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank, SBI, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Titan, Nestle India, Ultratech Cement and Sun Pharma were among the laggards. Domestic equities extended gains with benchmarks Sensex and Nifty scaling fresh high mainly on the back of sharp rebound in heavyweight financials, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. He noted that financials were the sole driving force for the market rally, which was triggered after better-than-expected June quarter performance reported by SBI. The country's biggest bank posted a 55 per cent rise in standalone net profit at Rs 6,504 crore for the first quarter of the current financial year, helped by decline in bad loans. Further, positive cues from global equities also lifted sentiments, Modi stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with gains, while Tokyo was in the red. Equities in Europe were also in the green in afternoon trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.18 per cent to USD 72.28 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
04-08-2021||Business||Talking Tomorrow: Enclave discusses hybrid future||Talking Tomorrow – the L&D 2.1 Enclave, presented by Sodexo in association with IndianOil concluded with around 100 delegates, 12 sessions , five C Suite speakers and three celebrity international trainer motivators. The event was powered by AMRI Hospitals, Purity Partner AQUAKRAFT and Academic Partner GNIHM of the JIS Group of Educational Institutions. Day 1 on July 27 began with the Keynote Session featuring Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra, Director, HR- Indian Oil, who made the introductory remarks and declared the Enclave open. He highlighted the three gateways of transition into tomorrow’s business multiverse as “adaptability, agility and alignment”. The keynote address was delivered by Anish Sarkar, CEO-Sodexo BRS India and a prominent voice in corporate India. He underlined the concept of “digital fluency” integral to learning & development and the road ahead for Sodexo BRS India with its immersive suite of new-age employee benefits for superior employee experience. On Track Two, the C Suite Panel discussion on Day 1 included Harish Sarma, VP - Marketing, Sodexo BRS India and a Marketing Excellence Awardee from IIM Calcutta, chairing the session which featured K.K. Mohanty, MD, Gammon Infra and an alumnus of Harvard Business School, Amitava Saha, CHRO BIOCON & an alumnus of IIM Calcutta, and Harsh P Bhosale, Chief People Officer of Nayara Energy and, interestingly, an ex-athlete. They highlighted the next up trends in Working in the New Normal. The high point of Day 1 was the highly energetic 30-minute session by international trainer motivator Melanie Martinelli live from Switzerland called “Mix it Up!” demonstrating next-age learning tools like Mentimeter, Flippity, Padlet, & Conceptboard much to the delight of the L&D community members in the audience who quizzed her about technical issues like software whitelisting and international copyrights. Day 2 of Talking Tomorrow on July 28 started with Straight Talk on Sustainability with Dr Subramanya Kusnur, Founder Chairman, Aquakraft, introducing futuristic concepts like Water Balance Sheet & Water Bank and the enclave continued on Track Two with a thought provoking session on Creativity in Chaos by best-selling author & corporate storyteller Vinay Kanchan putting forward the IDEAS model of creative thinking &  moved into high gear with “Get Well Sooner” by CEO, AMRI Hospitals, Rupak Barua who highlighted the global experience nature of the black swan pandemic and outlined the road ahead in the medical landscape and the resulting sweeping changes in corporate life. On both days Track One Training was conducted by Krish Banik, CEO, EMG HRD, on the Winning Habits in Disrupted Times with participant interactivity both in audio and video modes and concluded with a real time multiplayer gaming experience on Kahoot! In the valedictory session called Sodexo Masterclass, Abhishek Kurdukar, VP - Sales, Sodexo BRS India, closed the two-day enclave with a prediction of a hi-tech hybrid future where corporates with hi-touch will have a sustainable competitive advantage. The delegates of Talking Tomorrow included participants from Public and Private Sector corporates. Organisations represented included Biocon, IndianOil, PC Chandra Jewellers, IFFCO, SREI, Dalmia Bharat Cement, Gammon Infra and JIS Group among others. The event was curated by EMG HRD – the L&D Division of the Worldofemg and concluded with a jam session by new age trending talent Anisha Lakhmani performing international hits like Imagine, Times Like These and Lost Stars. When contacted Chaitanya Chatterjee, Learning & Organisational Development Head, Biocon Ltd., who attended all the sessions on both the days commented: “According to me Krish Banik’s sessions were wonderful & crisply summarized. The session by Melanie Martinelli was timely. The session by Vinay Kanchan was another reminder to practitioners like us to be more creative and ideas driven. The chat with the HR leaders on the C Suite panel helped us understand their vision and priorities for today. To sum up: a well timed and much needed event in challenging times like these!” Krish Banik, Lead Trainer & CEO of EMG HRD, pointed out that Talking Tomorrow began as an Annual Open Training Program in 2005 & will be held as a yearly Enclave going forward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
04-08-2021||Business||Rajya Sabha passes Limited Liability Partnership Amendment Bill||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday passed the Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, which seeks to encourage the start-up ecosystem and further boost ease of doing business, amid uproar by the opposition on Pegasus snooping row and other issues. The bill, which was passed after a short debate, seeks to decriminalise 12 offences under the law and help to improve the ease of doing business by amending the Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) Act, 2008. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman moved the bill for consideration and passage. The bill was introduced in the House last week. While some MPs, including Ram Nath Thakur, Kanakmadela Ravindra Kumar, M Thambidurai, and Sujeet Kumar, spoke on the bill, several Opposition members were raising slogans against the government in the Well of the House. The Opposition has been protesting on Pegasus issue and three new farm laws, besides other matters, since the start of the monsoon session. Amid the uproar, Sitharaman made a brief reply following which the amendment bill was passed with voice vote. The minister said it is a very timely bill and will bring positivity in the LLP eco-system. She stressed that the legislation will lead to ease of doing business. Some opposition members tried to raise their issues when called for speaking on the bill. However, Deputy Chairman Harivansh did not allow them. The bill proposes to introduce the concept of small limited liability partnership in line with the concept of small company under the Companies Act, 2013. It will also amend certain sections of the Act so as to convert offences into civil defaults and to convert the nature of punishment provided in the said sections from fines to monetary penalties. Currently, there are 24 penal provisions and 21 are compoundable offences, while three are non-compoundable ones. The proposed bill seeks to reduce the total number of penal provisions under the LLP Act to 22, compoundable offences to seven, non-compoundable offences to three and the number of defaults to be dealt with under the 'In-House Adjudication Mechanism' will be only 12. Compoundable offences are those which can be settled by paying a certain amount of money. Offences that relate to minor/ less serious compliance issues, involving predominantly objective determinations, are proposed to be shifted to the In-House Adjudication Mechanism (IAM) framework instead of being treated as criminal offences. The bill also seeks to insert a new section 34A so as to empower the central government to prescribe Accounting Standards or Auditing Standards for a class or classes of limited liability partnerships. Earlier, this week, the Union Cabinet had approved amendments to the Act including decriminalising 12 offences under the law. This is the first time that changes are being made to the Act since it came into effect in 2009. At present, there are relaxations for thresholds up to turnover size and partner's contribution of Rs 40 lakh and Rs 25 lakh, respectively. Once the amendment is in place, the thresholds will be revised upwards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
04-08-2021||Business||Sensex crosses 54,000 for the first time||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 400 points in early trade on Wednesday and soared past the 54,000 mark, led by gains in index majors Infosys, HDFC and ICICI Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. After scaling its lifetime peak of 54,256.13 in opening trade, the 30-share index was trading 415.33 points or 0.77 per cent higher at 54,238.69 in initial deals.  In tandem, the broader NSE Nifty surged 116.10 points or 0.72 per cent to an all-time peak of 16,246.85 in early trade.  Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by HDFC, ICICI Bank, Dr Reddy's, Infosys, Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank.  On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, Nestle India, SBI, HUL and UltraTech Cement were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 872.73 points or 1.65 per cent higher at its fresh closing record of 53,823.36, and Nifty rallied 245.60 points or 1.55 per cent to an all-time peak of 16,130.75.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) turned net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,116.60 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.  Domestic equities continue to look good as of now, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  "Key economic indicators like GST collection, auto sales volume and other high-frequency indicators like e-way bills indicate a strong rebound in July, which bodes well and indicates sustained healthy corporate earnings in subsequent quarters," he noted.  Further, Modi added that India stands to be benefitted from China's regulatory crackdown on technology and education companies in recent weeks in the form of FIIs investments.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red.  Equities on Wall Street too ended on a positive note in overnight trade.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.11 per cent to USD 72.49 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
04-08-2021||Business||PepsiCo sells Tropicana to French private equity firm||PepsiCo Inc unveiled a $3.3 billion sale of its Tropicana and other juice brands in North America to French private equity firm PAI Partners on Tuesday, as it looks to simplify its product range and move away from high-sugar drinks. The company, which bought the orange juice maker in 1998 for roughly $3.3 billion and US-based Naked Juice nearly a decade later for $150 million, will keep a 39 per cent stake in the new joint venture and have exclusive US distribution rights for the brands. The sale will give PepsiCo the funds to develop and grow its portfolio of health-focused snacks and zero-calorie beverages, chief executive officer Ramon Laguarta said, as the company focuses on more profitable brands such as SodaStream. The company had bought SodaStream, the carbonated drink machine company, in 2018 for more than $3 billion. PepsiCo Inc, based in New York, has the option to sell certain juice businesses in Europe. The deal is expected to close late this year or early next year. Juice sales began to decline significantly in the early 2000s when low-carb diets grew in popularity, and that trend has continued with more families choosing instead to buy waters or other no- or low-calorie drinks. Juice consumption in the US peaked in 2003 at 4.2 billion gallons, but by 2017, that had fallen to 3 billion gallons, wrote Brian Sudano, the managing partner of Beverage Marketing Corp. The group does not see that trend changing. Rival Coca-Cola Co has also been streamlining its product range over the past year, discontinuing its TaB diet soda and Coca-Cola Energy brands in the United States and selling its ZICO coconut water brand. “Companies are finding it difficult to provide effective marketing support behind an infinite number of brands that often compete for very similar occasions,” Rabobank Food and Beverage analyst Stephen Rannekleiv said in May. He added that companies are looking to launch products that have been developed in-house. The juice businesses made about $3 billion in net revenue in 2020 for PepsiCo, with operating profit margins that were below the group’s. The deal is one of the many food and beverage investments PAI has made over the last few years. In 2019, Nestle SA sold its US ice cream business, including brands such as Haagen-Dazs, to a joint venture backed by PAI in deal valued at $4 billion. Centerview Partners is the financial advisor to PepsiCo on the deal, while J.P. Morgan Securities LLC is advising PAI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
04-08-2021||Business||House panel on finance calls for insolvency rule recast||The country’s insolvency and bankruptcy code needs a complete overhaul to ensure lenders do not take haircuts beyond a benchmark and offers that come after lenders have selected the highest bidder get rejected, the parliamentary standing committee on finance said on Tuesday. In its report which was tabled in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, the committee noted “the actual operationalisation of amendments made so far may have altered and even digressed from the basic design of the statute and given a different orientation to the code not originally envisioned”. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), which came into effect in 2016, provides for a market-linked and time-bound resolution of stressed assets. “A greater clarity in purpose is needed with regards to strengthening creditor rights, particularly considering the disproportionately large and unsustainable ‘haircuts’ taken by creditors over the years.” Haircut refers to losses incurred by creditors on resolution of a stressed asset. The committee noted that when the invited bidders are asked to submit their resolution plans and when these plans are evaluated by the lenders, suddenly other bidders may emerge and submit their own resolution plans. “These bidders typically wait for the H1 (highest) bidder to become public, and they then seek to exceed this bid through an unsolicited offer that is submitted after the specified deadline. “The lenders at present have significant powers to accept late bids and these unsolicited bids create a huge delay,” the report said. The committee, therefore, recommended that the IBC be amended so that no post hoc bids are allowed. The move is aimed at stopping DHFL-like situations where promoter Kapil Wadhawan had tried to stall the sale to Piramals with counter bids after the deadline. The committee said the NCLT takes considerable time to admit cases and during this time the company remains under the control of the defaulting owner enabling value shifting, funds diversion, and asset transfers. “The NCLT should accept defaulters within 30 days and transfer control to a resolution process within this time period,” the committee recommended.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-08-2021||Business||Nykaa files preliminary document for an initial public offering||Former investment banker Falguni Nayar-led Nykaa, the e-commerce company selling beauty and wellness products, has filed a preliminary document for an initial public offering (IPO). FSN E-Commerce Ventures Ltd, which runs the Nykaa brand, plans to raise Rs 525 crore through the issue of new shares and an offer for sale of 4.31 crore shares according to the draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) of the company. The overall IPO is estimated at Rs 3,500-4,000 crore and values Nykaa at $5-5.5 billion. Private equity player TPG-backed Nykaa, based in Mumbai, sells cosmetics, grooming products and clothes. Launched in 2012, Nykaa has built a diverse portfolio of beauty, personal care and fashion products, including self-branded products. Apart from TPG, financial services company Fidelity and Indian film actress Alia Bhatt and Hero Enterprises chairman Sunil Kant Munjal are  some of its investors. The sellers include TPG Growth and Lighthouse Funds, and some individual shareholders. The investors are not selling out of the company and will continue to retain some stake after IPO. The promoter and promoter group will continue to hold more than 51 per cent of the company's shares. The proceeds from the offer would be used to set up retail stores and warehouses, repay borrowings and to enhance the visibility of its brands.  The prospectus said the Nykaa mobile app has been downloaded 43.7 million times till the end of the last fiscal. There are also 73 Nykaa stores across 38 cities in the country. In the financial year 2021, the company reported Gross Merchandise Value (GMV) of Rs 4,045.98 crore, an increase of  50.7 per cent over 2019-20. Revenue from operations grew 38 per cent to Rs 2,440.89 crore. Restated profit for the year  was Rs 61.94 crore compared with a loss of Rs 16.34 crore a year ago. Falguni Nayar & family, ranked tenth on Kotak Wealth Hurun -Leading Wealthy Women List 2020, with a wealth of Rs 5,410 crore. Nayar-led Nykaa had turned unicorn last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-08-2021||Business||Punjab National Bank backs housing arm||Breaking his silence on the fund-raising plans for PNB Housing Finance, S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao, managing director, Punjab National Bank, the parent firm, said there was no error of judgement and the subsequent rise in the share prices of the mortgage lender after the announcement could not have been anticipated. He, however, said the future course of action would depend on the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) order and on the basis of that order the housing finance lender as well as PNB will look at various options. Under the deal announced on May 31, the US-based Carlyle, alongside other investors, is slated to infuse Rs 4,000 crore capital into PNB Housing Finance through the issuance of preference shares and warrants. However, the deal has come under the scanner of capital markets regulator Sebi. The company was directed to carry out the valuation process of shares under the relevant legal provisions. PNB Housing contended that it has followed Sebi norms in deciding the issue price at Rs 390 apiece. Defending the stance taken at the PNB Housing Finance Board meeting on May 31, Rao told reporters that “there was no error of judgement. If you have seen the share price of PNB Housing Finance in the last 2-2.5 years, it was hovering at below rate. ICDR guidelines clearly indicate the kind of formula to be used for pricing for listed entities”. His remarks are seen as a cautious support of the PNB subsidiary’s plan to sell a stake to a clutch of foreign investors led by Carlyle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-08-2021||Business||RBI expected to opt for a status quo in policy repo rate||An uneven recovery in the Indian economy is likely to see the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) opt for a status quo in the policy repo rate and maintain its accommodative stance despite elevated inflation which has remained above its 2-6 per cent tolerance band for two months in a row. This is the unanimous view among analysts ahead of the three-day meeting of the monetary policy committee (MPC) from Wednesday. Though analysts are expecting status quo on rates, they are looking forward to comments from the central bank on draining out the excess liquidity or policy normalisation. The policy meet comes at a time inflation concerns have seen yields on the benchmark 10-year paper rising to around 6.20 per cent-levels. Over the past one month, it has inched up over 13 basis points. In the central bank’s own admission — from its July bulletin — retail inflation will persist at elevated levels for some months, before easing in the third quarter of 2021-22 when the kharif harvest arrives in the markets. The analysts feel that the patchy recovery and fears of the third wave could see the RBI refraining from taking any step that could restrain the growth momentum. “If one were to go by the first quarter results, it shows that some of the sectors are doing well while recovery is yet to be seen in other industries. Moreover, there could be another wave of the virus which could again lead to lockdowns. Therefore, the RBI will not deviate from its growth agenda despite elevated inflation,’’ an analyst said. According to Radhika Rao, economist at DBS Group Research, the MPC will opt to keep the repo rate at four per cent. She added that its forward guidance will favour a continuation of the accommodative policy stance to guard against growth risks. Further, the accompanying commentary will heed inflation risks through close monitoring and refrain from tweaking the policy levers for now. The RBI may gradually draw out excess liquidity in the system by increasing the sizes of the variable reverse repo rate  auctions. “Market will be keenly watching any RBI action on fine-tuning banking system liquidity as well as any further steps towards ongoing orderly evolution of the yield curve ,’’ Churchil Bhatt of  Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-08-2021||Business||Nifty surpasses 16000 level for first time||Indian shares ended higher on Tuesday, with the blue-chip Nifty index surpassing the 16000 level for the first time, as investors bet on a faster recovery in Asia’s third-largest economy following a devastating second Covid-19 wave. The NSE Nifty 50 index ended up 1.55 per cent at 16130.75 and the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex rose 1.65 per cent to 53823.36. “The (16,000) level is important. It will add to the confidence of investors, especially because in the last 2-3 weeks the trend was weak,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. “Earnings is providing a lot of support to the market. The economy is able to sustain itself in the new norm. The market is betting the Covid impact next year is going to be much lower,” Nair said, adding that a slew of successful initial public offerings had also boosted retail investor confidence. Indian e-commerce beauty company Nykaa plans to raise $500 million through its initial public offering, becoming the latest homegrown startup to pursue a listing on the domestic bourses “After a strong FY21, earnings for FY22 have begun on a healthy note. The 1QFY22 earnings season has been in-line, benefitting from the lower base of 1QFY21... Nifty profits for the 31 companies that have posted their results so far have grown 70 per cent YoY... “We estimate corporate earnings to continue to recover...The primary market too continues with flurry of activity with as many as four IPOs lined up this week and three more next week, said Siddhartha Khemka, head — retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services. Indian shares have more than doubled since hitting near four year-lows in March 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic struck, as a market flush with liquidity saw strong foreign fund inflows and increased retail participation. Indian equities have attracted a net $6.93 billion in foreign inflows this year as of July, despite outflows from other Asian stock markets, data from Refinitiv Eikon showed. Domestic investors purchased a net $2.2 billion worth of equity mutual funds in the first half, compared with net selling of $5.34 billion in the second half of 2020, data from Refinitiv Lipper showed.HDFC Ltd and Titan Company were top gainers on the Nifty 50 index, adding 3.8 per and 3.9 per cent, respectively. The fast-moving consumer goods sub-index rose 1.73 per cent and Nifty finance index gained 1.68 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-08-2021||Business||Reliance Industries sets up solar power company||Reliance Industries has moved forward on its plan to expand into the solar energy sector. The company on Tuesday informed stock exchanges that it has invested Rs 1 lakh in cash in 10,000 equity shares of Rs 10 each of a newly corporated and wholly owned subsidiary —  Reliance New Solar Energy (RNSEL). The subsidiary, incorporated to undertake activities relating to solar energy, is yet to start its operations. “The investment  in  RNSEL does not fall within  related party transaction and  the promoter/promoter  group/ group companies do  not have any interest in  RNSEL. No governmental or regulatory approvals were required for the said investment,” the company said. Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani had laid a roadmap of the plans for the new energy sector at the company’s annual general meeting in June. This includes setting up an integrated solar photovoltaic factory. “We will start with raw silica and convert this to poly silicon which we will then convert to ingot and wafers. These wafers would be used to make high efficiency solar cells and finally assembled into solar modules of highest quality and durability,” Ambani had said. The plan is to enable at least 100 GW of solar energy by 2030. Tariffs tumble A combination of set generation target for solar energy coupled with low interest rates, measures towards promoting domestic manufacturing of solar cells has had a favourable impact on solar power tariffs. Solar bid tariffs touched a low of Rs 2 per kWh (kilowatt hour) in 2020 and according to estimates is in the range of Rs 2.3-2.33 per kWH in 2021 bids. This is much lower than the current thermal power tariffs. NTPC has reported an average tariff of Rs 3.73 per kWh during the first quarter. Earlier in May, Adani Green Energy announced a buyout of SoftBank Group’s renewable energy power business. Global investment firm Actis LLP’s purchase of 500 MW of solar projects in India from Finland’s Fortum is another example of recent deal activity. Coal India has announced its plan for 3,000 MW of solar power generation by 2024. NTPC is developing a 4.75 GW solar park in Gujarat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-08-2021||Business||Cybersecurity researchers fear Chinese telecom hack||Chinese hacking groups have compromised global telecommunications companies by stealing phone records and location data, cybersecurity researchers said. The hacking groups waged a campaign from 2017 to 2021, in some cases exploiting security vulnerabilities in Microsoft Corp’s Exchange servers to gain access to telecommunication companies’ internal systems, according to a new report published on Tuesday by US-based security firm Cybereason Inc. The report did not name any telecom firms, while a response from Cybereason on any impact in India is awaited. However, the firm said the attacks were primarily across Southeast Asian countries. “Based on our analysis, we assess that the goal of the attackers behind these intrusions was to gain and maintain continuous access to telecommunication providers and to facilitate cyber espionage by collecting sensitive information, compromising high-profile business assets such as the billing servers that contain Call Detail Record (CDR) data, as well as key network components such as the Domain Controllers, Web Servers and Microsoft Exchange servers,” Cybereason Inc said in a statement. “The highly adaptive attackers worked diligently to obscure their activity and maintain persistence on the infected systems, dynamically responding to mitigation attempts after having evaded security efforts since at least 2017, an indication that the targets are of great value to the attackers,” the statement said. According to the cybersecurity firm three distinct clusters of attacks have varying degrees of connection to APT (advanced persistent threat) groups — Soft Cell, Naikon and Group-3390 — all known to operate in the interest of the Chinese government. The security firm’s findings follow allegations by the US and UK governments which blamed actors affiliated with the Chinese government for a series of global hacks on Microsoft Exchange servers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-08-2021||Business||Centre silent on Kumar Mangalam Birla offer||The Narendra Modi-government has maintained a studied silence on Kumar Mangalam Birla’s letter that became public on Monday in which the Vodafone Idea chairman offered to hand over his stake in the company to a government-appointed entity — a sign of the desperation that has gripped the floundering telecom giant which is battling a highly contentious tax demand and arguably inflated telecom dues dating back to 2007. Officials of the department of Telecommunications were doubtful of a possible merger between Vodafone Idea Limited (VIL) and state-owned BSNL that would effectively mean the government taking over the gargantuan Rs 1.8 lakh debt of the private operator. The officials said it was too early to decide on the merger. But it would be a hard decision as the government is committed to reviving the ailing BSNL, and taking over VIL at this stage would not be a prudent measure. Analysts said the move had political implications. The Centre would be wary of being tagged as a government that socialises losses with taxpayer’s money when other operators were making profit — that will give fodder to an already inflamed Opposition that has been attacking the government relentlessly on the Pegasus spyware scandal . On Tuesday, Bharti Airtel said it had made profits in the first three months of the current fiscal. While Birla has offered his stake, it is not clear whether he wants to sell or give the stake free of cost to a government-appointed entity. “I am more than willing to hand over my stake in the company to any entity — public sector/government/ domestic financial entity that the government may consider worthy of keeping the company going,” said Birla in a letter addressed to cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba that was dated June 7 but came to to light only on Monday. If VIL goes bust, analysts say, there will be a massive turmoil in the market not least from the pressure on the networks of the existing players that would have to absorb 25 crore subscribers. Meanwhile, industry body COAI contended that a floor price for tariffs is absolutely critical and the need of the hour, given the “major financial stress” in the industry. Airtel profit up Bharti Airtel on Tuesday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 284 crore for the June quarter against a loss of Rs 15,933 crore a year ago when the company had made provisioning for AGR dues. On a sequential basis, Airtel’s net profit slumped over 62 per cent from Rs 759.2 crore in the March quarter —  a result of higher finance and depreciation costs, and an exceptional gain in the previous quarter. The total revenue surged 15.3 per cent year-on-year to Rs 26,854 crore. On a sequential basis, it was up 4.2 per cent. Airtel clocked an average revenue per user (ARPU) of Rs 146 in the June quarter against Rs 145 in the preceding quarter and Rs 138 in Q1 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
