05-08-2021||Business||India to bin retrospective tax law, seeks to withdraw demands on Cairn, Vodafone||In a bid to bury the ghost of retrospective taxation, the government on Thursday brought a bill in the Lok Sabha to withdraw all back tax demands on companies such as Cairn Energy and Vodafone and said it will refund the money collected to enforce such levies. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman introduced 'The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021' in the Lok Sabha that seeks to withdraw tax demands made using a 2012 retrospective legislation to tax the indirect transfer of Indian assets. The bill provides for the withdrawal of tax demand made on "indirect transfer of Indian assets if the transaction was undertaken before May 28, 2012 (i.e. the day the retrospective tax legislation came into being)." "It is also proposed to refund the amount paid in these cases without any interest thereon," it said. The bill has a direct bearing on long-running tax disputes with British firms Cairn Energy Plc and Vodafone Group. The Indian government has lost two separate arbitrations brought by the two companies against the levy of retrospective taxes. While the government has virtually no liability in the Vodafone case, it has to refund USD 1.2 billion to Cairn Energy for the shares of the company it had sold, tax refund withheld and dividends confiscated. The bill states that the issue of taxability of gains arising from the transfer of assets located in India through the transfer of shares of a foreign company (indirect transfer of Indian assets) was a subject matter of protracted litigation. The Supreme Court in 2012 had given a verdict that gains arising from indirect transfer of Indian assets are not taxable under the extant provisions of the Act. But to circumvent this, the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 were amended by the Finance Act, 2012 with retrospective effect, to clarify that gains arising from the sale of shares of a foreign company is taxable in India if such shares, directly or indirectly, derive their value substantially from assets located in India. "Pursuant thereto, income-tax demand had been raised in 17 cases. In two cases assessments are pending due to stay granted by High Court," the objects of the Bill said. Out of the 17 cases, arbitration under Bilateral Investment Protection Treaty with the United Kingdom and the Netherlands had been invoked in four cases. "In two cases, the Arbitration Tribunal ruled in favour of the taxpayer and against the Income Tax Department," it said in a reference to arbitration awards won by Cairn and Vodafone. "The said clarificatory amendments made by the Finance Act, 2012 invited criticism from stakeholders mainly with respect to the retrospective effect given to the amendments. It is argued that such retrospective amendments militate against the principle of tax certainty and damage India's reputation as an attractive destination," it said. While the government has in the past few years brought major reforms in the financial and infrastructure sector to create a positive environment for investment in the country, "the retrospective clarificatory amendment and consequent demand created in a few cases continue to be a sore point with potential investors," it said. The country today stands at a juncture when quick recovery of the economy after the COVID-19 pandemic is the need of the hour and foreign investment has an important role to play in promoting faster economic growth and employment. "The Bill proposes to amend the Income-tax Act, 1961 so as to provide that no tax demand shall be raised in future on the basis of the said retrospective amendment for any indirect transfer of Indian assets if the transaction was undertaken before 28th May 2012 (i.e., the date on which the Finance Bill, 2012 received the assent of the President)," it said. It further proposed to provide that the demand raised for indirect transfer of Indian assets made before May 28, 2012 shall be nullified on fulfilment of specified conditions such as withdrawal or furnishing of undertaking for withdrawal of pending litigation and furnishing of an undertaking to the effect that no claim for cost, damages, interest, etc shall be filed. It also proposed to "refund the amount paid in these cases without any interest thereon," it said. The bill proposes to amend the Finance Act, 2012 so as to provide that the validation of demand under section 119 of the Finance Act, 2012 shall cease to apply on fulfilment of specified conditions such as withdrawal of pending litigation and furnishing of an undertaking that no claim for cost, damages, interest, etc shall be filed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
05-08-2021||Business||Taxation Laws Amendment Bill introduced in Lok Sabha||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned for the day on Thursday amid continuous disruption by Opposition members over the Pegasus spying issue and three farm laws. After repeated adjournments when the House met at 5 pm, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman rose to introduce the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary said bills were being passed in the House without a debate at an average time of seven minutes a bill. He claimed that bringing a supplementary list of business at the last minute was not correct. RSP member N K Premchandran supported Chowdhary. Later, the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was introduced by a voice vote amid slogan shouting by Opposition members. The bill seeks to amend the Income Tax Act of 1961 and the Finance Act of 2012. Rama Devi, who was in the Chair, then adjourned the proceedings for the day. Earlier, a bill to set up a central university in the union territory of Ladakh was also introduced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
05-08-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty scale fresh lifetime highs||Extending its winning streak to the fourth straight session, equity benchmark Sensex ended 123.07 points higher at a fresh record on Thursday amid gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and ITC. After scaling its lifetime peak of 54,717.24 during the day, the 30-share index settled 123.07 points or 0.23 per cent higher at its record high of 54,492.84. In similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty rose 35.80 points or 0.22 per cent to an all-time peak of 16,294.60. It touched an intra-day record of 16,349.45. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 4 per cent, followed by ITC, Tech Mahindra, Tata Steel and HCL Tech. On the other hand, SBI, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finance and ICICI Bank were among the laggards. "Domestic benchmark indices extended gains as rebound in IT and metals supported them to scale new highs. Additionally, recovery in FMCG stocks and RIL supported market," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, it was again not a broad-based rally as profit booking in midcap and smallcap stocks remained visible with Nifty midcap and smallcap indices declining for the third consecutive day, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended in the red, while Tokyo closed with gains. Equities in Europe were largely trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.72 per cent to USD 70.89 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
05-08-2021||Business||Sensex succumbs to profit-booking in early trade after opening at fresh peak ||Equity benchmark Sensex opened over 200 points higher on Thursday, but soon pared its initial gains on profit-booking and was trading in the negative territory amid a mixed trend in global markets. After opening at its lifetime peak of 54,576.64, the 30-share index turned flat, slipping 8.33 points or 0.02 per cent to 54,361.44. In similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty inched 8.95 points or 0.06 per cent lower to 16,249.85 in early trade. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Titan, Tata Steel, M&M, Bajaj Finance and SBI. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra and Kotak Bank were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex rallied 546.41 points or 1.02 per cent to end at its new record of 54,369.77, and Nifty surged 128.05 points or 0.79 per cent to its all-time peak of 16,246.85. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,828.57 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be flat as of now. Sharp rebound in market in last two trading days was not broad-based and sharp rebound in heavyweight financials contributed to rally, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, huge profit-booking in mid-cap and small-cap stocks was visible, he said, adding that going forward, given sharp improvement in key economic indicators like GST collection and auto sales volume, "we believe strong momentum of corporate earnings recovery may sustain in subsequent quarters". Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red. Equities on Wall Street largely ended on a negative note in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.38 per cent to USD 70.65 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
05-08-2021||Business||Kumar Mangalam Birla steps down as chairman of Vodafone Idea||Vodafone Idea sent a wave of panic through the telecom industry on Wednesday evening after it announced that Kumar Mangalam Birla had decided to step down as non-executive chairman of the floundering telecom giant. Birla’s decision to quit came just two days after an anguished letter he wrote to the Narendra Modi government in June seeking a rescue package for the beleaguered telecom giant became public. The shock announcement left Vodafone Idea’s 277.62 million subscribers staring at an uncertain future unless the government can put together a viable bailout plan for the telecom giant. In his letter to cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, Birla had offered to transfer his 27.6 per cent stake in the debt-laden telecom company ‘‘to any public sector/government/domestic financial entity or any other the government may consider worthy to keep the company going”. On Wednesday, the company said in a filing with the stock exchanges: ‘‘The board of directors of Vodafone Idea, at its meeting held today, have accepted the request of Mr Kumar Mangalam Birla to step down as non-executive director and non-executive chairman of the board with effect from the close of business hours on August 4.’’ The announcement came after market hours. Earlier in the day, the Vodafone Idea stock plunged 18.5 per cent to close at Rs 6.03 on the BSE as investors scrambled to sell their shares. The company said Himanshu Kampania, currently the non-executive director, would take over as the non-executive chairman of the company. Kampania is a nominee of the Aditya Birla group. The board also appointed Sushil Agarwal, another nominee of the Aditya Birla group, as an additional director with immediate effect. It was not immediately clear why Kumar Birla decided to step down and if the appointment of his nominees spells continuity of the business and, more importantly, for how long. Vodafone Plc, which acquired a 67 per cent stake in the original telecom entity from Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa in April 2007, currently holds about 44 per cent in Vodafone Idea. Vodafone Idea was created out of a merger between Vodafone India and Birla-owned Idea Cellular in August 2018. Neither the Birlas nor Vodafone Plc are prepared to pump money into the telecom venture which reported a gross debt of Rs 1.80 lakh crore at the end of March this year. Vodafone has to pay telecom dues worth over Rs 58,000 crore to the government that are linked to adjusted gross revenues and date back to 2007. During the quarter ended March 31, 2021, Vodafone Idea had posted a consolidated loss of Rs 7,023 crore, lower than the loss of Rs 11,643.5 crore in the year-ago period. The Supreme Court recently turned down a petition from Vodafone and Bharti Airtel for a recomputation of the dues. Speculation has swirled that if the government fails to come up with a viable rescue package, the telecom entity might collapse, creating a duopoly between Reliance Jio and Bharti Airtel. This will not be in the interests of the telecom consumer — a point that Bharti Airtel CEO Gopal Vittal also asserted on Wednesday. Speaking during an earnings call, Vittal said: “I think from a national perspective, it would be appropriate to see a structure where three players not just survive, but thrive.’’ And, of course, the government player (BSNL) is always there.” “I feel as a country we do need three players...it is a large enough country with 1.3 billion people, which can easily accommodate three (private) players in this market,” Vittal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
05-08-2021||Business||Kesoram Industries opts for rights issue||Kesoram Industries has dropped its plan for a preferential allotment of shares within a fortnight of its announcement, instead opting for a rights issue after a group of shareholders said they wanted to participate in the company’s fund-raising programme. The development signals investor interest to participate in the burgeoning cement sector and the prospect of Kesoram. The company will now launch a Rs 400-crore rights issue, twice the size envisaged before, to provide ‘‘equal opportunity to all shareholders to participate in the equity raising plan’’. After the Rs 100-crore preferential allotment was announced on July 21, the company received representations from a cross-section of shareholders, minority as well as promoter group entities. “In deference to the views expressed by the shareholders of the company, who wanted to participate in a rights issue  and equity raise which is non-dilutive, we decided to cancel the preferential allotment,” P. Radhakrishnan, CEO and wholetime director of Kesoram, said this evening. The board on July 21 had decided to issue shares and warrants, fully convertible to equity after 18 months, to raise Rs 100 crore to  promoter group entity Usinara Trading and Services Private Ltd. This was the first instalment of a Rs 600-crore equity raising plan, including a Rs 200-crore rights issue, to reduce the borrowing burden of the company. The company said the rights issue, which has now been doubled to Rs 400 crore, will help it to reduce its leverage faster as the quantum of equity will be higher. Moreover, only 25 per cent of the preferential issue was upfront, with the rest to come after 18 months. It would also make the company’s liquidity position stronger and speed up the chances of a rating upgrade. The promoters of Kesoram, the flagship of the Basant Kumar Birla group, hold a 45.97 per cent stake in the company. Manjushree Khaitan, the younger daughter of late B.K, is the chairperson of the company. The promoter shareholders also include Kumar Mangalam Birla, grandson of Basant Kumar Birla and the chairman of Aditya Birla Group. At least two companies, Pilani Investment and Century Textiles, which are under control of Kumar Birla, hold close to a 20 per cent stake in the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
05-08-2021||Business||State Bank of India posts 55.24 per cent rise in net profit ||The State Bank of India on Wednesday posted a 55.24 per cent rise in net profit for the April-June quarter of 2021-22. The net profit of the country’s largest lender came in at Rs 6,504 crore for the quarter under review compared with Rs 4,189 crore a year ago. The bank’s net profit was above the Street’s expectations. Analysts had estimated the lender to report a profit of Rs 6,374.5 crore for the quarter. Operating profit increased 5.06 per cent to Rs 18,975 crore compared with Rs 18,061 crore a year ago. The net interest income of the bank was Rs 27,638 crore during the quarter compared with Rs 26,642 crore in the corresponding period a year ago, a growth of 3.74 per cent. The rise in NII came below the Street’s expectations on account of lower-than-expected credit growth of 5.8 per cent. The asset quality worsened sequentially amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, but was better compared with the previous year. The gross non-performing asset ratio stood at 5.32 per cent at the end of June 2021 compared with 4.98 per cent at the end of March 2021. The same was 5.44 per cent at the end of June 2020. ‘‘In respect of asset quality also, I am satisfied with the outcome... slippages have come on account of the lockdowns. I think once the economic activity comes back, we will also be in a position to pull back the slippages,’’ SBI chairman Dinesh Khara told reporters. Fresh slippages during the quarter were Rs 15,666 crore. Current a/c rule The Reserve Bank on Wednesday allowed time to banks till October 31 to implement changes on the current account front, following reports of small businesses being hit with account freezes in the last few days. The central bank said the circular is aimed at enforcing credit discipline among borrowers as well as to facilitate better monitoring by the lenders, but made it clear that a ‘‘graded approach’’ had been prescribed to banks on the opening and operating of current accounts and cash credit/overdraft CC/OD facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-08-2021||Business||Services sector contracts for third straight month in July||The services sector contracted for the third straight month in July as business activity, new orders and employment declined further largely because of the Covid-19 pandemic and local restrictions, a monthly survey said on Wednesday. The seasonally adjusted India Services Business Activity Index rose from 41.2 in June to 45.4 in July, but was stuck in the contraction zone because of subdued demand conditions amid the Covid crisis. In Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below 50 denotes contraction. ‘‘The current Covid-19 environment continued to weigh on the performance of the service sector that is so crucial to the Indian economy. July data was somewhat disappointing, with incoming new business and output falling solidly over the month, but there was at least a slowdown in the rates of contraction,’’ Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit, said. Grim outlook Looking ahead, firms were pessimistic about the 12-month outlook for output for the first time in a year. ‘‘Uncertainty over when the pandemic will end, as well as concerns about inflationary pressures and financial troubles, dampened business confidence in July. Service providers were pessimistic towards the outlook for business activity for the first time in a year,’’ Lima said. In line with sustained falls in new work, there was a further reduction in service sector jobs during July. Employment contracted for the eighth consecutive month, albeit at a moderate pace that was slower than that seen in June. Another factor weighing on jobs was an overall view that business activity will decline over the course of the coming 12 months. "Companies were pessimistic for the first time in a year. The downbeat assessment for output stemmed from concerns over the pandemic, margins and inflation," the survey noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-08-2021||Business||Akasa Air gets NoC from civil aviation ministry and DGCA||Akasa Air, promoted by billionaire investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala, is on its way to take to the skies with the civil aviation ministry and regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) giving a no objection certificate (NoC) to the fledgling entity. Aviation ministry officials confirmed NoC to SNV Aviation, the holding company of budget carrier Akasa Air. However, they did not share any further detail. The no-objection certificate is the first of the many steps that need to be taken before Akasa will get the crucial Air Operators Certificate (AOC). However, the fast-track NOC approval — the permission was given within days of the application in what usually takes about six months — has surprised analysts and raised a question mark over the real backers behind the present promoters. Maverick stock market investor Jhunjhunwala is reportedly putting in $35 million and will hold a 40 per cent stake. Former Indigo president Aditya Ghosh will make a comeback  in aviation and is expected to hold 10 per cent. Jhunjhunwala has also brought on board former Jet Airways CEO Vinay Dube, who is expected to be the CEO. According to data with the Registrar of Companies, SNV Aviation has been registered to Dubey’s personal address at Sewri in Mumbai, with Sanjay Dube, Shonali Dube and him listed as directors. Apart from Jhunjhunwala, the other investors include Airbnb and Par Capital Management — which has interests in Sun Country Airlines an very low-cost American carrier, some reports said. The airline reportedly is planning a fleet of 70 carriers over the next four years. Akasa Air is expected to be based out of Bangalore with plans to fly to places close to the city such as Chennai, Hyderabad and Mumbai, a TV  quoting sources said. The budget carrier is hoping to fly by the middle of next year, much depending on how fast the airline can raise funds and receive its clearances from the government and regulators. IndiGo sale IndiGo has opened a 3-day sale to kick-off its 15th anniversary celebrations. The airline is offering fares for as low as Rs 915 (all-inclusive) in the latest sale. Tickets can be booked from August 4 to August 6 for travel between September 1and March 26, 2022, the airline said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-08-2021||Business||Darjeeling’s Jungpana tea estate changes hands||Jungpana, one of the most celebrated tea estates of Darjeeling, has a new owner. The Santosh Kumar Kanoria Group, which owns the tea exporting house Balaji Agro International, has bought the garden that arguably ranks at the top of the leaderboard for Darjeeling teas. Chaired by Anshuman Kanoria, the group bought Jungpana along with Goomtee tea estate, marking a rapid reshuffle in the ownership of the two gardens over the past three years. “We are excited to add a garden like Jungpana to our tea portfolio. We also recognise the challenges associated with operating an estate in Darjeeling, especially during these uncertain times,” Anshuman Kanoria said. Started by British planter Henry Montgomery Lennox in 1899, Jungpana is spread out over the south-facing slopes of the hill at an altitude of 2,400-6,100 metres, and produces just about 65,000 kg of tea annually. The area took its name after a valiant Gorkha Jung Bahadur, who was mauled by a leopard while trying to save his British master. As he lay dying, he asked his master for some “pana”, or water. He was taken to a nearby spring and given water but died soon after. The area came to be called Jungpana: a combination of the man’s first name and his hoarse cry for water. The garden was with the family of Shantanu Kejriwal who bought it from the Ranas of Nepal in 1956. After the devastating strike at the hills in 2017, Kejriwal sold it to city-based businessman Sanjay Agarwal. The acquisition doesn’t seem to have turned out well. “My focus will be to produce quality tea which can fetch good prices to ensure a low-yield garden is run profitably,” Kanoria said this evening. He also hoped that Balaji Agro’s domain knowledge in marketing top quality tea to the connoisseurs in Japan, Europe and the US will come in handy to run the gardens efficiently. “I also want to diversify the market base in India for these gardens but the tea will not be available off the shelf as commodities,” Kanoria, who claimed to have paid top dollars for the gardens, said. The transaction took place at a time the pandemic hit the demand for specialty teas. Many of the 87 gardens in Darjeeling are up for sale as export prices remain tepid due to competition from cheaper Nepalese varieties. The gardens were badly hit during the lockdown a year ago as they could not pluck the first flush — the season’s early harvest which fetches the  estates as much as 35 per cent of their annual earnings. The Kanorias are also taking heart from the acquisition of Tindharia estate, adjacent to Goomtee, sometime back. The garden has turned around, producing green tea exclusively and exporting 75 per cent of the yield. “I have the best green tea garden in Darjeeling and I always wanted a match for it in black tea. In Jungpana, my wish has come true,” Kanoria signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
