06-08-2021||Business||CBI moves court to seek warrant for Rana Kapoor in Avantha group case||The CBI on Friday moved a plea before a special court here seeking a production warrant of Rana Kapoor for custodial interrogation in connection with its case related to Avantha group of companies. Kapoor, who is currently in judicial custody after being arrested in March, 2019 in connection with the Yes Bank fraud case, has opposed the probe agency's plea through his lawyer Parnav Badheka. Special judge S U Wadgaonkar said these prayers need consideration, including the maintainability of objection on behalf of accused to the application of production warrant made by the investigating officer in cited crime, and posted the matter for hearing on Saturday. The Central Bureau of Investigation's move comes two days after the arrest of Gautam Thapar, promoter of Avantha Group, by the Enforcement Directorate, which is also probing the case. Thapar (60) was held under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on Tuesday night in Delhi after the agency carried out raids in Delhi and Mumbai. The CBI, in its FIR, has claimed Kapoor, then MD and CEO of Yes Bank Limited, obtained illegal gratification in the form of a property, belonging to Avantha Realty Limited, in a prime location in Delhi at much less than the realizable market for sanctioning a loan to ARL, extending concessions, relaxations and waivers in existing credit facilities provided to Avantha Group and for advancing new and additional loans. The CBI had, last year, booked Kapoor and his wife Bindu for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 307 crore, by way of purchase of a bungalow in a posh Delhi area from a realty firm at half the market price and facilitating around Rs 1,900 crore bank loans to it in return. The CBI has claimed that the discounted transaction for the 1.2-acre bungalow on Amrita Shergill Marg in Delhi was gratification to Kapoor through a company called Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd in return for non-realization of over Rs 1,900 crore in loans from Yes Bank to Avantha Realty and group companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||Sensex ends 215 points lower as Reliance tumbles||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 215 points on Friday, tracking losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC and SBI, after the Reserve Bank kept interest rates unchanged and maintained its accommodative stance.  The 30-share index ended 215.12 points or 0.39 per cent lower at 54,277.72, while the broader NSE Nifty fell 56.40 points or 0.35 per cent to 16,238.20.  Reliance Industries was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by UltraTech Cement, SBI, Tata Steel, HDFC and Axis Bank. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, Bharti Airtel, Tech Mahindra, Maruti, NTPC and Bajaj Auto were among the gainers.  Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities, said domestic equities traded range-bound but sharp correction in RIL dragged the market.  "RBI's policy meeting outcome was broadly on expected line with continued focus to support economic recovery through soft monetary policy," he said, adding that RIL witnessed sharp correction after the Supreme Court's ruling came in favour of Amazon in the Reliance-Future Group deal.  Further, weak cues from Asian markets also weighed on sentiments.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red, while Tokyo ended with gains.  Equities in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.56 per cent to USD 71.69 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||RBI Governor praises Centre on retro tax move||Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday welcomed the government's decision to end retrospective taxation and termed it as a "timely" move. The career bureaucrat-turned-central banker also welcomed the government's approach to the pandemic-triggered crisis as a prudent and calibrated one. On Thursday, the government brought a bill in the Lok Sabha to withdraw all back tax demands on companies such as Cairn Energy and Vodafone and said it will refund about Rs 8,100 crore collected to enforce such levies. "It is my assessment I have been revenue secretary and economic affairs secretary that this (retrospective taxation) had been a long-pending issue. It (introduction of the bill) is a very good step, it's a timely step and it is definitely a welcome measure," Das told reporters during the customary post-policy conference call. Responding to a specific question on the move, he wondered why we blame the government if it does not take any action by calling it indifferent while when the government initiates an action it is termed as one taken under pressure. "It cannot be a situation where you say 'heads I win and tails you lose'," Das said. Meanwhile, the fiscal response from the government to navigate the economy out of the reverses of the pandemic was also welcomed by Das, who was appointed to the post after the sudden resignation of Urjit Patel in 2018. "I think the government's fiscal response has been very prudent, calibrated and responsive," Das said, adding that there is a "pattern" to the response as well. He said the government first responded to the stress at the individual level where it tended to the poor sections, and followed it up with measures to boost credit offtake and then veered to the sectoral interventions. Das said we "have not heard the last word" from the government and RBI expects it to continue with the same fiscal response. As for the central bank's own monetary response, Das said it has done whatever was possible for them to do and will keep at it. "We (RBI) are still in the 'whatever it takes' mode. The pandemic is still on. We have to be very vigilant," Das said. He said the economic recovery has been uneven and varies from sector to sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||Retrospective tax bill passed in Lok Sabha as House adjourns for the day||Lok Sabha was adjourned for the day shortly after noon on Friday after passage of two bills, including the one which proposes to end a controversial retrospective tax policy, amid protests by Opposition members over Pegasus and other issues. As the House convened for the day at 11 am, Speaker Om Birla took up the Question Hour. However, the members resorted to sloganeering over Pegasus snooping controversy and farm laws. As the protests continued, the Speaker urged the agitating members to go back to their seats. The proceedings lasted for around 15 minutes after which Birla adjourned the House till noon. When the House resumed at noon, Rajendra Agrawal, who was in the chair, allowed discussions on 'The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021', which proposed amendments to the Income Tax and Finance Act 2012 to make it clear that no tax demand will be raised for any indirect transfer of Indian assets if the transaction was undertaken prior to May 28, 2012. After a brief statement by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and clause-wise consideration of the bill, it was passed by voice vote. When the 'The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021' would be passed by Rajya Sabha too, all tax demands made on companies like Cairn Energy and Vodafone using a 2012 legislation on indirect transfer of Indian assets prior to May 28, 2012 will be withdrawn. Sitharaman said in 2014, the then Finance Minister Arun Jaitley had made a commitment to set up a high-powered committee to look into the provisions of the 2012 law as the NDA government did not believe in retrospective taxes. The finance minister said once the lawsuits were settled in September and December 2020, the government had started consultations with various stakeholders, including the Law Ministry. Similarly, another bill 'The Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021', to set up a central university in Ladakh was passed by the House following a brief statement by Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan. After the two bills were passed, the chair announced the adjournment of the House for the day. Lok Sabha will now resume on Monday after the weekend break.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||SC holds Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator award against FRL-Reliance Retail deal enforceable||The Supreme Court on Friday ruled in favour of US-based e-commerce giant Amazon by holding that Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator (EA) award, restraining the Rs 24,731 crore merger deal of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) with Reliance Retail, was valid and enforceable under Indian laws. A bench of Justices R F Nariman also dealt with the larger question and as a proposition of law, held that an award of an EA of a foreign country is enforceable under the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act. FRL had argued that an EA is not an arbitrator under the Indian law as the term does not find any mention in the statute here. The EA Order is an order within section 17 (1) and can be enforced under Section 17(2) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, it said. Pronouncing the verdict, Justice Nariman said the top court has agreed with the findings of the single-judge of the Delhi High Court which had found the EA award in favour of the US firm to be enforceable in India. Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC and FRL are embroiled in a bitter legal fight over the deal and the US-based firm has sought in the apex court that the EA award was valid and enforceable. While the two companies did not immediately comment on the judgment, a legal expert who did not wish to be named, said that Future Retail is expected to file a review plea against the order and an appeal under section 37 (20) of the Arbitration Act against the EA's interim award before the Delhi High Court to obtain appropriate relief to pursue its deal with Reliance. The judgment, he said, does not deal with the merits of the dispute between FRL and Amazon. It has dealt with the questions of law which are academic in nature. The judgment has held that the interim award of SIAC emergency arbitrator is a binding order under section 17(1) of the Arbitration Act, he added. The top court had reserved the judgement in the high profile case on July 29 after hearing battery of lawyers including senior advocates Harish Salve and Gopal Subramanium, appearing for FRL and Amazon respectively. We will decide whether EA award falls under section 17 (1) (which deals with interim award by arbitral tribunal) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act. And if yes, then whether it can be enforced under section 17 (2) (of the Act), the bench had said. The provisions of the Act deal with the interim measures ordered by an arbitral tribunal and section 17 (1) says: Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal may, at the request of a party, order a party to take any interim measure of protection as the arbitral tribunal may consider necessary in respect of the subject-matter of the dispute. Section 17 (2) provides that the arbitral tribunal may require a party to provide appropriate security in connection with an interim measure ordered. Salve, appearing for FRL, had referred to judgements on validity and the enforceability of arbitral awards and said that there was no notion of EA under the Indian law on arbitration and conciliation and, in any case, there was no arbitration agreement to this effect. There was no provision for EA under the Indian Law and it cannot be done by the process of construction , Salve had said referring to the single-judge order of the Delhi High Court which had held the award of the EA to be valid. Amazon had told the bench that the Biyanis of Future Group had negotiated with it to enter into certain agreements and is bound by the EA award restraining FRL from going ahead with Reliance Retail merger. Subramanium in his submissions had reiterated that the EA's award in favour of Amazon was valid and enforceable under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act of India. Kishore Biyani and 15 others including FRL and Future Coupon Pvt Ltd (FCPL) have been made parties by Amazon in a batch of pleas challenging the Delhi High Court order of the division bench which paved the way for the deal. On February 8, the division bench had stayed the single-judge direction to FRL and various statutory authorities to maintain the status quo on the mega deal. The interim direction was passed on FRL's appeal challenging the February 2 order of the single judge which had ruled in favour of the US firm saying that the EA's award was valid and enforceable. Amazon had first filed a plea before the high court (single judge) for enforcement of the October 25, 2020, EA award by Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal with Reliance Retail. The high court division bench had however said that it was staying the single-judge order as FRL was not a party to the share subscription agreement (SSA) between Amazon and FCPL and the US firm was not a party to the FRL-Reliance deal. FRL, in its appeal, had claimed that if the February 2 order was not stayed it would be an absolute disaster for it as the proceedings before the NCLT for approving the amalgamation scheme have been put on hold. It had contended that the single judge's status quo order will effectively derail the entire scheme which has been approved by statutory authorities in accordance with the law. In August last year, the Future group had reached an agreement to sell its retail, wholesale, logistics, and warehousing units to Reliance. Subsequently, Amazon took FRL into EA before the SIAC over alleged breach of contract by the Future group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||RBI keeps policy rate unchanged for 7th time in a row||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday decided to keep benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4 per cent but maintained an accommodative stance as the economy is yet to recover from the impact of second COVID wave. This is the seventh time in a row that the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) headed by RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das has maintained status quo. RBI had last revised its policy rate on May 22, 2020, in an off-policy cycle to perk up demand by cutting interest rate to a historic low. MPC decided to maintain status quo, that is keeping benchmark repurchase (repo) rate at 4 per cent, Das said while announcing the bi-monthly monetary policy review. Consequently, the reverse repo rate will also continue to earn 3.35 per cent for banks for their deposits kept with RBI. Das said MPC voted unanimously for keeping interest rate unchanged and decided to continue with its accommodative stance as long as necessary to support growth and keep inflation within the target. MPC has been given the mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2026, with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent. Observing that economy is slowly recovery from brief hiatus, the Governor said, some of the high frequency indicators reflect recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open marginally higher ahead of RBI's Monetary Policy||Equity benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty opened marginally higher on Friday ahead of the Reserve Bank of India's monetary policy decision.  The 30-share index was trading 54.98 points or 0.10 per cent higher at 54,547.82, while the broader NSE Nifty inched 17.50 points or 0.11 per cent higher to 16,312.10.  The RBI will announce its bi-monthly monetary policy amid expectations that it may opt for status quo on interest rates on account of inflationary concerns.  IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by M&M, Maruti, Bharti Airtel, Sun Pharma and NTPC.  On the other hand, HCL Tech, Titan, Nestle India and Infosys were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex settled 123.07 points or 0.23 per cent higher at its new closing record of 54,492.84, and Nifty rose 35.80 points or 0.22 per cent to its lifetime peak of 16,294.60.  According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, there are two major factors supporting the ongoing bull run: one, the strength of the mother market the US, riding on the support from huge liquidity and highly accommodative monetary stance of the Fed; two, the exuberance of the retail investors who are exerting a disproportionate influence on market movements.  "While retail investor participation is a desirable trend, it is important to note the fact that the quality of retail investment - chasing low-quality cheap stocks - leaves a lot to be desired. In the long run, the majority of retail investors will be better- off investing through mutual funds," he said.  Meanwhile, foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 719.88 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was trading with gains.  Equities on Wall Street largely ended on a positive note in overnight trade.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.14 per cent to USD 71.39 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea share price surges before Centre introduced retro tax rollback bill||The Vodafone Idea share price, which had fallen to a 52-week low in early trading on Thursday, suddenly surged at 2:10pm, hours before the Centre introduced the retro tax rollback bill in the Lok Sabha that struck off the government’s Rs 22,000-crore tax demand on the British company. The stock closed at Rs 5.94 on the BSE, down 1.49 per cent but much higher than the day’s low of Rs 4.55. Investors had hammered down the stock by 24.54 per cent in early trade in the wake of Kumar Mangalam Birla’s announcement that he was stepping down as the chairman of the company. According to Moneycontrol, Birla decided to quit in an apparent bid to ringfence the assets of Aditya Birla group from any adverse impact of a possible default by Vodafone Idea. Vodafone Idea CEO Ravinder Takkar on Thursday reached out to employees seeking to reassure them, and  urged the staff to continue focusing on providing quality services to customers and sustain intensity in the market. Meanwhile, UK-based Vodafone declined to comment on a report that suggested it is ready to offer its VIL stake for free to Indian banks, financial institutions or to state-owned BSNL, provided they take over the mobile telephony firm. “We will not be commenting,” Vodafone said in response to a mail sent by PTI. Last month, Birla had offered to hand over the Birla group’s stake in VIL to the government or any other entity to ensure the company remains a going concern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||Bengal-based Keventer Agro Ltd is set to debut on the bourses ||Bengal-based Keventer Agro Ltd is set to debut on the bourses — a rare entry of a food and beverage player from the east into the stock exchanges in recent times. KAL, which is the largest milk producer in the private sector in the East and the Northeast, will file a draft prospectus with market regulator Sebi in the next few days. The company, which is also the franchisee for Parle’s Fruity, Appy and FIZZ, is likely to raise anything between Rs 800 crore and Rs 900 crore, valuing Keventer in the range of Rs 2,400-2,800 crore. The IPO will offer an exit route to the existing private equity investor Mandala Capital, which holds close to a 22 per cent stake in Keventer. Moreover, the issue will raise cash to retire debt and build a capital base to expand the business in other parts of India. The promoters are not selling any shares in the company, which clocked a revenue of around Rs 1,000 crore in the last fiscal. Post IPO, the Jalan family of Calcutta is likely to hold a 68-70 per cent stake in Keventer, which also owns popular pouch milk and ice cream brand Metro. Sources said fresh issue of shares would be in the range of Rs 325-375 crore. While about Rs 125 crore would be kept for capital expenditure, Rs 250 crore would be used to retire debt. The issue, the second this year from Bengal after iron and steel company Shyam Metaliks, may hit the market during Diwali. In the recent past, regional dairy focused brands have done well on the bourses. The latest was the Rs 521-crore Dodla Dairy, which saw interest from retail as well as institutional buyers. Keventer, however, has been in the process of diversifying to the fast growing frozen foods segment. It is also a large procurer and seller of bananas in India, especially in Bengal. The company has been traditionally strong in the East and the Northeast, where it has a manufacturing base (in Barasat) and a good distribution network. However, it is slowly stepping out of the region. The East contributes about 12 per cent share to the overall FMCG market in India, even though the size is growing faster than the rest of India because of a lower base. The company plans to continue with a dual engine of growth — owned brand and a strong franchisee brand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||Bengal industries and IT minister calls meeting to take stock of Rajarhat Silicon Valley Hub projects||Bengal industries and IT minister Partha Chatterjee on Thursday said the department has scheduled a meeting on August 11 to take stock of the progress of projects at the proposed Silicon Valley Hub in Rajarhat. Chatterjee said a “cha-chakra” (tea-roundtable) has been scheduled with some of the companies that have taken up plots in the IT hub. State industry and IT department officials will be present at the meeting. Reliance Jio, TCS, Cognizant, Capgemini, Firstsource and Tech Mahindra were among the companies that had applied for land in the early phases. Expressions of interest for the sixth phase of land allocation at the IT hub was floated by Hidco earlier in February. The IT hub will be set up on approximately 200 acres of land in a strategic location in New Town’s Action Area-II near Eco Park. Chatterjee said around 120 participants are expected to attend the meeting, which will follow the existing Covid guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||Zoom alerts India users about updated terms of service||California-based communications technology firm Zoom has started alerting its users in India about its updated terms of service. Zoom’s updated privacy statement, globally announced in June, includes an opt-out option for its users from sharing data to third parties. “Zoom customers and users decide when a content is recorded and whether to share it with third-party apps or others,” Lynn Haaland, chief compliance, ethics and privacy officer, said in a statement. The updated privacy statement also clarifies Zoom’s use of automated tools to protect people’s safety. The development comes at a time the web conferencing major, which became a global phenomenon during the Covid pandemic, reportedly agreed to pay $85 million and bolster its security practices to settle a lawsuit which claimed it violated users’ privacy rights by sharing personal data with Facebook, Google and LinkedIn, and let hackers disrupt Zoom meetings in a practice called Zoombombing. Zoom’s usage ballooned unexpectedly in the pandemic - from 10 million daily meeting participants in December 2019 to 300 million daily meeting participants in April 2020, as per disclosure in the company’s annual report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-08-2021||Business||GFG Alliance settles disputes with Tata Steel and Rio Tinto||The GFG Alliance, owned by commodities tycoon Sanjeev Gupta, has settled disputes with Tata Steel and Rio Tinto, the company said on Thursday as it makes progress in refinancing after its main lender collapsed. Gupta Family Group (GFG) Alliance has been seeking fresh funding to rescue its cash-starved web of businesses in steel, aluminium and energy after supply chain finance company Greensill filed for insolvency in March. “It is encouraging that discussions with creditors continue to progress well and our global restructuring plans continue to develop,” Jeffrey Stein, chief restructuring officer, said in a statement. The deal with Tata brought to an end proceedings launched against several GFG units, including Liberty Speciality Steels, GFG said without providing further details. In 2017, GFG bought Tata’s UK speciality steel business for £100 million ($139.21 million) and its pipe mills for an undisclosed sum. The Tatas confirmed that an agreement had been reached, but added in an emailed statement that the terms were confidential. GFG said it had also settled a dispute with global mining group Rio Tinto over the acquisition of the Dunkirk aluminium smelter in 2018. Rio declined to comment. Gupta’s family conglomerate GFG paid Rio Tinto $500 million for Europe’s largest aluminium smelter in France in a complex deal that involved borrowing from a syndicate of banks and commodity trader Trafigura, sources have told Reuters. GFG also said that a previously announced deal with commodities group Glencore to refinance the debt on its aluminium unit would be finalised once it had resolved repayment issues with an unnamed creditor. GFG had previously said it was planning to use the Glencore facilities to repay debt owed to buyout firm American Industrial Partners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-08-2021||Business||House panel on finance asks Centre to prepare White Paper on debt ||The parliamentary standing committee on finance has asked the Centre to prepare a White Paper on debt and a road map for fiscal consolidation in the wake of the immense pressure on government finances caused by the pandemic. The House panel has also pushed for the RBI’s intervention in the functioning of the bad bank, which the regulator has refused to do till now. “The committee cannot emphasise enough on the importance of clear understanding of debt and fiscal dynamics to manage the fiscal situation of the country as Covid-pandemic induced growth and fiscal dynamics could definitely increase our debt burden over the next few years,” the panel said in its report tabled in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday. The report suggested intensive use of modelling techniques to forecast the debt situation so that the government is prepared beforehand to face contingencies. “The DEA (department of economic affairs) should publish a White Paper on fiscal dynamics and how much fiscal space is created. They should highlight the use of fiscal resources and impact on GDP,” it said. The finance ministry has said it would strive to bring down the fiscal deficit to below 4.5 per cent of the gross domestic product by 2025-26 against a projected 6.8 per cent for the current fiscal. Bad bank “The RBI should intervene and bring about administrative clarity instead of leaving each bank to deal with singular cases which may trigger hiccups and reduce the efficiency of the desired outcome. If ARCs were sufficient, there would be no need for a ‘Bad Bank’. The RBI must clarify how the ‘Bad Bank’ will operate differently from existing ARCs,” the report said. On the National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID), the parliamentary committee said “it needs to follow Sebi’s best practices in corporate governance to ensure that public funds are appropriately utilised for the best projects rather than being captured by crony capitals in the future”. Only the nomination and remuneration committee of the board of the infrastructure bank should appoint the non-official directors, board chairperson, MD and DMD. This committee  should be chaired by an external equity investor operating in its financing capacity and with full transparency and accountability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-08-2021||Business||Centre overturns retrospective amendment to tax laws||The Centre on Thursday introduced the retro tax rollback bill in the Lok Sabha that allows the government to withdraw all the tax demands made on asset transfers prior to May 28, 2012, and refund the money collected on this count without any interest, provided the parties concerned take back all their tax cases against the government. The tax proviso will, however, apply prospectively to all indirect asset transfers after that date. The bill has a direct bearing on the government’s long running tax disputes with British firms Cairn Energy Plc and Vodafone Group. The Indian government has lost two separate arbitrations brought by the two companies against the levy of retrospective taxes. While the government has virtually no liability in the Vodafone case, it has to refund $1.2 billion to Cairn Energy for the shares of the company it had sold, tax refund withheld and dividends confiscated. The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021 comes after a French tribunal last month ordered a freeze on some 20 centrally located properties belonging to the Indian government as part of a guarantee of the amount owed to Cairn. Finance secretary T.V. Somanathan said the government would repay Cairn the Rs 7,900 crore it had collected as retrospective tax under the 2012 Act. “We are monitoring the situation and will provide a further update in due course,” Cairn said in a late night  statement on its website in response to the government’s tax law amendment. Tax analysts, however, said the the refund of only the principal amount may not be seen favourably by the parties which have won arbitration awards. Tax expert Narayan Jain said “after having lost the arbitration proceeding, the government had no choice but to withdraw the retro tax. It is doubtful whether Cairn and Vodafone would accept the rules in the present form. They would press for the interest component”. Revenue secretary Tarun Bajaj said “we have taken this bold step to assure the investor community about the predictability in the tax regime. The retrospective taxation continued to be a sore point and hence the government has voluntarily decided to bring in this bill to nullify all retro tax demands”. With this amendment, the Centre is finally coming good on the promise that the then finance minister Arun Jaitley made in his budget speech in 2014 that the Modi government would not raise retrospective tax demands. However, the Centre has failed to also knock down its tax law amendment in the Finance Bill 2017 — with a roughly 55-year retrospective effect — that permitted tax sleuths to raid assessees based on a rumour, canard, whim or unsubstantiated suspicion without having to disclose to anyone the source or the basis of the information on which the operation was ordered. Amazon verdict The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce on Friday the verdict on e-commerce giant Amazon’s pleas against the merger of Future Retail Ltd with Reliance Retail and is likely to decide whether Singapore’s Emergency Arbitrator (EA) award, restraining the Rs 24,731-crore deal, was valid under Indian law and can be enforced. As per the apex court website, the verdict would be pronounced at 10.30am by a bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
