07-08-2021||Business||Court sends Ambience group promoter to judicial custody||A Delhi court on Saturday sent Ambience group promoter Raj Singh Gehlot, arrested in a money-laundering case linked to an alleged bank loan fraud of Rs 800 crore, to judicial custody after the ED said his further interrogation was not required. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana sent the accused to jail till August 21 after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) produced him before court on expiry of his custodial interrogation and moved a plea seeking his judicial custody for two weeks. The ED case against Gehlot, who is also a promoter of the Ambience Mall in Gurgaon, is based on a 2019 FIR of the Anti-Corruption Bureau of Jammu against AHPL and its directors for alleged money laundering in the construction and development of the five-star Leela Ambience Convention Hotel located at 1, CBD, Maharaj Surajmal Road, near the Yamuna Sports Complex in Delhi. The central probe agency had raided Gehlot, his company Aman Hospitality Private Limited (AHPL), some other firms of the Ambience group, director in the company Dayanand Singh, Mohan Singh Gehlot and their associates in July last year. The ED probe found that "a huge part of the loan amount of more than Rs 800 crore, which was sanctioned by a consortium of banks for the hotel project, was siphoned off by AHPL, Raj Singh Gehlot and his associates through a web of companies owned and controlled by them". "A substantial part of the loan money was transferred by AHPL to several companies and individuals on the pretext of payment of running bills and advance for supply of material and work executed," the agency had alleged. The employees of the Ambience group and Gehlot's associates were made directors and proprietors in these companies and Gehlot was the "authorised signatory" in many of these entities, it had said. No material was supplied and no work was executed and almost the entire amount was immediately routed back to the entities owned by Raj Singh and Sons HUF (Hindu undivided family) and his brother's son, it said. "Money was further siphoned off through multiple layers in a complex web of group entities," the ED had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||Business||I-T department issues three email IDs for faceless grievance ||The Income Tax (I-T) department on Saturday notified three official email IDs for taxpayers to register grievances under the faceless or e-assessment scheme. The department issued a message on its official Twitter handle saying: "In a move aimed to further improve taxpayer services in alignment with the Taxpayers' Charter, the Income Tax Department creates dedicated e-mail ids for registering grievances in respect of pending cases under the Faceless Scheme." It said grievances can be furnished under three separate email IDs created for the purpose. "For faceless assessments: samadhan.faceless.assessment@incometax.gov.in; For faceless penalty: samadhan.faceless.penalty@incometax.gov.in; For faceless appeals: samadhan.faceless.appeal@incometax.gov.in," the department said. Under the faceless assessment system, a taxpayer or an assessee is not required to visit an I-T department office or meet a department official for income tax-related businesses. A central electronic-based system picks up tax returns for scrutiny based on risk parameters and mismatches, and then allots them randomly to a team of IT officers in any city. The scrutiny by these officers are stated to be reviewed by officers at another randomly selected location. The scheme was launched by the Union government in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||Business||SC blow puts Kishore Biyani's future at stake||There was a time when Kishore Biyani was determined to seize the crown and be the unquestioned King of the Indian high street and the largest malls. In 2006, he had some 200 outlets including everything from supermarkets and hypermarkets to department and home product stores. He aimed to open one new outlet a day and talked about having 3,500 by 2010. “We want to capture consumer spending,” he declared without the slightest flicker of doubt about his Future Group’s ability to pull it off. Now fast forward to today: Biyani's fending off creditors and reckons if his deal with Reliance Retail Ventures to sell for Rs 24,713 crore he struck in August last year after being battered by Covid-19 is stalled, he'll be forced to file for bankruptcy in three months. Half his stores have been shut by the pandemic and most of the rest aren't selling enough to cover costs. (The company lost Rs 59.43 billion in fiscal 2020-21 and it's got debt of Rs 207.42 billion)  The banks granted Biyani a debt-restructuring deal on condition his agreement with Reliance went through – they were betting it would be easier to recover debts from Reliance Ventures which had also agreed to take on various existing debts. That may have been a bargain-basement deal for Reliance Ventures. But there's a hitch and it's a big one. The problem is Biyani had already struck a deal in 2019 giving Amazon the right to buy a 49-per-cent stake in Future Coupons, a group company that owned 7.3 per cent of Future Retail, the group flagship. Under the deal, Amazon had the first right to buy into Future Retail in a time frame of between three to 10 years and it paid Biyani Rs 1,431 crore in December 2019. Inevitably, Amazon took Biyani and the Future Group to court after the deal with Reliance was struck, arguing their rights. The chosen forum under the Amazon-Future Group agreement was the arbitration tribunal in Singapore. An emergency arbitration tribunal issued an injunction preventing the Future Group-Reliance Ventures deal from being completed. After a series of battles in the Delhi High Court, Amazon took the case to the Supreme Court which has just ruled in its favour. Biyani's still weighing the legal options and plans to file a review petition before the Supreme Court. Yesterday’s court battle had a battery of legal heavyweights including, Harish Salve appearing for Biyani and Gopal Subramanium representing Amazon. But it's hard not to conclude Biyani will have a tough time in the near future. Looking in the rearview mirror, it's possible to conclude that overweening ambition may have got the better of Biyani. But business is also sometimes about taking gambles and it's true he had to face conglomerates like Reliance with gigantic gameplans and a heap of cash for a massive shopping spree. Besides the arrival of online players like Amazon and Flipkart changed the game in ways that couldn’t easily have been foreseen in the early 2000s. He never reached his 3,500 store goal but by 2018 Future Retail had 1,550 outlets, led by his biggest winner BigBazaar and including others like Heritage Fresh, Nilgiris, Easyday, Foodhall and Brand Factory. He also had a tie-up with W. H. Smith, the news, books and convenience conglomerate. His Future Lifestyle had around 350 outlets. By then, though, he was also staggering under the weight of accumulated debt and the pandemic that came in 2020 piled on massively to his woes. Biyani, always frank whether he was on top of the world or hounded by bankers, admitted that Covid-19 was the very last blow. “We got into a trap to be very honest with Covid-19. In three-four months, we lost nearly Rs 7,000 crore,” he confessed at a retailers' conference. Even more importantly, he conceded at the conference: “We did too many acquisitions in the last six to seven years.” That was why he was forced in 2019 to strike the deal that gave Amazon the right to buy a 49 per cent stake in Future Coupons, a group company that owned 7.3 per cent of Future Retail, the group flagship and also the first right to buy into Future Retail . But when the pandemic changed the entire picture, plunging the Future Group even deeper into debt. Biyani needed cash much more urgently to avert bankruptcy. That’s why he changed course abruptly and struck the deal with Reliance Ventures in August 2020. What’s next? Biyani and analysts note that if he's forced to declare bankruptcy, that would lead to enormous losses for the banks. He says that the company has few actual assets that could be sold to recover debts and that its outlets are almost all rented. He also owes vendors huge amounts. RIL's share price fell more than 2 per cent Friday on the back of the court verdict to trade at Rs 2,0287 while Future Retail slid 10 per cent to Rs 58.20. Biyani is standing in front of an abyss and the only thing that can pull him back is a fountain of cash or an easing off of Friday's Supreme Court verdict. It’s a grim plight to be in. Biyani has been able to confound the naysayers for decades. It remains to be seen if he can do it again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||Business||Sebi agrees in principle to 'controlling shareholders' concept||Market regulator Sebi on Friday agreed “in-principle” to a proposal to move away from the concept of promoter to “controlling shareholders”, and decided to reduce the minimum lock-in period for promoters after an IPO. The watchdog has also decided to streamline the disclosure requirement of group companies, the Securities and Exchange Board of India said in a statement after the board meeting. The regulator is looking to move away from the concept of the promoter to “controlling shareholders” or person in control as nowadays several businesses, including new-age and tech companies, are non-family owned and do not have a distinctly identifiable promoter group. About the lock-in period, Sebi said if the object of the issue involves an offer for sale or financing other than for capital expenditure for a project, the minimum promoters’ contribution of 20 per cent should be locked in for 18 months from the date of allotment in the initial public offer and follow on public offer. At present, the lock-in period is three years. Further, in all these cases, the promoter shareholding above the minimum promoter contribution will be locked in for six months, instead of the existing one year. Sweat equity The Sebi board also cleared amendments to regulations governing alternative investment funds. At a time many start-ups are attracting significant investments, including from overseas, Sebi has decided to provide relaxations on the quantum of sweat equity that can be issued to new-age technology companies listed on the Innovators Growth Platform. In the case of IGP-listed companies, the yearly limit for sweat equity shares will be 15 per cent while the overall limit will be 50 per cent of the paid-up capital at any time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||Business||India’s largest bulk tea producer McLeod Russel faces bankruptcy||India’s largest bulk tea producer McLeod Russel India Ltd (MRIL) has been admitted for insolvency proceedings on Friday for defaulting on the repayment of a Rs 100 crore loan. The company, promoted by the Khaitan family of Calcutta, operates 31 tea gardens in Assam and two gardens in Alipurduar, Bengal. It also has gardens in Africa and Vietnam. The company employs over 73,000 people across tea estates and produces about 73 million kg of tea every year. A bench of National Company Law Tribunal, New Delhi admitted the company for corporate insolvency resolution proceeding under Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, 2016 and appointed Kanchan Dutta as interim resolution professional. Even though multiple banks have filed cases against MRIL for loan default, the applicant in the instant case was Techno Electric and Engineering Co Ltd, which had loaned Rs 100 crore at an annual interest of 14 per cent on September 28, 2018. The entire amount was to be fully repaid with interest on or before March 31, 2019. However, McLeod failed to repay the amount on that date and later as well. The court observed in its order that MRIL had not disputed the quantum of default or existence of the loan amount. In a statement, MRIL said it would function as a normal business on a ‘going concern’ principle and and the interests of all stakeholders will be protected. “The company’s business and all obligations will continue with the guidance of the IRP. The undersigned and the company secretary, Alok Kumar Samant, will continue to remain as key managerial personnel. Azam Monem will continue to guide the operations of the company,” Pradip Bhai, chief financial officer of MRIL, said in a statement. Monem is a director on the board of the company looking after tea operations. When contacted, Aditya Khaitan, chairman of the company, declined to comment. Sources said the promoters would explore options before them over the weekend, including appealing before the appellate tribunal. MRIL has around Rs 2,000 crore in debt as it borrowed heavily to support a group company McNally Bharat Engineering Co Ltd. After MBECL’s business floundered and it failed to pay back to McLeod, debt woes rocked the group, founded by Brij Mohan Khaitan, Aditya’s father. McLeod sold multiple gardens initially in Assam, Bengal and Africa to honour the loan commitments but the enormity of the challenge soon surpassed the resource. Khaitans hold just about 10.07 per cent in the company after lenders invoked shares pledged with them for defaulting on loan repayment. Even though the majority of the financial creditors were said to be inclined to restructure the company outside insolvency and appointed SBI Caps to prepare a roadmap, Techno was relentless in pursuing the matter in the NCLT and finally it succeeded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||Business||RBI does not have specific target of yield curve, focus on its orderly evolution: Shaktikanta Das||The yield on the benchmark 10-year paper continued to rise even as the RBI on Friday announced a mish-mash of liquidity steps to facilitate what governor Shaktikanta Das said was an orderly evolution of the yield curve to ensure the Centre gets the funds for its borrowing programme at reasonable rates. As part of its yield management exercise, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said it will undertake a secondary market government securities acquisition programme or G-SAP 2.0 worth Rs 50,000 crore in two tranches. “Our recent G-SAP auctions that have focussed on securities across the maturity spectrum are intended to ensure that all segments of the yield curve remain liquid,” Das said while announcing the third bi-monthly monetary policy. But the moves to control yields have received a lukewarm response from investors. On Friday, the yield on the 10-year bond rose to 6.234 per cent which casts doubt on Das’s claim that G-SAP has been successful in “anchoring yield expectations”. There will be four 14-day variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) auctions between August 13 and September 24 when the RBI will be soaking up Rs 13 lakh crore. Das said this should not be misconstrued as “a reversal of the accommodative policy stance”. Libor alert In order to ensure a smoother transition from Libor to alternative benchmarks by December, the RBI will amend the guidelines related to export credit in foreign currency and restructuring of derivative contracts. Banks will be permitted to extend export credit in foreign currency using any other widely accepted alternative reference rate in the currency concerned. Since the change in reference rate from Libor is a “force majeure” event, the exercise will not be considered as restructuring of loans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India keeps interest rate unchanged but raises inflation forecast||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday kept interest rates unchanged at a record low as it chose to support economic revival despite raising its forecast for inflation. The six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted unanimously to retain the repurchase (repo) rate — the rate at which the central bank lends short-term funds to banks — at 4 per cent, but was split on continuing with its accommodative stance. “The MPC decided on a 5 to 1 majority to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary to revive and sustain growth on a durable basis,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said. This was a departure from the past when they were unanimous on the need to support growth. An accommodative stance means a rate hike is unlikely. The RBI retained its GDP growth forecast for the current fiscal at 9.5 per cent, but revised its retail inflation forecast to 5.7 per cent, up from the earlier 5.1 per cent. The projected inflation being closer to the upper tolerance band implies price pressures are not likely to ease anytime soon. The central bank scaled down the growth projections for the next few quarters but raised the forecast for April-June to 21.4 per cent. This, analysts said, may reflect its concerns on the pace of consumption demand revival. Growth in Q1 of next fiscal was forecast at 17.2 per cent. The committee said current inflation — which is riding above the 6 per cent threshold — was a transitory phenomenon and driven by “supply side factors”. The committee also noted that high frequency data showed that consumption and investment were regaining traction. Das said pricing pressures were “exogenous and temporary”. Any move to curb inflation now would “kill the nascent and hesitant recovery that is trying to secure a foothold in extremely difficult conditions”. The RBI governor also said: “The outlook for aggregate demand is improving, but the underlying conditions are still weak.” “Aggregate supply is also lagging below pre-pandemic levels,” he added. The upside cues for  growth were improving capacity utilisation, rising steel consumption, higher capital goods imports, congenial monetary and financial conditions and the Centre’s economic packages. Downside risks are global commodity prices, financial market volatility and a new wave of infections. Debt recast The RBI relaxed by six months the deadline to meet four operational parameters under the one-time debt restructuring scheme announced in August 2020. The parameters include total debt-to-Ebitda ratio, current ratio, debt service coverage ratio and average debt service coverage ratio. The deadline has been extended to October 1, 2022 from March 31, 2022. “Recognising the adverse impact of the second wave of Covid-19, it has been decided to defer the target date for meeting the specified thresholds in respect of the above four parameters to October 1, 2022,” Das said. Industry upbeat Corporate India on Friday said the status quo on key interest rates and an accommodative monetary policy will boost the confidence of businesses and consumers. PHDCCI president Sanjay Aggarwal said, “We urge the banking sector to transmit all the cuts in the repo rate during the last financial year to trade, industry and consumers.” Uday Shankar, president, Ficci said: “The Central Bank has thoughtfully navigated the monetary policy through the pandemic... on the economic front despite the uptick, Ficci believes that it is important that a stimulus is provided by the government to give a thrust to consumption.” Assocham said the RBI’s “expectations that inflation should moderate from the third quarter of the current fiscal year are realistic as various supply-side issues would be resolved by then”. Stocks fall The Sensex nursed losses for the first time this week on Friday with the index closing down 215.12 points, or 0.39 per cent, at 54277.72. The NSE Nifty fell 56.40 points, or 0.35 per cent, to 16238.20. RIL was the top laggard among the Sensex pack, shedding 2.07 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||Business||Bengal government to initiate process of recovering idle land||The Bengal government will initiate a process to take back allotted land lying unutilised in the industrial parks of the state as part of efforts to unlock idle assets. The West Bengal Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (WBIIDC) has identified 600 acres of land, some of them in prime locations, which are not being used by industries for various reasons. The government has decided to write to the allottees “with full sympathy and compassion”, asking them to provide a timeline to restart work, if any, or return the land. “We did a survey on lands lying vacant in the industrial parks. We found that close to 600 acres of land in the parks of WBIIDC are stuck. Fifty per cent of them are factories that have been set up but are now closed and in the other half the plants have not started because of financial problems or some other issues,” Rajiva Sinha, chairman of theWest Bengal Industrial Development Corporation, said. Interacting with the members of CII, Sinha said some of the plots are in the prime locations and could be in demand from industrialists. “We are writing to the entrepreneurs with full sympathy and compassion that if you can’t start the plant, return the land to us. We are expecting to reclaim a lot of idle land. We can give it back to industry afresh,” Sinha added. Sinha urged industry to share its feedback with the government. “We must bridge this trust deficit between the government and industry,” Sinha said. On the delay in releasing incentives promised previously but not paid by the government, Sinha cited severe resource crunch because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We simply do not have the resources to honour the commitment. As and when funds come, we will give it to you,” he said. The incentives were part of the Industrial Promotion Assistant Scheme that was in force from 2013 to 2018 but was not renewed. At present, there is a scheme for MSMEs but the incentive payments have become infrequent because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||Business||Supreme Court holds Singapore EA award against Reliance-Future merger enforceable||In a major victory for Amazon, the Supreme Court on Friday held that Singapore’s Emergency Arbitrator (EA) award, restraining the Rs 24,731-crore merger deal of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) with Reliance Retail, is valid and enforceable under Indian arbitration laws. The order means Future Retail and Reliance Retail cannot proceed with their amalgamation plans. The apex court also set aside the two orders of February 8 and March 22 of the division bench of the Delhi high court which lifted the single-judge’s orders staying the FRL-RRL merger. Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC and FRL have been embroiled in a bitter legal battle over the deal and the US-based firm has appealed to the apex court that the EA award was valid and enforceable. A bench of justices R.F. Nariman and B.R. Gavai decided two important questions in the judgment — whether an ‘award’ by an EA under the Arbitration Rules of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) can be said to be an award under India’s Arbitration and Conciliation Act. The second question was “whether an order passed under Section 17(2) of the Arbitration Act in enforcement of the award of an Emergency Arbitrator by a Single Judge of the high court is appealable”. The Supreme Court bench has answered both questions. Justice Nariman, in the 103-page judgment said: “We... answer the first question by declaring that full party autonomy is given by the Arbitration Act to have a dispute decided in accordance with institutional rules which can include Emergency Arbitrators delivering interim orders, described as ‘awards’”. “Such orders are an important step to help decongest the civil courts and afford expeditious interim relief to the parties. Such orders are referable to and are made under Section 17(1) of the Arbitration Act”. Answering the second question, the top court said no appeal lies against an order made by a court for ensuring the enforcement of the EA’s award as done by FRL in this case against the single-judge order restraining it from going ahead with the deal with RRL. In a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges, Future Retail said it has been advised by its counsel that “it has remedies available in law, which it will exercise”. FRL intends to pursue all available avenues to conclude the deal to protect the interests of its stakeholders and staff. Regarding the Singapore arbitration process, it said: “The Arbitral Tribunal has concluded hearings on the questions (i) whether the interim award of the emergency arbitrator should continue and (ii) whether FRL is at all a party in the Arbitration proceedings. The decision of Arbitral Tribunal is awaited.” Legal eagles believe that Future Retail will challenge the EA order again before the Delhi high court. The judgment does not deal with the merits of the dispute between FRL and Amazon. It has dealt with the questions of law which are academic in nature, an expert said. The focus will now switch to Singapore where the arbitral tribunal is expected to pronounce its ruling on the dispute between Amazon and FRL. The ruling will also have a significant bearing on all arbitration cases being fought overseas; the ruling comes just a day after the Modi government decided to end the retrospective effect of the tax measure passed in 2012 that allowed the taxman to pursue claims against indirect transfer of Indian assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
