08-08-2021||Business||DGCA asks airlines to submit report on rising international airfare||Aviation regulator DGCA has asked the airlines to submit details about the airfares they have been charging for India-UK flights during August, a senior official said on Sunday. On Saturday, Sanjeev Gupta, Secretary, Inter-State Council Secretariat, Union Home Ministry, had complained on Twitter that an economy-class ticket on British Airways's Delhi-London flight for August 26 was priced Rs 3.95 lakh. He added that economy-class ticket on Delhi-London flights of Vistara and Air India for August 26 was also priced between Rs 1.2 lakh and Rs 2.3 lakh amid the college admission time in the UK. Gupta said he has "alerted" Union Civil Aviation Secretary P S Kharola about this matter. A senior official of the Directorate General of Civl Aviation (DGCA) said on Sunday that the regulator has asked the airlines that operate India-UK flights currently to submit details about their fares. While there have been lower and upper limits on all domestic airfares in India since May 25 last year, no such limits have been imposed on international airfares. Vistara, which currently operates flights on Delhi-London as wells Mumbai-London route, said on Sunday: "Pricing is always a function of supply and demand. "There are only 15 flights a week allowed currently on India - UK route for Indian carriers and when there is relaxation and more capacity allowed, it will automatically bring down prices." Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 last year amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, limited special international passenger flights have been operating since July 2020 under the air bubble arrangements formed with 28 countries, including the UK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
08-08-2021||Business||Bank of Baroda reports post-tax Q1 profit of Rs 1,209 crore||State-run Bank of Baroda on Saturday reported a standalone profit after tax of Rs 1,209 crore in the quarter ended June 2021 on higher growth in net interest income (NII) and lower provisioning for bad loans. The lender had reported a net loss of Rs 864 crore on a standalone basis in the corresponding previous quarter. The bank’s managing director and CEO Sanjiv Chadha said the lender has ensured some core profitability by keeping a discipline on the liability and asset sides. On the liability side, the bank has ensured that deposit growth does not run too far ahead of the loan growth and it is composed majorly of low-cost Casa deposits. On the asset side, it has been careful that the liquidity which had impacted corporate yield does not impact its margins, and, therefore, the focus for growth was on the retail side, he said. “This tight discipline, both on the liability and asset sides, has meant that the bank has been able to report a significant improvement in its margins. Our net interest margin (global) is now more than 3 per cent and for the domestic side it is at 3.12 per cent,” he said, adding that this lays the foundation for a strong operating performance. “Consequently, the operating profit has shown a very sharp uptick with a growth of 41 per cent, and with the provisioning also contained, the net profit has moved up to more than Rs 1,200 crore,” he added. Global net interest margin (NIM) increased to 3.04 per cent from 2.52 per cent in the first quarter of FY21 led by domestic margins, which improved to 3.12 per cent from 2.59 per cent. “There would be a significant upside (in NIM in FY22) compared with last year. Last year, it was in the 2.7 per cent range and we would expect 15-20 basis points increase y-o-y in this year,” he said. NII rose 15.8 per cent to Rs 7,892 crore compared with Rs 6,816 crore. Gross non-performing assets (GNPA) ratio declined to 8.86 per cent from 9.39 per cent. Net NPA increased to 3.03 per cent from 2.83 per cent as of June 30, 2020. Fresh slippages during the quarter stood at Rs 5,129 crore. Of that, slippages in the MSME sector consisted of Rs 2,180 crore and in retail was Rs 1,245 crore. “We have been of the view from the past few quarters that there would be stress in the MSME and retail segments. It transpired little more than what we had anticipated because of the second wave, but this would be offset by corporate credit cycle improving,” Chadha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
08-08-2021||Business||Piyush Goyal calls for increasing handloom exports to Rs 10,000 crore in 3 years||Textiles minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday set an ambitious goal of increasing handloom exports four-fold to Rs 10,000 crore and of doubling production to Rs 1.25 lakh crore in the next three years. At present, handloom exports are worth Rs 2,500 crore and production is about Rs 60,000 crore. “We will go for a Rs 10,000-crore target for the export of handloom products and increase our production to Rs 1.25 lakh crore in the next three years,” he said during the celebrations for National Handloom Day. He suggested that a team be formed under the chairmanship of Sunil Sethi of the Fashion Design Council of India consisting of weavers, trainers, equipment makers, marketing experts and other stakeholders to recommend ways to promote the sector. The minister expressed the need to take handloom to the next level of growth where the sector will be able to prosper without depending much on state support. Handloom craft villages will be set up at Kanihama in J&K, Kovalam in Kerala, and Mohpara in Assam. “We have to look for new ways to boost handloom production and explore new markets,” he added. Textiles secretary U.P. Singh said the ministry is working on ways to ensure weavers get the right price for their products. “We are trying to onboard more players on GeM (government e-marketplace). Over 1.5 lakh weavers are there on GeM,” he said. FDI inflow into the textile sector fell to $298.67 million in 2020-21 from $323.52 million in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
08-08-2021||Business||Nalco net profit soars to Rs 348 crore in first quarter||National Aluminium Company Ltd (Nalco) has reported a massive jump in net profit for the first quarter ended June 2021 at Rs 347.73 crore compared with Rs 16.63 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. Revenue from operations was up 79.2 per cent at Rs 2,474.55 crore against Rs 1,380.63 crore in the year-ago period. The impressive numbers were propelled by strong demand, higher volumes, better realisation and effective capacity utilisation of its operational units, Nalco said. During the quarter, the production of bauxite came in at 17.61 lakh tonnes (17.10 lakh tonnes), alumina at 5.21 lakh tonnes (4.65 lakh tonnes) and aluminium 1.14 lakh tonnes (0.98 lakh tonnes). Sridhar Patra, chairman and managing director of Nalco, said, “Despite the challenges imposed because of the Covid-19 pandemic, Nalco through strategic planning of raw materials, manpower and marketing initiatives has been able to steer towards organisational success.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
08-08-2021||Business||US Securities and Exchange Commission approves Nasdaq proposal of diversity in boards||The US Securities and Exchange Commission approved a proposal from stock exchange operator Nasdaq Inc that requires its listed companies to have diverse boards, or explain why they do not. The proposal requires that companies have two diverse directors, including one who identifies as female and another as an underrepresented minority or LGBTQ+, or explain why they do not. Companies also have to publicly disclose the diversity of their boards. “These rules will allow investors to gain a better understanding of Nasdaq-listed companies’ approach to board diversity,” said SEC Chair Gary Gensler in a prepared statement. Nasdaq said it is looking “forward to working with our companies to implement this new listing rule and set a new standard for corporate governance”. Women and minorities have been underrepresented in the top ranks of companies, leading to a recent reckoning on racial and gender diversity in Corporate America. According to data from Equilar, boards in the Russell 3000 are halfway to gender parity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
