09-08-2021||Business||Amazon and NR Narayana Murthy's Catamaran to end their joint venture next year||E-commerce major Amazon and NR Narayana Murthy's Catamaran on Monday said they will not continue their joint venture - Prione Business Services - beyond May 2022.  The announcement came on a day when the Supreme Court ruled that Amazon and rival Flipkart will have to face a probe by the Competition Commission of India into allegations of violations of the competition laws.  Prione Business Services - the joint venture between Amazon and Catamaran - was formed in 2014 and is coming up for renewal on May 19, 2022.  "The two partners today announced they have mutually decided to not continue their joint venture beyond the end of its current term," a joint statement said on Monday.  The JV has enabled over three lakh sellers and entrepreneurs to go online, and helped 4 million merchants with digital payment capabilities, it added.  Amazon and Catamaran, however, did not disclose the reason behind the decision. The companies also did not comment on the fate of Cloudtail India - a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prione Business Services and one of the biggest sellers on Amazon.in.  Prione did not comment on a detailed questionnaire seeking a response on the future of Cloudtail's operations in India and its impact on employees.  Cloudtail India had clocked a 27.6 per cent rise in revenue to Rs 11,412.75 crore in FY20 from Rs 8,944.71 crore in FY19, as per regulatory documents. Its net profit more than doubled to Rs 67.54 crore in FY20 as against Rs 29.38 crore in FY19, according to the documents.  Amazon and Catamaran have announced the decision to part ways at a time when there is a greater scrutiny on the operations of e-commerce marketplaces in India that have foreign investments.  In 2020, fair trade regulator CCI ordered a probe against Amazon and Walmart-owned Flipkart for alleged malpractices, including deep discounting and tie-ups with preferred sellers on their platforms.  Trader bodies like CAIT have also contended that such practices by these companies have severely impacted the business of offline retailers.  Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) Secretary General Praveen Khandelwal on Monday said it is unlikely that the Amazon-Catamaran JV is being ended as part of a strategy to avoid an investigation that may take place when Amazon is probed.  Certain questions are bound to arise for Cloudtail that will have to be answered when CCI investigates Amazon's business module, he added.  CAIT had previously written to Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal to conduct an investigation into the role of Cloudtail India.  In 2018, the government had introduced stricter norms for e-commerce marketplaces with foreign investments.  Following this, Prione Business Services was restructured. While the companies did not divulge details, sources had said Amazon's holding came down from 49 per cent to 24 per cent stake post the restructuring.  In the joint statement on Monday, Catamaran President MD Ranganath said: "As our JV with Amazon reaches the end of its tenure, I reflect on this successful partnership that introduced the power of digitisation and empowered hundreds of thousands of SMBs across big and small towns. We would like to thank Amazon for the partnership that leaves behind a strong legacy of shaping e-commerce in India".  Amit Agarwal, Global Senior VP and Country Head - Amazon India, said the companies had entered into a JV in the early days of e-commerce in India with a shared vision of transforming hundreds of thousands of small businesses in a fast-changing digital world by providing online capabilities, enabling them to access customers both in India and globally.  "We are humbled by how the JV exceeded its vision, helping online commerce evolve through the unrelenting efforts of hundreds of its employees, positively impacting over 4.3 million small businesses, creating hundreds of thousands of jobs, and contributing to India's digital economy," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
09-08-2021||Business||IOC launches app-based doorstep diesel delivery services||State-owned Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), in collaboration with app-based doorstep diesel delivery services provider Humsafar India and Okara Fuelogics, has started providing such services in Mumbai and adjoining areas, a statement said on Monday. IOC has joined hands with Humsafar, which had earlier announced its partnership with transport and logistics firm Okara to offer these services in Maharashtra, it stated. Together, the two companies aim to launch doorstep diesel delivery services in various cities, including Pune, Nagpur, Thane, Nashik, Aurangabad, Navi Mumbai, Solapur, and many other cities of the state. "The main aim of launching this service in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane, JNPT, Panvel and Bhiwandi is to ease the lives of the end-consumers without the hassles of diesel procurement," said Rajesh Singh, chief general manager (Maharashtra office) of Indian Oil Corporation, at the launch of the service. He added that this government-approved doorstep diesel delivery system is the new-age concept of effective distribution of diesel. "It allows fuel start-ups to maintain quality and create the availability of fuel for the consumers." Earlier, the bulk consumers of the diesel had to procure it from retail outlets in barrels which used to cause a lot of spillages and dead mileage in every procurement, he said. Singh added, "The introduction of doorstep diesel delivery will solve many such problems, and it will provide diesel to bulk consumers in the most legal manner." The system will hugely benefit the agricultural sector, hospitals, housing societies, heavy machinery facilities, mobile towers and much more, he stated. Both Humsafar and Okara are exploring more areas of cooperation, including diversifying into the recently opened 'CNG Door Delivery' and other innovative solutions to help bring fuel to various market segments, said Okara Group Director Ramandeep Singh. "We plan to expand our diesel at doorstep services to Goa, Karnataka and Gujarat," he said. Humsafar Director and co-founder Sanya Goel said, "Our alliance with Okara Group aims to provide doorstep diesel delivery services in Maharashtra and help entities like housing societies, industries as well as malls, with a regular supply of diesel." Goel added that it saves customers the hassle of transporting large amounts of diesel from petrol stations to their desired location. "This would also cut down the unsafe practices of transporting fuel and will help ensure a highly secure mode of transport by Humsafar dependable delivery dispensers."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
09-08-2021||Business||Sensex rises 125 points to close at 54,402||Equity benchmark Sensex rose 125 points on Monday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank amid a largely positive trend in Asian markets. The 30-share index ended 125.13 points or 0.23 per cent higher at 54,402.85, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 20.05 points or 0.12 per cent to 16,258.25. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Finserv, IndusInd Bank, Titan and Dr Reddy's. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, Tata Steel, L&T, NTPC and Bajaj Finance were among the laggards. Domestic equities traded sideways, and profit-booking was seen at tops, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Notably, financials and IT supported market and arrested fall, while most key sectoral indices traded in red. "Visible economic recovery indicating strong credit growth in subsequent months and likely opening of complete economy eased concerns with regards to asset quality of banks, which essentially aided financials today," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red. Stock markets in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 3.95 per cent to USD 67.91 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
09-08-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, ITC and HUL amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 219.52 points or 0.40 per cent higher at 54,497.24, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 65.05 points or 0.40 per cent to 16,303.25. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, Titan, Bajaj Finserv, IndusInd Bank and Asian Paints. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Reliance Industries, Dr Reddy's and HDFC Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 215.12 points or 0.39 per cent lower at 54,277.72, and Nifty fell 56.40 points or 0.35 per cent to 16,238.20. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 69.37 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. "RBI's continued soft monetary policy stance to support ongoing economic recovery augurs well for domestic equities," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, faster vaccination process in the country and absence of sharp spike in daily caseload despite opening-up economy bode well, he noted. Also, sharp improvement in key economic indicators like GST collection, auto sales volume and other high- frequency indicators like e-way bills in July suggests sustainable rebound in corporate earnings in subsequent quarters. This should aid the market to sustain premium valuations, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.82 per cent to USD 69.41 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
09-08-2021||Business||Department of telecommunications engages with banks to find solution to stress in telecom sector||The department of telecommunications (DoT) has initiated discussions with banks to address financial stress in the telecom sector, particularly Vodafone Idea Ltd (VIL) which urgently requires fund infusion to stay afloat. There was a meeting of the DoT officials and senior bankers on Friday on the issue of Vodafone, sources said, adding that banks have been asked to look for a solution within the prudential guidelines. According to sources, senior officials from the country’s biggest lenders State Bank of India and Bank of Baroda were also present among others in the meeting. More such meetings are expected to take place in the coming days, they said. Meanwhile, the finance ministry has asked public sector banks to collate and submit data related to their debt exposure to the telecom sector in general and VIL in particular. Lenders, both public and private, stare at a loss of Rs 1.8 lakh crore in case VIL collapses. A large part of the loans to the lender is in the form of guarantees with public sector banks having a lion’s share of the debt. Among the private sector lenders, Yes Bank and IDFC First Bank may be impacted the most. As a precursor, some private lenders with a funded exposure have already started making provisions. IDFC First Bank has marked the account of VIL as stressed and has made provisions of 15 per cent (Rs 487 crore) against the outstanding exposure of Rs 3,244 crore (funded and non-funded). “This provision translates to 24 per cent of the funded exposure on this account. The said account is current and has no overdues as of June 30, 2021,” the lender said in its Q1 FY’22 investor presentation, referring to the account as “one large telecom account”. According to official data, VIL had an adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liability of Rs 58,254 crore out of which the company has paid Rs 7,854.37 crore and Rs 50,399.63 crore is outstanding. ViL’s gross debt, excluding lease liabilities, stood at Rs 1,80,310 crore as of March 31, 2021. The amount included deferred spectrum payment obligations of Rs 96,270 crore and debt from banks and financial institutions of Rs 23,080 crore apart from the AGR liability. In a backdrop of such a large liabilities, both the promoter Vodafone Plc (45 per cent stake) and Aditya Birla Group (27 per cent stake) expressed their inability to bring in additional capital. Writing a letter to cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba in June, Aditya Birla group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla said investors are not willing to invest in the company in the absence of clarity on AGR liability, adequate moratorium on spectrum payments and most importantly floor pricing regime being above the cost of service. Giving relief to Vodafone, the government has proposed to withdraw all back tax demands on companies with passage of The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The 2012 legislation, commonly referred to as the retrospective tax law, was enacted after the Supreme Court in January that year rejected proceedings brought by tax authorities against Vodafone International Holdings BV for its failure to deduct withholding tax from $11.1 billion paid to Hutchison Telecommunications in 2007 for buying out its 67 per cent stake in a wholly-owned Cayman Island incorporated subsidiary that indirectly held interests in Vodafone Idea. Global telecom gear makers are keeping a close watch on how things evolve for Vodafone Idea, but maintain that it is business-as-usual when it comes to on-ground network-related work. A senior official of one of the European vendors said that things are not as yet “alarming” at this stage, while another player said it is too early to draw specific conclusions on outcomes, since the overall situation remains “fluid”. The telecom equipment makers are closely monitoring the situation to see the next move by cash-strapped Vodafone Idea Ltd (VIL). The next course of action will be determined by how the situation evolves, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
09-08-2021||Business||Tata Motors bet on rural markets with launch of new Tiago NRG||Tata Motors has been riding high on the back of the success of its Forever Range of cars launched in January 2020. The market share of the company rose to 8.2 per cent in 2020-21 from 4.8 per cent in 2019-20. The market share stands at 10.3 per cent as of July this year. The company is now at No. 3 in the pecking order. Tata Motors is now betting on the rural market to sell its new crossover vehicle, the Tiago NRG. Based on the Tiago platform, the Tiago NRG comes with a higher ground clearance than its hatchback counterpart. While crossover traditionally with their plastic claddings and elevated ground clearance has not seen much sales success, Tata Motors is banking on rural India for sales given the good monsoons and higher productivity. “Tiago is the entry-level hatchback and the Tiago NRG will upgrade our portfolio with a crossover that will be an ideal vehicle for the rough roads in rural India. Traditionally, hatchbacks have been preferred for their fuel efficiency combined with their flexibility and accessibility. The Tiago NRG will offer all of this together with a bit offroading capacity that will help rural commuters to negotiate the roads of suburban and rural India,” said Vivek Srivatsa, marketing head, passenger PVBU, Tata Motors. The Tiago has a 4-star safety rating by GNCAP and will retail at a starting price of Rs 6,57,400, ex-showroom Delhi. Semi-conductor crisis The semi-conductor shortage continues to plague Tata Motors as well as other car maklers and the company is working on strategies on this issue. “The shortage of semi-conductors is impacting us and is likely to continue for some time. We are having to do better planning and manage with what is available,” said Srivatsa. Meanwhile, Volvo Car India has rescheduled the launch of Volvo XC40 Recharge because of the “global shortage of semi-conductors”. The bookings and launch of the EV has been deferred to early next year. “The company believes in giving a committed delivery date to customers once they book,” said Malhotra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
09-08-2021||Business||Seven firms in race for transaction advisor for IDBI Bank strategic sale||As many as seven firms, including JM Financial, Ernst and Young and Deloitte, have bid for managing the strategic sale of IDBI Bank. These firms would make a virtual presentation before the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam), which is handling the sale process, on August 10, according to a notice by Dipam. The firms that have bid for acting as transaction adviser are Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP, Ernst & Young LLP, ICICI Securities, JM Financial Ltd, KPMG, RBSA Capital Advisors LLP and SBI Capital Markets. Dipam would appoint one transaction adviser for the strategic sale of IDBI Bank, in which the central government and LIC together own more than 94 per cent. At present, LIC has management control with a 49.24 per cent stake, while the government holds 45.48 per cent in the bank. Non-promoter shareholding stands at 5.29 per cent. The exact quantum of stake dilution would be decided later. The government in June invited bids from professional consulting firms/investment bankers/merchant bankers/financial institutions/banks, for facilitating/assisting Dipam in the process of strategic disinvestment of IDBI Bank Ltd along with the transfer of management control, till the completion of the transaction. The last date for bid submission was July 13, which was later extended till July 22. The transaction adviser would be required to advise and assist the government on the modalities of disinvestment and the timing; recommend the need for other intermediaries required for the process of sale/disinvestment and also help in the identification and selection of the same with proper terms of reference; preparation of all documents such as the preliminary information memorandum (PIM), organise roadshows, suggest measures to fetch optimum value.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
09-08-2021||Business||DGCA asks airlines to submit report about rising fares on international flights||Aviation regulator DGCA has asked airlines to submit details about the fares they have been charging for India-UK flights during August, a senior official said on Sunday. On Saturday, Sanjeev Gupta, secretary, inter-state council secretariat, Union home ministry, had complained on Twitter that an economy-class ticket on British Airways’s Delhi-London flight for August 26 was priced Rs 3.95 lakh. He added that economy-class ticket on Delhi-London flights of Vistara and Air India for August 26 was also priced between Rs 1.2 lakh and Rs 2.3 lakh amid the college admission time in the UK.  Gupta said he has “alerted” Union civil aviation secretary P. S. Kharola about this matter. A senior official of the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) said on Sunday that the regulator has asked the airlines that operate India-aviation companies with UK flights to submit details about their fares. While there have been lower and upper limits on all domestic airfares in India since May 25 last year, no such limits have been imposed on international airfares. Vistara, which at present operates flights on the Delhi-London as wells Mumbai-London route, said on Sunday: “Pricing is always a function of supply and demand. “There are only 15 flights a week allowed currently on India-UK route for Indian carriers and when there is relaxation and more capacity allowed, it will automatically bring down prices.” Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 last year amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, limited special international passenger flights have been operating since July 2020 under the air bubble arrangements formed with 28 countries, including the UK. High demand Average economy-class fares on international flights operating on key routes connecting India have risen significantly during the last one month due to high demand, according to data from EaseMyTrip.com. “Recently, a large number of countries have eased their travel restrictions for Indian citizens, which has steadily increased demand for travel as there is a huge pent-up travel demand,” said Nishant Pitti, CEO and co-founder of EaseMyTrip.com.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
09-08-2021||Business||Ready-to-cook idli, dosa, porridge mix to attract 18 per cent GST: AAR||Taste-bud ticklers dosa and idli may turn out a tad sour on the palate after a recent Tamil Nadu tax ruling. The authority for advance rulings (AAR) in the state has said that henceforth branded ready-to-cook dosa, idli and porridge mixes will attract 18 per cent GST. The AAR said the products in question were all food preparations in the form of powder. “The dosa and idli mixes are packed and sold as mixes which are to be mixed with water/boiled water/curd to make them as batter and the product sold is a powder and not batter,” the AAR said while making it clear that these will attract GST at the rate of 18 per cent and not 5 per cent. “The AAR ruled that branded ready-to-cook products such as  dosa mixes, idli mix would be taxable at 18 per cent GST, instead of 5 per cent that is chargeable on batter used to cook dosa and idli. The ruling would lead to a legal anomaly wherein an intermediate product would become dearer than other available alternatives to cook dosa and  idli,” Rajat Mohan, senior partner with AMRG, said “The authority has created a divide between ready-to-cook mixes and the wet batter. The rulings have a solid persuasive value for the entire industry, making branded ready-to-cook products dearer compared to other alternatives,” he said. Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY, says “Such rulings may create an ambiguous situation in the taxing system where the same product when sold in the form of flour attracts higher tax rate in comparison to when it is sold as batter.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
09-08-2021||Business||Ujjivan Small Finance Bank plans to approach Reserve Bank of India with reverse merger proposal||Bangalore-based Ujjivan Small Finance Bank plans to approach the Reserve Bank of India in November with its proposal of reverse merger of the holding company with the bank and comply with the regulatory guidelines on promoter shareholding. “We would apply with the RBI in early November, just three months before the end of the fifth year and go through the process of procedural approvals that are required. We expect the whole process of the reverse merger to take up to 12 months to get completed,” Nitin Chugh, MD & CEO, Ujjivan Small Finance Bank, told analysts at the earnings call for the April-June quarter of 2021-22. For the quarter ended June 2021, Ujjivan Financial Services Limited, the promoter of the small finance bank, held 83.32 per cent of the total equity share capital of the bank. The promoter holding has to be diluted to 40 per cent within five years of the start of business. The bank will complete five years on January 31, 2022. In June, the RBI had informed the Association of Small Finance Banks of India that it has decided to permit small finance banks and the respective holding companies to apply for the amalgamation of the holding company with the small finance banks three months prior to completing five years from the date of commencement of business. This has set the ball rolling for small finance banks to bring down their promoter stake through the collapse of the holding company structure and give the shareholders of the holding company direct ownership in banks. The board of Chennai-based Equitas Small Finance Bank approved a scheme of amalgamation on July 26, 2021, between promoter Equitas Holdings Limited and Equitas Small Finance Bank. The holding company had a 81.75 per cent stake in the bank as on June 30, 2021. Bank officials informed analysts at the first quarter earnings call that the amalgamation process could take at least 12 months with approval needed from the RBI, Sebi, stock exchanges and NCLT. The board has approved a swap ratio of 226 shares of the small finance bank for every 100 shares of the holding company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
09-08-2021||Business||Reduction in tariffs on alcoholic beverages needed to facilitate import: Report||A joint report of the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) and law firm PLR Chambers has suggested a reduction in the tariffs on alcoholic beverages to facilitate import and the adoption of clear and predictable excise policies that encourage businesses to expand. According to data compiled in the report, in 2019, India’s total share in global exports of alcoholic beverages was only 0.27 per cent. The share in global imports was 0.75 per cent. A major reason for the low share in global trade is the high tariff rates. The customs duty was 150 per cent in 2019 for products such as scotch whisky bottled in the country of origin and bulk scotch whisky imported for bottling in India. The Centre also has a tariff of 150 per cent on intermediate products, namely ‘‘un-denatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength by volume of 80 per cent or higher”. The budget had brought down the basic customs duty to 50 per cent but introduced an Agriculture Infrastructure Development Cess of 100 per cent, which maintained the combined levy at the previous 150-per-cent level. Aditya Prakash Rao, partner at PLR Chamber and a co-author to the report, told The Telegraph that a reduction in import duty can encourage local manufacturing in India. “If played out correctly, tariffs can also play a role in making India a manufacturing hub. That’s an area that has not been explored,” he said. Ex-distillery price A key concern presented in the report is the variation in pricing models of alcoholic beverages across states. Most states tend to fix their ex distillery price (EDP) for spirits/whisky based on lowest EDP among neighbouring states. Since this pricing mechanism does not take into account differences in production costs, producer’s margins get severely affected. Consequently, manufacturers may opt for low quality inputs, leading to poor quality. “Even though the formula for calculation is lowest EDP, the excise duty has been hiked and this issue needs to be studied taking into account how consumers react to price changes,” said Deepak Mishra, director & chief executive, Icrier. “The last financial year has seen a significant loss of revenue in the state with regard to the alcobev sector. While part of this may be because of the lockdown, this issue needs further research and investigation,” Mishra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
09-08-2021||Business||Saudi Aramco reports four-fold rise in Q2 net profit ||Saudi Arabian state oil producer Aramco has reported a near four-fold rise in second-quarter net profit on Sunday, beating expectations and boosted by higher oil prices and a recovery in oil demand. Aramco said its results were supported by the global easing of Covid-19 restrictions, vaccination campaigns, stimulus measures and accelerating economic activity in key markets. Aramco joins other oil majors who have reported strong results in recent weeks. Exxon Mobil last month said its net income for the second quarter came in at $4.69 billion, or $1.10 per share, compared with a loss of $1.08 billion, or 26 cents per share, a year ago. Royal Dutch Shell reported its highest quarterly profit in more than two years, with adjusted earnings at $5.53 billion, compared with earnings of $638 million a year earlier. Oil prices, boosted by output cuts made by the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and their allies, a group known as Opec+, closed at $70.70 a barrel on Friday and has gained over 35% since the start of the year. “Our second quarter results reflect a strong rebound in worldwide energy demand and we are heading into the second half of 2021 more resilient and more flexible, as the global recovery gains momentum,” Aramco CEO Amin Nasser said in a statement. Aramco’s net profit rose to 95.47 billion riyals ($25.46 billion) for the quarter to June 30 from 24.62 billion riyals a year earlier. Analysts had expected a net profit of $23.2 billion, according to the mean estimate from five analysts. Nasser said global oil demand was expected to hit 99 million barrels a day by the end of the year and 100 million barrels next year. Aramco is still working to increase its own capacity to 13 million barrels day, Nasser said, reiterating a plan announced last year. It declared a dividend of $18.8 billion in the second quarter, in line with its own target, which will be paid in the third quarter. Credit Suisse analysts said late last month they expected Aramco to declare a special dividend because of higher oil prices that had helped boost its free cash flow. Yousef Husseini, equity research analyst at EFG Hermes, said Aramco may be keeping the extra cash for taking part in the new state-backed Shareek (Partner) initiative, to partner with private sector investments. "I think the reason they maintained [the dividend] and our rationale was that they are retaining money to invest in future projects and particularly the "Shareek" programme," he said. Aramco's capital expenditure was $7.5 billion in the second quarter, an increase of 20% from a year earlier. A consortium including Washington DC-based EIG Global Energy Partners in June closed a deal to buy 49% of Aramco's pipelines business for $12.4 billion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
09-08-2021||Business||Tractor sales continue to be robust for second year in a row||Tractor sales continued to be robust for the second year in a row amid the pandemic. Two leading players in the farm equipment sector reported growth in the domestic and export markets. Sales prospects are further buoyed by the good monsoons. Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd’s farm equipment sector reported a 5 per cent rise in domestic sales at 25,769 units in July 2021. Exports for the month stood at 1,460 units. Sonalika Tractors sold 10,756 units in total, a growth of 5.2 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
09-08-2021||Business||Move with caution about financial intermediaries||The arsonist and the fireman can never be the best of friends; one unleashes chaos while the other restores order. Theirs is a relationship based on mutual distrust. The analogy seems far-stretched and forced when we examine the association between the intermediary and the investor. The former supports, and often counsels the latter; the latter, however, needs constant assurance that the former goes about conducting his business in a transparent, methodical and ethical manner. Today’s story, beginning with the kind of caveat that you have just read, is necessitated by what we are all witnessing these days: a runaway market, marked by copious quantities of liquidity, advancing asset prices, superior gains. Also, like night follows day, we have aggressive practices prompted by a section of intermediaries determined to play musical chair. And keep playing till the music stops. The scenario is best explained in the context of mutual funds, especially with so many NFOs (new fund offers) entering the investors’ mind-space. The latter, already jammed with competing funds — a number of me-too products included — must lead the investor to the right choices. Selecting the most appropriate fund is a challenging task, which must be undertaken on the basis of one’s risk profile and other critical factors. Helping an investor choose well is a job designed specifically for the intermediary. The latter’s role is different from that of a mere service provider. He is an entity who must execute a special function: help his client identify the most suitable products, and in turn, reject the ones that do not fit the bill. Ask and task An ideal intermediary has a lot to deliver to his clients. His deliverables (in terms of counselling) can range from a simple list of do’s to a more complex list of don’ts. Investors are by and large familiar with these points, but for the sake of repetition, here are some of the common ones. A counsellor at all times needs to remind clients that the past performance of a product is not indicative of its future performance. This is an evergreen classic; however, it rarely goes out of fashion. Not when market conditions are so very bullish and hordes of buoyant investors are tempted to allocate more. Here, I am exclusively referring to equities, and specifically to mutual funds. Clients should also be given a number of add-on messages. For instance, they should be told that an NFO with the issue price of Rs 10 is not always a smarter choice than an existing fund. A fund with a lower NAV (net asset value) need not compulsorily be a better acquisition than one with a higher NAV. Naturally, even an otherwise staid NAV can fluctuate violently in changing market conditions. There are no guarantees in the real world of securities; market-driven asset classes do not assure any sort of performance. However, irrational promises are constantly made by unlawful and malefic quarters and ordinary investors tend to get influenced by their assurances. These days a constant barrage of unauthentic news impacts the market, and some sections of the media tend to get carried away by “market rumours”. A responsible counsellor always guides his clients and helps him overcome such challenges. A discerning client should be aware that an intermediary who suggests a product should disclose his interest (or position) in it. In the case of a typical mutual fund distributor, a client can well seek a list of fees or charges. Ditto, for an insurance marketer who “pushes” a product. A participant should also ensure that transactions are all done properly (with an account payee cheque or a draft, perhaps). Exit loads or similar charges, if any, should be charged in line with the terms outlined in the offer documents. Well-conceived grievance redressal mechanisms have been put in place by regulatory agencies. So, an investor who has grievances and doubts is free to contact the compliance official or the investor relations functionary who carries a specific mandate. In the contemporary online space, it is quite easy for an investor to contact the authorities too. Investor complaints against fund houses, insurers, securities brokers, portfolio managers and the like, if any, can be taken up within the confines of prescribed mechanisms. An investor who is familiar with online tools can keep an eye on the websites of asset managers and the other outfits; he may also make himself conversant with organisations like the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi), the industry body formed by asset management companies. Some don’ts In a market as robust as this, it is important that investors retain their composure and act rationally. In this context, do remember the following: The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
