10-08-2021||Business|| Zomato reports a net loss of Rs 356 crore for the financial year 2021-22||Zomato announced its April-June quarter results for the financial year 2021-22, reporting a net loss of Rs 356 crore on a consolidated basis, compared to a loss of Rs 99.8 crore in the year-ago period, due to higher expenses as the company's dining-out business was impacted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This is the first quarterly earnings update of the country's leading food aggregator since its stellar stock market debut last month, which gave it a valuation of Rs 98,849 crore. The newly listed company's revenue from operations in the first quarter of the current fiscal stood at Rs 844 crore, compared to Rs 266 crore in the corresponding period last year, marking a three-fold increase year-on-year, according to a regulatory filing by the firm to the stock exchanges today. ''Revenue growth was largely on the back of growth in our core food delivery business which continued to grow despite the severe Covid wave starting April. On the other hand, Covid-19 significantly impacted the dining-out business in Q1 FY22 reversing most of the gains the industry made in Q4 FY21,'' said Zomato in its statement. The company's total expenses in the June quarter stood at Rs 1,259 crore, compared to Rs 383 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. During the quarter, Zomato recorded its highest-ever gross order value, the number of orders, transacting users, as well as active delivery partners in its history. The gross order value of the Indian food delivery business grew more than four-fold year-on-year to Rs 4,540 crore in the April-June quarter, while the sequential growth compared to the preceding January-March quarter of fiscal 2020-21 was 37 per cent. ''...our India food delivery business continues to remain contribution positive; although the contribution margin reduced slightly in Q1 FY22 as compared to the previous quarter on account of growth investments in addition to the costlier business environment (due to lockdowns) in which this growth was achieved,'' added Zomato. Ahead of the earnings, shares of Zomato declined 4.22 per cent to settle at Rs 124.95 apiece on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
10-08-2021||Business||Centre taking steps to eliminate use of crypto assets, Rajya Sabha informed||The government on Tuesday said it will take all measures to eliminate the use of crypto-assets in funding illegitimate activities or as part of the payment system. In a written reply to the Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary also said the government will explore the use of blockchain technology proactively for ushering in digital economy. "The government does not consider crypto-currencies legal tender or coin and will take all measures to eliminate use of these crypto-assets in financing illegitimate activities or as part of the payment system," he said. A High-Level Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) constituted under the Chairmanship of Secretary (Economic Affairs) to study the issues related to virtual currencies and propose specific actions to be taken in this matter recommended in its report that all private cryptocurrencies, except any cryptocurrency issued by the State, be prohibited in India. The government would take a decision on the recommendations of the IMC and the legislative proposal, if any, would be introduced in Parliament following the due process, the minister said. In another reply, Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Karad said public sector banks (PSBs) have recovered Rs 4,52,480 crore during the last five financial years from defaulters in NPA and written-off accounts, and have made aggregate recovery of Rs 20,334 crore from wilful defaulters till March 31, 2021. He further said the RBI has apprised that data on wilful defaulters are available with it since 2019, and as per data reported by banks to CRILC, the increase in total number of unique wilful defaulters reported by nationalised banks was 248 during 2019-20, which has decreased to 156 during 2020-21. In another reply, Karad said the gross NPAs reported by public and private sector banks to CRILC (including exposures that are not categorised as corporate exposure on account of being between Rs 5 crore and Rs 7.5 crore) accounted for 66.8 per cent of the total gross NPAs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||Sensex scales fresh peak, ends 152 points higher||Equity benchmark Sensex rose by 152 points to end at a record high on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC, Bharti Airtel and Infosys amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index ends 151.81 points or 0.28 per cent higher at its lifetime peak of 54,554.66, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 21.85 points or 0.13 per cent to 16,280.10. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, HDFC, Kotak Bank, M&M and HCL Tech. On the other hand, Tata Steel, NTPC, ITC and PowerGrid were among the laggards. "Domestic equities witnessed high volatility today and benchmark Nifty after recording fresh all-time high fell sharply mainly led by heavy selling pressure in metals, PSU banks and realty stocks," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, financials (ex- PSU banks) continued to support market and arrested sharp fall, he said, adding that IT stocks remained in focus today as high volatility in market provided an edge to safer bet like IT companies. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red. Equities in Europe were largely trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.03 per cent to USD 69.75 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||Centre taking steps to help small businesses facing impact of online retailers, says minister||Union minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday flagged concerns about the influence of big online retailers that are adversely impacting small players and asserted that the government is taking steps to ensure that in the long run, consumers get good quality products at affordable prices. Against the backdrop of the Supreme Court rejecting pleas of Amazon and Flipkart against a Competition Commission of India (CCI) probe into alleged unfair trade practices, the minister told the Lok Sabha that the influence of big online retailers are increasing due to their money power and small retailers are getting shut. "Not just in India, concerns are being expressed by governments across the world," he added. Goyal is in charge of the ministries of commerce and industry as well as consumer affairs, food and public distribution and has been vocal in supporting domestic traders. He made the remarks while responding to supplementaries during the Question Hour on a question related to Amendment of Consumer Protection (e-commerce) Rules, 2020. In India, there are around six crore small retail businesses giving jobs to around 12-13 crore people, he noted. Goyal said big online retailers would have a major influence and eventually consumers might not have a choice but to buy things at a higher price. Asserting that the government is taking strict action with respect to the influence of big online retailers, he said CCI and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are looking into the issue. The companies tried to stop a probe by CCI but "I am happy that yesterday, on the anniversary of Quit India Movement," all efforts of these companies failed and the Supreme Court decided that CCI will probe the matter, Goyal said. On Monday, the Supreme Court refused to entertain pleas of Amazon and Flipkart, saying that challenging the enquiry is like wanting a notice before the registration of an FIR under the criminal law and asked the e-commerce giants to submit themselves to the CCI probe. On January 13, 2020, CCI ordered a probe against Flipkart and Amazon for alleged malpractices, including deep discounting and tie-ups with preferred sellers on their platforms, following which both the companies had moved the high court seeking quashing of the probe order. The government is taking steps to ensure that in the long run, consumers get good and quality products at fair prices, Goyal said on Tuesday. The Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020 were notified on July 23, 2020. In order to further strengthen the regulatory framework for prevention of unfair trade practices in e-commerce which harm the interest of consumers in the long run, the central government has sought views/ comments/ suggestions on the proposed amendments to the rules by placing it on the website of the Department of Consumer Affairs, the minister said in a written reply. The proposed amendments also include provisions related to banning of fraudulent flash sales where technology is used to enable only a specific seller or a group of sellers managed by the e-commerce company to sell goods or services on its platform," Goyal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 250 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank, despite a largely negative trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 257.31 points or 0.47 per cent higher at 54,660.16, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 64.05 points or 0.39 per cent to 16,322.30. HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries and Axis Bank. On the other hand, PowerGrid, ITC, Bajaj Auto and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 125.13 points or 0.23 per cent higher at 54,402.85, while Nifty advanced 20.05 points or 0.12 per cent to 16,258.25. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 211.91 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. A likelihood of complete reopening of the economy supported by continued low positivity rates and faster vaccination process augurs well, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, the Reserve Bank of India's continued soft monetary policy stance to support ongoing economic recovery indicated a sustained low interest rate scenario in the country, which is important to foster growth, he noted. US equities ended mostly lower as spread of delta variant of coronavirus and downgrade of China growth by Goldman Sachs weighed on investor sentiments and triggered profit booking, Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Seoul were in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.46 per cent to USD 69.36 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||Air Water Inc and Ellenbarrie Industrial Gases Ltd part ways||Industrial gas major Air Water Inc (AWI) of Japan and its Indian joint venture partner Ellenbarrie Industrial Gases Ltd (EIGL) have parted ways eight years after they joined hands to do business in India. Osaka-based AWI in 2013 had acquired a 51 per cent stake in Ellenbarrie, which has its headquarters in Calcutta. The city-based company on Monday said the promoters of EIGL has acquired the stake held by its Japanese counterpart for an undisclosed sum. Following the transaction, EIGL will be the sole industrial gases company wholly owned by Indians. EIGL came into focus during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic which pushed up demand for medical oxygen in May. It is the fourth largest producer of gases in the country after Linde, Inox and Air Liquid. Varun Agarwal, director of EGIL, said the exit of AWI would not impact the growth plans of the company. “We are a debt-free company which is in the process of doubling capacity and turnover by the second half of 2022-23,” Agarwal said. The company has production facilities at Kalyani, Uluberia, Kharagpur and Panagarh in Bengal and Visakhapatnam and Hyderabad in south India. It has begun work on a major expansion at Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh, at an investment of Rs 250 crore and capacity of 600 million tonnes per day. This plant, which will have a steel plant as the anchor customer, is expected to go onstream in the second half of 2022 and will cater to its growing clientele in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka. While EGIL is going ahead with its plans, AWI is charting solo plans  in the country. When Linde and Praxair entered into a global merger, the companies had to sell some of their facilities to meet the conditions of the Competition Commission of India. It bought three plants from Linde, including one located at JSW Steel’s plant, as part of a deal in 2019. However, the transaction sowed seeds of disagreement with the Indian partner. After scores of cases at the company law tribunal, appellate authority and arbitration in Singapore, the two parties decided to part ways with the Japanese company also securing a no-objection from the Indian partner to do solo business in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||Gold prices skid below Rs 46,000 per 10 gram||Gold prices skidded below Rs 46,000 per 10 gram in early hours of trade on the commodity exchanges on Monday amid global concerns over the US Federal Reserve paring back stimulus but recouped most of the losses later in the day. At the MCX, gold touched a low of Rs 45,956 per 10 gram shortly after markets opened but moved up to Rs 46,180 per 10 gram by 6 pm. Volatility persisted with prices on a downward trajectory afterwards. Globally gold rates slumped 4 per cent to $1,690/oz in early hours. In the Calcutta bullion market, 24 carat gold prices were at Rs 47,250 per 10 grams, down 2.32 per cent from Rs 48,350 per 10 gram last Friday. “Gold extended its fall, along with silver after a stronger than expected US jobs report on Friday. Market participants worry that the US economic recovery and rising inflation might spur the Fed to pull back on unprecedented economic support,” said Navneet Damani, vice-president, commodities research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||Tata Group looking to foray into semiconductor manufacturing||Tata Group is looking to foray into semiconductor manufacturing, chairman N. Chandrasekaran said on Monday. Chandrasekaran estimated the market opportunity of high-tech manufacturing of electronics at $1 trillion and said Tata Group has already set up a business to seize the opportunity. His remarks come days after the $100-billion group announced entry into 5G equipment manufacturing and a string of acquisitions to create the Tata Digital business. Semiconductor manufacturing requires high investments and India does not have any such facility yet. Chandrasekaran explained that alterations to the global supply chains, which are heavily dependent on China, in the aftermath of the pandemic and geopolitical changes, will make businesses shift their reliance on other countries and called this a huge opportunity for India, which becomes the second base. “At the Tata group, we have already pivoted into a number of new businesses like electronics manufacturing, 5G network equipment as well as semiconductors, in all probability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||Upgrad raises 3rd external funding of $25 million from IIFL group||Leading online education platform Upgrad has raised its third external funding of $25 million from the IIFL group, helping the re/up-skilling company join the unicorn club with a valuation of $1.2 billion. The Ronnie Screwvala firm got its maiden external funding in late April when the Singaporean investment giant Temasek Holdings invested $120 million, and in the same week the World Bank Group arm International Finance Corporation chipped in with $40 million, valuing it at $850 million. Seventeen start-ups have become unicorns till now in 2021, taking the coveted tally to close to 60. Upgrad, co-founded by ex-media baron Screwvala, Phalgun Kompalli, Mayank Kumar and Ravijot Chugh, by investing just over Rs 170 crore in 2015, said in a statement on Monday that with the $25 million investment from IIFL Group, it has so far raised $185 million in equity capital from external investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||Securities Appellate Tribunal fails to deliver verdict on  PNB Housing Finance-Carlyle deal||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has failed to come out with a decisive verdict on the validity of the PNB Housing Finance-Carlyle deal. “In view of the difference in opinion between the members of the bench, we direct the interim order dated June 21, 2021 to continue till further orders,” Justice Tarun Agarwala, who is the presiding officer, and Justice M.T. Joshi, judicial member of the SAT, said in an order on Monday. The interim order had stated that the outcome of the extraordinary general meeting (EGM) of PNB Housing Finance on the preferential allotment of shares and warrants will not be made public. The verdict puts a pause on the progress of the Rs 4,000-crore deal with Carlyle, General Atlantic and Salisbury Investments. Justice Joshi held that Sebi had issued the notification correctly and that the EGM vote cannot go ahead unless the valuation report is also obtained under the Articles of Association and placed before the general body of shareholders. “In the present case, in order to safeguard the interest of investors, the impugned order was passed by Sebi on the lines of the provisions made in Article 19(2) by the appellant company and its shareholders, at the time the company was to be listed on the stock exchanges. Therefore, in my view the same cannot be called illegal or unjustified,” he said. Justice Tarun Agarwala held that Sebi ought not to have stopped the voting at the EGM as the PNB board had approved the issuance of shares according to the ICDR and shareholders should have been allowed to vote. “The right of the shareholders to accept or reject an agenda is supreme and paramount which cannot be whittled by any executive action of the respondent,” said Agarwala. He said Sebi could have questioned the resolution after it was accepted by the majority of shareholders. Before the EGM on June 22, Sebi had directed the company to stop allotment unless valuation was carried out by an independent valuer. This prompted PNB Housing Finance to approach SAT for relief. Both sides are now likely to appeal to the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||India in talks with Cairn Energy and Vodafone Plc to settle retrospective tax dispute||India is in informal discussions with Cairn Energy and Vodafone Plc to settle the long pending retrospective tax dispute, a senior finance ministry official said on Monday. “There are some informal discussions going on,” revenue secretary Tarun Bajaj said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “I would not like to discuss them in the public domain, but overall the answer to your question is, yes,” Bajaj said when asked if the companies were willing to drop cases in international tribunals. His comments came on a day a bill that aims to end all retrospective taxes imposed on the indirect transfer of Indian assets was returned by the Rajya Sabha amidst a walkout by the Congress, TMC and DMK. On telecom On the Vodafone Idea issue, Bajaj said the government would find a solution. His remarks are perhaps the first reaction by the government  after Kumar Mangalam Birla’s letter to the cabinet secretary became public. “It would make no sense for the government to come and say that we give this relief and companies say that it is not enough… I am sure the government will find a solution,” Bajaj said. Earlier in the day, DoT officials had indicated that the government was working on a comprehensive package for the sector and not a company specific one. Some of the measures being considered include reducing the revenue share licence fee to 6% of adjusted gross revenue (AGR) of the operators from the current 8%, settle the issue of future calculation of AGR by determining what segments of telecom revenues will constitute AGR, doing away with the bank guarantees which the operators have to furnish to the DoT for their AGR and deferred spectrum installments and extending the moratorium on deferred spectrum installments. They said the options being considered are fluid at this juncture. The government had, in November 2019, provided a two year moratorium on such payments – for FY21 and FY22 – which would be further extended. The two year extension had given a cash flow relief of around Rs 42,000 crore to the operators. The reduction in the licence fee by two percentage points would provide a relief of around Rs 3,000 crore annually to the operators, according to some estimates. The officials said the telecom package, once finalized, would be put out for inter-ministerial consultation and its revenue implications would be studied by the finance ministry, before it is cleared at the highest level. They said the options being considered are fluid at this juncture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||SC directs Amazon and Flipkart to voluntarily subject themselves to CCI probe ||The Supreme Court on Monday directed e-commerce giants Amazon and Flipkart to voluntarily subject themselves to a probe by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) for alleged predatory business practice at the cost of offline dealers. “We expect big organisations such as Amazon, Flipkart to voluntarily go for enquiry and you don’t want even that? We will ensure you do that,” Chief Justice of India N.V.Ramana said. The bench comprising the Chief Justice and Justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant dismissed the plea of the two companies against a June 23 Karnataka high court order asking them to face the probe. Amazon and Flipkart in separate statements said they were in compliance with all the rules and will extend full co-operation to the probe. Hours after the judgment, Amazon and N.R. Narayana Murthy’s Catamaran said they would not continue their joint venture — Prione Business Services — beyond May 2022. The JV has enabled over three lakh sellers and entrepreneurs to go online, and helped 4 million merchants with digital payment capabilities, the two companies said. “The two partners today announced they have mutually decided to not continue their joint venture beyond the end of its current term,” a joint statement said on Monday. The CCI in January had started a probe against the two e-commerce giants for alleged predatory sales and discount policies on a complaint filed by Delhi Vyapar Mahasangh. Senior advocates Gopal Subramanium and Abhishekh Manu Singhvi appearing for Amazon and Flipkart said there was neither any anti-competitive agreements nor any adverse effect of such competition warranting a CCI probe. The CCI represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and additional Solicitor General Madhavi defended the high court’s order upholding the CCI probe. The high court had earlier said Section 18 of the the Competition Act casts an obligation on the CCI to “eliminate” anti-competitive practices and promote competition, interests of the consumers and free trade. The apex court while refusing to interfere with the high court order gave the companies four weeks to file their response to the CCI inquiry and face the probe. When contacted, an Amazon spokesperson said: “Amazon has a high bar on compliance and we comply with all applicable laws. We will extend full cooperation to the CCI investigation.” A Flipkart spokesperson said while the company has not received the order yet, it respects the decision of the Supreme Court. “We are in compliance with the applicable Indian laws and will cooperate with the investigation,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
10-08-2021||Business||Gift or cash-back vouchers will be liable to 18 per cent GST||Gift vouchers or cash-back vouchers given to customers or suppliers are treated as goods and would be liable to 18 per cent GST, the Authority for Advance Ruling (AAR) has said. Bangalore-based Premier Sales Promotion Pvt Ltd approached the AAR’s Karnataka bench on the GST rate that would apply to the supply of gift vouchers, cash-back vouchers or the supply of e-vouchers with multiple options. The applicant is involved in the trading of vouchers in the course of its business. With respect to gift vouchers, the AAR noted that the applicant purchases the vouchers and sells them to its clients. The clients in turn distribute them to their clients/customers and the customers use them to to pay for goods or services. The gift vouchers would not obtain the character of money at the time of their supply to the applicant, the AAR ruled. For cash-back vouchers and multiple options e-vouchers, the AAR observed that the said vouchers cannot be covered under the definition of “money” at the time of supplying them but would take the colour of money only when used for payment of consideration for supply of goods or services procured by the end-user. Passing the ruling, the AAR said the supply of vouchers are taxable as goods and will attract 18 per cent GST. Rajat Mohan, senior partner with AMRG, said, “This ruling also rejected the special provisions in GST rules concerning the time of supply-related vouchers.  This ruling may lead to complications for corporates using special vouchers that could not be identifiable to a particular product at the time of its issuance,” he said. Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY, said: “Most industry players are not treating vouchers per se as goods and are paying GST on ultimate supply against which such vouchers are used. However, this ruling says vouchers are covered under goods. This ruling would create uncertainty in industry and lead to litigation.” Tax expert Bimal Jain said the Premier Sales ruling seems to be distorting the scheme of GST law and if applied in all cases of vouchers, it will result in double taxation — once at the time of supply of vouchers and again at the time of supply of the underlying “goods’ or “services.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
