11-08-2021||Business||Undid a mistake by rolling back retrospective tax, says Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that the country's economic growth is picking up pace again and the domestic industry needs to enhance its risk-taking appetite, while also noting that the government under him has undone a 'mistake of the past' by rolling back the retrospective tax rule. He also said that taking reforms is a matter of conviction for the government, which is ready to take all risks in the national interest. "We have taken bold decisions. Reforms continued even during the pandemic. The government is doing reforms not out of compulsion but out of conviction," he said while addressing the  Confederation of Indian Industry's annual meeting. "We undid a mistake of the past by removing the retrospective tax. It will increase trust between the government and the industry," he said during the virtual meeting. "The feedback and appreciation from industry in this regard has been great to see," the prime minister added. "Today there is a government in the country which is ready to take the biggest risk in the interest of the nation...GST was stuck for so many years only because the previous governments could not muster up the courage to take political risks...We are not only implementing GST but today we are also witnessing record GST collection," he added. Earlier this week, the Centre passed the retro tax rollback bill in the Parliament that allows the government to withdraw all the tax demands made on asset transfers prior to May 28, 2012, and refund the money collected on this count without any interest, provided the parties concerned take back all their tax cases against the government. Assuring all support to the industry, Modi said that India is receiving record foreign direct investment (FDI) because of reforms done in the last few years. The Prime Minister said that the major responsibility for the success of the self-reliant India campaign lies with the Indian industry. Modi asked the industry to take full advantage of the atmosphere of trust for India's development and capabilities. Highlighting the changes in the approach of the current government and changes in the ways of working of the current setup, he stressed that the new India of today is ready to march with the new world. "India, which was apprehensive of foreign investment at one point of time, is welcoming investments of all types today. Similarly, tax policies used to induce despondency among the investors, the same India can boast of the world's most competitive corporate tax and faceless tax system," he said. He mentioned that the maze of labour laws has been rationalised into four labour codes; and agriculture, which was treated as a mere means of livelihood, is being connected with the markets through reforms. As a result, he said, India is getting record FDI and FPI and forex reserves are also at an all time high level. "There was a time when foreign was synonymous with better. Industry big-wigs understand the consequences of such a psychology. Situation was so bad that even indigenous brands developed with great hard work were advertised with foreign names," he said adding today the trust of the countrymen is with the products made in India and they want to adopt made in India goods. He added that investor response has been tremendous for startups and this signals that India has extraordinary opportunities for growth. India now has 60 unicorns, 21 of them reaching that status in the last few months, he noted. The Prime Minister also emphasized that the government is able to undertake difficult reforms "because for this government, reforms are a matter of conviction not compulsion". Referring to the initiatives taken during the monsoon session like The Factoring Regulation amendment Bill, the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation Amendment Bill, he said such measures will give a boost to the government's efforts. Rectifying the mistakes of the past, the government did away with the Retrospective Taxation and the initiative will strengthen the trust between the government and the industry, he said. "Today there is a government in the country which is ready to take the biggest risk in the interest of the nation...GST was stuck for so many years only because the previous governments could not muster up the courage to take political risks...We are not only implementing GST but today we are also witnessing record GST collection," he added. He added that now Indians want made in India goods irrespective of the origin of the company that is producing the goods. On growth of startups in the country, he said India now has 60 unicorns, 21 of them reaching that status in the last few months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
11-08-2021||Business||Sensex ends on flat note amid profit booking at higher levels||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended on a flat note on Wednesday amid profit booking at higher levels. The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 28.73 points or 0.05 per cent lower at 54,525.93, while the broader NSE Nifty inched up 2.15 points or 0.01 per cent to 16,282.25. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping around 4 per cent, followed by NTPC, PowerGrid, Reliance Industries and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Auto, Sun Pharma and ICICI Bank were among the laggards. "Following continued selling in broader markets and weak Asian and US peers, Indian indices shed its early gains. However, late recovery helped the market to close the day on a flat note," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Measures taken by BSE to curb excessive price movement in smaller stocks triggered selling pressure in small and mid-cap stocks, while clarity from BSE on limiting its restrictions to penny stocks gave some relief, he noted. "Mainstream sectors succumbed to profit-booking while metal, energy and infra sectors traded against the trend," Nair added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red. Equities in Europe were in the green in afternoon trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.16 per cent to USD 70.74 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
11-08-2021||Business||Gadkari pitches for a policy to use RBI's foreign exchange reserves for infrastructure development||Union Road Transport and Highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday pitched for formulating a policy for using the Reserve Bank of India's rising foreign exchange reserves for funding road projects, saying the country needs low cost finance for such infrastructure projects. Addressing a virtual event organised by industry body CII, Gadkari further said that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) should also have a financial arm like the Power Ministry's Power Finance Corporation (PFC). "We have a surplus of dollar reserves in the country. I have decided to talk with the RBI Governor, about how we can formulate a policy by which we can use this foreign exchange reserves for development of infrastructure in the country," he said. The country's foreign exchange reserves surged by USD 9.427 billion to a record high of USD 620.576 billion in the week ended July 30, according to the latest RBI data. Recently, a Parliamentary panel has also suggested that India's foreign exchange reserves have risen substantially in the recent past, and the RBI, with due consideration to the sufficiency of the foreign reserves, may consider the possibility of utilisation of surplus funds to finance long-term road infrastructure projects. "RBI may also look into the feasibility of utilization of the surplus reserves for the creation of a sovereign wealth fund to finance long-term infrastructural assets," it had said. Gadkari pointed out that he is talking to the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank and the New Development Bank NDB) for infrastructure funding in India, but he is not satisfied by their response. "So, we need some financial institutions, those who can reduce interest cost for infrastructure," he said, adding that the Indian Railways has got Indian Railway Finance Corporation (IRFC), the Power Ministry has got Power Finance Corporation but NHAI does not have any financial arm. "We need one institution, where NHAI stakes are there and financial institution stakes are there. With a joint venture we can formulate the policy," Gadkari suggested. The minister also suggested that in place of a 2 per cent bank performance guarantee, the entire project can be insured and the road ministry's proposal is pending with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) and the finance ministry. "So, somewhere there is a problem with financial institutions... Getting cooperation from banks for road projects is not so easily available, because of previous track record, banks are not in a position to support contractors," he noted. Gadkari said the road ministry is planning to raise Rs 1 lakh crore through monetisation of highways projects. "If there are some foreign investors, who are ready to invest in road construction, and ready to give me loans in dollars but hedging will be their responsibility, I am ready to make some new system... to use foreign investment for that (road infrastructure projects)," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
11-08-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 100 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, Tata Steel and Axis Bank, amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 149.24 points or 0.27 per cent higher at 54,703.90, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 46.95 points or 0.29 per cent to 16,327.05. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by NTPC, SBI, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank and PowerGrid. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma and Bajaj Finance were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex closed 151.81 points or 0.28 per cent higher at its lifetime peak of 54,554.66, while Nifty advanced 21.85 points or 0.13 per cent to 16,280.10. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 178.51 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be modestly good as of now, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Given the sharp improvement in key economic indicators like GST collection, auto sales volume despite supply disruption and other high frequency indicators like e-way bills in July indicate sustainable rebound in corporate earnings in subsequent quarters. This should aid the market to sustain premium valuations, he noted. US equities ended mostly higher on Tuesday after the Senate passed a USD 1 trillion infrastructure bill. However, he said the spread of the delta variant of coronavirus and its potential adverse impact on global economic recovery remained in focus. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.23 per cent to USD 70.47 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||Business||Eveready appoints Suvamoy Saha as joint managing director||Eveready Industries India Ltd (EIIL) has elevated Suvamoy Saha as the joint managing director of the company in an attempt to put the management in the hands of professionals and accommodate the views expressed by its largest shareholder, the Burman family of Dabur. Saha is at present a non-executive director on the board which he rejoined in May 2020. He had left Eveready a year before after a 36-year stint in the company. Saha was a wholetime director, a position he held from March 2005 till he left in July 2019. In a statement to the stock exchanges, EIIL said Saha would “enhance leadership in the company” in the post pandemic world as it looks for “new growth avenues for long term sustainability”. The induction follows public statements made by the Burmans, who hold a 19.84 per cent stake in Eveready, asking the company to be run by professionals. In an interview to The Telegraph on June 23, 2021, Mohit Burman, vice-chairman of Dabur, had said: “We only want the company be run professionally and this would benefit all shareholders large and small.” Amritanshu Khaitan, who is a promoter of the company, is now the managing director of Eveready, which never had a joint MD post in the past. The Khaitan family holds a 4.77 per cent stake in EIIL. “This is a step towards increasing professional bandwidth of the company which is now on a strong footing and looking forward to a rapid growth,” Khaitan said on Tuesday while commenting on the induction of Saha. The market leader of dry cell batteries also added heft to the fledgling lighting and appliance business by bringing in Mohit Sharma, an ex-Philips professional, as the vice-president of the division. Khaitan said the business should scale up to Rs 500-600 crore in two-three years. “Overall, EIIL should reach a turnover of Rs 2,000 crore by 2025,” he said. It had reported Rs 1,249 crore operating income last fiscal. EIL posted a 7 per cent rise in sales to Rs 282.14 crore and a 32 per cent rise in profit to Rs 31.19 crore, over the same period of the last year, as it continued to post stellar results. The company attributed the performance to robust pent up demand in June as the economy started to open up after restrictions imposed during the second wave in May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||Business||Latest funding round values CoinDCX at $1.1 billion||Cryptocurrency exchange CoinDCX has entered the burgeoning club of Indian unicorn start-ups after its latest funding round valued the company at $1.1 billion (Rs 8,150 crore). It is the first Indian firm in this business to reach the unicorn status. The crypto exchange, founded in 2018, raised $90 million (Rs 670 crore) in a series C funding round led by former Facebook co-founder Eduardo Saverin’s B Capital Group along with some returning investors — Coinbase Ventures, Polychain Capital, Block.one, Jump Capital among others. The exchange, which has more than 3.5 million users, on Tuesday said the funds raised would be predominantly used to expand business, hire talent and raise awareness around cryptocurrencies. “The funds raised will be allocated to expand and make crypto a popular investment asset class in India and strengthen our workforce that will cater to our growth story,” said Sumit Gupta, co-founder and CEO, CoinDCX. “With the support of the largest institutional backers in both the traditional and digital asset spaces, we will double down our efforts to build the next generation of products, improve our existing product array and strengthen exchange infrastructure and product team,” Gupta said. He added that the exchange plans to enter into partnerships with fintech players and set up a research and development facility. The exchange also plans to introduce offerings for high net worth individuals and enterprises in the coming months through CoinDCX Prime as well as Cosmex, the global trading product of the exchange. The firm anticipates a potential to bring in 50 million Indians into crypto currencies. Unicorns upsurge In the eight months of 2021, already a total of 21 startups have entered the unicorn club (valuation of more than a billion USD) taking the total to 63 till Tuesday according to data compiled by Inc42. BharatPe, Mindtrickle, upGrad and CoinDCX have entered the unicorn club in August 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||Business||Equalisation levy irks automobile makers||Auto industry body SIAM on Tuesday said there is a need to clarify the scope of 2 per cent “equalisation levy” in the wake of amendments proposed under the Finance Bill 2021, which could impact foreign automobile manufacturers in India. The levy was originally introduced in 2016 with an eye on taxing transactions arising in a digital economy. In 2020, its scope was expanded to cover non-resident e-commerce operators. It was intended to be imposed on payments made to foreign beneficiaries for digital services provided, the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) said in a statement. According to industry players, the Finance Bill 2021 had proposed some modifications to the equalisation levy provisions, which could expand the scope of the levy manifold. This will potentially make it applicable not only to e-commerce retailers/marketplace operators, but also traditional brick-and-mortar businesses with a fair degree of digitisation. SIAM director-general Rajesh Menon said, “Digitalisation is used in the auto sector as a matter of administrative convenience and for increasing efficiencies — not for taking a final commercial decision on sale and purchase.” He further said actual commercial decisions are offline and done within the overall master agreement in the form of a licence agreement or a joint venture agreement. “Therefore, internal digital system for supply-chain management should not fall within the provisions of equalisation levy.” The new system is slated to come into effect from September 1 this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||Business||Exporters worried over spike in freight and container charges||Exporters are worried that a spike in freight and container charges will hit shipments as it will make Indian goods costly and erode their competitive advantage. “The industry is worried that if this situation persists, there can be a 5 per cent to 8 per cent increase in the cost of goods from India. Demand for Indian products will slow down due to high cost,” Trade Promotion Council of India (TPCI) said in a statement. New records have been hit in container freight spot rates and a further rise is expected this month. The TPCI said cost per 20 foot container for shipments to US has jumped $6,000 from$1,800 prior to Covid. “Container trading data reveals that during the first three months of 2021, the average prices for 20 feet containers across Europe rose 57 per cent. A surge in demand along with unexpected high volumes and pandemic-related restrictions were the main difficulties that lead to this problem,” Sandip Patel of SLT Food Inc, a US based TPCI member, said. The problem started when economies started entering lockdown during the first half of 2020, while China was recovering from it, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||Business||Twitter gets clean chit on IT rules compliance||The Centre told the Delhi high court on Tuesday that Twitter was prima facie in compliance with the new Information Technology Rules by appointing a chief compliance officer (CCO), resident grievance officer (RGO) and nodal contact person on a permanent basis. Justice Rekha Palli, who was hearing a petition alleging non-compliance of IT Rules by the US-based microblogging site, sought an affidavit from the Centre to bring its stand on record within two weeks. “Chief Compliance Officer, Nodal Contact Person (NCP) and Resident Grievance Officer have been appointed in compliance with the law. That's the e-mail that I've received (from the instructing authority). It’s better to have an affidavit,” additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma said. Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter, reiterated that the company has appointed permanent officials for the posts of CCO, RGO and NCP. Poovayya said the appointed persons will work on a full-time basis and are fully capable of performing the functions in terms of the law. “Court gave us a long rope. Finally we have rectified the situation. We have permanent people occupying the position,” Poovayya submitted. On July 28, the court had expressed displeasure over Twitter appointing a contingent worker as CCO and said that the social media platform was in non-compliance with the new IT Rules. “I'm giving you a long rope but don't expect the court to do it on and on,” the court had said. The Centre had also claimed that Twitter was acting in “abject non-compliance of the rules”. The Centre said in its affidavit that Twitter failed to comply with India's new IT Rules, which could lead to its losing immunity conferred under the IT Act. The Delhi high court had earlier granted time to Twitter to file an affidavit before it to show compliance with the IT Rules. Petitioner-lawyer Amit Acharya, represented by senior advocate G Tushar Rao, claimed that he came to know about the alleged non-compliance of IT Rules by Twitter when he tried to lodge a complaint against a couple of tweets. Content check The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 seek to regulate dissemination and publication of content in cyber space, including social media platforms, and were notified in February by the central government. The matter would be heard next on October 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||Business||Jindal Steel and Power consolidated net profit jumps over 10 times to Rs 2,516 crore||Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) on Tuesday said its consolidated net profit jumped over 10 times to Rs 2,516 crore during the June 2021 quarter. The company’s net profit after tax from continuing operation had stood at Rs 236 crore a year ago. Total income in April-June 2021 also rose to Rs 10,643.17 crore from Rs 6,519.27 crore in the year-ago period. Total expenses stood at Rs 7,233.55 crore, higher than Rs 6,147.90 crore a year ago. During the June 2021 quarter, it produced 2.01 million tonnes (mt) steel, higher than the 1.67mt in the April-June quarter of 2020. Sales stood at 1.61mt compared with 1.56mt a year ago. “Continued cash generation, declining finance cost, lower capex (capital expenditure) and debt associated with JPL (Jindal Power Ltd) moving out of JSPL’s consolidated books have all contributed to the continued deleveraging in 1QFY22,” it said. Coal India Q1 profit falls 31% Coal India’s first quarter profit declined sequentially even as the miner missed estimates with sales and other income falling. Net profit fell 31 per cent sequentially to Rs 3,169.8 crore in the quarter ended June, the world’s largest coal miner said in an exchange filing. Analysts had expected a profit of Rs 3,973-crore. The company had posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 2,079.60 crore in the year-ago period. Consolidated revenue from operations were Rs 25,282.15 crore in reporting quarter. Zomato loss widens Online food delivery platform Zomato on Tuesday reported a widening of its net loss to Rs 360.7 crore for the quarter ended June 30, 2021, mainly on account of rise in expenses. The company had suffered a net loss of Rs 99.8 crore for the corresponding period of the previous fiscal. Consolidated revenue from operations stood at Rs 844.4 crore against Rs 266 crore for the same period a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||Business||Hinduja Global Solutions sells healthcare services business||Hinduja Global Solutions – the business process management entity of the Hinduja group – has signed a definitive agreement with Baring Private Equity Asia to divest its healthcare services business. The transaction, which is based on an enterprise value of $1.2 billion, is expected to be completed in 90 days, subject to shareholder and regulatory approvals. The business caters to healthcare organisations, laboratories, durable medical equipment firms and pharmaceutical companies.  It offers services such as enrolment and billing, claims adjudication and data management. The vertical has over 20,000 employees across four geographies – India, Philippines, the US and Jamaica – and recorded a revenue of $400 million in  financial year 2021. Hinduja Global Solutions (HGS) will transfer all client contracts, employees and assets including infrastructure related to the healthcare business vertical. HGS in a statement on Tuesday said that it will focus on strengthening its other businesses which include consumer engagement solutions, HGS Digital, HRO/Payroll businesses that support global brands. Services to healthcare clients delivered by HGS Digital and HRO/Payroll businesses will continue to remain with HGS. “We have reached a stage where we could recommend to the promoter to divest stake in this business to unlock value for all HGS stakeholders. We will use the generated funds to strategically invest for the future growth of the organisation.,” said Partha DeSarkar, global CEO, HGS. HGS has reported  revenues of Rs 1550.5 crore in the first quarter of 2021-22, posting a year on year growth of 25 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||Business||Reliance Industries Limited  invests in US battery firm Ambri Inc||Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries and US private equity firm Paulson & Co will be leading an investment round of $144 million (roughly Rs 850 crore) in Ambri Inc, a Bill Gates-backed venture that makes batteries for power grids. Reliance group’s recently incorporated green energy venture — Reliance New Energy Solar — is also in talks with Ambri to establish a  lithium-ion battery manufacturing facility in India. Reliance Solar will invest $50 million in the $144million financing round, which Ambri will use to build a manufacturing facility and commercialise its technology, the company said in a statement. The investment, which will give Reliance Solar 42.3 million shares of preferred stock in Ambri, adds another piece to billionaire Mukesh Ambani's energy transition jigsaw. In June, Ambani told shareholders at the Reliance AGM that the group would invest Rs 75,000 crore into clean energy, including four Giga factories. Ambri, which can supply energy storage systems from 10 megawatt-hours to more than 2-gigawatt hours, will make calcium and antimony electrode-based cells that can last over 20 years with minimal degradation and are considered more economical than lithium-ion batteries. The American firm is looking to commercialise its liquid metal grid battery technology by 2022. This technology holds promise to lower costs by about half compared with lithium-ion batteries and also has a breakthrough in safety with rugged operating condition performance. The Reliance unit and Ambri are in discussions for an exclusive collaboration to set up a large-scale battery manufacturing facility in India, which could add scale and further bring down costs for the firm''s green energy initiative, the statement said. In addition to Reliance Solar, Paulson and Gates, the Microsoft co-founder who is Ambri's largest shareholder, investors in the latest round include Fortistar, Goehring & Rozencwajg Associates and Japan Energy Fund. RIL’s entry into the renewable energy business in India will put it in competition with companies such as Adani Green Energy and Goldman Sachs-backed ReNew Power. EV duty plea Volkswagen AG, the world's second-largest carmaker, is calling for lower import duties on electric cars in India to help drive demand , echoing Tesla's recent pitch which has divided the country’s auto industry. Cutting duties on electric vehicles (EVs) even to 25 per cent from current levels as high as 100 per cent  would not pose a “big threat” to domestic players, but would help to drive investment, the German car maker's India head, Gurpratap Boparai,  told Reuters in an interview. “The market for EVs has to be big enough for investments to come in and for that we shouldn’t be placing barriers,”  Boparai said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
