12-08-2021||Business||Britain might require Facebook to sell Giphy||Britain might require Facebook to sell GIF website Giphy after the country's competition regulator said on Thursday its investigation found the deal between the two companies would hurt the display advertising market. Facebook, the world's largest social media company, bought Giphy, a website for making and sharing animated images, or GIFs, in May last year to integrate it with its photo-sharing app, Instagram. The deal was pegged at $400 million by Axios. The UK's Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) began a probe into the deal in January, and in April referred the deal to an in-depth investigation. ”Giphy's takeover could see Facebook withdrawing GIFs from competing platforms or requiring more user data in order to access them. It also removes a potential challenger to Facebook,” said Stuart McIntosh, chair of the independent investigation for the CMA. Another major provider of GIFs is Google's Tenor. The CMA found that, before the Facebook deal, Giphy was considering expanding its paid advertising services offered in the United States to other countries, including the UK. However, Facebook terminated Giphy's ad partnerships following the deal, according to the regulator. ”We disagree with the CMA's preliminary findings, which we do not believe to be supported by the evidence. As we have demonstrated, this merger is in the best interest of people and businesses in the UK - and around the world,” a Facebook spokesperson said. The representative added that the California-based company would continue to work with the CMA. Giphy declined to comment. This is not the first time the CMA has raised concerns about major deals. The $9.2 billion eBay-Adevinta deal has caught its attention, and the CMA has asked the new owners of supermarket chain Asda to fix fuel competition concerns. The watchdog said that it has engaged with other agencies reviewing the deal to help the CMA's investigation, and is now inviting comments from interested parties by Sept. 2 for its provisional findings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
12-08-2021||Business||Centre ready to do everything to revive pandemic-affected economy, says Sitharaman ||Expressing the government's commitment to continue with reforms, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday assured India Inc that it is ready to do everything required to revive and support economic growth hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. Stressing that there is a need to promote growth as it helps bring down poverty, she however said it would not be at the cost of inflation. RBI has been mandated to keep inflation at 4 per cent, with tolerance level of 2 per cent on either side. Both the government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) are working in tandem to achieve the objective, she said while addressing the CII Annual Meeting 2021. "You would have observed that in Modi 2.0 particularly and even earlier, the relationship with the RBI has been one of those in which we are working like partners to address the issues of the economy, even now, even during pandemic," the finance minister said. Both are working in tandem -- monetary side is keeping the momentum in the right direction while fiscal side is being taken care of by the finance ministry and coordination continues, she said. "Growth will be given its importance. Growth will be pushed both by the Reserve Bank and by us. We also want to assure the industry that inflation in the last 7 years has not crossed 6 per cent except seasonal variation. Inflation has been well within that band which is before us," she said. Pointing out that she is not looking at growth versus inflation, Sitharaman said "we should attend to inflation, keep it contained, take all the necessary steps, but never forget that growth is what is going to make the difference to the economy's revival and growth is what is eventually going to remove poverty and bring in a certain level playing field for all the Indian citizens." She further said the government is looking at being an active participant in the economic recovery. "First thing is government is committed in doing everything that it requires to be done for the economy to be revived...,"she said. To a question if RBI would go for monetary tightening in line with developed economies, she said, "I don't think we have reached that level. And I am glad that the RBI has been voicing that understanding..." The central bank has not given any indication about wanting to suck out the liquidity which is available in the system, she added. Observing that some high frequency indicators are pointing towards economic revival after unlock measures announced by many states with decline in COVID-19 cases, she said foreign direct investment (FDI) has been flowing into India non-stop despite the pandemic because there was confidence about the macroeconomic fundamentals. "As a result, we probably were in the third or the fourth place in 2020, in getting FDI. And even this year, in the first five months of this year, we have had about 37 per cent more FDI coming into this country compared to the last year itself," she said. Foreign exchange reserves are at USD 620 billion as of July 2021, she said, adding exports are growing as far as core industry is concerned. Household savings are not only going to banks but also to stock markets, she said. Importantly, due to the significant buoyancy seen in both indirect and direct taxes so far, supplemented by the likelihood of impressive disinvestment receipts this year, the government will honour GST compensation payments to the states this year, she said. "So, the indicators are very clear that recovery is taking place and aspire for more. The messages and the indications which are coming are very clear that the economy is revving to come out," she said. On the commitment to reforms, she said the government is dedicated to the objective and it was reflected during the pandemic when it announced long-awaited farm and labour reforms. Despite disturbances for political purposes, the finance ministry and corporate affairs ministry alone got seven important bills, including DICGC Amendment Bill 2021, Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Insolvency and General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, cleared in Parliament. She also assured the industry that the government's commitment to disinvestment and privatisation announced in the Budget 2021-22 will be met. "Yes, all that will happen. And we will push for them to happen this year. Necessary rigorous work is going on. And we therefore commit ourselves to the disinvestment which was announced in the Budget. Aside from disinvestment and privatisation, we are also looking at asset monetisation," she said. The Centre has budgeted Rs 1.75 lakh crore from stake sale in public sector companies and financial institutions, including 2 PSU banks and one insurance company, in the current fiscal year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
12-08-2021||Business||Retail inflation eases to 5.59 per cent in July||Retail inflation eased to 5.59 per cent in July mainly due to softening food prices, according to official data released on Thursday. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) based inflation was 6.26 per cent in June and 6.73 per cent in July 2020. According to the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO), inflation in the food basket slowed down to 3.96 per cent in July from 5.15 per cent in the previous month. Earlier this month, the RBI projected the CPI inflation at 5.7 per cent during 2021-22 -- 5.9 per cent in the second quarter, 5.3 per cent in third, and 5.8 per cent in the fourth quarter of the fiscal, with risks broadly balanced. CPI inflation for Q1:2022-23 is projected at 5.1 per cent. The Reserve Bank of India, which has been mandated by the government to keep the retail inflation at 4 per cent with 2 per cent margin on either side, mainly factors in the CPI-based inflation while deciding its bi-monthly monetary policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
12-08-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty soar to fresh lifetime highs||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 318 points to end at its new lifetime high on Thursday, tracking gains in ICICI Bank, L&T and Tech Mahindra. The 30-share index ended 318.05 points or 0.58 per cent higher at its all-time peak of 54,843.98. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 82.15 points or 0.26 per cent to record 16,325.15. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 6 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech, Titan, L&T, NTPC and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries and Axis Bank were among the laggards. "Domestic equities recovered sharply mainly led by sharp rebound in IT and PSU banks. Additionally, strong buying was seen in midcap and smallcap stocks today after persistent selling for last couple of days," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. IT stocks remained in focus and investors continue to lap-up quality IT names as sustained double-digit revenue growth visibility backed by strong deal wins offer comfort, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with losses. Equities in Europe were largely trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.17 per cent to USD 71.56 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
12-08-2021||Business||Amazon India expands fulfilment network in Tamil Nadu||Amazon India on Thursday announced the expansion of its fulfilment network in Tamil Nadu by almost doubling the storage capacity this year. The fulfilment infrastructure to offer storage space of close to 4.4 million cubic feet to sellers in the State. The e-commerce giant launched a new fulfilment centre (FC) and a specialised FC for large appliances and furniture in Coimbatore. The company would also 'quadruple' its storage capacity at an existing Centre in Chennai, a company statement said. Chief Minister M K Stalin formally inaugurated the fulfilment centre in the presence of Industry Minister Thangam Thennarasu, company Vice-President (Customer Fulfilment Operations) and Supply Chain, Prakash Dutta, among others. In Tamil Nadu, Amazon India would have six fulfilment centres and double its storage capacity with close to 4.4 million cubic feet spread across a carpet area of more than one million square foot. The buildings are ready and operational ahead of the festive season and can support more than 50,000 sellers besides generating thousands of direct and indirect jobs. "Tamil Nadu continues to be a significant region for us, and we are elated to further deepen our investment in the State. This network of six fulfilment centres offering a storage capacity of more than 4.4 million cubic feet will provide a fillip to sellers as well as ancillary industries including packaging, transportation, logistics...," Dutta said. "While we continue to prioritise the safety of our teams and customers, we are confident that this expansion will help us enhance customer experience in Tamil Nadu, during and beyond the festive season," he added. The expansion in Tamil Nadu was part of Amazon's plan to increase its fulfilment network by close to 40 per cent across the country and to provide a total storage capacity of 43 million cubic feet to its sellers. "Of the six FCs in Tamil Nadu, two of them are specialized buildings and will house tens of thousands of products in the large appliances category consisting of air conditioners, refrigerators, washing machines and televisions and a selection of products in the furniture category", it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
12-08-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index heavyweights ITC, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 155.90 points or 0.29 per cent higher at 54,681.83, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 42.90 points or 0.26 per cent to 16,325.15. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by ITC, M&M, Bajaj Auto, ICICI Bank and Tata Steel. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma and Asian Paints were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 28.73 points or 0.05 per cent lower at 54,525.93, while Nifty inched up 2.15 points or 0.01 per cent at 16,282.25. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 238.14 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. "Global equity markets have positive news from the US inflation data for July which has come at 0.5 per cent month-on-month. This is slightly lower than expected and confirms the Fed thesis that inflation is transitory, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The positive response of Dow and S&P to the inflation numbers and the decline in the dollar index will strengthen the bulls. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.04 per cent to USD 71.47 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
12-08-2021||Business||Bengal govt seeing investor interest in setting up data centres ||The Bengal government is seeing investor interest in setting up data centres in the state, but the IT sector on Wednesday urged the state to come out with a comprehensive policy covering incentives and energy costs — two key considerations for any firm to consider putting up data centre infrastructure. Two developments relating to data centres have taken place in the state despite the Covid pandemic. First, in August last year the state government had cleared a proposal from Reliance Jio to set up a cable landing station at an investment of Rs 1,000 crore. A cable landing station could encourage more IT sector investments in the state. Reliance Jio has also taken around 40 acres of land at the Silicon Valley Hub at New Town to set up data centres. Second, the Mumbai based Hiraranandani group has evinced interest to invest around Rs 8,500 crore in Bengal to develop logistics and hyperscale data centre parks in the state. The data centres will be put up by group firm Yotta. Bengal industries and information technology minister Partha Chatterjee said Ctrl has also sought six acres of land at Silicon Valley Hub for setting up data centres. “The companies have asked for a policy and sought incentives and some have called for a reduction in electricity charges. We have heard their views,” said Chatterjee after a meeting with IT industry officials. The minister said that review meetings will take place at six month intervals to monitor the progress of projects. The matters discussed, including policy and incentive support, will be brought to the attention of Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.  According to data compiled by JLL, Calcutta’s existing data centre capacity was 6 MW in 2020 (1 percent of total inventory) and the upcoming cable landing station could play a crucial role in expanding capacity in the medium term. In contrast, Mumbai has a capacity of 199 MW in 2020 with 9 cable landing stations. Several states are considering having a data centre policy amid the rising demand from enterprises on account of upgradation of IT infrastructure in Covid pandemic and data localisation requirements. Large projects Chatterjee said that two large IT projects in the state – Infosys and ITC Infotech – are progressing. The minister said that Infosys project could be completed within 20 months from the start or work and ITC Infotech’s project is expected to be operational soon. The state has also received applications for 88 modules in its own IT parks and has also seen investor interest in the electronics manufacturing sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
12-08-2021||Business||Great Wall Motor decides to re-allocate portion of India investment to Brazil||Great Wall Motor has decided to re-allocate to Brazil a portion of its $1-billion investment in India, as the Chinese auto maker has been unnerved by a year-long delay in winning government approvals, three sources told Reuters. The re-allocation, which could range up to $300 million, comes as the sources said the maker of popular sport-utility vehicles (SUVs) and pick-ups was close to acquiring a former Daimler plant in Brazil to build cars. Great Wall has also tasked James Yang, its India president since last year, with the responsibility of assisting with operations in the Latin American nation, said the sources, who have direct knowledge of the matter. “Brazil is almost a done deal and it did not make sense to keep the funds blocked for India,” said one of the sources, explaining the rationale for the change of focus. Great Wall’s move is a fallout of India’s decision in April 2020 to more closely scrutinise investments from China, the sources said, as part of a crackdown that followed a border clash between the two Asian giants. Just two months before, amid the fanfare of India’s biennial car show, Great Wall had said it would invest $1 billion to build cars there, by buying a former General Motors (GM) factory, as well as making batteries and car parts. Two of the sources said the re-allocated funds, budgeted by Great Wall for India since 2020, would mainly have been used to buy GM’s factory, a cost that sources had earlier put at about $300 million. Great Wall declined to comment. The Indian government did not immediately reply to an email seeking comment. The step highlights growing nervousness and impatience among Chinese investors, who have seen roughly 150 investment proposals worth more than $2 billion held up by India’s slow approvals process, according to industry estimates. The delays are forcing Great Wall, which was expected to begin selling its India-made Haval brand of SUVs in the country this year, to look at taking a more measured approach. It may even consider entering the market with a fully-built imported vehicle before starting domestic production, one of the sources said. “When approvals in India come through, Great Wall will be ready with the money, but it may not be a straight decision anymore,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
12-08-2021||Business||Piyush Goyal welcomes Supreme Court ruling on Amazon, Flipkart||Commerce minister Piyush Goyal has displayed his verbosity in the Lok Sabha at the expense of foreign investors. The minister on Tuesday managed to  conjure up visions of the Quit India movement as he welcomed the Supreme Court decision to let the Competition Commission pursue its probe into the practices of Amazon and Flipkart “These companies used legal tactics to stall the investigation ... I am happy to tell you that yesterday (Monday), on the day of the Quit India Movement, all the efforts of these companies failed,” Goyal told the Indian law makers. “The top court decided that the CCI should probe the allegations of fraudulent, unfair trade practices that they engage in,” Goyal added Goyal’s crude attempt at symbolism from two events separated by a gulf of time is the latest indication of New Delhi’s discontent with the two US e-commerce giants, which have for years faced allegations of bypassing Indian laws to run their businesses and hurting smaller retailers. On Monday, the Supreme Court pulled up Amazon and Flipkart for trying to stall investigations ordered in 2020 by the CCI, saying big organisations like theirs should volunteer to assist in any inquiry. The minister flagged concerns about the influence of big online retailers that is adversely impacting the smaller players.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
12-08-2021||Business||L&T sells its 100% stake in Singoli-Bhatwari Hydroelectric Project||Larsen & Toubro on Wednesday said it will divest a 100 per cent stake in Singoli-Bhatwari Hydroelectric Project to a subsidiary of Sumant Sinha-led ReNew Power Pvt Ltd for Rs 985 crore. ReNew Power is India’s largest renewable energy firm and counts Goldman Sachs, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB) among its prominent investors. It is among a wave of clean-energy firms poised to benefit from India’s push into the renewables market. The 99MW power project is owned by subsidiary firm L&T Uttaranchal Hydropower Ltd. The move is part of the company’s strategy of divesting non-core assets and improving shareholder value, L&T said. In a separate transaction, ReNew Power announced the signing of a definitive agreement to acquire a 260MW of operating solar projects in Telangana. The two assets have a combined enterprise value of Rs 2,850 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
12-08-2021||Business||PwC India to invest up to Rs 1,600 crore to create additional 10,000 jobs||Global consultancy firm PwC India on Wednesday said it will invest up to Rs 1,600 crore and create additional 10,000 jobs in the next five years. Announcing its new business strategy ‘‘The New Equation’’, PwC India said the firm will also increase its campus hiring by over five times in the same time period. The New Equation is based on analysis of trends and thousands of conversations with clients and stakeholders, it said in a release. ‘‘India has strong economic fundamentals, a huge advantage in the form of its demographic dividend and an ecosystem to boost innovation. Our new strategy will enable us and our clients to further the country’s economic development, harness the potential of the domestic market and create more opportunities for society at large,’’ said Sanjeev Krishan, chairman of PwC in India. As part of the India commitments, the release said in the next five years, PwC will seek to invest up to Rs 1,600 crore and create over 10,000 additional jobs — a large proportion of these would come in the areas of digital, cloud, cyber, analytics and emerging technologies. At present, the firm has around 15,000 employees in India. PwC further said in the next five years, it will seek to enhance focus on existing tech-led alliances and explore avenues in areas of emerging technologies and work towards a minimum of 40 per cent gender diversity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
12-08-2021||Business||CESC Ltd posts 34 per cent jump in consolidated net profit||CESC Ltd has posted a 34 per cent jump in its consolidated net profit at Rs 280 crore for the June 2021 quarter. Its consolidated net profit had stood at Rs 209 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous financial year 2020-21. Total income in the June 2021 quarter rose to Rs 3,242 crore from Rs 2,662 crore in the year-ago quarter. Bata loss at Rs 71 crore Subdued demand across retail outlets on account of the second wave of Covid pandemic and ensuing lockdowns dampened the first quarter result of footwear major Bata India Ltd. The company posted a standalone net loss of Rs 71.32 crore for the quarter ended June 2021 against a loss of Rs 101.12 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The company had reported a standalone net profit of Rs 29.43 crore for the quarter ended March 2021. The consolidated net loss for the June quarter was Rs 69.47 crore compared with a loss of Rs 100.88 crore in the corresponding year-ago quarter. “The first quarter had some challenges for business across the country, including ours. While our retail outlets were largely shut, we were able to serve our customers through alternative channels such as our website, online marketplaces, Bata ChatShop and Bata Store on Wheels. These channels have enabled us to minimise the overall impact of the second wave,” said Gunjan Shah, wholetime director and CEO, Bata India. The board of directors of Bata India on Wednesday approved Shah’s appointment as the managing director and CEO for five years from October 1, 2021. Meanwhile, Emami Realty, the real estate arm of  Emami Group, posted a net sales of Rs 41.97 crore for the June quarter, up 39.5 per cent from Rs 30.09 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
12-08-2021||Business||Maharashtra government to purchase Air India building||The Maharashtra government has begun discussions with Air India to purchase its iconic building located in the Nariman Point area of the city overseeing Marine Drive. Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte discussed the valuation of the building with Air India CMD Rajiv Bansal on Tuesday. “Discussions are going on,” Kunte told PTI. Debt-ridden Air India had floated tenders for the sale of the 23-storey building, which stands on state government land, in 2018, but it failed to evoke a good response. Air India officials told Kunte that their internal valuation of the building was more than Rs 2,000 crore to which Kunte asked them to share it with the state government, official sources said. “The Air India building has become old. A private party will have to demolish the entire structure. We can use it for another eight to ten years to accommodate some government offices. The building cost cannot be over Rs 2,000 crore. Its actual cost would only be the strategic location and the land cost,” an official who attended the meeting said. Back in 2018, Air India had approached the then state government and sought its participation in the tender. “We did not participate in the tender process but the government wrote to Air India quoting a price of Rs 1,450 crore for the purchase. The actual price would have been around Rs 1,100 crore to Rs 1,200 crore since the government’s dues from Air India are around Rs 300 crore,” the official said. An Air India spokesperson declined to comment. The Air India building is a landmark on Mumbai’s skyline with the airline’s trademark Centaur icon on its top. The building served as the corporate headquarters of Air India till 2013. In February 2013, Air India officially vacated the building as part of its asset-monetisation plan and shifted its corporate office to New Delhi. The Air India building was one of the several high rises, including Express Towers and the Oberoi Sheraton that came up at Nariman Point, a 64-acre reclamation from the sea which was initiated as a project to ease the housing crisis in Mumbai but was later auctioned off in plots to various companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
12-08-2021||Business||Finance ministry to formally reach out to 17 firms to settle disputes||After getting Parliament’s seal on the rollback of retrospective tax, the finance ministry plans to formally reach out to 17 firms, including Cairn Energy and Vodafone Plc, to settle their disputes. Finance secretary T. V. Somanathan said Rs 8,100 crore was collected using the retrospective tax legislation. Of this, Rs 7,900 crore was from Cairn Energy alone. This money will be repaid. As much as Rs 1.10 lakh crore in back taxes was sought from 17 entities that were levied taxes using the 2012 legislation. Of these, major recoveries were made only from Cairn. Analysts have expressed their doubts over whether firms, which have won international arbitration awards in their favour, would agree to the government’s conditions. With the passing of the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, all the tax demands made on companies like Cairn Energy and Vodafone using a 2012 legislation on indirect transfer of Indian assets prior to May 28, 2012, will be withdrawn.  The legislation also proposed to “refund the amount paid in these cases without any interest thereon”,  it said. Addressing the CII annual meeting, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the government’s move to end retrospective tax signified the undoing of a mistake in made in the past. “We undid a mistake of the past by removing retrospective tax. It will increase trust between the government and the industry. The feedback and appreciation from industry in this regard has been great to see,” he said. In 2012, the United Progressive Alliance government controversially changed tax laws retrospectively. International companies which had acquired assets of Indian companies before then were told they had to pay huge amounts. This led to a fierce legal fight between the government and the companies. Cairn and Vodafone won the international arbitration cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
12-08-2021||Business||Modi extols virtues of his Atma Nirbhar Bharat initiative||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday tom-tommed the virtues of his Atma Nirbhar Bharat initiative, urging India Inc to plug into the booming opportunities for Made in India products even as he tried to lure foreign investors with the promise of greater reforms, quicker approvals, low taxes and a benign regulatory environment. Modi seemed to skate on a thin ice of paradoxical positions as he told the captains of industry at the CII annual summit that the responsibility for the success of India’s self-reliant mission critically depended on them. “Company bharatiya ho ye jaroori nahi; lekin aaj, har bharatiya bharat mein bani product ko apnana chahata hai (Every Indian wants to adopt Indian products even though the company making those products might not necessarily be owned by Indians),” he said, signalling that foreign investment in Indian companies would get an easy ride into the country but foreign brands may have to brace for tricky challenges. That is just the sort of double talk that will make foreign companies leery about committing funds to a very uneven economic terrain. Last week, the Modi government scrapped the retrospective element in a tax provision introduced by the UPA in 2012 but stuck to the principle of taxing indirect transfers of capital assets like shares held in tax-haven based companies that derive their value from an underlying Indian entity. The issue had snowballed into a major controversy after the Supreme Court found no merit in a tax demand slapped on Vodafone plc for its $11.1-billion buyout of a golden share in a Cayman Island based subsidiary in 2007, giving it a 67 per cent stake in Hutchison Essar’s telecom entity in India. Modi said his government had rectified mistakes by doing away with the retrospective taxation and hoped that this would build trust between the government and industry. But he glossed over the fact that the principle of taxing indirect capital asset transfers, irrespective of the residence of the entity, had been rejected by the apex court. All Vodafone-type deals post May 28, 2012 will still fall within the ambit of the amendment in the source rule of taxation laid out in section 9 (1) (i) of the Income Tax Act. Curiously, the Modi government has made no effort to scrap the 55-year retrospective element in the tax law amendment in Section 132 of the IT Act that it introduced in 2017 that freed tax authorities from the obligation to disclose “to any person or any authority or the Appellate Tribunal’’ why they had “reason to believe” or “reason to suspect” that a tax assessee is concealing assets and which would serve as sufficient ground for ordering a search and seizure operation. This is the clearest reminder that the government hasn’t junked the principle of retrospective tax law changes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
