13-08-2021||Business||Founded by Kalyan and Vaibhav, Social Catalyzers is making strides in the domain Of Influencer and Content Marketing||With the increasing use of digital methods to build a brand, inbound marketing strategies that use educational, entertaining, or informative content emerged in the form of Content marketing to attract, engage, and grow a target audience. As the competition  grows leaps and bounds, marketers need to produce valuable content, not just more content. ‘Social Catalyzers’, one of the topmost digital content marketing agencies in the industry based in India, founded by Kalyan Kumar and Vaibhav Gupta has structured its methodologies in a way that derives and builds clients with a result-driven approach. Placing themselves as specialists in ‘earned media’, Social Catalyzers envisages driving ROI for brands and brand owners based on the grounds of  Advocacy, “Sentiment Building” through ‘conversation cladding’ and “Virality Signaling” led Organic Propulsion using Social Enablers (KOLs/Influencers) and aggregated communities, giving their agency the most apt tagline of ‘Engineering the Social Spread’. Kalyan often quips “Engineering the cascade for Virality and propulsion, is what moves content, not just the power of the content.” With a commendable experience of five years in the industry, Social Catalyzers have built an undwindling reputation among the brands and agencies alike. The Co-Founder and CEO of the agency, Kalyan Kumar along with Vaibhav Gupta, the COO and Financial Head of the firm have surely done it well and differently. They are assisted by Pratish Premkumar, who wears the hat of a Business Head in Indonesia, who having worked at Reliance, Dentsu across India and SE Asia, has brought much to the table. The initial years as a small influencer marketing company were mostly about Twitter with big and smaller influencers and hashtags that needed visibility for brands. Gradually, understanding the power and value of the digital space and noticing how everyone wanted to leverage its tools, they dived deep into other platforms like YouTube, Instagram, Facebook and even Dark Social as well. Using the power of influencers and community aggregation, Social Catalyzers have been perfecting the art of spiking, surrounding and sustaining the buzz by injecting a burst of conversations across digital social platforms. SoCat was probably among the first Influencer marketing firms to guarantee healthy KPIs in their campaigns, which they then delivered. Kalyan Kumar, who is a marketing guru with an 20 plus year long experience across various business verticals, says, “Content marketing is, and has always been, best served as an integrated infusion into a broader marketing strategy which acts as a multiplier. Content marketing is the opportunity to make everything done ten times better. There’s a lot to the Art and Science components to Content Marketing that we are bringing to the table as thought leadership. We don’t necessarily want to be the biggest firm out there, but we want to keep nudging the ‘smartest’ tag for ourselves.” The brand has worked with some of the most reputed names in the industry like Unilever, IndoFood, Danone, Kimberly Clark, Coke, P&G, Jet Privilege, Asian Paints, Bacardi, Motorola, LG, CEAT, Nestle, Diageo, Too Yumm, Foodpanda, National Geographic, Maruti to name a few; the list is long - over 227 at the time of this discussion. Apart from that, they have also worked with agencies like WPP Group M group -Mediacom, Mindshare, WaveMaker, Leverate, OMD, Foxy Moron, Dentsu, Isobar, WatConsult, and many others in India and internationally. Talking about their endeavor, Vaibhav Gupta says, “It is important to seek a holistic perspective on the definition and nature of digital content marketing. Along the journey it becomes evident that a recurrent theme in this sector is generating customer value. We have been taking mindful steps to make sure that our working builds credible measures for the company to see a tangible impact.” At a global level, they are a preferred partner for many leading and smaller agencies across India and South-East Asia (Singapore, Indonesia & Malaysia). Starting Social Catalyzers in 2016 as a small influencer marketing firm to now turning it into a mid-sized but coveted agency, Kalyan Kumar and his partners have truly made Social Catalyzers a team of digital innovators.   To know more, visit their website, https://www.socialcatalyzers.com/.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
13-08-2021||Business||Recruitment Mantra uses technology to its fullest potential, making hiring manpower easier||Are you planning to start a new business but confused about where exactly to invest? Do not have much capital and space for the business but want to be an established entrepreneur? Are you running a business already? Still, looking for good business opportunities? Recruitment Mantra is here with answers to all these questions introducing a new era for all business-oriented persons. Acknowledging the fact that for any entrepreneur or business to grow, skilled support is imminent, and so they have brought forth economic methods to find the same. One of the fastest-growing HR consulting companies, Recruitment Mantra is treading on the path to solve all manpower recruiting needs for start-up firms and corporates against Rs. 999/- only. With their new and revamped methods, they have changed the old concept of biodatas as an integral part of an interview by replacing it with their new and unique products, webCV and live CV. Having a skilled team of professionals always proves to be of utmost benefit as it is one of the basic prerequisites for the smooth functioning of a company. Recruitment Mantra understands the importance of the same and henceforth has become the torchbearer of procuring meritorious individuals of the different fields without any difficulties. The effective and visionary team at Recruitment Mantra provides expertise on all aspects of recruitment and retention ranging from creative development, traditional and digital media advertising, national and local outreach, and information technology solutions. "Anyone who is looking for a fast-growing unique business opportunity against very small investment can join us as a franchise and contribute a revolutionary part in making India digital. For solving hiring needs of corporates and start-ups, our concept of 'hire employee @999/-only' has proved to be an immense success and we are delighted to be one of the first firms to bring a technology like this in the country," shares Mr. Arghya Sarkar, CEO of Recruitment Mantra. With the help of their newly launched products, Digital CV and Live CV, they have cut the use of paper to a minimal level and ensured that technology is amalgamated in this field. Through these utilities, a proper image of a job seeker is created, as the previous concept of sending a soft copy version of their CV or Bio-Data is no longer required. These products can demonstrate a candidate's profile thoroughly to an employer without their presence for a physical interview. One can for certain say that these are the ways technology is actually making a difference and helping employers to find their perfect employees for mutual growth and benefits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
13-08-2021||Business||Bengal scouts for more Swiggys to deliver swigs at home||Twenty-two-year-old Mukta Roy gets to deliver around 24-25 food packets a day, but dispatching a bottle of liquor is a no-no for her. Roy says it is because of her gender that she is restricted by her aggregator to deliver only food items. On the other hand, Santosh Yadav, who makes an almost similar number of rounds from his Santoshpur residence, delivers at least 12-14 liquor bottles to various addresses in the city every day. But Swiggy, their aggregator, may now have to do away with gender discrimination and allow Roy to deliver liquor bottles as the Mamata Banerjee government is keen to ensure residents of Calcutta have their home bars well-stocked, and, also, get to extend the practice to the rest of the state. On August 11, the West Bengal State Beverages Corporation invited expressions of interest from reputed online ordering and delivery platforms to ensure that people of drinkable age in the state are not deprived of their bottle. The new order has barred already empanelled service providers from applying, leaving other players like Zomato and Big Basket, among others, to enter the fray. Economics and not altruism is behind the move. State finance minister Amit Mitra has set a target of Rs 16,100 crore excise revenue, despite the state falling short of its target in the last financial year. “The lockdown is to be blamed for the shortfall,” said a senior official in the state finance department. In the 2020-21 budget proposal, excise collection was estimated at Rs 12,731.56 crore, while the state managed around Rs. 11,458.40 crore. With a large chunk of tax collection going under the Goods and Services Tax (GST), the state’s chief sources of earning are excise, sales tax and VAT collected on petrol, diesel, tobacco products and registration and stamp duties. Needless to say, in an economy impacted with a virus gone global and no recoveries in sight, the government can only hope for more "sinners" to collect its toll. The Mamata Banerjee government can hope that Calcuttans will emulate fellow tipplers in Karnataka who had helped the state collect Rs 23,231.28 crore in excise surpassing the budgetary target of Rs 22,700 crore. Last year, obviously the people of Bengal had disappointed the state government which had expected the revenue collection to be at least Rs 2,500 crore higher than the estimate of Rs 12,731.56 crore. The government has been squeezing the brewing and distillery industry hard in Bengal, adding an additional excise tax to the existing excise rate. The producers also were asked to provide the ex-distillery price that is the break-up of the production cost and profit margin. Based on these inputs, the government has prepared its excise and additional excise duty to determine the maximum retail price of a bottle. Finance department sources said this system replaced the 30 per cent sales tax that the government had imposed in April 2020. The new pricing had come into effect in November last year, just about a month since the government had first invited private players to deliver liquor at home. Of all the companies that had initially shown interest only Swiggy has continued with the service. Among the conditions imposed by the corporation are Web and Mobile app-based service for facilitating online orders and purchase of liquor from licensed outlets. Only those companies with at least two-year experience in e-commerce with transportation of essential commodities or FMCG or drugs and having a minimum annual turnover of Rs 25 crore with local offices in and around Calcutta will be eligible. Excise licensed hotels, restaurants and liquor outlets with organisational strength and resource deployment are also eligible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
13-08-2021||Business||Adi Godrej steps down from role, passes baton to younger brother||Veteran industrialist Adi Godrej will step down as chairman as well as from the board of directors of Godrej Industries Ltd, passing on the baton to his younger brother Nadir Godrej, effective October 1, according to a company statement. The 79-year-old industrialist will continue to serve as chairman of the Godrej Group and chairman emeritus of GIL, said the statement. "Nadir Godrej, who is currently managing director of GIL, will take over as chairman and managing director of the company," it added. GIL is a holding company of the Godrej Group. It has significant interests in consumer goods, real estate, agriculture, chemicals and financial services through its subsidiary and associate companies, across 18 countries. Adi Godrej has served GIL for almost four decades. "It has been a privilege to serve Godrej Industries for over four decades, during which we have delivered strong results and transformed our company," said Adi Godrej. He thanked the board for its support and guidance, his team members, business partners, shareholders, investors, and communities, for their continued partnership. "I am very confident that our best years are ahead of us, and I look forward to Nadir and our team achieving our exciting aspirations," Adi Godrej. In the statement, Nadir Godrej thanked his brother for his vision and leadership, which shaped the company. "On behalf of our team at Godrej Industries and our board, I want to thank our chairman for his vision, values and exceptional leadership that has guided and shaped our company. "Our leadership team is committed to building forward on these foundations; continuing to serve our people and communities, and creating long-term value for all our stakeholders," said Nadir Godrej said. On August 4, Adi Godrej announced to step down from the board of group's FMCG arm, Godrej Consumer Products Ltd (GCPL), effective next month. In GCPL, he already passed on the baton to his younger daughter Nisaba Godrej in 2017 as chairman. But, he will remain as chairman emeritus of the FMCG firm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||6 Top Benefits Of Using Multi-currency Forex Card While Travelling||Looking to get a multi-currency forex card for your upcoming trip? Are you aware of the benefits that accompany multi-currency forex cards? Indians are increasingly embarking on international trips for business and leisure purposes. Whether you are travelling to sightsee scenic places or handle business matters, creating a budget to manage your overseas spending is extremely important. Determining your forex needs in advance is key to avoiding last-minute travel hassles that may spoil your experience. Factors like accommodation expenses and duration of stay must be taken into consideration while estimating travel costs. Once your travel budget is prepared, the next most crucial step is to decide how you are going to carry foreign exchange. The conventional methods to carry forex are banknotes and travellers cheques.  However, unjustifiably high charges associated with these methods and the fear of theft give multi-currency forex cards a clear edge over them. If you are looking for a reliable foreign exchange platform, you should consider Bookmyforex forex card as it is one of the best forex card providers in India. The platform compares forex deals across its wide-ranging network of reputed channel partners and offers multi-currency forex cards at best and lowest exchange rates. Without delay, we will cast light on the 6 best benefits of using a multi-currency forex card when you are travelling. 1. Easy to carry and use during travel The biggest advantage of multi-currency forex cards is that they are incredibly easy to carry and use during international travel. A heavy bundle of banknotes is bound to take up a lot of space in your baggage, thus resulting in inconvenience. Given the lightweight design of multi-currency forex cards, you can easily slide them into your pocket, wallet or whatever suits you best. Another problem with carrying banknotes is that you run the risk of going cashless in case all your money is lost or stolen. This is why carrying a multi-currency forex card becomes mandatory for ensuring peace of mind in unfortunate situations. With a multi-currency forex card at your disposal, you can save up to 2.5% over travellers cheques and currency notes. When you buy multi-currency forex cards from a notable online forex platform, you do not have to pay any issuance fees. You can also reload your multi-currency forex card online absolutely free. By cutting down on such unnecessary charges, you can save big in the long run. 2. Widely accepted across countries What makes multi-currency cards worth owning is the fact that they are widely accepted across countries at 30 million stores. Multi-currency forex cards can also be used at 2 million ATMs worldwide. The ATM pin will be included in the travel kit which you will get upon buying the multi-currency forex card. These cards can come in handy, especially when you are planning to embark on multi-country trips in a row. The reason being that you can load multi-currency forex cards with up to 16 different currencies at the same time. 3. Protection against forex fluctuations Investing in a multi-currency forex card is a sure shot way to ward off unpleasant rate related surprises. It is a known fact that currencies are subject to constant fluctuations and this can make expense management quite difficult. If you opt to travel with foreign currency in the form of cash, unfavorable fluctuations can cause your money's value to decline significantly. But there is no need to be concerned as you can easily protect your hard-earned money from currency fluctuations simply by using a multi-currency forex card. When you fill your card with foreign currency using a trusted online forex platform, the money is loaded at a fixed rate which cannot be changed. Since the rates get locked-in once your multi-currency card is loaded with money, it acts as a shield against currency fluctuations in the forex market. 4. Better savings over debit/credit card When it comes to going on an international tour, saving money is a crucial priority for everyone regardless of how affluent the person is. It has often been seen that a majority of people use their debit cards for making payments abroad and withdrawing money from ATMs. But little do these people know that they are subjected to exorbitant service fees just for swiping their debit cards overseas. The hefty transactional charges that follow debit/credit card usage can take a toll on your pocket without you even realizing it. If you want to save between 3.5% to 6.5% over your debit/credit card, your best bet would be to opt for a multi-currency forex card before departing on your trip. Above all, you can reload your forex card at zero service charges from the comfort of your couch provided that you have a fast internet connection. With the free unload facility, the unused balance in your card can be obtained in the form of INR when you return from your trip. If you want to claim exclusive discounts to further maximize your savings, make sure you buy your multi-currency forex card from a well-known forex platform that has an excellent performance history. 5. Real time expense tracking and free insurance cover Without a doubt, keeping a regular check on your spendings abroad is imperative. Multi-currency forex cards boast a real-time expense tracking facility with which you can track all the transactions you make during your international trip. Based on your preferences, you can opt to receive notifications for all your forex card purchases either via SMS or email. Since the fear of theft and counterfeit cases can intimidate some customers, leading online foreign exchange portals offer an insurance cover on their multi-currency forex cards. The cover is free of cost and it is provided solely to foster a sense of security in the minds of customers. 6. Backed with rigid security features There is no denying that instances of card-related frauds have been rising lately. People who have never used a multi-currency forex card usually assume that it is backed with little to no security. However, the truth is that multi-currency forex cards boast rigid security features which makes them ideal for foreign trips. In case your card lands into the wrong hands, the inbuilt fraud prevention technology will ensure that fraudsters don't gain unrightful access to your money. The security of multi-currency cards is further reinforced by its solid PIN protection mechanism. If things turn out to be unfortunate and your card gets lost, you need not lose your calm.  It is so because you can reach out to your respective forex provider and opt for emergency cash support. Also, eminent forex platforms employ adept customer support teams that follow a proactive approach and are active 24*7. In case you ever face an issue with your multi-currency forex card, you can get in touch with the support agents to receive a quick solution no matter what time it is. Traveling to foreign countries is indeed a fantastic way to break away from the ordinary and experience new cultures. Be it witnessing picturesque sights or interacting with native inhabitants, foreign trips can broaden your horizons greatly. However, things can get inconvenient if your forex needs are not taken care of prior to your travel. The good news is that multi-currency forex cards can go a long way in making your travel hassle-free. Therefore, ensure you rely on forex card to boost overall savings and simplify international payments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||Market at new peak: Sensex scales 55k mark  ||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 593 points to end above the 55,000-mark for the first time on Friday, propelled by gains in index heavyweights TCS, Reliance Industries and HDFC twins. The 30-share index rose 593.31 points or 1.08 per cent to its new all-time high of 55,437.29. It touched an intra-day record of 55,487.79. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty breached the 16,500 level, advancing 164.70 points or 1.01 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 16,529.10. It surged to a record of 16,543.60 during the day. TCS was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by L&T, Bharti AIrtel, HCL Tech, Tata Steel, Bajaj Auto and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, PowerGrid, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy's, Bajaj Finance and NTPC were among the laggards. "Sustained rebound in IT followed by recovery in financials and consumers aided benchmark indices to defy weak cues from Asian markets and scale fresh records, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. IT stocks remained in focus throughout the week and investors lapped-up quality IT names due to sustained double-digit revenue growth visibility backed by strong deal wins, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended in the red. Equities in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.10 per cent to USD 71.24 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 250 points to cross 55K in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points to cross the 55,000-mark in early trade on Friday, led by gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and TCS. The 30-share index was trading 258.4 points or 0.47 per cent higher at a lifetime intra-day peak of 55,102.42, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 69.80 points or 0.43 per cent to record 16,434.20 in initial deals. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by L&T, HDFC, ITC, Axis Bank and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma, PowerGrid and Tata Steel were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex climbed 318.05 points or 0.58 per cent to close at 54,843.98, and Nifty advanced 82.15 points or 0.26 per cent to 16,325.15. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 212.11 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. "Bulls are showing no signs of fatigue as Nifty raced to another record... Global support to the rally is intact with the Dow and S&P setting yet another record high, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Retail investors relentlessly chasing stocks and the sheer momentum in the market has taken the Nifty to 16,500 levels, he said, adding that the rally is likely to be led by the leading high-quality private banks and leading IT names. US equities extended gains with Dow and S&P 500 closing at record highs. A consistent improvement in key economic data lifted sentiments and defied higher inflation, experts said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was positive. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.59 per cent to USD 70.89 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||Tata Steel posts consolidated net profit of Rs 9,768.34 crore||Tata Steel Ltd posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 9,768.34 crore in the first three months of this financial year, surpassing the profit earned in the whole of 2020-21. Backed by improved profitability of the chronically weak European business and an all-round performance of the intrinsically strong Indian operations, Tata Steel continued to deleverage the balance sheet by Rs 5,894 crore and widened the full-year target of reducing debt by at least $2 billion, doubling the target set previously. The highest quarterly profit came despite the fact that deliveries in India were lower in the first quarter because of disruptions linked to the second wave of Covid. Total income more than doubled over the same period last year to Rs 53,534 crore and it was also higher quarter-on-quarter (QoQ). Tata Steel had reported a loss of Rs 4,648 crore in the first quarter of the last fiscal. Profit after tax stood at Rs 7,162 crore in the fourth quarter of 2020-21, indicating  a sequential jump in profitability in the April-June period. Tata Steel Europe also posted a 28 per cent QoQ jump in profitability, with EBIDTA growing to Rs 1,533 crore from Rs 1,194 crore in the fourth quarter. It had a negative EBIDTA of Rs 626 crore in the same period last year. T.V. Narendran, CEO and MD of Tata Steel, said Indian markets were adversely impacted by the second wave. “Demand has begun recovering in India, though domestic steel prices continue to be at a steep discount to China import parity prices,” Narendran said. The buoyant market also encouraged the company to fast track the 5-million-tonne expansion of the second phase of the Kalinganagar unit. “We have accelerated capex allocation for the 6mtpa pellet plant and the CRM complex. Both are expected to be commissioned by the first half of 2022,” Narendran added. Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and CFO, indicated that the impact of the rising steel spread in Europe is expected to have a positive impact in the coming quarters. Net debt to equity is less than 1x, while net debt to EBITDA is now down to 1.59x, he added. “Despite the increase in working capital due to higher prices of both steel and raw material, the company generated consolidated free cash flow of over Rs 3,500 crore during this quarter,” Chatterjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||Bata India to continue expansion of retail stores||Footwear major Bata India will continue to expand its retail stores even as a subdued demand dampened the first-quarter performance of the company. Bata had opened 82 stores in 2020-21. It continued its retail expansion in the smaller cities through the franchise route by opening seven stores in the first quarter and taking the overall tally to 234 via franchisees. While the company has scaled back its capex drive to Rs 20 crore from around Rs 100 crore, company officials said around 50 stores would be added during the year. After the company’s AGM on Thursday, Gunjan Shah, CEO of Bata India, said the expansion will make the company ready for the post-pandemic scenario and ensure the footwear major can bounce back faster.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||Bharat Petroleum reports 27.6% drop in June quarter net profit||Privatisation-bound Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) on Thursday reported a 27.6 per cent drop in June quarter net profit at Rs 1,501.65 crore. The country’s second largest oil refiner and fuel marketing company had a net profit of Rs 2,076.17 crore in the April-June period of 2020-21, the company said in a regulatory filing. A sharp movement in oil prices — from $19-20 per barrel to $40 — in the April-June period of 2020 had led to a spike in marketing margins in the first quarter last fiscal. This year, the movement has been range-bound. Revenue from operations rose to Rs 89,687.12 crore in April-June this year from Rs 50,616.92 crore last year. With fuel demand rebounding on a pick-up in economic activity, BPCL refineries processed 6.84 million tonnes (mt) of crude oil in the first quarter of this fiscal, up from 5.4mt a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||Sensex and Nifty dart up to fresh all-time highs||The Sensex and the Nifty darted up to fresh all-time highs on Thursday as investors lapped up power, IT and banking stocks amid mixed global cues. A strengthening rupee, which surged 19 paise against the dollar, further lifted sentiment, traders said. The 30-share BSE Sensex climbed 318.05 points, or 0.58 per cent, to close at its fresh record of 54843.98. Intra-day, it scaled an all-time high of 54874.10. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 82.15 points, or 0.26 per cent, to its lifetime peak of 16325.15. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, followed by Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech, Titan, L&T, NTPC and ICICI Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||India to allow Boeing Co’s 737 MAX jets to resume flights||India is set to allow Boeing Co’s 737 MAX jets to resume flights in the country within days, Bloomberg News reported on Thursday, citing a person familiar with the matter. The country has been satisfied with the plane’s performance since it was un-grounded in the United States, Europe and a number of other markets, and Boeing has met India’s own requirements, which included setting up a MAX simulator, according to the report. Boeing said in a statement it continues to work with global regulators to safely return the 737-8 MAX and 737-9 MAX to service worldwide, and deferred the timeline to India’s air safety regulator. If the US plane manufacturer gets the go-ahead in India it would end a nearly two-and-a-half-year regulatory grounding of the model in a key travel market. India’s second-largest airline by market share SpiceJet has more than 100 737 MAX planes on firm order. The airline at present has 13 737 MAX planes grounded and is in talks with Boeing for compensation towards costs and losses it has suffered. SpiceJet and India’s civil aviation ministry did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Shares in the carrier ended the day 5 per cent higher. About 30 airlines and 175 countries have allowed the 737 MAX to return to service following a nearly two-year safety ban. The ban followed two crashes five months apart which killed 346 people, plunging Boeing into a financial crisis since compounded by the pandemic. India and China, where Boeing conducted a test flight of the 737 MAX plane on Thursday, are the only two major markets where regulators are yet to give the MAX the go-ahead. More UK flights The ministry of civil aviation has increased the cap on special flights that operate between India and the UK to 60 flights per week from 30. The higher limit will take effect from Monday. The ministry’s decision has come five days after Sanjeev Gupta, secretary, inter-state council secretariat of the home ministry, had complained on Twitter that an economy-class ticket on the Delhi-London flights of British Airways, Air India and Vistara for August 26 was priced between Rs 1.2 lakh and Rs 3.95 lakh. Vistara had said on Sunday that pricing is always a function of supply and demand. “There are only 15 flights a week allowed on India-UK route for Indian carriers and when there is relaxation and more capacity allowed, it will automatically bring down prices,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||Kesoram Industries offers rights issue at steep 44 per cent discount||Shareholders of Kesoram Industries are in for a treat as the board decided to offer a rights issue at a steep 44 per cent discount to the market price. Dispersed over a period of six months, eligible shareholders will pay Rs 50 a share in two equal tranches to subscribe to the offer compared with the closing price of Rs 89.45 on Thursday. The company plans to raise Rs 400 crore primarily to reduce the high interest bearing debt burden which stood at Rs 1,850 crore at the end of the last fiscal. It has set a target to bring down debt by Rs 450 crore by the end of the fiscal through  improved earnings and the rights issue proceeds and another Rs 350 crore by August next year. “We have a target to reach a debt level of Rs 1,100 crore by this time next year,” said P. Radhakrishnan, CEO and whole-time director of Kesoram. The company recorded an EBIDTA of Rs 187 crore in the June quarter of 2021 compared with Rs 110 crore in the same period last year. It made a profit of Rs 13.8 crore compared with Rs 17.85 crore loss a year ago. Profit was impacted by the interest burden of Rs 118.66 crore. The board also approved the induction of Satish Jajoo as an additional director. Jajoo has 38 years of experience of working with Ultratech, Grasim and Hindalco. Entities controlled by AV Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla hold close to 20 per cent in Kesoram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||Retail inflation tumbles to three-month low of 5.59 per cent||Retail inflation tumbled to a three-month low of 5.59 per cent in July as food prices softened and was back within the Reserve Bank’s tolerance level after staying above the upper band of 4 per cent (+/-2)  for two straight months. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) based inflation was 6.26 per cent in June and 6.73 per cent in July 2020. Inflation in the food basket slowed down to 3.96 per cent in July from 5.15 per cent in the previous month. “With inflation expected to remain sticky in the 5-6 per cent range over the next three quarters, it’s increasingly difficult to characterise the pressures as purely transitory in nature. A small disruption could push inflation back above the 6 per cent threshold, which implies that some uneasiness will continue about how soon the MPC may embark on policy normalisation,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist of Icra. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings, said: “CPI inflation will range between 5.5-6 per cent for the next couple of months. The base effect will weaken after October. Depending on how the kharif crop fares, CPI inflation will be largely guided.” Earlier this month, the RBI projected the CPI inflation at 5.7 per cent during 2021-22 — 5.9 per cent in the second quarter, 5.3 per cent in the third, and 5.8 per cent in the fourth quarter of the fiscal, with risks broadly balanced. CPI inflation for the first quarter of 2022-23 is projected at 5.1 per cent. Industrial output Industrial production surged 13.6 per cent in June mainly because of a low-base effect and a good performance by manufacturing, mining and power sectors but the output remained below the pre-pandemic levels. The manufacturing sector, which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP), grew 13 per cent in June this year, according to the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Thursday. Mining sector output rose 23.1 per cent in June while power generation increased by 8.3 per cent. In June 2021, IIP stood at 122.6 points compared with 107.9 points in the same month last year. The index was at 129.3 points in June 2019 according to the NSO data. The data showed that industrial production recovered but was still below the pre-pandemic level of June 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
13-08-2021||Business||FM says RBI must carry on with accommodative monetary policy||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday made it clear that the Reserve Bank of India will have to carry on with its accommodative monetary policy as the economy has not recovered to that extent from the pandemic to merit liquidity tightening measures on the part of the central bank. “I am glad that the RBI understands that quicker retrieval of the liquidity from the economy may not do the necessary things to win. They have not given any indication about wanting to suck out the liquidity that is available there,” Sitharaman said while addressing the annual meeting of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). The liquidity in the banking system and funds with the government has risen to Rs 10 lakh crore. Another Rs 1.7 lakh crore will enter the system by the end of the next month from the redemption of treasury bills maturing between July and September. Besides, the central bank will purchase government bonds worth Rs 1.2 lakh crore this quarter under G-SAP 2.0 (G-Sec Acquisition Programme). Last week, the RBI’s monetary policy committee (MPC) unanimously agreed to maintain status quo on rates but voted by a 5-1 majority to continue with its accommodative policy” as long as necessary to revive and sustain growth on a durable basis. “Growth will have its priorities, growth will be given importance and growth will be pushed both by the Reserve Bank and by us (finance ministry). It’s not “growth versus inflation for us”, Sitharaman said. Clean energy focus Niti Aayog chief executive officer Amitabh Kant said India can become a global leader in clean energy only if the domestic industry invests in cutting edge technology. This was needed in areas such as hydrogen, advanced solar panels, and next generation batteries. He asked industry to switch to digital technologies and embrace solar power where the costs are down to Rs 2 per unit and will go down to Re 1 in the next five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
