14-08-2021||Business||Piyush Goyal under fire on social media for criticising Tata||India's commerce minister faced heat on social media on Saturday for his remarks that many big domestic businesses had overlooked national interests and that $106 billion Tata Group's objections to proposed policy changes for e-commerce had upset him. At an event organized by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Thursday, Minister Piyush Goyal criticised Tata and more broadly said local businesses should not just focus on profits or think of bypassing local laws, according to media reports and a source who attended the event. The comments caught public attention and stoked a debate on social media after The Hindu newspaper reported on Saturday the government had asked the CII to block videos with Goyal's comments. Two links to those videos on Goyal's speech shared with journalists were now marked private and blocked. The CII and Goyal's office did not respond to a request for comment. "The kind of language used against industry captains & calling their work against nation's interest is shameful ... CII should demand an apology instead of helping him by pulling down the video," said Priyanka Chaturvedi, a lawmaker and opposition leader. A spokeswoman of India's main opposition Congress Party, Supriya Shrinate, said on Twitter Goyal's remarks were "undignified". Goyal's comments on Tata came after Reuters last month reported the conglomerate was among most vociferous in telling the government in a July meeting that proposed e-commerce rules will have a major impact on its business and bar its joint venture partners like Starbucks (SBUX.O) from selling goods on Tata's shopping websites. At the CII event, Goyal said Tata's objection to the rules had hurt him, saying he had conveyed that position to Tata Sons Chairman N. Chandrasekaran, the source who attended said. Tata declined to comment on Saturday. Goyal has also repeatedly criticized Amazon (AMZN.O) and Walmart's (WMT.N) Flipkart for allegedly bypassing foreign investment rules for e-commerce. This week, he also invoked the "Quit India" movement in parliament as he welcomed a court order that allowed an antitrust probe of the two companies to continue. The Confederation of All India Traders, however, welcomed Goyal's stand on Saturday, saying it was "highly unfortunate" that Tata was opposing government's e-commerce rules. The 153-year-old Tata Group has big e-commerce plans and is planning launch of an app that will integrate several of its top brands, but the proposed policy changes have spooked it, Reuters has reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
14-08-2021||Business||Air travel becomes costlier, govt raises caps on domestic airfares by 9.83-12.82 per cent||Domestic air travel is set to become costlier as the civil aviation ministry has raised the lower as well as the upper caps on fares by 9.83 to 12.82 per cent, according to an official order. India had imposed lower and upper limits on airfares based on flight duration when services resumed on May 25, 2020, after a two-month lockdown due to coronavirus. In an order dated August 12, 2021, the ministry increased the lower limit for flights under 40 minutes of duration from Rs 2,600 to Rs 2,900 — an increase of 11.53 percent. The upper cap for such flights has been increased by 12.82 per cent to Rs 8,800. Flights with duration of 40-60 minutes have a lower limit of Rs 3,700 instead of Rs 3,300. The upper cap on these flights was increased by 12.24 per cent to Rs 11,000 on Thursday. The flights with duration of 60-90 minutes have a lower limit of Rs 4,500 — a rise of 12.5 per cent. The upper cap on these flights was raised by 12.82 per cent to Rs 13,200. The caps mentioned in the order do not include the passenger security fee, user development fee for the airports and the GST.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
14-08-2021||Business||SpiceJet Q1 net loss widens to Rs 729 crore||Budget carrier SpiceJet’s net loss rose to Rs 729 crore in the first quarter of the current fiscal despite a substantial rise in revenue during the quarter as the airline said its business continued to face headwinds because of the Covid-19 restrictions. The no-frills carrier had reported a net loss of Rs 593.4 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. Ajay Singh, chairman and managing director, SpiceJet, said: “The quarter was severely impacted by the second wave as passenger traffic almost disappeared. While no one can predict the future, with vaccination numbers picking up and demand for air travel increasing steadily, we hope the trend reverses soon. Our logistics arm continued with its strong growth story reporting yet another profitable quarter.” Total income for the quarter under review increased 80 per cent to Rs 1,265.85 crore against Rs 704.56 crore in the same quarter of the previous year. Total revenue from operations grew 112 per cent to Rs 1,089.73 crore from Rs 514.69 crore in the year-ago period. Operating expenses grew to Rs 1,995 crore during the quarter against Rs 1,298 crore in the year-ago period. The passenger segment saw a revenue of Rs 621 crore in the first quarter of 2021-22 against Rs 349 crore in the same quarter last year. SpiceXpress, the cargo service arm of SpiceJet, reported a rise of 285 per cent in revenue at Rs 472.79 crore during the reported quarter against Rs 165.86 crore in the same quarter last year. Grasim profit up four-fold Aditya Birla Group firm Grasim Industries Ltd on Monday reported an around four-fold jump in its consolidated net profit at Rs 2,447.97 crore for the first quarter ended June 2021. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 616.99 crore during the April-June quarter of the previous fiscal. Its revenue from operations was up 52.72 per cent at Rs 19,919.40 crore during the quarter under review against Rs 13,043.51 crore a year ago. Akzo Nobel recovers Paints major Akzo Nobel India on Friday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 75.91 crore for the first quarter ended June 2021 amid disruptions due to the second wave of the pandemic. The company had posted a net loss of Rs 20.26 crore in the corresponding quarter year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
14-08-2021||Business||No decision on stake sale in Petronet, IGL yet: Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd ||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) on Friday said no decision has yet been taken to sell its stake in Petronet LNG and Indraprastha Gas to help the company’s prospective owner avoid making an open offer for the two gas companies. V.R.K. Gupta, chief financial officer, BPCL, said market regulator Sebi has not yet responded to an application made to exempt the new owner of BPCL from making an open offer to the shareholders of Petronet and IGL. BPCL holds 12.5 per cent of the shareholding in liquefied natural gas importer Petronet and a 22.5 per cent stake in city gas retailer Indraprashta Gas Ltd (IGL). It is a promoter of both the listed companies and holds board positions. According to the legal position evaluated by the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam), the acquirer of BPCL will have to make open offers to the minority shareholders of Petronet and IGL for the acquisition of a 26 per cent stake. The thinking in the government is that the open offers for Petronet and IGL may deter bidders who are mostly eyeing BPCL’s oil refining assets and 22 per cent share of the fuel marketing business it commands, sources said. In an attempt to bail out the new owner of BPCL from spending an additional Rs 19,100 crore in open offers for firms where it will have no operational control, it was suggested that BPCL sells a part of its shareholding in the two firms and shed promoter status. “There is no decision taken as on date but we are working with the government to protect the interests of BPCL,” Gupta said at an investor call. BPCL does not want to pare its stake in either IGL or Petronet as it sees it as a value destruction proposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
14-08-2021||Business||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launches National Automobile Scrappage Policy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday formally launched the vehicle scrappage policy that makes commercial vehicles which are more than 15-years-old and personal vehicles over 20-years-old eligible for scrapping. The tentative date for the policy to take effect is October 1 for private and commercial vehicles. The scrapping of government and PSU vehicles above 15 years will be undertaken from April 1, 2022. Modi said the vehicle scrappage policy would bring investments of Rs 10,000 crore. He said Alang in Gujarat could become the hub for scrapping. Under this policy, people who want to turn their old vehicle into scrap will get a certificate from the government. The certificate entitles them to free registration of their new vehicles. The owners of the certificate will be eligible to 4-6 per cent rebate on a new vehicle. Besides, they will get a road tax rebate. Much of the success of the scheme will depend on auto makers offering discounts and the state governments waiving off registration fee and offering rebate on road taxes. The state governments have been advised to offer a road tax rebate of up to 25 per cent for a personal vehicle and 15 percent for commercial vehicles. “Alang (in Gujarat's Bhavnagar district) has already established itself as a ship recycling hub. It also has skilled manpower. I strongly feel that it can also become a hub for turning vehicles into scrap,” the Prime Minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
14-08-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea CEO offers assurance, says telco committed to providing superior services, propositions||Vodafone Idea CEO Ravinder Takkar has reached out to consumers reaffirming the telcos’ commitment to continue providing “superior services and best-in-class propositions”. Thanking users for their continued support as the company approaches the first anniversary of the Vi branding, Takkar noted that Vi came with a promise of a better tomorrow, bringing the best in technology, services and solutions for the Digital Indian and Digital Bharat. The company will continue to deliver on this promise to keep users ahead, Takkar said in the mailer to consumers. “Looking ahead, we reinforce our commitment to continue providing you with superior services and best-in-class propositions,” he said. Takkar, however, did not make any mention of the issues being faced by VIL. He said that the past year saw the effects of an unprecedented global pandemic and tested the resilience of the human spirit. “The year also saw the birth of the youngest telecom brand in the country — Vi — which in a short span of less than a year has become a brand you love,” he said. The CEO’s note assumes significance in the backdrop of Vodafone Idea’s desperate struggle to stay afloat. Billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla recently stepped down as chairman of VIL, within weeks of offering to hand over Aditya Birla Group’s stake in the debt-laden telco to the government, in a bid to avert a crisis for the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
14-08-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio conclude spectrum trading agreement||Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio on Friday concluded a Rs 1,004.8-crore spectrum trading deal under which Jio will get the right to use Airtel’s 800 Mhz spectrum in the Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, and Mumbai circles. “Airtel has received Rs 1,004.8 crore (net of tax) from Jio for the proposed transfer. In addition, Jio will assume future liabilities of Rs 469.3 crore relating to the spectrum,” the telecom operator said in a statement. Bharti Airtel’s deal with Reliance Jio involves the transfer of the “right to use” of Airtel’s 800 Mhz spectrum in Andhra Pradesh (3.75 Mhz), Delhi (1.25 Mhz) and Mumbai (2.50 Mhz) circles to Jio, the companies had said earlier this year. “The sale of the 800 Mhz blocks in these three circles has enabled us to unlock value from spectrum that was unutilised. This is aligned to our overall network strategy,” said Gopal Vittal, managing director and chief executive officer (India and South Asia), Airtel. According to analysts, the trading of unutilised spectrum can help the companies earn revenue, and in return provide better network reach to customers across the country. After the two firms had agreed on the spectrum sale, market analysts had termed the deal “mutually beneficial” and a “win-win for both”. UBS in a note cited Jio’s spectrum buys in the 800 Mhz band in the recently-concluded auctions. Going by the total purchase cost of Rs 13,500 crore and given the 20-year validity, it works out to a cost/MHz/annum of Rs 30 crore. India's largest telecom operator Reliance Jio through the deal with Bharti has now topped up its holding in these circles to 10MHz, 10MHz and 15MHz, respectively, for a total consideration of Rs 1,497 crore. “With remaining validity of 14 years, the implied cost/MHz/annum comes to Rs 140 million...50 per cent discount to the auction price. Jio has therefore not only built up 10-15 MHz blocks in these key circles but has potentially saved USD 400 million," UBS said. The deal makes sense for Bharti as this spectrum was acquired by Airtel from Tata for little consideration, and has remained unutilised. Bharti is, therefore, able to unlock value from the unutilised spectrum, UBS note explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
14-08-2021||Business||Adi Godrej to step down as Godrej Industries' chairman, Nadir Godrej to take over||Veteran industrialist Adi Godrej will step down as chairman as well as from the board of directors of Godrej Industries Ltd (GIL), passing on the baton to his younger brother Nadir Godrej, effective October 1. The 79-year-old industrialist will continue to serve as the chairman of the Godrej group and chairman emeritus of GIL, said the statement. “Nadir Godrej, who is at present the managing director of GIL, will take over as chairman and managing director of the company,” it added. GIL is a holding company of the Godrej group. Adi Godrej has served GIL for almost four decades. “It has been a privilege to serve Godrej Industries for over four decades, during which we have delivered strong results and transformed our company,” said Adi Godrej. “I am very confident that our best years are ahead of us, and I look forward to Nadir and our team achieving our exciting aspirations,” he added. In the statement, Nadir Godrej thanked his brother for his vision and leadership, which shaped the company. “On behalf of our team at Godrej Industries and our board, I want to thank our chairman for his vision, values and exceptional leadership that has guided and shaped our company. On August 4, Adi Godrej announced his decision to step down from the board of the group’s FMCG arm, Godrej Consumer Products Ltd (GCPL), effective next month. In GCPL, he had already passed on the baton to his younger daughter Nisaba Godrej in 2017 as chairman. But he will remain as chairman emeritus of the FMCG firm. Adi Godrej was born in 1942 and Nadir in 1951. Their father Burjorji Godrej was the nephew of Ardeshir Godrej, founder of the group. As Ardeshir was childless, the vast industrial estate created by Ardeshir was inherited by his three nephews. Adi and Nadir’s first cousin Jamshyd Godrej is the chairman and managing director of Godrej & Boyce. Nadir Godrej is also the chairman of Godrej Agrovat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
14-08-2021||Business||Sensex scales 55000 as record run continues||The BSE Sensex on Friday vaulted above the 55000-mark for the first time —  climbing 1000 points in just eight trading sessions since it crossed the 54000 mark on August 4 — as investors remained in risk-on mode amid favourable macroeconomic data and growth optimism. Index heavyweights TCS, RIL, Infosys and the HDFC twins saw robust buying, while pharma stocks slipped. Rallying for the second straight session, the 30-share Sensex jumped 593.31 points, or 1.08 per cent, to its new all-time closing high of 55437.29. It touched an intra-day record of 55487.79 during the day. Similarly, the NSE Nifty breached the 16500 level, advancing 164.70 points, or 1.01 per cent, to its fresh closing peak of 16529.10. It surged to a intra-day record of 16543.60. TCS was the top performer among the Sensex components, spurting 3.22 per cent, followed by L&T, Bharti Airtel, HCL Tech, Tata Steel and Bajaj Auto. PowerGrid, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy’s, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finance, NTPC and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards, skidding up to 1.28 per cent. During the week, the Sensex rallied 1159.57 points, or 2.13 per cent, while the Nifty soared 290.90 points or 1.79 per cent. “A sustained rebound in IT followed by recovery in financials and consumers aided benchmark indices to defy weak cues from Asian markets and scale fresh records,” said Binod Modi, head — strategy at Reliance Securities. IT stocks remained in focus throughout the week and investors lapped up quality IT names because of sustained double-digit revenue growth visibility backed by strong deal wins, he added. “Domestic main indices raised the bar, registering new highs, bolstered by favourable economic data and a strong performance by large caps such as IT, FMCG and telecom. “Investor sentiment was boosted as retail inflation eased to 5.59 per cent in July from 6.26 per cent in June owing to softening food prices. Moreover, industrial production rose 13.6 per cent YoY in June on account of good performance by manufacturing, mining and power sectors,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. Sectorally, BSE telecom, tech, capital goods, IT, energy and consumer durables indices rose up to 1.80 per cent, while realty, healthcare and utilities ended in the red.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
