15-08-2021||Business||Tata’s e-commerce venture at root of Goyal outburst?||A frenzied guessing game is underway to figure why Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal unleashed a scathing attack on Indian industry at the CII annual meeting 2021. In a 19-minute tirade, Goyal attacked first the Tatas and then industry as a whole with remarks like, “At least you should resist the greed of these foreigners. You are welcome to do good honest business. But in wrongdoings … when I read the names of that have entered into partnership with Falana dhimkana (anyone and everyone)….”. Top industrialists are still reeling after the unexpected attack at what, till then, had been a love fest between the government and industry with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman making speeches on earlier days. “India Inc has been taken by surprise,” said one observer. “Nobody has a clear idea about why he said all this.” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh labelled Goyal’s comments “a bizarre tirade” and wondered whether they had been made without “official sanction.” Congress spokesman Jaiveer Shergill added that Goyal had massively undermined Modi’s pitch about “Ease of doing business India.” CII moved quickly to first edit Goyal’s speech, taking out the 19-minute attack on industry, and then to take his speech down from YouTube completely. The speed with which it moved triggered speculation that it had been ordered to take it down by the government. However, The Hindu had a recording of the speech and reported it on Saturday.   “CII should demand an apology instead of helping him by pulling down the video. Stand up to bullying!" Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi said. One line of thinking is that Goyal was aiming primarily at the Tatas because he’s infuriated that the Tatas have strongly opposed some clauses of the proposed Consumer Protection (e-commerce) rules, 2020, and had raised these objections at a Government-industry meeting in July. Goyal, who also heads the Consumer Affairs Ministry, has been looking to move quickly to bring these rules into force but found that both Amazon and the Tatas were requesting more time to study the new changes. The new rules forbid sales by group companies that have a link with the e-commerce site owner. The Tatas pointed out that this would stop them from selling products from several newly acquired group companies. It would stop it from selling products from Starbucks, which has a tie-up in India with the Tata Group, like coffee or anything else on the proposed Tata e-commerce platform. The Tatas have bought companies like online grocery store BigBasket and online pharmacy 1MG and it would have difficulty selling products from these companies also. The Tatas are still a small player online and the group has been hoping to change that in the coming months. If the Tatas can ramp up their online presence, this could impact existing heavyweights like Amazon, Reliance Industries’s Jio and also Flipkart-Walmart. Zeroing in on the Tatas, Goyal said a “company like yours, maybe you bought one or two foreign companies, now their importance is greater than national interest?” He specifically attacked Banmali Agarwala, the Tata Sons President for Infrastructure, Defence and Aerospace, for opposing the e-commerce rules, saying, according to The Hindu, “Me, myself, my company. We need to go beyond that approach.” He added that he had already conveyed this message to Tata Group Chairman N. Chandrasekharan. Alternatively, there is the possibility that Goyal had been instructed to convey government displeasure with industry in general but that he overstepped the mark. The minister has been known to be abrasive at times both with industry leaders, journalists and others who meet him. In a broader attack, he also accused industry in general of structuring FDI deals so that they stayed within the four corners of the law but violated the spirit of the rules. However, he could have been instructed to make a limited show of displeasure with the Tatas. There’s also speculation that the government is counting on the Tatas to buy Air India and that the Tatas are possibly being difficult about what might be an expensive purchase that would be difficult to return to profit. Also, the Tatas already have two airlines, Vistara, which is a full-service airline, and Air Asia which is in the low-cost carrier segment. An additional complication for the Tatas is that they have agreements for both airlines that they would not invest in a competitor. Interestingly, the CII president for this year is Tata Steel Managing Director T. V.  Narendran. Goyal, in his speech, questioned industry’s commitment to India and challenged Tata Steel to sell its products in countries like Japan and South Korea. He insisted that both countries were “nationalistic” and so wouldn’t buy steel made in other countries. “When we talk of the ‘nationalistic spirit,’ many in the media call us orthodox and backward. Nobody in Japan, Korea calls this backward.” However, till Goyal made his appearance, the CII annual meeting had been proceeding smoothly with non-controversial speeches by Modi and Sitharaman. Both laid strong emphasis on Atmanirban Bharat. Sitaraman attempted to nudge industry to be more adventurous, saying, “It is time for Indian industry to come around in a big way and it is time to show its risk-taking capacity.” Adding to the mystery around the sudden outburst is the fact that Goyal had taken part in two CII meetings, one this month and the other in the last week of July where nothing untoward had happened. Inevitably, Goyal’s remarks triggered a Twitter storm with TV producer-turned-politician Nivedith Alva remarking that, “When a minister singles out India’s biggest companies – it’s almost as if he is upset that he wasn’t dropped along with Mr Prasad, Mr Javadekar etc. Headed in that direction.” Goyal’s outburst follows his welcoming in Parliament earlier in the week of a Supreme Court decision that Amazon and Walmart's Flipkart should face investigations into alleged anti-competitive behaviour. In welcoming the court’s decision, he invoked the "Quit India" campaign, Mahatma Gandhi’s movement demanding an end to British rule. Commentators said that Goyal’s “Quit India” talk sent a bad message to investors. "These companies (Amazon and Walmart) used legal tactics to stall the investigation ... I’m happy to tell you that yesterday, on the day of the Quit India Movement, all the efforts of these companies failed," Goyal told Indian lawmakers. Goyal has been in the headlines before for making strange comments. Two years ago, he was mercilessly mocked on social media for telling a meeting of the board of trade that “maths did not help Albert Einstein to discover gravity.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
15-08-2021||Business||ONGC logs massive jump in first quarter net profit at Rs 4,335 cr||State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC) saw a massive jump in its net profit in the first quarter of the current fiscal after the spike in oil prices compensated for a fall in production. Net profit in the April-June period came in at Rs 4,335 crore compared with Rs 497 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal when demand as well as price had plummeted because of coronavirus-related lockdown, the company said in a statement. The firm got $65.59 for every barrel of crude oil it produced and sold in the first quarter of the current fiscal compared with $28.87 per barrel realisation in April-June 2020. Gas price was lower by a quarter at $1.79 per million British thermal unit. The company produced nearly 5 per cent less crude oil at 5.4 million tonnes during the quarter while natural gas output was 4.3 per cent lower at 5.3 billion cubic metres. Of the total oil output, ONGC produced 4.6 million tonnes from fields it operates and another 0.55 million tonnes from those in joint ventures with other partners. Its own production was down 4.2 per cent, while joint venture output fell 2.8 per cent. ONGC’s own gas production was down 5.3 per cent at 5.1 billion cubic metres while that of joint venture fields was up by a third to 0.2 billion cubic metres. Overall, the gas output was down 4.3 per cent at 5.3 billion cubic metres. Gross revenue rose 77 per cent to Rs 23,022 crore. Petronet net up 22% Petronet LNG, India’s biggest gas importer, on Saturday reported a 22 per cent rise in its June quarter net profit as it handled more gas volumes compared with the year ago period when a nationwide lockdown had muted economic activity and shrunk fuel demand. Net profit in April-June stood at Rs 636 crore compared with Rs 520 crore earned a year back, Petronet CEO A.K. Singh said at a media call. The profit was, however, lower than the Rs 643-crore profit earned in the January-March quarter because of the impact of the second wave of coronavirus, he said. Petronet, which operates two liquefied natural gas (LNG) import terminals at Dahej in Gujarat and Kochi in Kerala, saw import volumes picking up in the first quarter  of the current fiscal over the year-ago period but it was lower than the preceding quarter. “During the quarter ended June 2021 (current quarter), the Dahej terminal processed 194 trillion British thermal units of LNG against 181 TBTU processed during the corresponding quarter ended June 2020 and 204 TBTU processed during the previous quarter ended March 31, 2021,” he said. Singh said some buyers deferred LNG cargoes because of high prices. Spot or current market LNG prices, which were $3-4 per million British thermal unit in April-June 2020, rose to $15-16 in the first quarter of the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
15-08-2021||Business||Chip crisis holding back recovery in auto industry||The shortage of semiconductors is holding back recovery of the auto sector. Both the Society for Auto Manufacturers’ Association (SIAM) and credit rating agency Icra have flagged the issue of the global crisis of semi-conductors which does not seem to have any long-term end in sight. “No one can predict when the crisis will be resolved as multiple industries are affected by the shortage,” said an industry insider. Ashish Modani, vice-president and sector head — corporate sector ratings, Icra, said: “Semiconductor shortage is playing spoilsport, constraining overall production volume, though underlying demand remains strong. The industry is expecting a loss of over 1 lakh units in the scond quarter of FY22 due to the shortage, which could have a bearing on overall annual production and sales volume.” Rajesh Menon, director- general of Siam, said: “The auto industry is managing supply chain challenges while ensuring the safety of its people and  keeping a close eye on the onset of a third wave. Amidst such an uncertain economic environment, the industry is trying to maximise production and sales.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
15-08-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea Q1 loss narrows to Rs 7,319 crore||Debt-ridden Vodafone Idea on Saturday posted a lower consolidated loss of Rs 7,319 crore for the first quarter ended June 2021 against a Rs 25,460-crore loss a year ago. Consolidated revenues from operations fell by 14 per cent to Rs 9,152.3 crore during the quarter under review from Rs 10,659.3 crore in the corresponding quarter of 2020-21. The total gross debt (excluding lease liabilities and including interest accrued but not due) as of June 30, 2021, stood at Rs 1,91,590 crore, comprising deferred spectrum payment obligations of Rs 1,06,010 crore and adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liability of Rs 62,180 crore that are due to the government. McLeod Russel McLeod Russel India has narrowed its loss in the first quarter of this fiscal to Rs 67.03 crore on a consolidated basis compared with Rs 90.52 crore  a year ago and Rs 114.87 crore in the previous quarter. Income rose to Rs 221.69 crore from Rs 196.4 crore a year ago. The company, which was admitted for corporate insolvency resolution proceedings last week for defaulting on loan payments, prepared the financial results under the interim resolution professional as the board is now suspended. The company said a restructuring plan under RBI guidelines was in the process of being finalised before the company was admitted for CIRP. Inter-creditor agreements between certain lenders were already signed and a techno economic viability study prepared by SBI Capital Markets were being re-vetted. The company did not disclose whether the section of lenders would continue to pursue the restructuring of McLeod’s debt, which may run parallel to the CIRP process. The Khaitan family, the promoters of McLeod, has not yet challenged the CIRP order at the higher court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
15-08-2021||Business||Partners Group to acquire Atria Convergence for enterprise value of $ 1.2 billion||Swiss private equity firm Partners Group on Saturday said it will acquire a controlling stake on behalf of its client in broadband service provider Atria Convergence Technologies (ACT). The stake will be bought at an enterprise value of nearly $1.2 billion (around Rs 8,900 crore), Partners Group said in a statement. Partners Group, a joint investor in ACT since 2016, will buy the stake from Argan (Mauritius) and TA Associates. With over 7,000 employees, Bangalore-based ACT is a multi-service operator offering a package of internet, TV, data and other broadband services. ACT serves around 2 million wired broadband subscribers across 19 cities in India and has one of the largest optical fibre networks in the country, capable of delivering connection speed of up to 1 Gbps, the statement said. “ACT is on the frontline of digitisation in India. The company is an excellent opportunity for us to support the transformation of a growing business through expansion in new markets and development of new product offerings. “As existing investors, we have followed ACT’s journey for several years and have been impressed with Bala (ACT CEO) and his team’s strategic vision,” Partners Group managing director Manas Tandon said. Partners Group will work closely with ACT management and TA Associates, which will continue to hold a minority stake. “Partners Group has been an integral part of the company’s growth journey for several years and is a great believer and supporter of our core values. The firm’s experience working with global technology companies and its expertise in supporting multi-dimensional growth will be very valuable,” ACT chief executive officer Bala Malladi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
