16-08-2021||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman remains non-commital on excise duty cut on petrol and diesel||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday remained non-committal on cut in excise duty on petrol and diesel, saying payments in lieu of past subsidised fuel pose limitations.  Petrol and diesel as well as cooking gas and kerosene were sold at subsidised rates during the previous Congress-led UPA government. Instead of paying for the subsidy to bring parity between the artificially suppressed retail selling price and the cost that had soared because of international rates crossing USD 100 per barrel, the then government issued oil bonds totalling Rs 1.34 lakh crore to the state-fuel retailers.  These oil bonds and the interest thereon are being paid now.  "If I did not have the burden to service the oil bonds, I would have been in a position to reduce excise duty on fuel," she told reporters here. "Previous government have made our job difficult by issuing oil bonds. Even if I want to do something I am paying through my nose for the oil bonds."  Sitharaman, who had raised excise duty on petrol and diesel to record high to shore up revenue collections last year, said the interest on oil bonds paid in the last seven years totalled Rs 70,195.72 crore.  Of the Rs 1.34 lakh crore of oil bonds, only Rs 3,500 crore of principal has been paid and the remaining Rs 1.3 lakh crore is due for repayment between this fiscal and 2025-26, she said.  The government has to repay Rs 10,000 crore this fiscal year (2021-22). Another Rs 31,150 crore is due to be repaid in 2023-24, Rs 52,860.17 crore in the following year and Rs 36,913 crore in 2025-26.  "A significant amount is going for interest payment and principal repayment. What unfair burden on me," she said.  "Opening balance in 2014-15 was about Rs 1.34 lakh crore and interest repayment was Rs 10,255 crore. Since 2015-16, interest burden each year is Rs 9,989 crore."  The collections from the hike in excise duty far exceed the amount due to be paid to oil companies.  Excise duty on petrol was hiked from Rs 19.98 per litre to Rs 32.9 last year to recoup gain arising from international oil prices plunging to multi-year low as pandemic gulped demand.  Minister of State for Petroleum and Natural Gas Rameswar Teli had last month told Parliament that the Union government's tax collections on petrol and diesel jumped by 88 per cent to Rs 3.35 lakh crore in the year to March 31 from Rs 1.78 lakh crore a year back.  Excise collection in pre-pandemic 2018-19 was Rs 2.13 lakh crore.  The hike in taxes last year did not result in any revision in retail prices as they got adjusted against the reduction that was warranted because of fall in international oil prices.  But with the demand returning, international oil prices have soared, which have translated to record high petrol and diesel prices across the country. More than half the country has petrol at over Rs 100-a-litre mark and diesel is above that level in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha.  Sitharaman said the Centre has kept open the option of inclusion of petroleum products under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime. "Whenever states agree on this, it can be brought under the GST."  Inclusion under GST would mean subsuming of excise duty and VAT (levied by states) into one tax. This would help contain the cascading impact of tax-on-tax (VAT being levied on excise duty).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||Sensex rises 145 points to scale fresh peak||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 145 points to end at a fresh high on Monday tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance and Tata Steel. Despite opening on a choppy note, the 30-share index ended 145.29 points or 0.26 per cent higher at a new peak of 55,582.58. It touched a record intra-day high of 55,680.75. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 33.95 points or 0.21 per cent to a fresh high of 16,563.05. During the day, it rose to new intra-day peak of 16,589.40. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying nearly 4 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, M&M, Bajaj Finserv and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Maruti, Bajaj Auto, PowerGrid ad UltraTech Cement were among the laggards. Domestic benchmark indices extended gains today, while midcap and smallcap stocks remained under pressure said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Strong rebound in metals followed by financial services aided Nifty. Additionally, sharp recovery in Reliance Industries after media reports stating USD 25 billion Aramco deal is on advanced stage also supported benchmark indices, he noted. Further, strong June quarter performance reported by metal companies and steady pricing in international markets aided metal stocks to see sharp rebound, Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with losses, while Shanghai was positive. Equities in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.33 per cent to USD 69.65 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||Taliban takeover likely to impact India and Afghanistan bilateral trade: Exporters||With Kabul falling into the hands of the Taliban, bilateral trade between Afghanistan and India will get impacted significantly in these uncertain times, according to exporters. Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) Director General Ajay Sahai said domestic exporters should follow caution looking into the political development in Afghanistan, particularly with regard to payments, for which adequate credit insurance may be availed by them. "The trade will be impacted. It would reduce due to the growing uncertainty in Afghanistan," he said on Monday. Former FIEO president and country's leading exporter S K Saraf too said there will be a significant fall in the bilateral trade. "We may not lose all because they need our products," Saraf said. Afghanistan stares at an uncertain future as President Ashraf Ghani left the country just before Kabul fell into the hands of the Taliban on Sunday. Sharing similar views, FIEO Vice-President Khalid Khan stated there would be a complete standstill in the trade for a certain time, as the situation is out of control in Afghanistan. "It is a landlocked country and the air route is the main medium of exports and that has been disrupted. Trade will resume only after the uncertainty will get down," Khan said. Biswajit Dhar, a professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University said India's aid to Afghanistan was creating a market for domestic products and due to the current situation, "all this will stop". Chairman of Plastics Export Promotion Council of India (PLEXCONCIL), Arvind Goenka said now private players will have to deal through third countries to export to Afghanistan. Rajiv Malhotra, proprietor of Sai International and an exporter to Afghanistan said exports from India would completely stop as now there will be an issue of timely payment. "We are watching the situation to decide on our next move," Malhotra said. The bilateral trade stood at USD 1.4 billion in 2020-21 as against USD 1.52 billion in 2019-20. Exports from India were USD 826 million and imports were aggregated at USD 510 million in 2020-21. Afghan exports to India include dried raisin, walnut, almond, fig, pine nut, pistachios, dried apricot and fresh fruits such as apricot, cherry, watermelon, and medicinal herbs. India's outbound shipments to that country include tea, coffee, pepper and cotton.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||My Journey as HR professional from India to Canada ||Today, let me tell you my story. My story of migrating to Canada from India as an HR professional. For me, it was indeed an “Express Entry”, as I got my Canadian permanent residence much sooner than I expected. In around 5 months. Why Canada? Immigration or migrate overseas was something that did not just suddenly pop into my mind one fine day. It was a carefully thought-out process. I always wanted to settle abroad. The carefree life and a high standard of living were the biggest motivating factors for me. Also, free education and excellent healthcare. After all, we all require healthcare at some point in time. If I could somehow settle in a country that could guarantee me a good hospital stay, should I need it for any reason, it was seriously worth the effort. Don’t get me wrong. I have nothing against my home country. While I did want to immigrate overseas and experience the good life, I also planned on giving back to my own country once I was successful overseas. With the entire world connected through the world wide web, reaching anyone at almost any part of the world hardly takes a few seconds. I would be a successful NRI in Canada one day. That day, I will give back to my community back in Valsad in Vadodara in the form of the remittances that might help in making my community a better place for the next generation. Canada, though not the top country for immigration for me, it was definitely on my list. Initially, I had planned on Australia immigration. But then, some simple online research, as well as personal feedback from a couple of my friends and friends of friends that had settled in Melbourne, I decided my HR career had brighter prospects in Canada. So it was Canada for me. Why getting the right help matters? Though I learnt my lesson the hard way, I did learn it in the end. Always seek immigration and visa assistance from those who know it the best. Trust me, friends and relatives are not the right people to turn to for immigration advice. While friends and family, or even colleagues and neighbors for that matter, might have your best interest at heart, they don’t have the complete picture. Honestly, with the immigration policies being changed so often and so unpredictably by the foreign governments, it is difficult for a layman to keep abreast with all the latest updates. Here is where a team of professionals come in. Experience Matters Trust me, getting professional help is always better for visa and immigration. You might think you can do it on your own, but visa and immigration take a lot of money and time. Visit visas can easily be done on your own. Immigration though needs guidance. Now, not everyone can be asked for help. If you do think that you need a professional on board, it is always recommended to approach someone that has experience. Preferably, over 10 years of experience in visa and immigration matters. Y-Axis, for example, has been around since 1999. When you go for the initial counseling, always ask questions. The more, the better. Make it a point to understand the process completely. The best visa and immigration consultant will be the one that will explain in detail, and not force you to only sign on the dotted line. Express Entry Finally, my profile was in the Express Entry pool. The Canadian occupation code  for me was that of 1223, human resources and recruitment officers. I work as a Staffing Analyst. I got my Educational Credential Assessment report “for immigration purposes” from World Education Services. I got my WES report quite easily. Then, came the English language test. Busy with my full-time job, I opted to get my IELTS coaching completely online in weekend classes only. IELTS I had to give 2 times. I had passed the first time itself, but I wanted a better score. Coaching for IELTS was taken the second time around. ITA from IRCC After some time in the Express Entry pool of candidates, I finally managed to get my invitation to apply for Canadian Express Entry through IRCC of Canada. By this time, I had also secured a good job in Canada from India. I took the help of Y-Axis Jobs for this. Online coaching that I got for IELTS was also through Y-Axis. No, I did not take the complete Canada immigration package. I took the Y-Axis coaching and Y-Axis Jobs assistance only. Rest I managed on my own. Canada Now, I’m in Canada. I'm working as an HR professional in the city of Burnaby in the province of British Columbia, to be precise. I was nominated by British Columbia PNP for my Canada PR so I had to settle in BC itself. So far, I’m enjoying the new life I opted for. Might be getting married to a Canadian permanent resident soon. We have much in common. Also from India, my fiancé got through as a skilled worker under the Express Entry system. She is a Software Engineer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on choppy note on profit booking, weak global cues||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a choppy note on Monday tracking profit booking at higher levels and a weak trend in global markets. After dropping over 100 points in the opening session, the 30-share index turned flat. It was trading 20.92 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 55,416.37, while the broader NSE Nifty slipped 11.50 points or 0.07 per cent to 16,517.60. PowerGrid was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, Maruti, Dr Reddy's, Asian Paints and Titan. On the other hand, M&M, Tata Steel, TCS and Tech Mahindra were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex jumped 593.31 points or 1.08 per cent to its new all-time high of 55,437.29, and Nifty breached the 16,500 level, advancing 164.70 points or 1.01 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 16,529.10. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 819.77 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. Benchmark indices opened on a choppy note amid profit-booking at fresh peaks, said experts. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, while benchmark Nifty and Sensex witnessed strong rebound last week, it was not a broad-based rally considering heavy selling pressure in midcap and smallcap stocks. June quarter earnings were impressive, and a number of companies succeeded to beat consensus estimates, which offered comfort to the market, he noted. The sharp improvement in key economic indicators like GST collection and auto sales volume indicate sustainable rebound in corporate earnings in subsequent quarters. This should aid the market to sustain premium valuations, he added. While concerns over global growth due to the recent rise in delta variants of coronavirus cases in different parts of the world continues to persist, he believes that the underlying strength of the domestic market remains intact. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was positive. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.06 per cent to USD 69.84 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||Ola launches e-scooter in India, deliveries to commence in October||Ola Electric Mobility Pvt Ltd on Sunday launched two variants of its electric scooters in India and will start delivering from October across 1,000 cities. The basic model S1 is priced at Rs 99,000, excluding registration and insurance, while the S1 Pro is priced at Rs 1,29,000. The S1 and S1 Pro offer a range of up to 121 kilometres (km) and 181 km, respectively. The maximum speed that the vehicles offer are 90 kilometres per hour (kmph) and 115 kmph, respectively. “I want to underline that it is going to be the best scooter ever made. It has the best design, performance and technology,” Ola chairman and group executive officer Bhavish Aggarwal said. The Ola Electric scooter will directly compete with not just existing two-wheeler EVs, such as Ather Energy, Ampere Electric, Okinawa Scooters, Tork Motors and Hero Electric, but also with the petrol options offered by Honda Activa and others. SoftBank-backed unicorn Ola Electric, set up in 2017, is the electric vehicle (EV) arm of transportation platform Ola (ANI Technologies Pvt Ltd). Its launch has taken off at a time Elon Musk-led Tesla Inc is set to make its India entry, while the government is trying to boost the manufacturing of EVs, their batteries and other components amid soaring petrol prices. “The EV transition is very important for our country and the whole industry needs to adopt it. We have to build the technology in India. By 2025, all two-wheelers in the country should be electric. The EV revolution is here to stay whether the incumbents like it or not,” Aggarwal said. Ride-hailing firm Ola’s electric arm is building what it calls a “Future Factory” on around 500 acres of land in Tamil Nadu’s Krishnagiri district. When fully ready, it will produce 10 million e-scooters every year, making it the largest two-wheeler maker globally. The first phase itself will produce two million e-scooters, to be retailed in India and exported. Market leader Hero MotoCorp produces around 6.5 million two-wheelers annually. Around 22-25 million traditional two-wheelers with internal combustion engines are sold in India every year. The two variants of the e-scooters offer a “key-less experience” where sensors communicate with the user’s phone, unlocking the scooter when in range and automatically locking it as one leaves. It has an AI speech recognition algorithm and a 7-inch touchscreen display. The scooters are powered by a proprietary operating system “Ola Moods”, which will change the ride experience, including the look and feel of the display, and how the scooter sounds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||Mahindra & Mahindra to roll out nine SUVs by 2026||Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd has announced that the company will launch nine SUVs by 2026 even as it took the wraps off the new XUV700. Bookings for the XUV700 will begin before the festival season. The XUV700 will come in diesel and gasoline variants. There will be manual and automatic options along with both five- and seven-seater capacity. Speaking about Mahindra’s SUV focus and the unveiling of the XUV700, Anish Shah, MD & CEO of M&M, said, “It is sheer passion that drives our people to create advanced, adventure-ready vehicles, with an unmissable presence. We are ready to lead the core SUV segment with nine new exciting SUVs planned for launch by 2026. Our most ambitious addition, the XUV700, is throbbing and pulsating with technology, power and intelligence to let people explore the impossible.” Rajesh Jejurikar, executive director, auto & farm sectors, M&M Ltd, said, “Every once in a while, an automobile comes to change the future course of its manufacturer and in the process, it transforms the segment itself. The XUV 700 marks the beginning of a whole new Mahindra and a new era for the SUV segment in India. We have raised the bar on best-in-class features, technology and design. Our customers are in for a longstanding treat with the innovative new XUV700.” The company is offering the XUV700 in two series — MX and AdrenoX (AX). The AdrenoX series is further classified into three variants — AX3, AX5 and AX7. M&M also announced the prices for the four variants in the five-seater manual transmission category. The MX gasoline variant comes with a price tag of Rs 11.99 lakh, while its diesel version is priced at Rs 12.49 lakh. Similarly, the AdrenoX AX3 petrol version carries a price tag of Rs 13.99 lakh, while AdrenoX AX5 for Rs 14.99 lakh. Pricing for the rest of the variants will be announced soon, the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||Fintech start-up SaveIN gets patent for its social finance platform||Fintech start-up SaveIN has got a patent for its social finance platform aimed at digitising informal, social and relationship-based loans among family, friends, colleagues and business partners. “We want to positively impact the financial health of Indians, by leveraging their own trusted network and providing access to need-based and contextual financial products,” SaveIN founder and ex-banker Jitin Bhasin said in a release. According to CMIE’s Consumer Pyramids Household Survey (CPHS) 2020, 77 per cent of urban Indian households reach out to family, friends and acquaintances in times of need. There was a 100 per cent increase in the last year (2019-2020) in the number of urban households borrowing from family and friends. SaveIN, an online platform, is trying to bank on this by catering to those Indians who lend and borrow money among each other. SaveIN had recently raised an undisclosed amount in a pre-seed funding round from a clutch of Indian and international angel investors and industry captains across banking, consulting, block-chain, credit bureau and fintech. It is in discussions to raise more capital to expand its market reach, accelerate product development and strengthen its in-house team. Claiming to be India’s first social finance platform, SaveIN said it plans to reach over 5 lakh users by the end of this financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||General Insurance Corporation of India loss up to Rs 770 crore||Government-owned reinsurer — General Insurance Corporation of India (GIC Re) — saw its incurred claims ratio climb above 100 per cent amid rising Covid claims — both on health and life insurance. Incurred claims ratio — the total value of claims settled to the total value of premiums collected — of the reinsurer was 104.3 per cent for the quarter ended June 30, 2021 against 94.2 per cent previous year and 81.9 per cent for the quarter ended March 31, 2021. In absolute terms, incurred claims stood at Rs 11,837.40 crore in the June quarter against Rs 12,868.74 crore a year ago and Rs 6,202.19 crore in the January-March quarter. In a disclosure to the stock exchanges, GIC Re said that the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic is a concern for reinsurers as well since the market will be exposed across the entire business spectrum. The reinsurer made a provision of Rs 5,350.36 crore in its actuarial valuation. Losses widened during the April-June quarter to Rs 771.73 crore against loss of Rs 557.47 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year and a profit of Rs 1,260.44 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2021. Gross premium collection during the quarter was at Rs 14,289.92 crore against Rs 15,881.55 crore previous year.In January-March collections were Rs 8,812.83 crore. “The underwriting performance was impacted on the back of a challenging environment. However, we are taking necessary measures to bring down the incurred claims ratio and improve overall profitability,” Devesh Srivastava, chairman and managing director, GIC Re told analysts at the earnings call. Srivastava further said that the company continues to focus on bringing down the combined ratio to near 100 (it was 123.4 per cent as of the quarter ended June). The process however could take longer on account of the pandemic. Combined ratio, which includes incurred losses and expenses, is a measure of profitability and financial health of an insurance company. While the losses on the health side were on the rise, Srivastava said that the health portfolio has also grown amid rising demand for insurance during the Covid pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||Mercedes Benz India to launch direct customer-to-customer used car selling platform||Mercedes Benz India Limited (MBIL) is aiming to increase its used car business by 50 per cent through the launch of a direct customer-to-customer selling platform called Marketplace. At present, its used car business comprises 20 per cent of its new car sales. With the online platform, the German luxury brand hopes its used car business will be 30 percent of its new car sales. The company which hopes to achieve its 2019 new car sales of 13,786 units by the end of this year has already registered a 65 per cent growth on its 2020 new car sales of 7,893 units in H1 2021. Consequently, the company is hoping to post a used car sales of over 4,000 units after the launch of the Marketplace. Commenting on the launch, MBIL CEO Martin Schwenk said: “There are two ways in which used cars sell in the market. About 20 percent of the customers trade in with the dealer while 80 per cent shop around. The used car business is largely unstructured. With the Marketplace we are trying to do it in a structured way. The Marketplace will enable direct sales between customer to customer, better transparency, support from dealers, greater inventory.” While stressing that Mercedes Benz India has no direct stake in the used car transactions but “with every sale of a used car, there will be more customers buying a new car”. When asked if the pandemic has impacted the second hand market, Schwenk said: “For us there has been no significant impact. Activities are now at a pre-Covid level, the market is relatively stable and we are witnessing an increase in demand for used cars.” The CEO said, “The last few weeks after the second wave, the market is back to pre-Covid levels”. Replying to a question if customers were hanging on to their old cars in the face of economic uncertainty, Schwenk said: “We have not experienced that. We are cautiously optimistic and we hope 2021 will have a graceful end.” The company is also transforming the way it retails new cars. It will directly sell its vehicles to customers with its dealerships facilitating the process with brand experience, displays in the showrooms, sales consultations and test drives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||Tata Steel lays out capital expenditure of Rs 3,000 crore for European operations||Tata Steel has laid out a capital expenditure of Rs 3,000 crore for its European operations as its focus is to make the business “stronger”, the company’s CEO and managing director T. V. Narendran said. He made the remarks while responding to a question related to the company’s strategy for the European business, which Tata Steel could not sell earlier because of multiple reasons. “For (financial year) 2022, we have guided that our capex will be... Rs 3,000 crore for Europe. It is more for sustenance capex, environment related capex, capex on the product mix, enhancement that we are doing particularly in the Netherlands,” he told PTI. In Europe, he said, the company’s operation is being separated into Tata Steel Netherlands and Tata Steel UK which would help in cost efficiencies and management focus. The European business this year will be cash positive in terms of EBIDTA and PAT. It will be a strong year for European businesses as well. Tata Steel’s focus is on the performance of the European business. “We are not actively looking for any buyer. If you make the business stronger, that helps with the value of the business,” Narendran said, replying to a question on whether the plans to sell the business have been dropped. Speaking on the sale of its assets in Europe, the CEO further said it was SSAB which had reached out to Tata Steel. “We had not gone looking for them. The only time when we were actively working on it was when the Thyssenkrupp proposal was there.” SSAB was interested, they pursued then dropped it. Tata Steel is under no pressure to take any hasty action. The company will continue to focus on performance of the business, he said. According to the company, steel deliveries at Tata Steel Europe increased 17.4 per cent year-on-year to 2.33 million tonnes in the April-June quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
16-08-2021||Business||NTPC to set up pilot project on hydrogen fuel||State owned power producer, NTPC, has invited global expressions of interest (EOIs) to set up a pilot project on hydrogen blending with natural gas in city gas distribution. “NTPC Ltd, India’s largest integrated power generating company under the Ministry of Power, has floated a global expression of interest (EoI) to set up a pilot project on hydrogen blending with natural gas in city gas distribution (CGD) network in India,” a company statement said on Friday. This pilot on hydrogen blending with natural gas will be the first of its kind in India and would explore the viability of decarbonising India’s natural gas grid. NTPC, with its ambition of playing a key role in India’s transition to the hydrogen economy, would later take this up at a commercial scale across India. The successful execution of the pilot will also demonstrate the decarbonisation objective along with import substitution aims under the government’s “Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan”. The EOI follows the recent tenders floated by NTPC-Renewable Energy Ltd (REL) for a green hydrogen fuelling station at Leh, and by NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd (NVVN) for procurement of fuel cell buses. A dedicated 1.25mw solar plant is also being set up at Leh by NTPC-REL to power the hydrogen fuelling station. NTPC Ltd is also keenly exploring production of green ammonia to decarbonise the fertiliser industry and possibly fulfil the government's upcoming mandate of using a certain percentage of green hydrogen in the fertiliser and refinery sector. A detailed study on green methanol production at Ramagundam has been completed and the company is expected to take a final investment decision in the near future. Renewable pitch Union minister R. K. Singh interacted with investors from the US and invited them to explore investment opportunities in the renewable energy and power sector in India. During the meeting, the power, and new & renewable energy minister informed the business leaders that India is on track to achieve the set renewable energy target of 450GW by 2030 and said electricity distribution reforms will enhance the consumption of renewable energy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
16-08-2021||Business||PM Narendra Modi announces Rs 100-lakh-crore 'Gatishakti' initiative for infrastructure growth||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the government will launch a Rs 100-lakh-crore plan for an integrated infrastructure growth that will help reduce logistics costs and make the economy competitive. “We will launch a masterplan for Gati Shakti, a big programme ... This scheme of more than Rs 100 lakh crore will result in new employment opportunities for lakhs of youth,” Modi said from the ramparts of the historic Red Fort. He said “Gati Shakti will be a national infrastructure master plan, which will lay the foundation of holistic infrastructure and will lead to an integrated and holistic pathway to our economy”. “Right now, there is no coordination between our means of transport. Gati Shakti will break the silos and will remove all these obstacles. This will reduce the travel time for the common man and the productivity of our industry will also increase,” Modi said. “Gati Shakti will also go a long way in making our local manufacturers globally competitive and also develop new possibilities for the creation of future economic zones. In this decade, the power of speed will form the basis of India’s transformation,” the Prime Minister said at the Independence Day celebrations. Modi said the scheme will form the basis of the Amrut Kaal—the 25-year period till India celebrates 100 years of its independence. T.V. Narendran, president of the Confederation of Indian Industry, said, “The Prime Minister’s words on manufacturing quality to build pride in Indian products were timely with a renewed thrust on the mission.” “This increased spending on infrastructure will give a multiplier effect to rejuvenate the aggregate demand in the economy. Undoubtedly, robust growth of infrastructure is the key ingredient to realise the vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” Sanjay Aggarwal, president of PHDCCI, said. India has been working for a reset of its logistics sector involving railways, highways, inland waterways and airports to put in place an effective transportation grid. This comes against the backdrop of logistics comprising about 13 per cent of the total costs for Indian companies, making exports uncompetitive vis-a-vis China. The Indian logistics sector is expected to grow to $360 billion by 2032. Modi announced a Mission Circular Economy that will replace petroleum with other forms of energy to make India energy independent by 2047. A National Hydrogen Mission; new systems to ensure last-mile delivery of government services and more support to the socially backward were among the other new measures he announced. Modi said the country spends more than Rs 12 trillion annually on energy imports and becoming energy independent was critical. “India is moving fast towards achieving its climate goals,” he said. Manoj K. Upadhyay, founder & chairman, ACME Group, said, “This is the biggest goal which is going to give India a quantum jump in the field of Green Hydrogen.” According to estimates and net-zero targets being taken by various countries for 2030 and 2050, the green hydrogen ecosystem will be a $12-13 trillion industry by 2050. It can be an excellent opportunity for India to become a significant exporter of green hydrogen, helping the world reduce carbon emissions and creating local jobs and wealth. “Mass deployment of renewable energy in India helped us to produce electricity cheaper than any other sources of energy, similar deployment of green hydrogen at the lowest cost will help us in cost leadership position not only to meet our green hydrogen and ammonia demand internally, we can also become a major exporter of Green Hydrogen and green ammonia to worldwide. This initiative on green hydrogen can help us to build an ecosystem of a 2-3 trillion dollar industry in the next 20-25 years,” Upadhyay said. Modi in his speed emphasized on “Indian-made”: whether it was building fighter aircraft or mobile phones. He said India used to import mobile phones in large numbers but is now exporting them as well. He asked exporters to make goods that were not merely competitive but also high quality, saying “your goods are brand ambassadors for the country”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
