17-08-2021||Business||Inflation to be within target range in FY-2022: FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said she expects inflation to remain in the prescribed range during the current fiscal and the government is regularly monitoring the price movement of essential items. The RBI has been mandated to keep inflation at 4 per cent, with a tolerance level of 2 per cent on either side. Speaking to media, she said the Group of Ministers is actively monitoring price movement of essential items like edible oil, pulses, fruits and vegetables, meat etc. She appreciated that states have been very cooperative in terms of going after hoarders and black marketeers. Various efforts taken by the government are expected to keep inflation benign, she said, adding it is expected to remain within the target. She expressed confidence that the revenue would be buoyant in the coming months. Both Goods and Services Tax (GST) and direct taxes have improved in the past few months, the minister said. The GST collection this year has improved substantially and as a result there are chances that the government may be able to pay compensation to states from revenue collected, she said. Asked about extending compensation beyond July 2022, she said the GST Council will decide about the issue. On the Indian investment in Afghanistan, she said it is too early for her to comment on that. Defending the controversial comment made by Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, she said, "He shared his anguish about small trader and small business." "It was with clear intention of wanting to appeal to industry to also help small industry," she said. Speaking at a CII plenary session, Goyal reportedly asserted that the business practices of Indian industry went against national interests. On the demand pick up, she said there is enough liquidity in the market and credit growth is expected to pick up in the coming festive season. She said she would meet the heads of public sector banks next week and review the progress made on implementation of various schemes announced by the government, including Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS). As a result of the government's strategy of recognition, resolution, recapitalisation and reforms, NPAs have since declined to Rs 7,39,541 crore on March 31, 2019, Rs 6,78,317 crore on March 31, 2020 and further to Rs 6,16,616 crore as of March 31, 2021 (provisional data). At the same time comprehensive steps were taken to control and to effect recovery in NPAs, which enabled PSBs to recover Rs 5,01,479 crore over the last six financial years, the government informed Parliament recently. As far as credit growth of scheduled commercial banks (SCBs) is concerned, it has remained positive for 2020-21 despite contraction in GDP (-7.3 per cent) due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Gross loans and advances outstanding of SCBs increased from Rs 109.19 lakh crore as of March 31, 2020, to Rs 113.99 lakh crore as of March 31, 2021. Agriculture and allied activities, micro, small and medium enterprises, housing and auto have witnessed a year-on-year growth of 12.3 per cent, 8.5 per cent, 9.1 per cent and 9.5 per cent, respectively, during the year. Notwithstanding economic disruptions caused by the pandemic, PSBs have managed to raise a record Rs 58,700 crore from markets in 2020-21 through a mix of debt and equity to enhance capital base. As a result capital to risk weighted assets ratio rose to 14.04 per cent as of March 31, 2021, as against regulatory requirement of 10.875 per cent boosting the ability of PSBs to further increase lending. As a result, PSBs in aggregate recorded a profit of Rs 31,816 crore, the highest in five years, despite 7.3 per cent contraction in economy in 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
17-08-2021||Business||Delhi HC to implement order barring Future Group from signing deal with Reliance||The Delhi High Court Tuesday said it will implement the single-judge order restraining Future Retail Ltd (FRL) from going ahead with the Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail to sell its business, which was objected to by US-based e-commerce giant Amazon, in case no stay is obtained from the Supreme Court within four weeks. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait, hearing Amazon's plea for enforcement of the award by Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator (EA) restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal, said that in the absence of any stay from the apex court, he has no option but to enforce the order passed by Justice JR Midha on March 18. "Either get a stay within 2-3 weeks on March 18 order or comply with the order. This court has no third option," the judge said. Listing the matter for further hearing on September 17, the court said: "I make it clear that if before the next date of hearing the respondents fail to get any stay order, this court shall proceed with the matter for implementation of the order dated 18.03.2021." Senior advocate Parag Tripathi, representing Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) and other related parties, said that a special leave petition against the March 18 order has already been filed before the Supreme Court by his clients. Senior advocate Darius Khambata, representing FRL, said that his client has moved an application before the arbitration tribunal and will also file an appeal before the apex court. Considering that the March 18 order on the legality of the emergency award was upheld by the Supreme Court on August 6, his clients still had time till August 20 to comply with the directions in terms of the order, he added. Simply filing SLP will not help you. You get the order of stay. I have only one option i.e to get the order implemented, the court observed. Senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, appearing for Amazon, argued that in view of the Supreme Court's decision, Justice Midha's order was effective and has to be complied with. Kishore Biyani and 15 others including FRL and FCPL have been embroiled in a series of litigations with Amazon, an investor in FCPL, over the deal with Reliance. On March 18, besides restraining FRL from going ahead with its deal with Reliance Retail, Justice Midha had imposed costs of Rs 20 lakh on the Future Group and others associated with it and ordered attachment of their properties. The court had asked the parties to file an affidavit detailing their assets within one month and show cause as to why they be not detained under civil prison for 3 months for violating the emergency arbitrator's order. It had also asked the Future Group to place on record the details of action taken by it in connection with the Reliance deal after the emergency arbitrator's order. Amazon and Future have been locked in a bitter legal tussle after the US e-commerce giant dragged Future Group to arbitration at Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) in October last year, arguing that FRL had violated their contract by entering into the deal with rival Reliance. On August 6, the Supreme Court upheld the legality of the EA award and also set aside the two orders of stay passed by the division bench of the high court against the single-judge's orders staying the FRL-RRL merger. A bench of Justices R F Nariman dealt with the larger question and held that an award of an EA of a foreign country is enforceable under the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
17-08-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 210 points to end at new peak||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 210 points to end at a fresh peak on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, TCS, HUL and Tech Mahindra. After scaling a fresh lifetime high of 55,854.88 during the day, the 30-share index settled 209.69 points or 0.38 per cent higher at 55,792.27, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 51.55 points or 0.31 per cent to 16,614.60. Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by TCS, Nestle India, Titan, Infosys and HUL. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, Bharti Airtel, Tata Steel and L&T were among the laggards. Domestic equities remained volatile amid weak global cues. Midcap and smallcap stocks remain under pressure today, while volatility index softened marginally, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Visibility of sustained earnings recovery in IT stocks in the backdrop of strong deal wins and encouraging guidance shared by managements in 1QFY22 made investors to lap-up IT stocks, he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with significant losses. Equities in Europe were also largely trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.24 per cent to USD 69.34 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open on choppy note on weak global cues||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a choppy note on Tuesday, tracking weak cues from global markets.  After dropping over 100 points in the opening session, the 30-share index turned positive to trade 64.21 points or 0.12 per cent higher at 55,646.79, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 14.95 points or 0.09 per cent to 16,578.  Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, Sun Pharma and Nestle India.  On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, HDFC Bank, Maruti and ICICI Bank were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 145.29 points or 0.26 per cent higher at a new peak of 55,582.58, and Nifty advanced 33.95 points or 0.21 per cent to a fresh high of 16,563.05.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,088.32 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.  According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the market is slowly moving into a consolidation phase with strong support coming from largecaps. The current trend of largecap outperformance is likely to continue in the very short term.  "Presently, there are no major global cues that can sway the market trend. But domestic cues like the sustained decline in COVID cases and economic activity returning back to normal are positives," he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was positive.  Equities in the US largely ended on a positive note in overnight trade.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.03 per cent to USD 69.53 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business||Bengal introduces online facility for three services required to start ventures||In a landmark reform for ease of doing business, the Bengal government on Monday introduced an online facility for three services required to start a venture. Majority of the urban local bodies (ULBs) of the state will offer the online service. A common cloud-based integrated portal, which will sanction building plans online and issue trade licences and mutation certificates, was launched by finance minister Amit Mitra. If implemented efficiently and successfully, these initiatives will allow entrepreneurs to start a business significantly faster than before by reducing the long winding approval processes often fraught with rent seeking officialdom and also help the common man to get municipal services without much hassles. “We want to bring transparency and honesty in the system, apart from cutting down on time taken to get these approvals. Human interventions have been reduced to the minimum extent,” Mitra said after launching the system this afternoon, claiming it to be the first in the country to extend these services to such a grassroots level. Mitra said the single-window building plan approval will benefit 1.5 crore people. Around 2 crore will benefit from the trade licence issuance service. While the majority of the 123 ULBs present in Bengal have already plugged in, the rest will be integrated in the next three months. Chandrima Bhattacharya, minister for urban development and municipal affairs, who was present at the formal launch along with chief secretary Hari Krishna Dwivedi and other departmental secretaries, said an applicant should get the approval within 15 days of submitting the application, failing which the officer concerned can be hauled up under the right to service act. Bhattacharya said the Calcutta and Howrah municipal corporations will not be part of it as they have already introduced these services. Dwivedi hailed the launch as a landmark step in urban governance and a major intervention in ease of doing business. “Now with the centralised system, centrally monitoring will be possible to see if cases are being disposed of within the time frame,” he said. Representatives from the industry welcomed the steps. “We hope the system will work according to the plan,” they said. Only human interaction in the system will be a site visit by engineers as per statutory requirement. However, the officers will be selected on a randomised basis and they would not know priorly. The inspection will be done jointly with the applicant and the comments have to be uploaded from the site of inspection. Fees will also be calculated by the system. While issuing building permits, fire department, national monument authority, airport authority of India, power department has been integrated into the portal. Previously, applicants had to go to all these places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business||Four firms make their debut on the bourses ||The week began with a listing boom with four firms making their debut on the bourses on Monday. Of the four listings, Ravi Jaipuria-owned Devyani International — which holds the franchises for KFC, Pizza Hut, and Costa Coffee — stole the show. The shares got listed at Rs 141, a jump of 56.66 per cent over the issue price on the BSE. The shares later closed at Rs 123.35, a gain of 37.05 per cent. The IPO was subscribed 116.7 times —  the eighth best IPO in terms of demand for its shares while going public. However, the other three IPOs — Windlas Biotech, Krsnaa Diagnostics and Exxaro Tiles — made a tepid debut. Windlas Biotech’s shares closed at a discount of over 11 per cent against the issue price of Rs 460. The shares of the company listed at Rs 439, down 4.56 per cent from the issue price on the BSE. It further tumbled 11.95 per cent to hit a low of Rs 405. The stock ended at Rs 406.70, lower by 11.58 per cent. Shares of Krsnaa Diagnostics closed with a marginal gain of around 4 per cent against the issue price of Rs 954. The stock got listed at Rs 1,025, a jump of 7.44 per cent from the issue price on the BSE. It zoomed 15.25 per cent to Rs 1,099.50 during the trade before closing at Rs 990.75, up 3.85 per cent. Shares of Exxaro Tiles made their debut at Rs 126, a marginal gain of 5 per cent over the issue price on the BSE. As the trade progressed, the shares jumped 10.25 per cent to Rs 132.30 on both the exchanges. The stock closed at Rs 132.25, a gain of 10.20 per cent on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business||HDFC to raise capital by additional tier-I bonds in overseas market||HDFC Bank on Monday said the bank plans to raise capital by additional tier- I (AT1) bonds in the overseas market to fund its business growth. The bank is expected to raise up to $1 billion from these dollar denominated bonds. “We hereby inform you that the bank had approved the issuing of debt instruments in the form of the notes, subject to market conditions,” HDFC Bank said in a regulatory filing. An offering memorandum (OM) has been prepared and shall be made available to the prospective investors in relation to the contemplated issue of notes, it said. The notes will not be offered or sold in India under the applicable laws, including the Companies Act, 2013, as amended from time to time, it added. Earlier in April, the bank had informed that it is planning to raise up to Rs 50,000 crore during the next 12 months through issuing bonds. SBI offer The State Bank of India on Monday announced a slew of offers for its retail customers ahead of the festive season. The bank has announced a 100 per cent waiver on processing fees for its car loan customers across all channels, a release said, adding that customers can get the facility of up to 90 per cent on-road financing for their car loans. The lender is also offering a special interest concession of 25 basis points (bps) to a customer applying for a car loan through the YONO app. YONO users can avail of car loans at an interest rate starting at 7.5 per cent per annum, the release said. The bank is offering a reduction of 75 bps in the interest rates for customers availing of gold loans. They can avail of gold loans from across all channels of the bank at 7.5 per cent per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea Limited reports consolidated loss of Rs 7,319 crore||A slew of brokerages on Monday have sounded the warning gong over Vodafone Idea Limited (VIL) after the company reported a consolidated loss of Rs 7,319 crore in the first quarter of the current fiscal. ICICI Securities said it sees “high risk and huge concern for VIL” and that in the wake of growing uncertainties, it has put VIL’s estimates, rating and target price under-review until further clarity. “We believe the existing operation is unlikely to meet upcoming payouts, and risk of default cannot be ruled out, the much anticipated tariff hike/s and capital infusion have been insufficient,” it said. VIL has upcoming payment commitments towards existing debt repayments, spectrum payment installment and annual AGR payments. The results indicate that Vodafone Idea continues to face structural headwinds, BofA Securities said. “Unless the government steps in to aid, we see risks of India turning to be a two player market,” it said. On the possibility of a revival package for VIL, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said, “Lots of officials are talking to each other... (but) nothing has come to me.” She did not mention whether the talks were between government officials or the lenders were talking to Vodafone Idea. “While the company had started showing signs of stability in previous quarters, especially on the 4G front, this was reversed during the quarter as a result of the impact of the second wave of Covid,” UBS said. “We note that the company has large repayments due starting December 2021, and at the current EBITDA, we estimate Vodafone Idea could have a Rs 23,800 crore ($3.2 billion) cash shortfall until April 2022,” Goldman Sachs said, Vodafone Idea CEO Ravinder Takkar on Monday said at the company’s earnings call that tariff hikes and floor pricing remain critical for the sector’s revival. Takkar said although Kumar Mangalam Birla recently stepped down as chairman of Vodafone Idea, “he as well as Aditya Birla Group (ABG) and the Vodafone group are committing to providing support and guidance to the company, in line with the stated positions of both the groups”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business||Wholesale price-based inflation softens for second straight month ||The wholesale price-based inflation softened for the second straight month to 11.16 per cent in July on cheaper food items even as the prices of manufactured goods and crude oil rose. Inflation in crude petroleum and natural gas was 40.28 per cent in July against 36.34 per cent in June. In manufactured products, inflation stood at 11.20 per cent in July against 10.88 per cent in the previous month. “Supply side disruptions may have had some impact on prices, but as manufacturers are increasingly passing on the rising input costs to their output prices, both wholesale manufacturing and core inflation is showing sustained high inflation,” said Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings & Research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business||Coal India discusses price hike with stakeholders||Coal India’s rising expenses have prompted market analysts to ask the management about the possibility of a rise in coal prices. Coal India chairman Pramod Agrawal responding to analysts at the first quarter earnings call said that discussions were on with stakeholders on the issue. “We are in discussions with all the stakeholders... our costs have increased and, therefore, there is no reason that CIL should not increase its prices,” he said. Agrawal said the base price of auctions which were lowered to facilitate coal supply in a challenging market has been restored in most cases. “We are providing some premium right at the beginning... we are adding some premium at the best price only and there is no opposition from any quarter, whatever opposition is there we are tackling that,” Agrawal said. The chairman said that the first quarter was a particularly difficult one for Coal India as the second wave of the Covid pandemic affected various stages of operations. “Despite that our production was almost the same as it was last year and dispatches were substantially higher compared with last year and it was even higher than 2019-2020,” he said. Coal India accounts for over 80 per cent of the domestic coal output. The company is eyeing one billion tonnes of production by 2023-24. Coal India has set a capital expenditure target of Rs 17,000 crore for the 2021-22 fiscal, which is around Rs 4,000 crore more than its spending last year, an official said on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business||Rules on retro tax to be framed soon: Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said the rules that will lead to the scrapping of the retrospective tax demands will be framed soon. Parliament earlier this month had passed The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that scrapped all tax demands made before May 28, 2012. Now the rules for the same have to be framed, Sitharaman told reporters here. “Rules will be framed soon.” Noted tax expert Narayan Jain said: “Parliament has already passed the law and the rules cannot supersede them. The rules, therefore, would lay down the modalities to be followed for the implementation of the legislation.” The government has to refund about Rs 8,100 crore that it had collected using the retro tax law. The bulk of this — Rs 7,900 crore — is to Cairn Energy alone. Crypto bill Sitharaman said she is awaiting an approval from the Cabinet on a bill on cryptocurrency. The inter-ministerial panel on cryptocurrency set up under the chairmanship of  the secretary (economic affairs) to study the issues related to virtual currencies and propose specific actions has already submitted its report. It has recommended that all private cryptocurrencies, except any virtual currencies issued by the state, will be prohibited in India. “A cabinet note is ready on cryptocurrency (Bill). I am awaiting cabinet to clear that,” she said. Activity improves Business activity rose for the second consecutive week, a Japanese brokerage said . The Nomura India Business Resumption Index,  which measures the activity on a weekly basis with the pre-pandemic levels being the base, rose to 101.2 for the week ended August 15, from 99.6 last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business|| Saudi Aramco to acquire roughly 20% stake in Reliance O2C business||Saudi Aramco is in advanced talks to acquire a roughly 20 per cent stake in Reliance Industries’ oil refining and chemicals business for about $20 billion to $25 billion in Aramco’s shares, Bloomberg News reported on Monday. An agreement could be reached as soon as the coming weeks, according to the report, which cited people with knowledge of the matter. Aramco and Reliance declined to comment. Reliance announced a sale of a 20 per cent stake in its oil-to-chemicals business to Aramco for $15 billion in 2019, but the deal stalled after oil prices and demand crashed last year because of the pandemic. During Aramco’s earnings briefing earlier in August, chief executive officer Amin Nasser said the company was still doing due diligence on the deal. In late June, at the company’s AGM, Reliance’s billionaire chairman Mukesh Ambani said RIL hopes to formalise its partnership with Aramco this year and its chairman Yasir Al-Rumayyan will join the Indian conglomerate’s board as an independent director. Reliance shares were up 2 per cent at Rs 2,187.80 on Monday on the NSE. On the BSE, the share closed at Rs 2172.45, up Rs 27.70  or 1.29 per cent. Reliance’s oil-to-chemicals (O2C) business comprises its twin refineries at Jamnagar in Gujarat and petrochemical assets. “Despite several challenges due to Covid-19, we have made substantial progress in the past in our discussions (with Saudi Aramco)... This continued engagement and resolve from both sides, even during this pandemic, is a testimony of strong relationship between Saudi Aramco and Reliance,” Ambani said. Aramco on August 8 announced its results. Aramco earned a net income of around $47 billion for the first half of the year, double of what it earned over the same period last year when the coronavirus grounded travel and pummeled global demand for oil. This puts Aramco back squarely where it was before the pandemic struck and sunk earnings to $23.3 billion in the first six months of 2020. CEO Nasser said the company’s second quarter (April-June) results “reflect a strong rebound in worldwide energy demand”. “While there is still some uncertainty around the challenges posed by Covid-19 variants, we have shown that we can adapt swiftly and effectively to changing market conditions,” he said. Reliance has now made an ambitious foray into solar energy. At the June AGM, Ambani said Reliance would invest Rs 75,000 crore in solar, batteries, fuel cells and hydrogen. Wall Street brokerage Bernstein said the business could create a valuation of $36 billion (Rs 2.6 lakh crore). Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
