18-08-2021||Business||Sensex ends in red after late sell-off||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 163 points in a volatile session on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC and Kotak Bank amid mixed cues from global markets. After scaling a lifetime high of 56,118.57 during the session, the 30-share index turned negative to end 162.78 points or 0.29 per cent lower at 55,629.49. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty declined 45.75 points or 0.28 per cent to 16,568.85. It touched a record intra-day peak of 16,701.85. Kotak Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, PowerGrid, HDFC, IndusInd Bank and Axis Bank. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, Nestle India and Bajaj Auto were among the gainers. "Domestic benchmark indices, after witnessing record high, gave up all gains and fell to negative territories as selling pressure in heavyweight financials especially private banks dragged market," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Heavyweight HDFC Bank witnessed brisk rebound after RBI allowed the bank to issue fresh credit cards, but closed lower due to profit booking. In addition to financials, metals, auto and realty stocks also remained under pressure, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains. However, equities in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.90 per cent to USD 69.65 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
18-08-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 250 points to scale 56K for first time||Equity benchmark Sensex on Wednesday jumped over 250 points to scale the 56,000-mark for the first time, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in Asian peers. The 30-share index was trading 252.54 points or 0.40 per cent higher at its lifetime high of 56,044.81, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 66.75 points or 0.40 per cent to record 16,681.35. HDFC Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Finance, PowerGrid, L&T, Bajaj Finserv and HDFC. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Auto and Infosys were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 209.69 points or 0.38 per cent higher at a new closing record of 55,792.27, and Nifty rose 51.55 points or 0.31 per cent to a new closing high of 16,614.60. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 343.73 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be good as of now. Lifting of the partial ban by the RBI to issue fresh credit cards is likely to aid heavyweight HDFC Bank and benchmark indices during the day, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals. However, equities in the US ended on a negative note in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.25 per cent to USD 69.20 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
18-08-2021||Business|| Canara Bank approves opening of QIP of equity shares||Canara Bank on Tuesday approved the opening of Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP) of equity shares of face value of Rs 10 each at a floor price of Rs 155.58 per share. The bank is looking to raise Rs 2,500 crore through the QIP. “The bank may at its discretion offer a discount of not more than 5 per cent on the floor price so calculated for the QIP,” Canara Bank told bourses. The bank’s board of directors in May this year had approved a plan to raise Rs 9,000 crore for 2021-22 by way of equity and debt instruments. This included the QIP of Rs 2,500 crore, additional tier 1 bonds up to Rs 4,000 crore and additional tier 2 bonds of up to Rs 2,500 crore. Canara Bank’s capital adequacy was at 13.36 per cent as of June 30, 2021 and the government held a 69.33 per cent stake in it. A sub-committee of the board of directors of the bank will meet on August 23 to consider and determine the issue price for the equity shares as well as the number of shares allotted to QIP investors. The bank’s scrip fell 3.05 per cent to Rs 152.65 on the BSE on Tuesday. SBI Card raises Rs 500 crore SBI Card has raised Rs 500 crore by issuing bonds on a private placement basis. The tenure of the instruments is three years, which will mature on August 16, 2024. SBI Card will offer a coupon rate of 5.70 per cent per annum on the bonds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
18-08-2021||Business||Reserve Bank allows HDFC to sell new credit cards again||Eight months after barring HDFC Bank from selling new credit cards, the RBI has lifted the ban, banking sources said on Tuesday. However, the ban on launching new technology initiatives remains, the sources said. In December last year, the RBI had come out with an unprecedented action implementing both the bans, after repeated instances of technological outages at the lender, which is the market leader in the credit cards segment. Rivals ICICI Bank and SBI Cards seized the opportunity to narrow the gap with HDFC Bank. “A communication has been received by HDFC Bank regarding the lifting of the ban on credit cards on Tuesday,” one of the sources said. The bank had 1.48 crore credit card customers as of June. The bank’s existing users were not impacted by the ban. On July 17, chief executive and managing director Sashidhar Jagdishan had said the bank has complied with 85 per cent of the RBI’s requirements on the improvements desired, and the ball was now in the regulator’s court to allow the bank to issue new cards. Earlier, its technology and credit card vertical had said the time off the market was utilised to re-draw processes and the teams were raring to go. Jagdishan had said a technology audit is also over and the RBI will now be “independently” taking a view on when to lift the penal actions taken against the bank. “We have given a milestone to the regulator in terms of what are the things we are doing on technology, complying with their advisories and directives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
18-08-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India announces index to measure financial inclusion||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday announced an index to measure financial inclusion in the country for the first time.  The FI-Index — constructed without any base year — captures information on various aspects of financial inclusion in a single value ranging from 0 to 100 and comprises 3 broad parameters. These are “access” with a weightage of 33 per cent, “usage” with a weightage of 45 per cent and “quality” with a weightage of 20 per cent. The RBI in a statement said that the index is responsive to the ease of access, availability and usage of services and quality of services across 97 indicators. The index incorporates the details of banking, investment, insurance, postal as well as pension sectors in consultation with the government and the respective sectoral regulators. “A unique feature of the index is the quality parameter which captures the quality aspect of financial inclusion as reflected by financial literacy, consumer protection and inequalities and deficiencies in services,” the RBI said. The annual FI-Index for the period ending March 2021 is 53.9  against 43.4 for the period ending March 2017. The RBI in its statement on developmental and regulatory policies in April this year had first talked about the need for having an index.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
18-08-2021||Business||Centre to come up with eleventh round of city gas bidding||The government plans to come up with the eleventh round of city gas bidding for 65 geographical areas which include three in Bengal. The geographical areas which would be part of the bidding were in Purulia and Bankura, East Midnapore, West Midnapore and Jhargram districts and Alipurduar and Cooch Behar. The exact dates for the bidding will be announced shortly. Downstream regulator Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) said in a public notice that the areas are spread over 20 states and Union Territories. Tamil Nadu will have nine geographical areas on offer, the highest of any state in the eleventh round. Eight areas will be offered each in Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh. In the 10th round, the PNGRB had given away city gas distribution licences for 50 geographical areas. At present, there are 228 areas authorised by the PNGRB in 27 states and Union Territories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
18-08-2021||Business|| India asks US federal court to dismiss Britain’s Cairn Energy suit||The Indian government has asked a US federal court in Washington to dismiss Britain’s Cairn Energy suit seeking the enforcement of a $1.2-billion arbitral award, saying it had sovereign immunity under US law. Cairn had in May asked a US federal court to force Air India to pay a $1.26 billion arbitration award the firm had won in December. The government on August 13 filed a ‘Motion to Dismiss’ petition in the US District Court for the District of Colombia, saying it lacked subject matter jurisdiction in the dispute between Cairn and the Indian tax authority, according to a filing seen by PTI. This comes a week after the government enacted legislation to scrap a rule that gave the tax department power to go 50 years back and slap capital gains levies wherever ownership had changed hands overseas, but business assets were in India. That rule had been used to levy a cumulative Rs 1.10 lakh crore of tax on 17 entities, including Rs 10,247 crore on Cairn. Officials said rules for withdrawal of such tax demands are in the process of being framed. “One of the requirements for the dropping of the retrospective tax demands is that the parties concerned have to give an undertaking for withdrawal of all cases against the government/tax department. So, while all this is in process, the government is obligated to respond in any legal matter where there is a time bar for doing so,” an official explained. Cairn had challenged the tax demand before an international arbitration tribunal, which in December last year overturned the same and ordered the government to refund the money collected. The government initially refused to return $1.2 billion, forcing Cairn to take action to recover that money through a seizure of Indian assets overseas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
18-08-2021||Business||SpiceJet to transfer cargo and logistics services on a slump sale basis to subsidiary ||Budget carrier SpiceJet on Tuesday said it was transferring its cargo and logistics services on a slump sale basis to its subsidiary SpiceXpress and Logistics Private Limited, subject to shareholder approval. “The proposed transfer of business to SpiceXpress will allow the new company to rapidly grow its innovative logistics platform and its unique fulfilment as a service business model,” said Ajay Singh, chairman and managing director, SpiceJet. SpiceXpress would be able to raise capital independent of SpiceJet to fund its growth. Singh said the operations of SpiceXpress as an independent entity will unlock significant value for SpiceJet and all its shareholders. SpiceJet’s logistics business have been independently valued at Rs 2,555.77 crore. SpiceXpress would issue shares to SpiceJet to purchase the business. It is expected that SpiceXpress will operate as a separate entity upon the transfer of business on or around October 1, 2021. SpiceJet will, however, continue to provide certain transportation services, ground and logistics support, management services to SpiceXpress. All related assets and liabilities, including know-how, trademark, licences, franchises, customer contracts and distribution network of SpiceJet’s cargo and logistics business would be transferred to SpiceXpress, SpiceJet said. The logistics arm reported a net profit of Rs 30 crore in the April-June quarter. Revenues increased 285 per cent to Rs 473 crore compared with Rs 166 crore a year ago. The logistics arm has a network which spans over 68 domestic and over 110 international destinations, including the US, Europe and Africa. Stocks recover The SpiceJet share rose Rs 3.20, or 4.66 per cent, to Rs 71.90 on Tuesday. The stock had dipped 11 per cent intra-day on Monday following disappointing results. The airline reported a net loss of Rs 729 crore for the quarter ended June against a net loss of Rs 593 crore in the corresponding period of the previous financial year. Operating revenue stood at Rs 1,266 crore in the first quarter of 2021-22, higher than Rs 705 crore reported in the year-ago period. Operating expenses during the June 2021 quarter were Rs 1,995 crore compared with Rs 1,298 crore earlier. Singh said the last five quarters had been most difficult for the airline as aviation was the worst-hit sector during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
18-08-2021||Business||Future Retail asked to get SC stay or scrap deal with Reliance||The Delhi high court on Tuesday said it will implement the single-judge order restraining Future Retail Ltd (FRL) from going ahead with the Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail to sell its business in case no stay is obtained from the Supreme Court within four weeks. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait, hearing Amazon’s plea for enforcement of the award by Singapore’s Emergency Arbitrator (EA) restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal, said in the absence of any stay from the apex court, he has no option but to enforce the order passed by Justice J.R. Midha on March 18. “Either get a stay within 2-3 weeks on the March 18 order or comply with the order. This court has no third option,” the judge said. Listing the matter for further hearing on September 17, the court said: “I make it clear that if before the next date of hearing the respondents fail to get any stay order, this court shall proceed with the matter for implementation of the order dated 18.03.2021.” Senior advocate Parag Tripathi, representing Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) and other related parties, said that a special leave petition against the March 18 order has already been filed before the Supreme Court by his clients. Senior advocate Darius Khambata, representing FRL, said his client has moved an application before the arbitration tribunal and will also file an appeal before the apex court. Considering that the March 18 order on the legality of the emergency award was upheld by the Supreme Court on August 6, his clients still had time till August 20 to comply with the directions in terms of the order, he added. “Simply filing SLP will not help you. You get the order of stay. I have only one option i.e to get the order implemented,” the court observed. Senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, appearing for Amazon, argued that in view of the Supreme Court’s decision, Justice Midha’s order was effective and has to be complied with. Kishore Biyani and 15 others, including FRL and FCPL, have been embroiled in a series of litigations with Amazon, an investor in FCPL, over the deal with Reliance. On March 18, besides restraining FRL from going ahead with its deal with Reliance Retail, Justice Midha had imposed costs of Rs 20 lakh on Future Group and others associated with it and ordered attachment of their properties. The court had asked the parties to file an affidavit detailing their assets within one month and show cause as to why they be not detained under civil prison for three months for violating the emergency arbitrator’s order. It had also asked Future Group to place on record the details of action taken by it in connection with the Reliance deal after the emergency arbitrator’s order. Amazon and Future have been locked in a bitter legal tussle after the former dragged Future Group to arbitration at Singapore International Arbitration Centre in October last year, arguing that FRL had violated their contract by entering into the deal with rival Reliance. On August 6, the Supreme Court upheld the legality of the EA award.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
18-08-2021||Business||Centre announces rates of tax refunds under export promotion scheme||The Centre on Tuesday announced the rates of tax refunds under the export promotion scheme RoDTEP for 8,555 products, such as marine goods, yarn and dairy items. The government has set aside Rs 12,454 crore for refunds under the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP) scheme for the current fiscal. Under RoDTEP, various central and state duties, taxes, and levies imposed on input products, among others, would be refunded to exporters. The benefits will be available from January this year, for which the Centre will make proportional allotments. RoDTEP support will be available to eligible exporters at a notified rate as a percentage of Freight On Board (FOB) value. The tax refund rates range from 0.5 per cent to 4.3 per cent for various sectors. The scheme replaces popular MEIS (Merchandise Exports of India Scheme) where the incentive rates ranged from 2 per cent to 5 per cent but which had to be shelved following complaints from the US that the scheme violated the rules of the World Trade Organisation. Sectors such as steel, pharmaceuticals and chemicals have been kept out of the scheme. Commerce secretary B.V.R Subrahmanyam said the Centre has allotted Rs 19,400 crore in this fiscal for RoDTEP and the Rebate of State and Central Taxes and Levies (RoSCTL), which is for textile exporters. The two schemes cover 95 per cent of the tariff lines for goods and exports. The allotment for RoSCTL is Rs 6,946 crore, and the rest is for RoDTEP. “Today we have notified the rates. RoDTEP is going to be a long-lasting scheme and it is going to be a flagship scheme of the commerce ministry. It is also WTO compliant,” Subrahmanyam said. Arpita Mukherjee of ICRIER said: “The US is closely monitoring this scheme and India needs to be ready with responses to counter any concerns raised by the trading partners. While MEIS was a prohibited subsidy, it was fairly easy to claim. The RodTEP should also be easy to claim and necessary processes should be in place to ensure that.” She said subsidies could have been given to services used in manufacturing which cannot be challenged at the WTO. Pralok Gupta, WTO Studies, IIFT, said: “The scheme is WTO compliant and helps boost India’s export competitiveness. The rates could be reviewed, depending on the market conditions and sector’s performance.” “Since the rates are fixed on the basis of the data furnished by the industry, which was also affected due to the pandemic, the rates may be reviewed if more comprehensive and updated data is furnished by the industry,” Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) president A. Sakthivel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
