19-08-2021||Business||Tata Steel to pay workers across all plants record bonus for 2020-21||Tata Steel will pay its workers across all its plants a record bonus for 2020-21 on the back of bumper profits in the last financial year. The company’s management and the Tata Workers’ Union (TWU) on Wednesday signed a memorandum of settlement for the payment of Rs 270.28 crore as annual bonus for the fiscal, which is around Rs 35 crore more than the payout of Rs 235.54 crore in 2019-20. Tata Steel had reported a net profit of Rs 13,707 crore in the last fiscal against Rs 6,744 crore a year ago, an increase of more than 100 per cent. The agreement — done much earlier than the usual payments during the Pujas — was signed between Tata Steel CEO and managing director T.V. Narendran and Tata Workers Union president Sanjeev K. Choudhary. Besides net profit, the bonus was determined by the company’s profitability and the productivity of the employees. “The union and the management have mutually agreed to continue the existing annual bonus scheme applicable for financial year 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 to be followed for financial year 2020-21 also and to pay annual bonus based on 1.5 per cent of net profit,” a union member said. “In addition the amount was  based on performance achievement on profitability (profit per tonne of saleable steel), productivity (tonnes of crude steel per employee per year) and the amount calculated was Rs 270.28 crore,” the member said. The total number of employees to whom the bonus will be paid in Jamshedpur is 12,558, which includes employees of the tubes division. “Since a majority of Tata Steel employees draw salary/wages higher than the limit laid down in the Payment of Bonus (Amendment) Act, 2015, they are not eligible for bonus under the Act. However, respecting old traditions, the company pays a bonus to all employees in the unionised category,” said a company official associated with the bonus agreement process. The official statement of the company said that despite a “difficult year”, the company has kept its “three-year commitment” made earlier, of paying the complete bonus to the employees. The average bonus amount this year is Rs 1.26 lakh, with a maximum of Rs 3.59 lakh for the old grade of employees. In the new grade, the maximum amount at actual attendance is Rs 92,910. The minimum bonus at full attendance is Rs 34,290.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
19-08-2021||Business||Postman raises $225 million in series D funding round||Postman, a San Francisco-based API (application programming interface) development firm, has raised $225 million in its series D funding round at a valuation of $5.6 billion. The funding round is led by American venture capital investor Insight Partners, Coatue, Battery Ventures and Bond. Existing investors such as CRV and Nexus Ventures also participated in the round which saw its valuation climb almost three times. Postman also saw the participation of DoorDash product leader Gokul Rajaram and Freshworks’ Girish Mathrubootham as angel investors. With this round, the API-based startup has raised more than $430 million from investors. With its roots in Bangalore, the company was founded in 2014 by Abhinav Asthana, Abhijit Kane and Ankit Sobti. Postman helps developers and companies build new applications through the API workflow. The company had entered the unicorn club last year after its series C funding round of $150 million at an estimated valuation of around $2 billion. Postman has more than 17 million users and 500,000 organisations on its platform, including Salesforce, Stripe, Kroger, Cisco and PayPal. Smallcase funding Amazon has invested in an equity-focussed fintech startup — smallcase — launched in 2016 by three IIT Kharagpur graduates, Vasanth Kamath, Anugrah Shrivastava and Rohan Gupta.The firm has raised $40 million in a funding round led by Faering Capital with participation from Amazon and Premji Invest and existing investors Sequoia Capital and Blume Ventures among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
19-08-2021||Business||Tega Industries files for IPO with market regulator||City-based Tega Industries has filed for its initial public offering with the market regulator. The company, which is engaged in design and production of consumables for mineral beneficiation, mining and bulk solids handling industry, is looking to raise Rs 700-750 crore. The issue will be a complete offer for sale (OFS) of 1,36,69,478 equity shares of face value of Rs 10 each by promoters and investors. This includes 33,14,657 shares of Madan Mohan Mohanka, up to 6,62,931 shares of Manish Mohanka and up to 96,91,890 shares of Wagner, an affiliate of the US-based private equity firm TA Associates. The portion reserved for qualified institutional buyers will be up to 50 per cent of the offer, non-institutional investors up to 15 per cent of the portion reserved, while up to 35 per cent will be reserved for  retail investors. The equity shares offered are proposed to be listed on the BSE and the NSE. The company commenced operations in India in 1978 in collaboration with Swedish firm Skega AB. Skega’s stake was acquired by Madan Mohan Mohanka in 2001 and in 2011, the company received funding from Wagner. With a global footprint in over 70 countries, Tega’s end-customers are mineral processing sites involved in gold and copper ore beneficiation. Total income of the company was Rs 856.68 crore in 2020-21 with a profit of Rs 136.40 crore. The company has manufacturing operations at Dahej in Gujarat and at Samali and Kalyani in Bengal. The company’s international operations are in proximity to the world’s major copper and gold mining locations in Chile, South Africa and Australia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
19-08-2021||Business||HDFC Bank launches $1 billion additional tier-I bond issue||HDFC Bank on Wednesday launched its $1 billion additional tier-I (AT1) bond issue and was able to close the pricing at a level substantially lower than the initial guidance, arrangers to the issue said. The final closure for the five-year perpetual bond sale is yet to happen and will be announced later, they said, adding the issue has attracted an overwhelming response. This is the biggest AT1 bond issue ever, and the first since the Yes Bank case where over Rs 8,400 crore of outstanding debt got written off during the time of the troubled lender’s bailout in March 2020. The episode had led to concerns over the efficacy of the instrument. The last fundraising through the route was by SBI in 2016, when the largest lender mopped up $300 million. Against an initial guidance of 4.125 per cent, the bank has been able to get a final pricing of 3.7 per cent, the arrangers said. Major investors who have subscribed to the issue include Fidelity, BlackRock and Singapore’s GIC. The overall order book stands at $4 billion as of now, they said, adding there is good possibility of the lender mopping-up the entire targeted amount. G-SAP plan The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday said it will conduct an open market purchase of government securities of Rs 25,000 crore on August 26, under the G-sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP 2.0). Earlier this month, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said the RBI’s secondary market G-sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP) has been successful in anchoring yield expectations while eliciting keen response from market participants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
19-08-2021||Business|| Reserve Bank of India comes out with revised guidelines for hiring of lockers||The Reserve Bank of India on Wednesday came out with revised guidelines for the hiring of lockers under which the liability of banks will be limited to 100 times its annual rent in the case of fire, theft, building collapse or frauds by bank employees. According to the revised guidelines, which shall come into effect from January 1, 2022, banks will be required to incorporate a clause in the locker agreement prohibiting the hirer from keeping anything illegal or hazardous in lockers. The revised instructions will be applicable to both new and existing safe deposit lockers and the safe custody of articles facility with the banks. Banks need to maintain a branch-wise list of vacant lockers as well as a wait-list to ensure transparency in the allotment of lockers. Banks shall provide a wait list number to the customers, if the lockers are not available for allotment. The RBI has also detailed the compensation policy and liability of banks in the revised instructions. “The bank shall not be liable for any damage and/or loss of contents of locker arising from natural calamities or Acts of God like earthquake, floods, lightning and thunderstorm or any act that is attributable to the sole fault or negligence of the customer,” it said. “As banks cannot claim that they bear no liability towards their customers for loss of contents of the locker, in instances where loss of contents of locker are due to incidents (like fire, theft/ burglary/ robbery, dacoity) or attributable to fraud committed by its employee(s), the banks’ liability shall be for an amount equivalent to one hundred times the prevailing annual rent of the safe deposit locker,” it said. On locker rent, the RBI said that to ensure prompt payment of locker rent, banks are allowed to obtain a Term Deposit, at the time of allotment, which would cover three years’ rent and the charges for breaking open the locker in case of such an eventuality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
19-08-2021||Business||Controversy erupts within govt over March Icra report on discom losses||The Modi government is being riven by dissension — and this time it is over the health of the state-owned power distribution companies. Controversy within the government erupted over a fairly innocuous report that credit rating agency Icra put out in March that projected the discom losses at Rs 90,000 crore. The ministry did not react to the Icra forecast until the Niti Aayog released a report on discoms, co-authored with energy think tank RMI, about a fortnight back which used the rating agency’s figures to buttress its argument that “most discoms incur vast losses every year, and the situation is only getting worse with every passing day”. “A financial and operational turnaround of the discoms is urgent,” said the Niti Aayog report, adding “most power distribution companies ... incur losses every year —the total loss is estimated to be Rs 90,000 crore in FY 2021”. In his preface to the report, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant wrote: “The distribution sector has been the Achilles’ heel of the power sector, consistently making large losses... We will not be able to achieve a high-growth, low-carbon economy unless the distribution sector achieves profitability.” That is when the power ministry saw red. In a detailed rebuttal on Wednesday, the ministry tore into the Icra projections saying that the discom losses had been “grossly inflated” and built on “flawed” assumptions. Interestingly, the power ministry turned its guns against Icra — which made the projection based on information available at that time — and not the Niti Aayog whose report picked on that estimate to build a wider argument for reforms in the power sector. When contacted, ministry officials declined to comment on the issue saying the statement speaks for itself. Picking holes The ministry note slams the Icra report for drawing untenable conclusions based on the decline in electricity volume sales in 2020-21 due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown. It also pours scorn on Icra’s projection that discom dues to creditors between March and December 2020 had increased by Rs 30,000 crore. The ministry said this was a flawed assumption and based on premise that an increase in payables — attributable to a cash flow problem — would directly lead to a rise in discom losses. The note also said that the Icra estimate of Rs 60,000 crore losses at discoms in 2019-20 was equally flawed and was actually half that figure. “As a result of the erroneous projections by Icra, the loss figures of Rs 90,000 crore for FY2021 seem to be grossly inflated,” the ministry said. The ministry also blamed the media for reporting the inflated discom loss figures, glossing over the fact that these had been made based on the Niti Aayog report. The ministry note said that the electricity tariff regulatory system had a mechanism that “would allow the recoveries of losses arising due to change in consumer category-wise consumption patterns coming with Covid induced lockdowns”. It added that these losses would be recovered through tariffs “in the subsequent year”. The ministry said Icra had alluded to this aspect in its report but such a “nuanced position” had not been reflected in the media reports. Tariff hikes loom The ministry’s statement now opens its own can of worms with the prospect of looming electricity tariff hikes. Late tonight, Icra said its March report “does not anywhere say that the book losses for FY2021 are estimated at Rs. 90,000 crore. The agency said it estimated net losses at PBT/PAT levels for FY2020 at about Rs. 56,000 crore. The rating agency admitted that the discom losses might be lower depending on how much of the revenue losses the state electricity regulatory commissions (SERCs) allowed the discoms to claim “as a basis for future revenue and tariff determination under the cost-plus tariff principles” . Any compensation granted by state governments by way of additional revenue support would also help them book lower losses, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
19-08-2021||Business||BSE Sensex scales 56000-mark for first time||The BSE Sensex scaled the 56000-mark for the first time on Wednesday but finished in the red following a late sell-off as investors booked gains in banking, finance and IT stocks. Snapping its four-session record-setting spree, the 30-share benchmark closed 162.78 points, or 0.29 per cent, lower at 55629.49. It touched an all-time peak of 56118.57 during the session. Similarly, breaking its seven-day winning streak, the broader NSE Nifty declined 45.75 points, or 0.28 per cent, to 16568.85. It touched a record intra-day peak of 16701.85. “Succumbing to profit-booking, the Indian market gave away its gains. Bleeding banking, realty and metal stocks dragged while midcaps provided some relief but the broad trend was weak. “European markets traded cautiously as Eurozone inflation accelerated to 2.2 per cent in July, beating ECB estimates of 2 per cent owing to a spike in energy prices. “The markets are awaiting the US Fed meeting minutes to provide some direction on future policy, which is expected to showcase its current accommodative policy in line with the latest policy statement,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. Shrikant Chouhan, executive vice-president, Equity Technical Research at Kotak Securities, said: “The market had been rallying sharply over the past few sessions and hence investors booked some profit today, but not before key benchmark indices hit fresh record highs in early trade. In the near future, the Nifty may consolidate between 16420 to 16700 levels.” Nagaraj Shetti, technical research analyst, HDFC Securities, said: The market seems to have started tiring at the new highs of 16700. But, there is no indication of any reversal pattern unfolding at the higher levels.” S. Hariharan, head-sales trading, Emkay Global Financial Services, said: “The Nifty has out-performed Asian and EM peers over the last week, with a strong trend in passive foreign flows, as foreign funds have aimed to re-allocate weights from China towards India. “Launches of domestic MF schemes have brought in fresh inflows of Rs 8,000 crore. Banks remain the predominant under-performing sector while IT has been an out-performer.” Domestic benchmark indices, after witnessing record highs, gave up all gains as selling pressure in heavyweight financials, especially private banks, dragged the market, said Binod Modi, head - strategy at Reliance Securities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
