20-08-2021||Business||Forex reserves decline $2.10 billion to $619.365 billion||India's foreign exchange reserves decreased by $2.099 billion to stand at $619.365 billion for the week ended August 13 due to a fall in core currency assets and gold, RBI data showed on Friday. The forex kitty had increased by $889 million to a lifetime high of $621.464 billion in the previous reporting week. Foreign currency assets (FCAs), a major component of the overall reserves, decreased by $1.358 billion to $576.374 billion in the reporting week, as per the weekly data by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Expressed in dollar terms, the foreign currency assets include the effect of appreciation or depreciation of non-US units like the euro, pound and yen held in the foreign exchange reserves. Value of the gold reserves declined for the second consecutive week, dropping $720 million to $36.336 billion, the data showed. The special drawing rights (SDRs) with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) dipped by $7 million to $1.544 billion. The country's reserve position with the IMF also fell by $14 million to $5.111 billion, as per the data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 300 points to close at 55,329||Equity benchmark Sensex slumped 300 points on Friday, tracking losses in index majors Tata Steel, Reliance Industries and Kotak Bank amid a heavy sell-off in global equities. The 30-share index ended 300.17 points or 0.54 per cent lower at 55,329.32, while the broader NSE Nifty declined 118.35 points or 0.71 per cent to 16,450.50. Tata Steel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, plunging over 8 per cent, followed by SBI, Dr Reddy's, Kotak Bank, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Auto and L&T. On the other hand, HUL, Asian Paints, Nestle India and Bajaj Finance were among the gainers. "Domestic equities witnessed high volatility with selling pressure across the counters. Notably, barring FMCG, most sectoral indices traded in red with Nifty metal witnessing steepest decline followed by realty, PSU banks, and pharma," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Rise in Delta variant cases in various parts of the world and increasing concern about sustainability of ongoing economic recovery globally led to heavy profit-booking in metal stocks, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with heavy losses. Equities in Europe were also trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.59 per cent to USD 66.06 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Coal India's capital expenditure jumps more than twofold in first quarter of FY22||State-owned CIL on Friday said its capital expenditure jumped more than twofold to Rs 1,840 crore in the first quarter of 2021-22 compared to Rs 844 crore in the year-ago quarter. Coal India in a statement said the capital expenditure rose twofold in the first quarter of FY22 as it continues to step up investments in evacuation infrastructure, land acquisition and procurement of heavy equipment. CIL has achieved 94 per cent of the progressive target of Rs 1,960 crore, set for April-June quarter of the ongoing fiscal. Underscoring the intent on strengthening evacuation infrastructure like setting up rail sidings and corridors, coal handling plants, (CHP), silos and haul roads CIL's capex has risen to Rs 504 crore on this account, the second highest among all capex heads. This is a quantum leap of 109 per cent over the first quarter of FY21 when the capex spend on these infra projects was Rs 241 crore. "Our focus is to have a seamless coal evacuation process in future when production increases. We are gearing ahead for that. CHP/Silo loading will save us considerable expenses apart from having environment benefits," the company said. "Rail sidings and lines are being dovetailed with CHPs and silos," he added. CIL's aims to move around 415 MT of coal through mechanised means through 35 first mile connectivity projects by FY'24. Procurement of heavy earth moving machinery, plant and other machinery that would help in ramping up output through opencast (OC) mines continued to top the capex list at Rs 670 crore during April-June 2021. Land acquisition accounted for Rs 268 crore. CIL has pegged its capex target at Rs 17,000 crore for FY'22 which is a 28 per cent increase over the actual capital expenditure of Rs 13,284 during 2020-21. During FY'21 CIL has exceeded even its revised capex target of Rs 13,000 crore despite pandemic induced downward spiral, making it one of the few CPSUs of the country to have done so. Of the entire targeted capex of FY'22, evacuation infrastructure leads the list with more than one-third at nearly Rs 5,950 crore. Other major heads are HEMM, plant and machinery with Rs 3,560 crore. Joint Venture projects including Talcher Fertilizers Ltd and Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Ltd, solar and others will make up around Rs 3,200 crore. Land acquisition will take up around Rs 2,700 crore. "CIL's capex will be contingent on the demand for coal and production needs. The investments will be made accordingly," the company said. CIL accounts for over 80 per cent of domestic coal output.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Jewellers to go on token strike on August 23 against gold hallmarking||Jewellers across the country will go on a 'token strike' on August 23 against the "arbitrary implementation" of mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery, All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) said on Friday. The strike will be supported by 350 associations and federations from all four zones of the entire gems and jewellery industry, the GJC claimed. Mandatory gold hallmarking has come into force from June 16 in a phased manner. The government has identified 256 districts from 28 states and union territories for the phase-1 implementation. Gold hallmarking, a purity certification of the precious metal, was voluntary in nature so far. "The one-day token strike is our peaceful protest against arbitrary implementation of HUID (hallmark unique identification number), which is impractical and unimplementable," Ashok Minawala, past Chairman of GJC, said in a statement. Minawala is a jewellers' representative on government-appointed committees and Director of Danabhai Jewellers Group. He said jewellers cannot accept the new HUID as it has nothing to do with the purity of gold. The BIS feels the new HUID will improve gold purity but jewellers think it is just a tracking mechanism. Stating that the HUID system is extremely time consuming, GJC Director Dinesh Jain said the current speed and capacity of hallmarking centres is about two lakh pieces per day. At this speed, it will take 3-4 years to hallmark this years' production. "Currently, the new HUID system is taking almost 5 to 10 days to hallmark the products, resulting in a complete bottleneck and the industry is on standstill. ...Tonnes of jewellery is lying idle due to delays in the existing hallmarking process and BIS is simply adding fire to our anxiety instead of resolving issues," he said. It is estimated that yearly almost 10-12 crore gold jewellery pieces are manufactured in India. In addition, existing stock of almost 6-7 crore pieces are yet to be hallmarked. This takes the total count of pieces to be hallmarked in a year to almost 16-18 crore pieces, he added. That apart, HUID is not fool-proof as there have been lots of issues such as double HUID on the same piece, same HUID on multiple jewellery etc, he said, adding that these are already brought to the notice of the BIS. Mumbai Wholesale Gold Jewellery Association President Prakash Kagrecha said jewellers have welcomed the hallmarking and the growth in registration has risen from 34,000 to 88,000 jewellers, which shows the jewellers commitment towards consumers. "However, the hallmarking centres have been reduced as 83 centres have been either suspended or cancelled. The new HUID process involves cutting, melting, and scraping of jewellery, which is intended to sell. The entire process of hallmarking is defeated when a jewellery has been damaged," he said. Further, this process eliminates instant consumer-friendly services, which is the biggest USP of this sector. Removal of the jeweller's name from the jewellery will be detrimental to the interest of consumers when they wish to sell or exchange, he added. According to the Council, the penal and criminal consequences on the jewellers -- who have not manufactured or hallmarked the jewellery and sold it like a trader -- will eventually result in winding up of businesses in fear of 'Inspector Raaj' which has already begun. The draconian provisions of cancellation of registration for a civil offence is imposed on this trade, where just by a stroke of a BIS officer, resulting in loss of livelihood of millions of employees, artisans and their dependents, it said. Despite the jewellery industry's continuous demand to consider the NITI Aayog's report on hallmarking to be a benchmark while framing the BIS Act has not been taken into consideration, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Sensex slumps over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked over 400 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank amid a selloff in other Asian equities.  The 30-share index was trading 445.02 points or 0.80 per cent lower at 55,184.47, while the broader NSE Nifty slumped 147.10 points or 0.89 per cent to 16,421.75.  Tata Steel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank, Dr Reddy's, SBI, L&T, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries.  On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, Asian Paints, Infosys and Maruti were among the gainers.  In the previous session, Sensex closed 162.78 points or 0.29 per cent lower at 55,629.49, and Nifty declined 45.75 points or 0.28 per cent to 16,568.85.  The stock market was closed on Thursday on account of Muharram'.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 595.32 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data.  "Taper rumours have again started impacting markets. Minutes of the latest US Fed meet indicate that tapering of bond purchases may start later this year. This triggered a risk-off in markets with the Dow and S&P 500 correcting by 1.1 per cent each on the 18th," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.  Tapering is negative news for markets since it will eventually reduce the liquidity available in the financial system, he noted.  "But the positive dimension is that the Fed is indicating tapering since economic growth revival is strong. If growth and earnings recovery is strong, markets are likely to stage a rebound after the initial jitters," he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with heavy losses in mid-session deals amid mounting worries of the spread of delta variant of coronavirus in the region.  However, equities in the US largely ended on a positive note in overnight trade.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.42 per cent to USD 66.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Power ministry circulates draft rules for allowing gencos to sell electricity to third party||The ministry of power has proposed to amend rules to help electricity producers sell power to a third party, which can reduce fixed costs and cut retail tariff for end consumers. The ministry on Thursday circulated the draft Electricity (Late Payment Surcharge) Amendment Rules, 2021 seeking comments from stakeholders The rules were uploaded on the ministry’s website. The ministry proposes to take one more step towards reducing the burden of the distribution licensee (discoms) to help reduce the retail tariff for electricity consumers, a statement said. It added that the generating companies were being given an option to sell power to third parties and recover their costs. If a distribution licensee has any payment, including late payment surcharge, outstanding after the expiry of seven months from the due date as prescribed in the PPA (power purchase agreement), the generating company may sell the power to any consumer or any other licensee or power exchanges for the period of such a default, the statement said. The claim will be retained on payment of fixed charges or capacity charges from the distribution licensee, after giving a notice of at least 15 days to the distribution licensee. “The claim, if any, shall be reconciled on an annual basis and shall be limited to only under recovery of the fixed charges or capacity charges.” The statement added that due to non-payment of outstanding dues, the distribution licensees are burdened with the increase in the late payment surcharge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Five Bengal firms in preparatory stages of launching IPO||The year 2021 may go down in the history books for harvesting the highest capital through initial public offerings in India. And this time, Bengal is also joining the party. The 36 issues till date have raised Rs 60,298 crore, and there are indications the number will easily overhaul the record of Rs 75,279 crore in 2017 from 38 issues as liquidity pumped in by various central banks fires stock markets across the globe. Closer home, only one Bengal-based company has made it to the list but what’s in store looks far more promising. At least five firms are in the preparatory stages of launching an IPO and if all goes well, they will raise more capital together than what was accumulated from this state over the entire last decade. According to Pranav Haldea, managing director of Prime Database Group, a company that tracks the primary market in India, 54 companies are expected to come out with an IPO in India. “There are about 13 companies which have Sebi approval and another 41 which are awaiting approval with a total estimated issue size of close to Rs 1 lakh crore. However, all of them shall not launch their IPOs in this calendar year,” Haldea said. And the mind-boggling number does not even include the proposed mega issue of Life Insurance Corporation, for which the government has started preparatory work. Sudip Bandyopadhyay, group chairman of Inditrade Capital, said it was structurally good that more companies were joining the stock market, providing more options to investors. But he also cautioned about the soaring valuation, which at times is reaching unreasonable levels. “Liquidity is driving the secondary markets worldwide and in India despite the economies being in trouble due to the pandemic. The liquidity is now flowing into the primary market from the secondary market,” he said. Bengal blooms Four companies have filed papers with Sebi while one more is likely to do so within the next month. Shyam Metaliks raised Rs 908.8 crore in June. These six public issues together are likely to raise anything between Rs 6,700 crore and Rs 7,200 crore depending on the market condition. Compared to this, only eight companies had hit the stock market between 2011 and 2020 raising Rs 6,487 crore (See chart). “If you look at the number of publicly listed companies, they are mostly from the west and the south while some firms are based in Delhi, NCR. The share of the east has been low but it is good to see that it is changing,” said Rajiv Singh, director-general of Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC). He says IPOs are catching the fancy of Calcutta’s corporate circle. “I am hearing about it all too often nowadays,” Singh observed. While the disconnect between a sagging economy and soaring stock markets is the talking point of many debates, primary issues do signal that companies have reached a certain scale and they plan to build on the growth rapidly by accessing capital. The point was brought about by Upendra Kumar Sinha in 2015. During a visit to the city, the then Sebi chairman pointed out there was no participation from the east even though the IPO market was sizzling nationwide. “When I was doing a regional analysis of the money raised I found that there is not a single proposal from the eastern zone. Nobody in this region has any investment optimism...any investment plan. We have delegated the sanctioning or approval of red herring prospectus to the zonal offices up to an amount of Rs 500 crore, they also do not have a single interest pending with them,” Sinha had said. While an IPO adds to the perception of a state, Bandyopadhyay has a different take on it. “Look at Nuvoco Vista, a company registered in Mumbai. Its cement business is located mainly in the east. It is a good sign that not only firms based out of the east but also those having business in the east are hitting the market,” he said. Will the battered brand Bengal finally get a leg up?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||ONGC seeks partners to raise output from 43 oil and gas fields||State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation on Thursday invited bids from private companies to hand over the operations of 43 small and marginal oil and gas fields in a bid to maximise production. The 43 onland fields have been clustered into 11 contract areas that will be bid out to companies offering the highest oil and gas output on top of a pre-decided baseline, the company said in a statement. In June 2019, ONGC had invited similar bids for 64 fields that were clustered into 17 contract areas. The bid round did not generate much interest. “ONGC announces notice inviting offer (NIO) seeking partners to enhance production from its marginal nomination fields in line with its goal of maximising recovery from its producing fields,” the statement said. The fields on offer have a total in-place oil and oil equivalent gas volume of about 160 million tonnes. “These contract areas are spread across  Gujarat, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh,” it said. The 64 fields offered in 2019 held a cumulative 300 million tonnes of oil and oil equivalent natural gas reserves. “Eligible companies (Indian or foreign), either alone or in consortium with other companies, may bid for one or more contract areas,” the statement said, adding the bidders are required to fulfill the requisite technical and financial criteria. The last date for bidding is December 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Telecom industry body COAI seeks cut in levies, other relief measures from govt||Telecom industry body Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) has sought major incentives from the government such as a reduction in levies, doubling the tenure of auctioned radio wave holdings along with a 7-10 year moratorium for spectrum payments. “The Indian telecom sector remains one of the most heavily taxed sectors. The government needs to recognise that the current revenue sharing regime of around 32 per cent of revenue outgo as taxes and levies is unsustainable and will always be detrimental to growth of the industry due to perennial lack of surplus cash to reinvest,” S.P. Kochhar, director-general, COAI, said in a letter dated August 17 to telecom secretary Anshu Prakash. The latest plea to the government comes amid analyst warnings of the sector heading for a duopoly in the absence of any relief measures that could help crisis-hit Vodafone India . The industry also wants a reduction in the interest rate for deferred payment liability, the review of the definition of adjusted gross revenues (AGR), the fixing of a floor price and the waiver of financial and performance bank guarantees. “Ensure reasonable reserve prices, easier payment terms in the form of doubling the tenure of all auctioned spectrum holdings both existing and future from 20 years to 40 years, without any additional amounts and also consider 7- to 10-year moratorium for present and future spectrum payments,” said the COAI whose members include Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio and Vodafone Idea. Other suggestions include lowering cumulative regulatory taxes and levies by reducing the licence fee, the Universal Service Obligation (USO) levy and spectrum usage charges (SUC). The licence fee should be reduced to 1 per cent of adjusted gross revenue from 3 per cent, while the USO levy meant for rural rollouts be also brought down to 1 per cent from 5 per cent. The COAI has suggested the implementation of a “progressive” AGR definition to include only telecom revenue and redefine deductions. It has also underlined the need to review and “reduce to bare minimum” the compliance, approval and audit requirements by replacing the same with self-certification or exceptional audits and rationalised penalties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Ujjivan Small Finance Bank managing director and CEO Nitin Chugh resigns||Ujjivan Small Finance Bank on Thursday said its managing director and CEO Nitin Chugh has resigned citing personal reasons. “The bank has received a letter dated August 18, 2021 from Nitin Chugh, tendering his resignation from the position of managing director and CEO of the bank w.e.f. close of business hours on September 30, 2021,” Ujjivan Small Finance Bank said in a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange. Chugh has confirmed in his letter that he is resigning due to personal reasons and “there are no material reasons”, the bank said. His tenure as a director of the bank, which is co-terminus with his tenure as managing director and CEO, would also end after his resignation comes into effect, the bank added. Board rejig The bank said it has been working for several months to strengthen its board and has appointed four individuals to that effect. B.A. Prabhakar, ex-CMD of Andhra Bank and chairman of NSDL, has joined the board as an independent director and is being considered as a part-time chairman of the bank. Ujjivan founder Samit Ghosh comes on board as a non-executive and non-independent director to provide insight and facilitate the reverse merger. Sudha Suresh, who has been associated with Ujjivan for 14 years, has been appointed non-executive director and Ravichandran Venkataraman has joined as an independent director. “The bank has recently witnessed several challenges on the business front  along with several resignations both at the board level and in senior management. The immediate task of the board in collaboration with the holding company would be to bring back stability,” the bank said. “Consequently, he shall also cease to be key managerial personnel of the bank in terms of Section 203 of the Companies Act, 2013,” the lender further noted. The bank also said that its board has taken note of Chugh's resignation letter and has "appreciated his valuable contribution" to the board and the bank during his association. According to Ujjivan Small Finance Bank’s 2019-20 annual report, Chug took up the role of MD and CEO from December 1, 2019 for a period of three years following the retirement of Ujjivan founder Samit Kumar Ghosh from the position of MD and CEO on November 30, 2019. The Bangalore headquartered small finance bank in July disclosed the resignation of chief financial officer Upma Goel effective from September 30, 2021. The bank had also disclosed that it plans to approach RBI in November with a proposal of reverse merger of the holding company with the bank to comply with the guidelines related to promoter shareholding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Centre working on reducing tariff barriers in its trade negotiations with UK and Australia||The Centre is working on reducing tariff barriers on a limited range of items in its trade negotiations with the UK and Australia as the first step towards a broader free trade agreement — called an early harvest deal — and is at present exploring the possibilities of a greater market access in the US. “The trade talk with the UK is progressing well. Teams are talking to each other, scoping is being done, line ministries are identifying areas in which we can quickly close the deal, in terms of early harvest, if possible,” commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said here on Thursday. “Instead of trying to address 11,000 (tariff) lines, if we can look at their and our areas of interest and close an early harvest agreement and (then) negotiate on the rest of the agreement,” the minister told representatives of export promotion organisations. Australia has also shown the “highest level of engagement” and significant interest to do an early harvest agreement. The minister said India is at a “positive momentum” with respect to inking FTAs with the European Union (EU), UK, Australia, Canada, Bangladesh, the UAE and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations as well as Israel. “The US as of now has kind of indicated that they are not looking for new trade agreements, but we look at working with them for more market access issues on both sides and I think that would also be a big relief and a big opportunity opener for our export sector,” Goyal said. He said the Modi government had been more pro-active then its predecessors in seeking the views of the domestic stakeholders. “We are engaging with all of you and industry to ensure that FTAs are fairly and equitably crafted, bringing in more elements of reciprocity. ” He said an FTA cannot be a “one way traffic” and the country must open up its markets if the exporters want a larger market share overseas. “My appeal and request to all is to also identify areas where we have the confidence that we can withstand competition.” He urged the export promotion councils to study FTAs and see whether there are “hidden” opportunities in them as it will help India to set significantly higher export targets for 2022-23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
