21-08-2021||Business||Government urges jewellers to reconsider strike on August 23||Asserting that the mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery in 50 days of its first phase of implementation has been a "grand success", the government on Saturday urged jewellery body GJC to reconsider its decision to go on strike on August 23. The All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) has called a nationwide 'token strike' on August 23, against the government's arbitrary implementation of mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery with HUID (hallmark unique identification number). Mandatory gold hallmarking has come into force from June 16 in a phased manner. The government has identified 256 districts from 28 states and union territories for the phase-1 implementation. Gold hallmarking, a purity certification of the precious metal, was voluntary in nature prior to June 16. "I heard that some associations have given a call for strike. Strike for what? The government is listening to every issue raised by stakeholders. The idea of strike is uncalled for," the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) Director General Pramod Kumar Tiwari said in a virtual press conference. In a recent meeting held on August 19 with industry stakeholders, Tiwari said many jewellers' associations had opposed the strike and said they support the new HUID system as it has become a brand name for small and medium jewellers in the country. "If some people (jewellers) have problems, there is no basis for that. Those who are thinking about strike, I want to appeal to them that they will not get a more sensitive and responsive government than the current one," he said. Tiwari asked the jewellery body GJC to reconsider its decision and take back the call for strike. "We will regularly have dialogue with you. HUID is in the interest of the country and consumers. This is a big initiative," he said, adding that the government is always ready to address the concerns of jewellers. Sharing the progress made during the implementation of the first phase of mandatory gold hallmarking, Tiwari said, "It's a grand success. We could not have imagined a better outcome. In 50 days of implementation, more than 1 crore jewellery pieces have been hallmarked. He also ruled out extending the implementation of this new initiative. "The country does not have the stomach for hallmarking more than 10 crore pieces a year. At this rate, we will be able to hallmark all jewellery. There is no question of extension. What is the need for that?" he said. The number of jewellers registered for gold hallmarking has increased to 91,603 now, from 35,000 jewellers when the mandatory hallmarking came into force, he said. When the HUID was implemented, 1.17 crore pieces of jewelleries were received between July 1 and August 20 at assaying centers. Out of which, more than 1 crore pieces were hallmarked with HUID. Even the number of pieces jewellers sent for assaying and hallmarking has increased from 5,135 pieces in the first fortnight of July, to 14,349 pieces in the first fortnight of August, he said. Allaying fears that delay in gold hallmarking will impact jewellers' business during festival and marriage season, the BIS Chief said, "When a new system is implemented, initially one faces problems. And those are resolved gradually." As a result, the number of jewellery items hallmarked increased from 14.28 lakh pieces during July 1-15 to 41.81 lakh pieces during August 1-15 of this year. On August 20, 3.90 lakh pieces were hallmarked in one single day, he said. Tiwari further said the World Gold Council and other similar associations have estimated that the requirement of hallmarking is for only 10-12 crore jewellery pieces in a year even if mandatory hallmarking is implemented across the country. "When we are hallmarking at this pace, we should be able to hallmark more than 1 crore jewellery pieces in a year. We have the capacity and pace to meet the country's requirements," he said. On apprehension of some jewellers about lack of capacity of assaying centres, he said, "One hallmarking centre in a shift of 8 hours can hallmark 500 pieces. There are about 860. About 161 out of 860 assaying centers have got more than 500 jewellery pieces per day. A lot of capacity is underutilised." The concerns raised about capacity and pace of hallmarking are not based on facts, he noted. Tiwari said that the government has addressed every genuine concern of the jewellers. Even small jewellers' demand to hallmark a mix of jewellery items having the same purity has been accepted. "A notification in this regard will be issued soon," he said. Asked if action had been taken against jewellers for violation of mandatory gold hallmarking, the official said that the government had assured the industry that the initial 2-3 months of implementation will focus on handholding and awareness. "It will not go for surveillance till August 30. The BIS has stuck to that decision," he said. However, the action against fake hallmarking centers is going on. In Delhi and South India, action has been taken against 10-12 assaying centers and fake hallmarking centers, he added. Tiwari also made it clear that HUID number uploading on the BIS portal is to be done only at the level of assaying centers at present. The privacy data of consumers will be protected. For second phase implementation, he said a committee's recommendation has been sent to the ministry for approval.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
21-08-2021||Business||Trai suggests creation of separate authorisation for access network provider||The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) has proposed a new category of wholesale player called the access network provider which will sell its services to the mobile virtual network operator which in turn will offer value added services to the final customer. The Trai proposal focuses on the role of the access network provider as well as its relationship with the mobile virtual network operator, with one of the objectives being to create a wide variety of 5G services for the end-user. The implementation of these recommendations is expected to result in increased sharing of network resources, reduction of cost, higher investment and could also prove to be a catalyst in the proliferation of 5G services, Trai said in a statement. “A separate authorisation under unified licence should be created for access network provider (network layer) to provide network services on a wholesale basis,” Trai said. Under this new authorisation, the access network provider would not be permitted to directly provide services to the end customers. The scope of the access network provider would be to establish and maintain telecom network, including wireless and wireline infrastructure, and selling the network services (capable of carrying voice and non-voice messages and data) on a wholesale basis to the virtual network operators or service delivery operators for retailing purpose. The access network provider should also be permitted to provide/share its network resources to/with the telecom service providers. Like the existing telecom players, the access network provider should also be permitted to acquire spectrum through auctions, subjected to the prescribed caps, enter into spectrum trading and sharing arrangements with the other players. It should also have access to backhaul spectrum, numbering resources and right to interconnection, Trai said. The existing licensing regime of “Unified Licence” shall continue. However, if a licensee with access service authorisation under UL wishes to migrate to segregated network layer and service layer regime, it should be permitted to do so. Trai said the network provider shall be permitted to take a separate licence to operate as a virtual network operator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
21-08-2021||Business||Ujjivan Small Finance Bank shares tumble as MD & CEO Nitin Chugh resigns||Deteriorating asset quality and the exodus of top executives were the twin concerns for Ujjivan Small Finance Bank, founder Samit Ghosh said on Friday, a day after the exit of the bank’s managing director and CEO Nitin Chugh. Ujjivan Small Finance Bank shares tanked 18.76 per cent on the BSE on Friday after the news of Chugh’s exit on personal grounds. Ghosh, who is at present the non-executive director and chairman of Ujjivan Financial Services Limited (the holding company of the bank), has been drafted back on the board of the bank as a non-executive and non-independent director to address these concerns. He had vacated the post of managing director and CEO in 2019 on retirement following which Chugh had assumed office. The bank’s gross non-performing assets for the quarter ended June 2021 was 9.8 per cent versus 0.97 per cent in the corresponding period of the previous year. The bank reported a net loss of Rs 233 crore during the June quarter of 2020-21 against a profit of Rs 55 crore in the year-ago period. Even the pre-provisioning operating profits during the quarter at Rs 163 crore were down 24 per cent from previous year. The bank’s management had attributed this largely to the onset of the second wave of the Covid pandemic and the consequent restrictions and lockdowns in its key markets — Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and Bengal. Recently, the bank’s chief financial officer Upma Goel and directors Mona Kachhwaha, Harish Devarajan and Mahadev Lakhsminarayan had also resigned. Clarifying to market analysts, Ghosh said Ujjivan had traditionally remained conservative on provisioning and upfront recognition of stressed assets. But this has fluctuated in the last one year — the provision coverage ratio fell from 82 per cent in June 2020 to 59 per cent in December 2020 before improving to 75 per cent in June 2021. He said while the timing of Chug’s resignation was a “surprise”, the bank’s board which has now been strengthened will undertake a “tough” review of the loan book and begin the recovery process. Ghosh said he would also play a role in co-ordination between the holding company and the bank on the reverse merger process. A board meeting is expected on August 25 to decide the future course of action. The board is likely to appoint an interim CEO. Ujjivan old-timer and the bank’s head of operations, Carol Furtado , could be given the role till the bank finds a new incumbent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
21-08-2021||Business||Monetary policy committee’s Jayanth R Varma flays easy money policy||Jayanth R. Varma, the newly-emerging hawk in the Reserve Bank of India’s monetary policy committee, believes that it is time to take a “hard look at the accommodative stance” that the central bank first adopted in June 2019. “Covid-19 is... beginning to resemble a neutron bomb,” Varma said while arguing for a review of the over two-year old policy. “The ability of the monetary policy to mitigate a human tragedy of this nature is very limited as compared to its ability to contain an economic crisis,” Varma said according to the minutes of the three-day MPC meeting that ended on August 6 and released on Friday. Varma voted along with the other five policymakers to hold the repo rate at 4 per cent but broke with them in their straw poll on persisting with the accommodative policy. ‘‘The possibility that Covid-19 will haunt us...for the next three to five years can no longer be ruled out. Keeping monetary policy highly accommodative for such a long horizon is very different from doing so for what was earlier expected to be a relatively short crisis,” Varma said. Money has been sloshing around in the system and the RBI has had to soak up the excess liquidity. In early August, the central bank was absorbing Rs 8.5 lakh crore every day. This has stoked fears of an emerging asset price bubble. “Monetary accommodation appears to be stimulating asset price inflation to a greater extent than it is mitigating distress in the economy,” Varma added. Varma also said the double talk on the RBI’s chief mandate — to hold inflation between 2 and 6 per cent at all times and shoot for a 4 per cent median rate — must end. ‘‘Inflation... is not expected to drop below 5 per cent even in the first quarter of 2022-23... it is important to emphasise that the inflation target for the MPC is 4 per cent and not 6 per cent or even 5 per cent,’’ he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
21-08-2021||Business||Facebook partners Indifi to enable business loans for small business in India||Social media giant Facebook has expanded into the financial services space with the launch of Small Business Loans. The programme will offer small and medium businesses loans ranging from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 50 lakh in 200 towns and cities in the country. India is the first country where the programme is being rolled out. Facebook has teamed up with Indifi, a Gurgaon-based digital lending platform, and is open to bringing in more partners on board. As part of the programme, small businesses that advertise with Facebook can get loans at a predefined interest rate of 17-20 per cent per annum. Borrowers will not be charged a processing fee by Indifi and the loan will be disbursed within five working days after the completion of documentation formalities and acceptance of offer by Indifi. The programme will also offer loans without collateral. Facebook in a statement on Friday said that a joint study of the social network platform in collaboration with the OECD and the World Bank last year identified cash flow as one of the primary challenges for small and medium enterprises. Access to timely credit is particularly challenging for micro and small businesses who do not have a long credit history. “Access to timely capital is more important than ever as it can help them jump-start their recovery and drive big growth. The country has made tremendous progress in the last few years in expanding access to credit. “As a company we are at the spearend of the digital transformation and we believe that the Small Business Loans initiative can provide a big impetus to early entrepreneurs to fuel their ideas and their appetite for taking risks,” said Ajit Mohan, VP and MD, Facebook India. Facebook said the programme is a not-for-profit arrangement with its lending partners and small businesses are not obligated to spend their loan amount on Facebook advertising. The announcement came at a virtual event hosted by Facebook India in partnership with Ficci. “We look forward to collaborating with Facebook over the coming months to develop programmes and solutions that can provide an impetus to the sector,” said Uday Shankar, president, Ficci.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
21-08-2021||Business||Markets caught in global selloff||Equity indices fell for the second straight session on Friday, mirroring a global selloff as rising Delta cases and fears of earlier-than-expected Fed tapering sparked a broad retreat from riskier assets. A depreciating rupee, which slumped 15 paise against the dollar, added to the woes. The 30-share BSE Sensex slumped 300.17 points, or 0.54 per cent, to close at 55329.32. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 118.35 points, or 0.71 per cent, to 16450.50. Shrikant Chouhan, executive vice-president (equity technical research) at Kotak Securities, said: “After witnessing a splendid rally in the first two sessions of the week, markets have come under profit-taking thereafter amid worries of stretched valuations and lack of fresh positive triggers.” During the week, the Sensex declined 107.97 points or 0.19 per cent, while the Nifty slipped 78.6 points or 0.47 per cent. Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities, said: “Over the week, FMCG and IT were the main gainers while metals, media, PSU Bank and realty lost the most. Global worries are impacting sentiments of investors in India. The broader market rally seems to be fizzling out. Nifty could remain in the 16540-16280 band for the better part of the coming week.” CarTrade disappoints Shares of CarTrade Tech had a muted market debut on Friday, closing with a discount of nearly 8 per cent against its issue price of Rs 1,618. The stock is listed at Rs 1,600, falling 1.11 per cent from the issue price on the BSE. It tumbled 8.77 per cent to Rs 1,476 and then ended at Rs 1,500.10, lower by 7.28 per cent. On the NSE, it made its debut at Rs 1,599.80 and closed at Rs 1,491, down 7.84 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
21-08-2021||Business||Aditya Khaitan files appeal against NCLT order to start insolvency proceedings against McLeod||Aditya Khaitan, promoter of McLeod Russel India, has challenged the National Company Law Tribunal’s order to start insolvency proceedings against the country’s largest bulk tea producer. Khaitan filed an appeal before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) against the order handed down by the Delhi bench of the NCLT on August 6. The matter is likely to come up for hearing before the NCLAT on August 25. The NCLT order was issued on a petition moved by Techno Electric & Engineering under section 7 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 against McLeod Russel after the bulk tea producer failed to repay a Rs 100 crore loan that had fallen due on March 31, 2019. NCLT, Delhi had admitted the application after being satisfied that it was complete in all respects and Techno was entitled to claim the outstanding financial debt from McLeod after determining that there had been a debt default. Legal eagles believe Khaitan’s challenge is tenable on two grounds. First, he is likely to argue that McLeod Russel does not owe the money to Techno, promoted by Calcutta-based businessman P.P. Gupta, as his company had assigned the loan to an unknown entity. He could also argue that Techno has the title of a property as security against the loan. No default is said to have occurred as the recovery of the dues could have begun by disposing of that secured asset. Aditya Khaitan could not be reached for comment. Udit Gupta, advocate for Techno, also declined to comment but confirmed the matter has been listed for next week. McLeod had made these arguments before the NCLT as well but it did not cut much ice. The bench had observed that McLeod had neither raised a dispute over the quantum of the default or the existence of the loan amount. McLeod’s counsel had relied on a conference call of Gupta, chairman and MD of Techno, where he told investors on November 11, 2019 that the company no longer had a debt exposure to McLeod. McLeod had also argued that Techno’s financial statements had disclosed the Rs 100 crore loan in 2018-19, but it was not reflected thereafter as it had been assigned to someone else. However, McLeod could not come up with documents to buttress its claim that the loan had been assigned to someone. Techno had also submitted an affidavit before the NCLT saying that the loan remained on its books. “The alleged arrangement regarding a loan of the respondent is an internal arrangement of the applicant which will not affect the liability of the respondent to clear the dues of the applicant company,” the August 6 order read. The property in question, located in the upscale south Calcutta neighbourhood of Sunny Park, remains in the possession of the Khaitans. Sources said the value of the property would not be enough to cover the loan exposure. While an application is being moved by Khaitan, interim resolution professional Kanchan Dutta, has taken charge of McLeod. A public announcement has also been made asking creditors to submit their claims. McLeod is understood to have a loan exposure of Rs 1,800 crore. It had borrowed the money to support McNally Bharat Engineering. While most of the bankers had agreed to restructure the loan outside the insolvency framework, it could not be done before the NCLT issued its order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
