22-08-2021||Business||Centre summons Infosys CEO to explain Income Tax portal glitches||The Ministry of Finance has "summoned" Infosys MD & CEO Salil Parekh to explain to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman why glitches on the Income Tax portal has not been resolved even after over two months of its launch. Taking note of the fact that since August 21, the portal "is not available", the Infosys top executive would be asked to explain why multiple glitches continue to mar its smooth functioning. "Ministry of Finance has summoned Sh Salil Parekh,MD&CEO @Infosys on 23/08/2021 to explain to hon'ble FM as to why even after 2.5 months since launch of new e-filing portal, glitches in the portal have not been resolved. In fact, since 21/08/2021 the portal itself is not available, the Income Tax department tweeted. The new income tax e-filing portal "www.incometax.gov.in' had a bumpy start from the day of its launch on June 7, as it continued to face tech glitches. Between January 2019 to June 2021, the government has paid Rs 164.5 crore to Infosys for developing the portal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
22-08-2021||Business||Fuel prices cut by 20 paise, first reduction in petrol in over a month||Petrol and diesel prices were cut by 20 paise per litre each on Sunday - the first reduction in petrol rate in over a month, and the fourth in case of diesel in less than a week. Petrol price in Delhi was cut to Rs 101.64 a litre and diesel to Rs 89.07 per litre, according to a price notification of state-run oil companies. The reduction came as international oil prices tumbled to their lowest level since May, after the US Federal Reserve signalled it was set to start tapering asset purchases within months, hurting commodities and lifting the dollar. The price cut in diesel is the fourth since August 18, when the reduction cycle began. All four reductions have been of 20 paise per litre each. On the previous three occasions when diesel rates were cut, petrol prices remained unchanged. Sunday's cut in petrol price came after 36 days of status quo in rates. Diesel rate change was effected after 33 days of no change. The freeze in rate revision coincided with Parliament session, where the opposition parties tried to corner the government on various issues including the hike in fuel prices. Petrol and diesel prices were last hiked on July 17. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rates had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period. The price hike during this period pushed petrol prices above Rs 100-a-litre mark in more than half of the country, while diesel crossed that level in at least three states. International oil rates have fallen to USD 66 a barrel from USD 75 per barrel touched last month. India is dependent on imports to meet nearly 85 per cent of its oil needs and so benchmarks local fuel rates to international oil prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
22-08-2021||Business||Adani Total acquires gas meter manufacturing company||Adani Total Gas Ltd, the city gas joint venture of Adani Group and TotalEnergies of France, has acquired a 50 per cent stake in a company that manufactures gas meters to aid its gas retailing business. The firm bought the stake in Smartmeters Technologies Pvt Ltd (SMTPL) for Rs 1 crore, the firm said in a stock exchange filing. Smartmeters, which had a turnover of Rs 4.83 crore in the year till March 31, 2021, manufactures gas meters which are used to measure the consumption of gas piped to household kitchens. The objective of the acquisition is “to manufacture gas meters with a focus on prepaid smart meters”, the company said. There are no government or regulatory approvals required for the acquisition, the firm added. The company further said the acquisition does not fall within related party transaction(s) and the promoter/promoter group/group companies don’t have any interest in the entity acquired. The acquisition, it said, is expected to be completed by September. Adani Total Gas retails CNG to automobiles and piped natural gas to household kitchens and industries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
22-08-2021||Business||Sebi keeps Adani Wilmar's Rs 4,500-crore IPO in abeyance||Capital market regulator Sebi has kept the proposed Rs 4,500-crore initial share sale of edible oil major Adani Wilmar Ltd (AWL) in “abeyance”. However, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) did not clarify further. The company had filed preliminary papers with Sebi on August 3 to raise funds through an initial public offering. Without disclosing the reason, Sebi said the “issuance of observations has been kept in abeyance” with regard to the Adani Wilmar IPO, according to an update on the Sebi website on August 13. In market parlance, the observations of Sebi is a kind of a go-ahead to float a public issue. In a statement on Saturday, the Adani Group spokesperson said, “We have not received any formal communication from Sebi with respect to the IPO observations being kept in abeyance.” “While we have always been fully compliant with the applicable Sebi regulations, we have made full disclosure to Sebi on specific information requests from them in the past. We will continue to cooperate with the regulators in the future as well,” the spokesperson added. The proposed listing of AWL on the stock exchanges will comprise an IPO in the form of a fresh issue of equity shares for an amount of up to Rs 4,500 crore (around $600 million).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
22-08-2021||Business||Arvind Fashions raises Rs 439 crore from investors, promoters||Arvind Fashions a leading casual wear and denim manufacturer, on Saturday said it has raised Rs 439 crore by issuing equity shares of the company. This will allow the business to pursue its growth strategy  AFL said in a statement. The investors who participated in the fund raiser are Akash Bhanshali, existing shareholders such as ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund, various foreign institutional investors, including University of Notre Dame Du Lac, GP Emerging Markets Strategies LP and The Ram Fund LP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
22-08-2021||Business||Banks restructure loans of around Rs 35,000 crore under RBI’s Resolution Framework 2.0||Banks have restructured loans of around Rs 35,000 crore under the Reserve Bank of India’s Resolution Framework 2.0 that allows lenders to implement a resolution plan for eligible borrowers in a bid to alleviate financial stress during the Covid pandemic. According to data compiled by Care Ratings as on June 30, 2021, public and private banks have together restructured Rs 1,37,000 crore worth of advances under the two restructuring frameworks provided by the RBI. Resolution Framework 2.0, which was aimed at individuals and small businesses, accounted for 26 per cent of the overall restructured amount till June end. The ratings firm expects more restructuring under the second window which is open till September 2021. Personal and MSME advances constituted 54 per cent under the two schemes together till the end of June. “The rise in slippages and restructuring indicates stress building up in the retail segment post Covid-19 especially after the second wave when there was no blanket moratorium and the banks either had to restructure or take the slippage on the books. Although most banks have seen improvement in collection efficiency with the opening of lockdowns, there could be additional restructuring under Framework 2.0,” said Care Ratings in its report. The ratings firm estimated the share of stressed assets inching up in the retail and MSME segments for both public and private sector banks for the quarter ended June largely on account of the second wave leading to many states invoking restrictions. PSU banks saw a rise in combined retail and MSME gross NPA to 7.28 per cent as of June 30, 2021 from 6.52 per cent as of March 31, 2021. For private banks combined gross NPA in the two segments rose to 3.32 per cent by June from 2.68 per cent as of March 31, 2021. The ratings firm also pointed out that the ending of the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme in September 2021 is a downside risk for banks. “The stress from the second wave is expected to continue over the next quarters with a rise in slippages and restructuring. As a result, there could be higher restructuring and the real stressed accounts could be higher than the reported NPA numbers. Thus, credit losses could increase if economic conditions deteriorate, or government support measures are less effective than anticipated,” Care Ratings said in its report. The ratings firm has estimated a credit growth of around 7.5 per cent to 8 per cent for 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
22-08-2021||Business||NTPC commissions 15 MW floating solar capacity at Simhadri||State-owned power producer NTPC on Saturday said it has commissioned a 15 MW capacity at the floating solar PV project in Simhadri, Andhra Pradesh. With this, the installed capacity of the floating solar PV project at Simhadri stands at 25 MW. “Consequent upon successful commissioning of the 15 MW capacity, Simhadri Floating Solar PV Project at Simhadri, Andhra Pradesh is hereby declared on commercial operations,” a BSE filing said. The floating solar installation, which has a unique anchoring design, is spread over 75 acres in an RW reservoir. This floating solar project has the potential to generate electricity from more than 1 lakh solar PV modules, the power producer said. This would help to light around 7,000 households. The project would also save 1,364 million litres of water per annum. This would be adequate to meet the yearly water requirements of 6,700 households. With this addition, the installed capacity of NTPC and NTPC Group stands at 53,475 MW and 66,900 MW, respectively. “This is also the first solar project to be set up under the Flexibilisation Scheme, notified by the government of India in 2018,” the country’s largest power generation utility said. The project is part of NTPC’s plan to have 60 gigawatt (GW) renewable energy capacity by 2032 from around 4GW on Saturday. NTPC plans to invest Rs 1 trillion between 2019 and 2024 to become a 130GW power producer by 2032. “NTPC is also planning to set up a hydrogen-based micro-grid system on a pilot basis at Simhadri,” it said. Subsidiary NTPC REL has also inked a pact with the union territory of Ladakh for a green hydrogen mobility project with NVVN jointly executing the project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
22-08-2021||Business||Government asks jewellers to rethink call for strike on August 23||The government on Saturday appealed to the jewellers to reconsider their decision to go on strike on Monday as the mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery in the 50 days of its first phase of implementation has been a “grand success.” The All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) has called a nationwide “token strike” on August 23, against the government’s arbitrary implementation of mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery with HUID (hallmark unique identification number). “I heard that some associations have given a call for strike. Strike for what? ... The government is listening to every issue raised by stakeholders. The idea of a strike is uncalled for,” Pramod Kumar Tiwari, director-general of the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), said in a virtual press conference. Mandatory gold hallmarking has come into force from June 16 in a phased manner. The government has identified 256 districts from 28 states and Union Territories for the first phase of implementation. Gold hallmarking, a purity certification of the precious metal, was voluntary in nature before June 16. Tiwari also ruled out extending the implementation of this new initiative to other districts. “The country does not have the stomach for hallmarking more than 10 crore pieces a year. At this rate, we will be able to hallmark all jewellery. There is no question of extension.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
