23-08-2021||Business||Niti Aayog expects Rs 35,100 crore from telecom assets by FY24||Government's think tank Niti Aayog has valued government telecom assets at Rs 35,100 crore which can be monetised by financial year 2024, according to the National Monetisation Pipeline released on Monday.  The Aayog has valued over 2.86 lakh kilometres of optical fibre assets laid by BBNL and BSNL under rural broadband project Bharatnet at Rs 26,300 crore.  The National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) has valued 13,567 mobile tower assets of BSNL and 1,350 of MTNL at Rs 8,800 crore that can also be monetised by financial year 2024. Both the PSUs jointly own 69,047 mobile towers.  "Indicative monetisation value of Rs 26,300 crores has been considered over FY23 and FY 24. It may be noted that the actual private investment towards these packages could be lower than the estimated capex and a portion of capex may be met out of grant," the NMP document said.  According to the document, the indicative monetisation value for Bharatnet fibre assets is considered based on a capex approach.  The total approved cost for Bharatnet project is Rs 61,109 crore which includes Rs 42,068 crore for BharatNet (Phase-I and Phase-II) and a maximum of Rs 19,041 crore on viability gap funding (VGF) for implementation of the PPP model of BharatNet in 16 states, according to government information shared in Parliament.  As of March 31, 2021, the government has utilised Rs 24,201 crore for the project.  "The bidding process for this project (Bharatnet) is expected to be initiated during FY'22 and the actual outlay of capex will happen over 2 years from the date of award," the document said.  According to the NMP, 5,25,706 kilometres of optical fibre has been laid under Bharatnet project which aims to connect all villages in the country with a high speed broadband network.  Earlier the scope of the project was limited to 2.5 lakh gram panchayats which has now been extended to village level.  The NMP proposes to realise 6 lakh crore from asset sale during FY 22-25 across various sectors of which 6 per cent value is expected to be realised from the telecom sector.  "The NMP is meant to serve as an essential roadmap for the Asset monetisation of various brownfield infrastructure assets across roads, railways, shipping, aviation, power, telecom, oil and gas, and warehousing sectors," the document said.  The government in the union-budget 2021-22 envisioned preparation of NMP to provide a direction to the monetisation initiative and visibility of investors and NITI Aayog was tasked with creation of the NMP for brownfield core infrastructure assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
23-08-2021||Business||Asset ownership to remain with govt, says Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced a Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) that will look to unlock value in infrastructure assets across sectors ranging from power to road and railways. She also said the asset monetisation does not involve selling of land and it is about monetising brownfield assets. Projects have been identified across sectors, with roads, railways and power being the top segments. "NMP estimates aggregate monetisation potential of Rs 6 lakh crores through core assets of central government over the four-year period from FY 2022 to FY 2025," she said. "Ownership of assets will remain with the government and there will be a mandatory hand-back." Asset monetisation will unlock resources and lead to value unlocking, she said. Union Budget 2021-22 had identified monetisation of operating public infrastructure assets as a key means for sustainable infrastructure financing. Towards this, the Budget provided for preparation of a 'National Monetisation Pipeline' of potential brownfield infrastructure assets. NITI Aayog in consultation with infra line ministries has prepared the report on NMP. The aggregate asset pipeline under NMP over the four-year period is indicatively valued at Rs 6 lakh crore. The estimated value corresponds to 14 per cent of the proposed outlay for Centre under the National Infrastructure Pipeline (Rs 43 lakh crore). The end objective of this initiative is to enable "infrastructure creation through monetisation" wherein the public and private sector collaborate, each excelling in their core areas of competence, so as to deliver socio-economic growth and quality of life to the country's citizens, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
23-08-2021||Business||Sensex rises 226 points to close at 55,555||Equity benchmark Sensex ended 226 points higher on Monday following gains in index heavyweights TCS, HCL Tech and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. After rallying over 450 points during the day, the 30-share index pared some gains to end 226.47 points or 0.41 per cent higher at 55,555.79. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 45.95 points or 0.28 per cent to 16,496.45. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by TCS, Bajaj Finserv, Nestle India, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Finance and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, M&M, Bajaj Auto, UltraTech Cement and PowerGrid were among the laggards. "Domestic equities remained volatile despite witnessing brisk opening today. Strong cues from global equities aided benchmark indices to witness modest recovery, which was also supported by sustained rebound in IT stocks," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Nifty IT gained over 1.8 per cent, followed by financials recording modest gains. An improved visibility of sustained earnings growth with least volatility compared to other industries attracted investors towards IT stocks, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with strong gains. Equities in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude surged 2.95 per cent to USD 66.66 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
23-08-2021||Business||Leverage Wellness Points to Gain Several Benefits||Maintaining good health doesn't need any certified reason. Living a healthy life ensures the lesser risk of life, higher chances of elimination of critical diseases, big scope of avoiding health complications, and close to no medical bills. But there is one more benefit for living a healthy lifestyle i.e. Additional benefits from health insurance. This may sound a bit strange because it should be considered as hidden gems of your health insurance policy that people are not much familiar with. The health insurance companies are now enticing customers to adopt healthy practices of living with some lucrative benefits designed in different forms such as rewards and discounts. Digitization plays a crucial role in keeping a complete track of fitness regime and healthy lifestyles as almost all insurance companies have their mobile applications that also work as a tracker. Generally, the insurance companies rely on steps count or calories burned on a daily basis which are then accumulated during the renewal of the health insurance policy. In fact, policyholders can also maintain a track record of their health targets via the same application. It helps customers in gaining the maximum benefits of their wellness points and programs. Here is the list of benefits to enjoy from wellness points. Discounts on Renewal- To convenience customers to adopt a healthy style of living, insurance companies are benefiting policyholders by offering them a percentage of discounts on their renewal of health insurance. There are different parameters designed by the insurance companies to measure healthy practices such as steps count via their mobile application. This gives year-long data to the insurance companies on the basis of which the percentage is decided and finally credited in the form of discounts. While this ensures the lesser chances of claim with the help of good health but it also helps in retaining clients with the insurance company for the next year. Wellness Coach Support- It becomes easy and simple when there is proper guidance offered by the health expert or a nutritionist. It helps in keeping an accurate tab and consistency in maintaining good health. Therefore, several insurance companies have their internal nutritionist or fitness coaches who help the customers in building healthy habits inclusive of diet and exercise under health programs. The healthy regime is then checked by their nutrition experts on the basis of which the policyholder is given benefits in health insurance that are pre-decided in the policy. Reward Points- Alongside, discounts and money-back options, health insurance companies serve their customers with different benefits such as discounts on annual medical checkups such as lab testings for regular health diagnosis, medical bills, facilities offered on network hospitals, OPD bills, and etc. Moreover, in order to further boost the penetration of a healthy style of living, insurance companies tie-up with various fitness centers such as gym, marathons, yoga centers, aerobic centers, etc. where policyholders can avail services in exchange for these reward points. Second medical opinion- At times, the policyholder plans to go for the second round of medical opinion in case of some serious ailment from a reliable source to gain more understanding about the treatment. In such scenarios, the insurance companies come forward to provide the facility of a second medical expert opinion free of cost from the reliable medical practitioner associated with the insurance company. To avail of this facility, the insured needs to communicate to the insurance company in advance to facilitate the service which requires prior scrutinizing of medical reports and booking an appointment. As it is mandatory for the health insurance company to clearly mention all wellness benefits and programs that a health care policyholder is entitled to get as per the pre-defined guidelines stated by the insurance company. Thus, policyholders must read the wellness section to get complete knowledge and for the transparency of rules. Nonetheless, these benefits do sound exciting to the customers but it is never advised to make the selection of the health insurance policy based on these benefits because the primary job of the health insurance plan is to provide health coverage against unexpected hospitalization and medical treatment. Therefore, it is must consider key features, diseases covered, sum insured amount, claim settlement ratio, and other important factors at the time of selecting a health insurance plan and health insurance company. Because the wellness points are secondary and they vary from company to company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
23-08-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 400 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC twins amid a positive trend in global equities. The 30-share index was trading 411.04 points or 0.74 per cent higher at 55,740.36, while the broader NSE Nifty jumped 109.35 points or 0.66 per cent to 16,559.85. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, L&T, Tata Steel, Tech Mahindra, TCS and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, PowerGrid and HUL were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex slumped 300.17 points or 0.54 per cent to close at 55,329.32, and Nifty tumbled 118.35 points or 0.71 per cent to 16,450.50. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,287.03 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look inspiring as of now. Minutes of the MPC meeting held at the beginning of this month continues to show RBI's commitment to ensure policy support to sustain economic recovery despite select members showing some apprehensions about high inflation and pitching for gradual normalisation in ultra-soft monetary policy, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with strong gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.79 per cent to USD 65.91 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
23-08-2021||Business||Tata Steel Europe may fare better in next two quarters||Tata Steel has reported its best ever quarterly performance in the first quarter, making more profit than the entire last year. In a conversation with The Telegraph, Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and CFO of Tata Steel Group, says the market would remain strong despite a drop in iron ore prices which led to steel stocks correcting sharply on Friday on the fear that steel prices may follow suit. He says the company is likely to reduce debt by a similar amount as last year. Tata Steel had cut debt by $4 billion in 2020-21. Tata Steel has recorded more profit in Q1 than the full year of 2020-21. Analysts have also revised their target prices for Tata Steel. How do you analyse the changes in the industry background for the rest of the year? Indeed, we have had good operating and financial performance during the quarter and reported a profit after tax of Rs 9,786 crore for the quarter. This has been an outcome of stable operating performance, focus on cost takeout, strong market conditions and commercial performance. There are several structural developments in the steel industry in the last few years which are getting manifested prominently recently, primary among them is the supply side changes which are here to stay. Given the volatility of iron ore and steel prices, how do you see the performance focus of the European business? The underlying performance of Tata Steel in Europe has been sequentially better compared with the previous quarter and the revenue increase has been broadly in line with the market. The European business has more long-term contract mix and as they are renewed we expect the increase in the spot prices to reflect in a lagged manner in the second- and third-quarter performance. There has been a sudden drop in iron ore prices recently. Do you see that impacting the industry trend in the near future? Yes, international iron ore prices have fallen by about 40 per cent from the peak in May 2021. Fundamentally, the production trend in China has slowed down as there is some sluggishness in some sectors and equally steel exports have declined month-on-month in July even though the China-EU spot price differential is around $600/tonne. There is a general estimate that China will produce around 50-70 million tonnes lower compared with the same period last year ahead of the winter Olympics and also from a climate management. As China is the largest consumer of iron ore, it reacted to the news of production cuts. But this is unlikely to impact global steel prices as we don’t see China to be aggressive in the sea-borne market. Hence, the prices in Europe, the US and the rest of the world continue to be strong and sustainable, especially because of very strong policy interventions on imports in some geographies. The company managed to bring down the debt by $4 billion in the last fiscal. Will the pace of deleveraging slow down this year? What is your guidance? Free cash flow focus and balance sheet management will continue to be a priority for us and we have repaid around Rs 5,800 crore of principal debt during the first quarter. Our focus will be to prepay significant debt much ahead of schedule this year and achieve a similar level of deleveraging as the previous financial year. The company’s working capital requirement has increased this quarter. Can you explain why, and whether this will remain at this elevated level? Yes, in some ways it is natural when raw material prices and steel prices are elevated. The impact is more prominent in Europe as we buy both iron ore and coal and the average price of steel is higher than in India. So, the value impact is very high in the increase in the working capital, while the physical inventory has remained broadly at the normalised level. The finished goods inventory will further trend down in the second quarter in India as we will be selling more than in the first quarter. How do you see the Indian demand for the rest of the year? Are there signs of improvement? The demand conditions were impacted during the peak of the second wave, especially for long products, but since early July, we are seeing normalisation of demand. Flat product demand segments such as automotive tube etc are fairly strong. There are certain segments such as automotive which other than the semiconductor issue has a strong order book and is expected to be strong through the coming festive season. The current quarter is seasonally a slower quarter for construction but it is hoped that post monsoons it will pick up. The government’s public spending on infrastructure will be a critical factor in sustaining the demand profile in the balance part of the year. How does Tata Steel look at sustainability in the next decade? Sustainability is a very strong foundation for Tata Steel around the key themes of climate change, water, circularity and biodiversity. We have determined our targets and goals for 2025 and 2030 and our internal processes have been deeply embedded around those goals. We have developed long-term decarbonisation pathway, pursuing low carbon technologies, deployment of responsible supply chain policy and adaptation of global standards of reporting and disclosures. We have developed the strategy and actions based on scenario based approach for building a sustainable growth for the business in India. In Europe, we are deeply engaged in developing the decarbonisation pathway for the future. What are the key points of Tata Steel’s financial strategy? Our financial strategy is premised on maintaining balance sheet resilience, benchmarking the financial metrics to investment grade levels, developing a green finance framework and maximising return from the invested capital. These are key themes on which our entire business and financial plans of the company are pivoted and in the last 12 months, we have progressed on all of them, including strengthening the balance sheet.We have a target of 2x net debt to EBIDTA across the cycle and we are currently already at 1.6x. This is critical as it provides strategic space in our balance sheet for future growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
23-08-2021||Business||South City Group plans to foray into hospitality sector with wellness resort||South City Group, a consortium of six Calcutta-based developers, is foraying into the hospitality sector with a luxury wellness resort focusing on ayurveda. The venture is coming up on the Basanti highway, 16 kilometres off the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass on a 55-acre land. The project will also have luxury villas along with the wellness resort. The first phase will be launched later this year with the 30-key resort and 20 villas, Sushil Mohta, a director and one of the consortium partners of South City, informed. “We will invest about Rs 100 crore in the hospitality segment. The residential villa section will be crucial to make it viable as there is hardly any payback for such a hospitality venture,” Mohta explained. The villas will come up on plots ranging from 12 cottah to 2 bigha land and priced between Rs 3 crore and Rs 6 crore.There are about 100 villas planned for the second phase. In the wellness venture, South City Group has tied up with the Carnoustie group which operates such a facility near Kochi in Kerala. South City’s wellness resort is spread over 40,000 square feet. The South City Ayurveda and Wellness Retreat plans to offer diverse treatment and wellness packages of one to three weeks. Those who enrol for the package will stay in the resort. Rack rate for the rooms is likely to be Rs 10,000 a night. “Wellness is a booming industry, especially after the pandemic. There are many such boutiques in Kerala and a few more have come up near the Himalayas. However, there is none in this part of the country, especially in Bengal. This centre can fill up the gap,” Mohta explained. The developers are expecting half of the traffic to be generated from the city itself as many from this part of the country travel to the wellness centres in Kerala and Dehradun.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
23-08-2021||Business||Honda makes fresh attempt to sell hybrid cars and SUVs in India||Honda Cars India Limited (HCIL) will make a fresh attempt to sell hybrid cars and SUVs in the country after it stopped selling the hybrid versions of the Civic and the Accord because of dwindling sales. The company will launch a hybrid sedan in the next fiscal and is preparing to launch an SUV, Rajesh Goel, senior vice-president and director, marketing and sales, HCIL, said when asked about the company’s electrification programme at the launch of the new Amaze last week. Globally, Honda has declared that by 2040, it will sell only electric vehicles. In India, the company will start its electrification programme with hybrids first. The company which has shut its Noida plant last year and has downsized its staff and operations to make the business more viable is aiming to post a double-digit growth this fiscal. “We are now looking at double-digit growth. The sales momentum in July has been good and gives us hope that demand will sustain in the market,” Goel said. The company is banking on the new Amaze — that will retail in the range of Rs 6.32 lakh to Rs 11. 15 lakh— to help it achieve its target. “The Amaze has been a huge success. It, along with City, contributes 80 per cent of the sales. The rest 20 per cent of sales come from the W-RV and the Jazz,” said Goel. He said that 68 per cent of Amaze’s sales come from smaller cities and 40 per cent of its customers are first-time buyers. Honda scooters Honda Motorcycles and Scooters India Ltd (HMSI) expects its scooter sales to rise once educational campuses reopen. Scooters comprised 30 per cent of its sales in pre-Covid times and the company managed to keep it at that level through the pandemic. But now as schools and colleges are set to reopen, the company hopes to increase its scooter sales. “We are waiting for schools and colleges to reopen that will push up our scooter sales,” said Yadvinder Singh Guleria, director, sales and marketing, HMSI. The company recently launched the CB200X in the 180-200cc motorcycle category.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
23-08-2021||Business||Finance ministry summons Infosys CEO after income tax portal faces fresh glitches||The finance ministry has summoned Infosys managing director and CEO Salil Parekh on Monday to explain the persistent glitches in the new income-tax portal that have made it difficult to file returns. The tax authorities have been forced to reintroduce the manual filing of forms relating to remittances, while extending the last dates for the electronic filing of forms related to intimations by pension funds and sovereign wealth funds. The new e-filing portal “www.incometax.gov.in”, developed by Infosys, had a bumpy start since its launch on June 7, and it continues to face glitches with users complaining that certain functionalities were either unavailable or working slow. On Saturday, the portal was put under emergency maintenance by Infosys, who seems unable to resolve the gremlins in the system. “Ministry of Finance has summoned Salil Parekh, MD & CEO @Infosys on 23/08/2021 to explain to hon’ble FM as to why even after 2.5 months since the launch of the new e-filing portal, glitches in the portal have not been resolved. In fact,since 21/08/2021 the portal itself is not available,” the income-tax department tweeted. Infosys India Business in a tweet late Sunday evening said that the portal has been brought to service again. “The emergency maintenance of the @IncomeTaxIndia portal has concluded and the portal is live. We regret any inconvenience caused to taxpayers,” the tweet said. Quoting the I-T department tweet, senior adviser in the ministry of information & broadcasting, Kanchan Gupta, tweeted, “This is the second major GoI project @Infosys has messed up. The first was #GST portal. Now it is #IncomeTax portal. Infosys bags GoI projects using L1 route which limits options. Clearly lacks either capacity or intent to deliver. Two ‘failures’ in a row cannot be coincidence”. In June, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had met the key officials of Infosys and highlighted the issues faced by taxpayers and tax professionals on the portal. The finance minister last week had said that the technical glitches in the new e-filing portal will largely be fixed in the next few days and that she has been constantly reminding Infosys about this. The government had disclosed last month that it had asked for suggestions in respect of the glitches on the portal online. More than 700 emails detailing over 2,000 issues, including 90 unique issues/problems in the portal were received from various stakeholders including the ICAI, tax professionals and taxpayers. “The government needs to seriously work it out or they should restart the old portal if possible. People were happy with the working of the earlier portal,” said tax advocate Narayan Jain. “The non-functioning of features in the new portal have caused immense problems to taxpayers and professionals. The government needs to take urgent steps so that compliance can be made,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
23-08-2021||Business||Non-life insurance industry reports 19.5 per cent growth in July||The non-life insurance players are concerned over their profitability inspite of a steady growth in their business in this fiscal. The non-life insurance industry or general insurers reported a 19.5 per cent growth in July with gross direct premium underwritten at Rs 20,171 crore for the month compared with Rs 16,884 crore in July 2020. Between April and July, gross direct premium underwritten by the industry was Rs 64,607 crore posting a growth of 15.5 per cent. According to insurance industry officials, the growth momentum is sustainable as it is driven by higher sales of health policies and online purchases that are easier to execute. Bhargav Dasgupta, MD and CEO of ICICI Lombard, pointed out to a shifting trend at the company’s earnings call to analysts. “Health insurance continued to show robust growth for the industry which was driven by enhanced awareness due to the pandemic and then an attitude shift of consumers towards protection buying,” Dasgupta had said. But the growth in business is not reflected in the bottomline, with several companies reporting a drop in profits during the first quarter of 2021-22. The profitability may also take a hit because of elevated claims on health policies on account of Covid and no revision in the motor third-party rates. The additional risk of externalities such as catastrophic events is a concern. According to industry data, Covid claims reported during the April-June quarter crossed 1 million compared with 0.98 million cases in the whole of last financial year. “Q1FY22 has been adversely impacted on account of the rise in claims due to the second wave of the pandemic. Given the opening of the economy and anticipated growth in the same, the industry performance is expected to improve over time,” Care Ratings said in a report. “However, given that no increase in the motor third-party premium has been announced and Covid claims are persisting (net incurred claims ratio jumped more than 1.5 times in Q1FY22 against Q1 FY21), the sector is expected to witness pressure on near-term profitability,” said the report. “The impact of the pandemic has reduced in the second quarter. However, the threat of the third wave continues to loom large. Adjusted for Covid-19 related claims the company has performed well in all operating parameters,” said Atul Sahai, chairman and managing director, New India Assurance. Heading for IPO Three insurance sector companies are entering the primary market with initial public offerings in the coming months to mop up over Rs 10,000 crore. These companies are — PB Fintech, which runs insurance brokerage Policybazaar; standalone health insurer Star Health & Allied Insurance Company; and third-party administrator Medi Assist Healthcare Service. They have already filed their draft prospectus with market regulator Sebi. Over 40 companies have hit the IPO market so far this year, raising close to Rs 70,000 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
23-08-2021||Business||India's exposure to US securities jumps over $20 billion in 3 months||India’s holding of US government securities surged more than $20 billion in just three months ended June to $220.2 billion amid rising foreign exchange reserves. Compared with June last year, when most of the economic activities were ravaged by the coronavirus pandemic, the exposure of India to the US treasury securities jumped nearly $40 billion. Latest data from the US treasury department showed that India, with holding worth $220.2 billion at the end of June this year, is the 11th largest holder of these securities while Japan has the most exposure at a little over $1.28 trillion. India has been steadily hiking its exposure to the treasury securities since March when it was at $200 billion. In April, the holding rose to $208.7 billion and then to $215.8 billion at the end of May. In February, the country’s exposure stood at $204.4 billion, a steep decline from $211.6 billion in January. The holding was at $182.7 billion at the end of June 2020. Unmesh Kulkarni, managing director senior adviser at wealth management major Julius Baer India, said the rise in India’s exposure to the US treasuries needs to be seen in the context of the continuous build-up of the country’s forex reserves. “US treasury yields, after bottoming out around the middle of last year and rising steadily thereafter, have been on a decline since May 2021, while the RBI has been gradually raising its exposure since April 2021,” he said. Forex reserves of India stood at $619.36 billion in the week ended August 13. Kulkarni noted that domestic liquidity in the Indian money markets has been ruling high, and RBI has been trying to normalise the liquidity situation through variable rate reverse repo auctions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
23-08-2021||Business||IBA moves RBI seeking licence to set up Rs 6,000-crore NARCL||The Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) has moved an application to the Reserve Bank of India seeking a licence to set up Rs 6,000-crore National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd (NARCL), or bad bank, according to sources. NARCL was incorporated last month in Mumbai with the Registrar of Companies. According to sources, after mobilising an initial capital of Rs 100 crore and fulfilling other legal formalities, the company has approached the RBI to get a licence to undertake the asset reconstruction business. In 2017, the RBI raised the capital requirement to Rs 100 crore from the earlier level of Rs 2 crore, keeping in mind the higher amount of cash required to buy bad loans. The RBI has its process and procedure for granting licence for such a business, sources said, adding, it could take the next few weeks to obtain licence from the regulator. The RBI’s approval could come either in September or October, sources added. Legal consultant AZB & Partners has been engaged to seek various regulatory approvals and fulfilling other legal formalities. The IBA, entrusted with the task of setting up a bad bank, has put a preliminary board for NARCL in place. The company has hired P. M. Nair, a stressed assets expert from the State Bank of India (SBI), as the managing director. The other directors on the board are IBA chief executive Sunil Mehta, SBI deputy managing director S. S. Nair and Canara Bank’s chief general manager Ajit Krishnan Nair. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Budget 2021-22, announced that the high level of provisioning by public sector banks of their stressed assets calls for measures to clean up bank books. “An Asset Reconstruction Company Limited and Asset Management Company would be set up to consolidate and take over the existing stressed debt,” she had said in the budget speech. It will manage and dispose the assets to alternative investment funds and other potential investors for eventual value realisation, she had said. Last year, the IBA made a proposal for the creation of a bad bank for the swift resolution of non-performing assets. The government accepted the proposal and decided to go for an asset reconstruction company and asset management company model in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
23-08-2021||Business||Ways to push through obstacles for first time home buyer||Indians place a lot of value on home ownership. People in Calcutta are right up there when it comes to home ownership aspirations, the 2021 BankBazaar Aspiration Index has revealed. However, the survey also reveals the above-average difficulties residents of the city face in fulfilling this aspiration. What are those difficulties? How can they be overcome? The survey The aspiration index is an annual survey of India’s aspirations seen through the lens of personal finance. It asks pan-India respondents aged 22-45, who have an income of Rs 30,000 or more and who’ve done at least one digital transaction recently, questions about their goals. The aspirations — health, wealth, relationship, fame, and personal growth — subsume 21 financial or non-financial goals such as savings and investing for children, home ownership, or eating a nutritious diet. Three questions are asked about each goal: how important the goal is to you, how confident are you of achieving it, and what your current preparedness for it is. What Calcutta said In 2021, Calcutta’s aspirations are along the lines of India’s broader aspirations. Pan-India, the three most important goals are investing and saving for children’s education, to have long-lasting friendships, and home ownership. The same applied to the respondents in Calcutta. However, the data from Calcutta suggests home ownership is more difficult here compared with the rest of India. The readiness gap Home ownership scored 91.4 on importance for the people of Calcutta. On confidence about fulfilment, Calcutta scored 88.6. But for current preparedness, Calcutta scored a much lower 81.0. The average preparedness score for the home ownership goal is 84.4 in metros and 87.1 in non-metros. For Calcutta, there’s a very large gap of 10.4 points between the importance of an aspiration and its preparedness. The all-India readiness gap for home ownership was a much lower 6.4. The average readiness gap for all 21 goals was 4.3 compared with a much better 3.2 for Calcutta. This suggests Calcutta is perceived to be fulfilling its aspirations more easily than other cities, except when it comes to wealth goals such as home ownership. In fact, for Calcutta, of the five goals where the readiness gap was the largest, there were three wealth goals: saving for early retirement and travelling around the globe being the other two. Roadblocks to wealth goals The respondents were presented with a set of roadblocks between them and their aspirations. Of these, Calcutta ranked the highest on two roadblocks. A massive 52 per cent from the city said they were constrained by high costs of living. Twenty two per cent said they had difficulties in getting loans and credit cards. Further, 41 per cent pointed at limited savings, and another 36 per cent said their current health issues posed problems. Calcutta fared much better than the other cities on the following financial roadblocks: limited savings (41 per cent), family responsibilities (49 per cent) and insufficient salary (31 per cent). Solving the challenges To a large extent, Calcutta’s financial challenges are also the challenges faced by other cities. However, in the above analysis, a dichotomy emerges: that of limited savings despite sufficient income. Increasing savings while balancing other commitments will hopefully lead to home ownership. A typical home will require anywhere between 20 per cent and 40 per cent of self-contribution. Aggressive savings will help raise this capital. Access to credit We are in a time where credit is easily available though there are barriers to credit access. For the salaried with credit scores over 750, no borrowing option is off limit. In fact, the lowest interest rates and most attractive loan offers are reserved for those with scores above 750. On the other hand, those with lower credit and income profiles will struggle getting the same offers and may have to pay much higher interest on their borrowings. Therefore, taking control of one’s home loan eligibility is critical. First, one’s credit score needs to be strong. This is directly in the borrower’s control. Disciplined, judicious use of small credit can easily lead to a score of 750 over time, allowing you to borrow big for your home. Second, women are given preferential rates on home loans. Having a female co-borrower in your home purchase can, therefore, help. Start small Your first home need not be the home of your dreams. You could start small. When finances permit, you may upgrade to a better option. A smaller home, or at least one on a small budget, would be easier on your finances. It is also easier to get a higher loan-to-value on smaller properties, with some banks prepared to finance as much as 90 per cent of the cost compared with only 75 per cent on costlier properties. A smaller loan is also easier to pay off as your income increases with time while your EMIs remain constant. Avoid financial accidents Do not let the vagaries of life disturb the pursuit of your aspiration. Over a third of Calcutta’s respondents reported health-related financial challenges. A pandemic has the propensity to hurt your whole family, leaving you with very large expenses. The best way to control these expenses would be by buying a robust health insurance policy. It would ensure that the pursuit of your aspiration isn’t harmed and you don’t have to part with your precious savings in an emergency. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
