24-08-2021||Business||Govt mulls permitting foreign direct investment in LIC||The government is mulling allowing foreign direct investment (FDI) in the country's largest insurer LIC, a move which would help overseas investors take part in the company's proposed mega IPO, sources said. The proposal is under discussion between the Department of Financial Services and Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM). "Discussions have been going on for the proposal for the last few weeks. It would also go for inter-ministerial discussions and would also require Cabinet nod," a source said. According to the current FDI policy, 74 per cent foreign investment is permitted under the automatic route in the insurance sector. However, these rules do not apply to the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), which is administered through a separate LIC Act. As per Sebi rules, both FPI and FDI are permitted under public offer. However, sources said since LIC Act has no provision for foreign investments, there is a need to align the proposed LIC IPO with Sebi norms regarding foreign investor participation. The Cabinet had in July approved the initial public offering (IPO) of LIC. The DIPAM had in January appointed actuarial firm Milliman Advisors LLP India to assess the embedded value of LIC ahead of the IPO, which is touted to be the biggest public issue in Indian corporate history. The government expects to come out with the LIC IPO by the end of current fiscal. Up to 10 per cent of the issue size would be reserved for policyholders. The government has already brought in the required legislative amendments in the LIC Act for the proposed IPO. Deloitte and SBI Caps have been appointed as pre-IPO transaction advisors. As many as 16 merchant bankers are in the race to manage the mega initial public offering. These bankers will be making a presentation before DIPAM during the week. Seven international bankers, including BNP Paribas, Citigroup Global Markets India and DSP Merrill Lynch Ltd (now known as BofA Securities), will make presentations. The listing of LIC will be crucial for the government to meet its disinvestment target. The government aims to mop up Rs 1.75 lakh crore in the current fiscal from minority stake sales and privatisation. Of the Rs 1.75 lakh crore, Rs 1 lakh crore is to come from selling the government's stakes in public sector banks and financial institutions. The remaining Rs 75,000 crore would come as CPSE disinvestment receipts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
24-08-2021||Business||FM Nirmala Sitharaman to meet CEOs of public sector banks on Wednesday||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will meet heads of public sector banks (PSBs) on Wednesday to review the financial performance of the lenders and progress made by them in supporting the pandemic-hit economy, sources said. The meeting with MD and CEOs of PSBs assumes significance given the importance of the banking sector in generating demand and boosting consumption. Recently, the finance minister had said the government is ready to do everything required to revive and support economic growth hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. The meeting is expected to take stock of the banking sector and progress on the restructuring 2.0 scheme announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the sources said, adding that banks may be nudged to push loan growth in productive sectors. The revamped Rs 4.5 lakh crore Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) would also be reviewed during the meeting likely to be held in Mumbai, the sources said. Besides, the finance minister is expected to take stock of the bad loans or non-performing assets (NPAs) situation, and discuss various recovery measures by banks, they said. As a result of the government's strategy of recognition, resolution, recapitalisation and reforms, NPAs have shown a declining trend, from Rs 7,39,541 crore on March 31, 2019 to Rs 6,78,317 crore on March 31, 2020 and further to Rs 6,16,616 crore as on March 31, 2021 (provisional data). At the same time, comprehensive steps were taken to control and to effect recovery in NPAs, which enabled PSBs to recover Rs 5,01,479 crore over the last six financial years, the government informed Parliament recently. Besides, Sitharaman is expected to declare the results of Ease 3.0 Index for 2020-21, they said, adding that PSBs would be rated on various indexes for the year. Launched in January 2018, Enhanced Access and Service Excellence (Ease) is the common reform agenda for all public sector banks aimed at institutionalising clean and smart banking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||Delhi's The Ashok, Hotel Samrat in Centre's monetisation plan ||The sprawling "The Ashok" 5-star hotel in the heart of the national capital is planned to be leased out to private operators as part of the government's ambitious target of monetising under-utilised public sector assets. The Ashok and the adjacent Hotel Samrat are among the eight ITDC properties that have been listed in the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) released by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC), a PSU under the Tourism Ministry, runs hotels, restaurants at various places for tourists, besides providing transport facilities. The present network of ITDC consists of four Ashok Group of Hotels, four Joint Venture Hotels, seven transport units part of the travel and tourism infrastructure, 14 Duty-Free Shops at Seaports, one sound and light show, and four catering outlets. As per the monetisation plan, ITDC would divest Hotel Ranchi Ashok in Ranchi and Hotel Nilachal in Puri. Strategically located New Delhi's Hotel Ashok would be monetised by way of a sub-lease, while Hotel Samrat would be given to private players under O&M (Operation & Maintenance) agreement. Hotel Pondicherry Ashok in Puducherry would be monetised through joint leasing, while for Hotel Kalinga Ashok in Bhubaneswar and Hotel Jammu Ashok in Jammu O&M contract model will be followed. For ITDC's Anandpur Sahib Hotel would be privatised along with transfer of ownership. "All 8 hotel assets of ITDC have been considered for monetisation during the financial year 2022 to 2025. Long-term leasing, divestment, long term OMT contract may be explored as potential models for monetisation to be ascertained on a case to case basis as per detailed asset-level due diligence," said the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) document. The Ashok group of hotels is the flagship hotel chain under ITDC which has a brand value developed over the last 40-50 years and has been the centrestage for all government events organised by various ministries and public sector entities, the document said, adding there is a potential to leverage the brand value of Ashok Group. ITDC chain of hotels are placed at 125 acres of land parcels spanning across major cities across the country that have not been utilised to their maximum potential and hence monetising them would act as government push for under-utilised assets. ITDC hotels have the location advantage as the majority of the hotels are placed at the heart of the city in prime locations. Sitharaman on Monday had unveiled a Rs 6 lakh crore NMP outlining the brownfield infrastructure assets would be monetised through fiscal 2025. Ownership control in these assets would, however, be retained with the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end at fresh lifetime highs||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 403 points to end at a fresh record on Tuesday, driven by gains in index majors HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Finserv amid a positive trend in global equities. The 30-share index ended 403.19 points or 0.73 per cent higher at its lifetime peak of 55,958.98. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 128.15 points or 0.78 per cent to its all-time closing high of 16,624.60. Bajaj Finserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring around 8 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Finance, HDFC Bank and SBI. On the other hand, Nestle India, Infosys, HDFC and HCL Tech were among the laggards. "Strong rebound in broader markets along with favourable global cues bolstered optimism in Dalal Street, led by metal, banking and realty stocks," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Metal stocks led the rally as value-buying was witnessed in the sector after deep sell-off during the past four trading sessions due to weak iron ore futures across the globe, he noted. Further, the USFDA granted full approval to the COVID-19 vaccine by Pfizer and BioNTech, which boosted hopes of faster inoculations, Nair added. Meanwhile, experts said market sentiment was also bolstered after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday unveiled an ambitious Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) that included unlocking value by involving private companies across infrastructure sectors -- from passenger trains and railway stations to airports, roads and stadiums. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with strong gains. Equities in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.14 per cent to USD 69.15 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 100 points in early trade on positive global cues||Equity benchmark Sensex rose over 100 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, Tata Steel and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global equities.  The 30-share index was trading 148.72 points or 0.27 per cent higher at 55,704.51, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 49.15 points or 0.30 per cent to 16,545.60.  Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, NTPC, L&T, PowerGrid, IndusInd Bank and UltraTech Cement.  On the other hand, Maruti, Asian Paints, Kotak Bank and HDFC were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 226.47 points or 0.41 per cent higher at 55,555.79, and Nifty rose 45.95 points or 0.28 per cent to 16,496.45.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,363.36 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.  Domestic equities look to be good as of now. Benchmark indices witnessed high volatility in recent period especially after FOMC meeting minutes, which essentially indicates that liquidity-driven market might come to an end, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Notably, the minutes of the RBI's Monetary Policy Committee meeting held at the beginning of this month continues to show its commitment to ensuring policy support to sustain economic recovery despite select members showing some apprehensions about high inflation and pitching for gradual normalisation in ultra-loose monetary policy, he stated.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with strong gains in mid-session deals.  US equities recovered sharply as investors focused on the likelihood of dovish tone from Federal Reserve Chairman in the Jackson Hole Symposium later this week, Modi said.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.23 per cent to USD 68.53 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business|| Five out of the eight IPOs in August trading below their issue prices||Five out of the eight initial public offers (IPOs) which mopped up Rs 13,857.07 crore in August are trading below their issue prices,  raising concerns if the big party around public issues is over, albeit temporarily. Three out of them started trading with a cut on their listing days while two others slipped below their issue prices in subsequent sessions. In contrast, 24 out of the 27 issues that hit the market between January 1 and July 31 are in the green and all of them have showered investors with varied degrees of gains. Market mandarins say the recent correction in the mid and small cap space, in which most of these IPO stocks belong, have played spoilsport. Moreover, a possibility that central banks across the world, especially the Federal Reserve, may taper the liquidity flow into the financial system has spooked the markets in India and elsewhere. “Markets hate uncertainty. And there is now uncertainty on what the Fed might do,” says Sudip Bandyopadhyay, group chairman of Inditarde Capital. Some clues could be forthcoming when Fed chairman Jerome Powell speaks on Friday after a virtual internal meeting which usually takes place at Jackson Hole, Wyoming. A swell of capital has fuelled a global equity rally even though the real economies struggled under Covid impact. Bandyopadhyay believes the hyper exuberance over IPOs may be over as valuations have become a concern. Pranav Haldea, managing director of Prime Database, concurs. While he feels valuations tend to become more expensive towards the latter stage of an IPO cycle, he disagrees that they were too pricey. “If an IPO was expensive, it would simply not have found enough buyers,” he argues. Siddhartha Khemka, head of (retail research, broking and distribution) of Motilal Oswal Financial Services, says the market usually oscillates between greed and fear and at present, fear has overpowered greed. “It is not that issues in the recent past were not richly valued. But they are still oversubscribed multiple times and doled out handsome listing gains,” Khemka points out. Market watchers say the appetite for fresh papers has come down, especially in the high net worth (HNI) segment, who were borrowing from NBFCs to apply for IPOs. “Recent IPOs gave good listing gains, resulting in higher retail investors expectations. They are looking for quick returns. However, one needs to be selective in IPOs,” says Shrikant Chouhan, who is an executive vice-president at Kotak Securities. However, Arun Kejriwal, founder of Kejriwal Research and Investment Services, warns that if the valuations don’t correct, there is a possibility that issues could fail at the IPO level. However, a section of experts point out that public memory is short, after all. “Let one big IPO be a success and the party will start again,” Khemka quips. Study stats Almost 52 per cent of IPO investors sold shares on the listing day in the first four months of this fiscal while another 20 per cent sold the allotted shares within the first week of listing, an analysis by Motilal Oswal Financial Services showed. Around 64 per cent of the IPO clients applied for at least two such public issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||HDFC Bank to win back credit card market||The battle for credit cards is ready to break out again after the embargo on new card issuances by HDFC Bank was lifted last week. The private sector lender on Monday announced an aggressive plan to add 5 lakh credit cards to its portfolio every month beginning February 2022. “Over the next three to four quarters, our aim is to regain the market share we have lost,” said Parag Rao, head of payments, consumer finance, digital banking and IT, HDFC Bank. The bank’s market share in credit card outstanding has shrunk by 200 basis points to 23.6 per cent since December last year when the embargo was imposed. But it still retains its pre-eminent position with a base of 1.48 crore credit card outstanding as of June 2021. After HDFC Bank, SBI has a market share of 19.2 per cent followed by ICICI Bank at 17.6 per cent. The bank has identified over 20 initiatives to drive its aggressive growth plan. These include launch of co-branded credit cards with corporates across pharma, travel, FMCG, hospitality, telecom and fintech sectors. The bank has also revamped its existing range of cards over the past nine months and is aiming at strategic partnerships with new companies. Rao said there is significant headroom to grow within the bank’s existing liability base of six crore customers. “Right from the inception of the business, we have maintained that a large portion of our portfolio will always be our internal bank customers who have at least a liability relationship with us. That strategy continues. A significant portion of the new customers acquired will come from our existing liability base,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||Sixteen merchant bankers apply for LIC IPO||Sixteen merchant bankers are in the fray to manage the mega IPO of Life Insurance Corporation. The bankers will be making  presentations before the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) over the next two days — August 24 and 25. Among those in the fray, seven international bankers, including BNP Paribas, Citigroup Global Markets India and DSP Merrill Lynch Ltd (now known as BofA Securities), will make their presentations on Tuesday, according to a circular by Dipam. Other bankers to make their presentations on Tuesday are Goldman Sachs (India) Securities, HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India), JP Morgan India, Nomura Financial Advisory and Securities (India). On Wednesday, nine domestic bankers, including Axis Capital Ltd, DAM Capital Advisors Ltd, HDFC Bank Ltd, ICICI Securities Ltd and IIFL Securities Ltd, will make their presentations. Merchant bankers will be required to structure the IPO according to Sebi’s prevailing framework. They will also be required to undertake due diligence activities and prepare the draft red herring prospectus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||Govt sets September 15 for Infosys to resolve I-T portal glitches||The government has set a deadline of September 15 for Infosys to resolve the glitches faced by taxpayers in the new income tax filing portal. Tax experts said the government should extend the statutory return filing timelines and should not charge penal interest for the delay in filing because of the technical glitches in the portal. Some of the statutory tax filing return  deadlines are expiring by the end of this month. During her meeting with Infosys CEO Salil Parekh on Monday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman expressed the government’s “deep disappointment and concern’’ over the continuing glitches in the new income tax filing portal, even two months after it went live. Sitharaman had summoned Parekh at her office here to know the reasons for not resolving the snags in the portal. A statement issued by the income tax department said that during the meeting the finance minister emphasised the need to put in more resources and efforts on the part of Infosys so that the much delayed delivery of agreed services is ensured. Parekh explained that he and his team are doing everything to ensure the smooth functioning of the portal. Further, he said, over 750 team members are working on this project and Pravin Rao, COO of Infosys, was personally overseeing this project. Tax expert Narayan Jain said, “It is unfortunate that the income tax portal launched on June 7, 2021, is still not properly working. If Infosys was unable to provide all the features/functionalities before its scheduled launch on June 7, then its launch itself was wrong/erratic. The vendors have belied the trust of the government, taxpayers as well as tax professionals.” “The government should extend timelines for furnishing income tax returns and for all other compliances by allowing adequate time,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||Arcelor-Mittal-Nippon Steel India to bid for state-owned Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited||Arcelor-Mittal-Nippon Steel India is planning to bid for state-owned steel maker Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL)  — which has already attracted the interest of Tata Steel, according to a source. RINL is a special steel making company based in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. The company, under the administrative control of the ministry of steel, operates a 7.3 million tonne (mt) plant in the state. “Arcelor-Nippon Steel India is exploring this option,” the source said while replying to a question if the company would be interested in divestment-bound RINL. An email query sent to Arcelor-Nippon Steel India remained unanswered. Tata Steel CEO and managing director T.V. Narendran has recently said his company is interested in acquiring RINL as the plant is strategically located on the eastern coast and its acquisition will give it more access to the South East Asian markets, where the company already has a presence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||CCI fines Maruti Suzuki India Rs 200 crore for anti-competitive practices||India’s antitrust regulator has fined Maruti Suzuki, the country’s biggest car maker, Rs 200 crore for anti-competitive practices related to how it forced dealers to discount cars, the watchdog said in an order on Monday. The Competition Commission of India (CCI) in 2019 started looking into allegations that Maruti forces its dealers to limit the discounts they offer, effectively stifling competition among them and harming consumers who could have benefited from lower prices if dealers operated freely. In an order, issued after an investigation that began in July 2019, the CCI asked Maruti to “cease and desist” from indulging in such practices and asked the company to deposit the fine within 60 days. Maruti, which sells one in every two cars in India and is majority-owned by Japan’s Suzuki Motor Corp, said in a statement it is examining the order and will take appropriate actions under law. “Maruti had a ‘Discount Control Policy’ in place whereby the dealers were discouraged from giving extra discounts or freebies to the consumers beyond what was permitted by Maruti. If a dealer wanted to offer additional discounts, prior approval of Maruti was mandatory. “Any dealer found violating the policy was threatened with the imposition of penalty, not only on the dealership but also on individuals, including direct sales executive, regional manager, showroom manager and team leader,” CCI said. Maruti did not immediately respond to a request for comment. However, the car maker had told the regulator during the probe that there was no discount control policy and dealers were free to offer any discounts they wished to their customers, the order said. The CCI order, however, contained extracts of several emails exchanged between dealers and Maruti officials, which made it “evident that the Discount Control Policy was controlled” by Maruti and not its dealers. To enforce the policy, the watchdog said the company appointed ‘Mystery Shopping Agencies’ who would pose as customers to find out if any additional discounts were being offered to customers. Carmakers at times set a limit on discounts its dealers offer to prevent price wars among them, but Indian law says the practice, described as ‘resale price maintenance’ is prohibited if it adversely impacts competition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||Centre to offer incentives to states to monetise their assets||The Modi government has said it would offer incentives to states to monetise their assets, which is over and above the Rs 6 lakh crore NMP programme. “The central government will also incentivise states to monetise their public assets,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. The incentive is in the form of a 50-year interest free loan, with Rs 5,000-crore allocated in the present budget. “If the states divest a PSU and raise funds, the government will give them 100 per cent of that amount as financial assistance. If they monetise the asset, the government will give them 33 per cent of that amount. If states list a public company in the stock markets and raise funds, the government will give them 50 per cent of that amount,” Sitharaman added. A Niti Aayog document on the national monetisation plan (NMP) said in the case of monetisation, the sum will be deposited in state consolidated funds or in the account of state public sector enterprises owning the assets. The allocation and disbursement is subject to the realised amount being necessarily used for capital expenditure by states. “Funds provided to the states under the scheme by the Government of India shall be used for new and ongoing capital projects, for long term benefit to the state.” “The funds may also be used for settling pending bills in ongoing capital projects,” the report said. NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said nodal officers have been appointed by 26 states and Union Territories, and four states have created their pipeline of assets for monetisation. “We are with the states, we want to work together with the states...central ministries now only need to gear up towards taking this initiative forward,” said Kant. He said some storied investors such as Blackstone, Blackrock and Macquerie have shown interest in the projects of the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
24-08-2021||Business||Government to monetise Rs 6 lakh crore worth of central assets||The Centre plans to monetise Rs 6 lakh crore (trillion) worth of central assets over the next four years under a plan announced earlier in the 2021-22 budget to boost infrastructure spending and spur economic growth in Asia’s third-biggest economy. A cornucopia of government assets have been lined up for monetisation — from gas pipelines, roads and warehousing facilities to airports, railway stations, railway colonies, passenger trains and even stadiums. A Niti Aayog document on the roadmap for the National Monetisation Plan (NMP) said successful bidders for the assets would either pay upfront or invest over a longer period of time. The Centre plans to use the funds collected from the exercise for further public investments. “The strategic objective of the programme is to unlock the value of investments in brownfield public sector assets by tapping institutional and long-term patient capital which can thereafter be leveraged for further public investments,” Niti Aayog chief executive Amitabh Kant said. The top five infrastructure sectors  estimated by the government for their potential for monetisation are roads, railways, power, oil and gas pipelines, and telecommunication. The government is aiming to raise Rs 88,000 crore through asset monetisation in the current fiscal, Rs 1.6 lakh crore in 2022-23, Rs 1.8 lakh crore in 2023-24 and Rs 1.6 lakh crore in 2024-25. Kant said a transparent mechanism would achieve a “fair value”. Under the plan, private companies can invest in projects for a fixed return using the InvIT route as well as operate and develop the assets for a certain period before transferring it back to the government agency. Some assets such as warehouses and stadiums can also be given on a long-term lease for operations. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the programme would give an impetus to economic growth. Stating that there is no transfer of ownership or land, she said “the NMP talks about brownfield infra assets where investments have already been made, where there is a completed asset which is either languishing or which is remaining not fully monetised or which is remaining underutilised”. “So, by bringing in private participation into this, you are going to be able to monetise it better, and with whatever resources you obtain through the monetisation, you will be able to put in further investment into infrastructure,” she said. “Let there not be any confusion. The government is not selling away. These are brownfield assets which will still be under government ownership. They would come back to the government after the end of the lease period,” the minister added. Amit Kapur, joint managing partner, J. Sagar Associates, said: “What is on offer is a clutch of concession formats permitting the concessionaire to build/refurbish and operate the asset with defined risk and performance obligations, without any transfer of title. The success of the offering would depend on adopting fair risk and reward allocation, as also efficiency of the bid process followed. Abhaya Agarwal, partner, infrastructure practice, EY India said “success of the plan could also enable recycling of funds which will be critical for revival of the infrastructure investment in India”. He said meticulous planning, project packaging, and co-ordination will be needed to address the underlying structural and legacy issues. “It would be important for the government to get the first few projects in each sector right to set the ball rolling in the right direction.’’ Earlier this year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration announced a privatisation plan which would leave government ownership only in a few critical sectors. Freight corridor The Niti Aayog study also referred to the possibility of monetising stretches of the eastern dedicated freight corridor. As much as 2,843km of the freight corridor can be monetised, though it is yet to finalise any stretch. The plan hints at farming out Bengal’s famous Toy Train — the heritage Darjeeling Hill Railway system. Similar plans are afoot  for the Kalka-Shimla line, Nilgiri mountain railway and the Neral-Matheran railway. “The station and the adjoining real estate on the railway land may be bundled along with train operations to bring in viability and commercial attractiveness,” the Niti Aayog document said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
