25-08-2021||Business||Does Rahul Gandhi even understand the monetisation move, asks Nirmala Sitharaman||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday launched a scathing attack on those criticising the Rs 6 lakh crore monetisation plan, wondering if Congress leader Rahul Gandhi even understands what such a move entails. Speaking to reporters in the financial capital, Sitharaman said it is Congress that received kickbacks by selling resources such as land and mines. She reminded that the governments headed by the Congress raised Rs 8,000 crore by monetising the Mumbai-Pune expressway, and in 2008, it was the UPA government that floated the request for proposal to lease out New Delhi Railway Station. Recalling an incident where Gandhi tore off an ordinance he didn't agree with, Sitharaman questioned why he didn't tear off the RFP. "If he indeed is against monetisation, why was the RFP on the monetisation of NDLS torn to pieces by Rahul Gandhi? And if this is monetisation, did they sell off the New Delhi railway station? Is it owned by jijaji (brother in law) now? Does he understand what is monetisation," she asked. Seeking to address concerns on cronyism and sell-offs of assets created over 70 years, Sitharaman reminded the Congress of the Commonwealth games. "What did happen during CWG? Within one CWG, they finished all that which can be creamed out into the accounts of their cronies," she said. Sitharaman reiterated that the asset monetisation plan does not involve selling off assets, and the assets will be handed back to the government. "They are brownfield assets which are completed but under-utilised. If the government has to utilise it better, it has to be through monetisation process wherein it will be put to effective use with a bit more addition to spruce it up to bring it up to utilisation," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
25-08-2021||Business||Markets end flat, Nifty scales fresh closing peak||Equity benchmark Sensex ended on a flat note after scaling a new lifetime peak on Wednesday amid mixed cues from global markets. After touching its all-time high of 56,198.13 in early trade, the 30-share index ended 14.77 points or 0.03 per cent lower at 55,944.21. The broader NSE Nifty, however, ended 10.05 points or 0.06 per cent higher at its new closing record of 16,634.65. It touched an all-time high of 16,712.45 during the day. TCS was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by Infosys, Reliance Industries, HUL, Nestle India and ITC. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Titan, Maruti, Bharti Airtel and Tata Steel were among the laggards. "Domestic equities traded in a range bound ahead of futures and options (F&O) expiry. Barring IT, metal and FMCG, most sectoral indices turned red towards the final session of the day," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Investors continued to remain upbeat on IT stocks in the backdrop of sustained earnings visibility, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo ended in the red, while Shanghai and Seoul were positive. Equities in Europe were also trading on a mixed note in afternoon trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.36 per cent to USD 70.16 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
25-08-2021||Business||Govt only talked about supporting automobile industry, no step taken: Maruti Suzuki chief||Maruti Suzuki India Chairman RC Bhargava on Wednesday said that while a lot of statements were made by government officials supporting the automobile industry, but when it comes to taking actual steps nothing has really happened. Speaking at industry body SIAM's 61st Annual Convention, the veteran industry leader noted that the automobile sector in the country was at a very crucial juncture with declining fortunes in the last few years and it would not revive either with conventional engine vehicles, CNG, biofuels or EVs, unless the question of affordability of cars for the customer is addressed. "We have been going through a situation where this industry has been declining over a long period of time. And despite various very important people in government, we just heard Mr. Amitabh Kant (NITI Aayog CEO)... There have been a lot of statements made about the importance of the automobile industry. But in terms of concrete actions, which would reverse the decline in trend, I haven't seen any action on the ground," Bhargava said. "I am afraid words don't get us very much in the terms of extra sales but you need concrete action to make this happen," Bhargava noted. He pondered whether this kind of outlook for the industry culminates from the old belief that car industry and passenger cars were a luxury product, to be owned only by the rich. "Because if the mindsets have changed, I think people planners, economists, thinkers, writers, journalists, everybody should have been worried long ago about what was happening to the growth of the automobile industry....," he said. The figures are there for everybody to see but no measures taken to rectify the situation. "I am sorry to say that there are very few steps taken that could reverse this trend. And that is what worries me," he noted. Bhargava stated that the car industry in India actually became a model industry and started growing after Maruti came into existence. "The change in policy to set up a public sector company to make cars was not because there was a change of thinking amongst the planners that we need a car industry to grow our economy to grow manufacturing, like what happened in the United States or in the UK, or Germany or France or Italy, or Japan or Korea or even China, that kind of thing did not happen," he noted. Bhargava noted that the auto industry has developed so much because the people in this country have a great aspiration to own a car, and not because there was any deliberate policy which led this to happen. "And which again, I think supports my view that the change in the mindset of planners about the importance of the car industry and generally of the automobile industry, remains confined to words and doesn't get translated into action. "The situation today is that if we take into account what has happened in the last 18 months of COVID, already, the industry actually is on a decline if you look at the last five years, and how to reverse this," he said. Bhargava said he supports the fact that the Indian customers should get safe and clean vehicles. "To get those clean vehicles, if we follow all the European standards with the costs which are involved in those times, how do we make it affordable with a much lower income level which exists," he questioned. Bhargava said he totally supported the view put forth by Amitabh Kant about the importance of moving to electrification. "I totally agree that we have to move to electrification, there's no question. But along with a decision to move for electrification, again, the whole question of affordability of the EVs and I'm talking about four-wheelers at the moment comes into question," he stated. Bhargava said that if the auto industry is to drive the economy and the manufacturing sector, the penetration of cars in India has to move from 25 or 30 per 1,000 to even 200 per 1,000. It requires millions of cars to be made every year. "Are we sure that we have enough customers in India who have the means to buy these millions of cars every year? Is income going up that fast? Are jobs growing up that fast? I think those aspects are often ignored when we make our plans of what we are going to do and what's going to happen," he noted. "We have always forgotten customers in the centralised planning system because the customer didn't matter... And we still don't think of the customers when we plan. Will the customers be able to afford this product or not?," Bhargava said. Giving an example, he said that Maruti Suzuki had to do away with the Maruti 800 model, which drove the motorisation of India, because of new safety regulations. He further said: "We have seen that small increases like what happened two years ago, and small increases in price led to fall in the growth of the car market. The new regulations for BS-VI, have added 22,000 rupees to a car again, making the car unaffordable". Even before the COVID in 2019-20, the car market declined in India by 18 per cent, Bhargava said. "I don't think the car industry would revive either with ICEs or with the CNG and biofuels or EVs unless we address the question of affordability of cars for the customer," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
25-08-2021||Business||Centre launches programme to support IT start-ups||The government on Wednesday launched a programme to support 300 IT start-ups under which it will provide seed funding, mentorship and market access with a view to creating 100 unicorns out of the selected start-ups. Ministry of Electronics and IT special secretary Jyoti Arora said that the concept of the Startup Accelerator of MeitY for Product Innovation, Development & Growth (SAMRIDH) has been developed on the lines of silicon valley based accelerator YCombinator. IT and Telecom Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said that he has mentored over 20 start-ups earlier and understands the need of mentoring them during the most important part of their journey when their idea is getting converted into products. He said the lack of funds for start-ups is not a big issue. "Lack of getting the idea into a real product or lack of collecting the skill sets which are needed to convert an idea into an enterprise is a bigger challenge for most of the start-ups. If we are able to start-up in that journey then probably our value addition will be huge," Vaishnaw said. Under the Samridh programme, the Meity will provide seed funds of up to Rs 40 lakh for the selected start-ups and mentorship for six months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
25-08-2021||Business||Sitharaman asks banks to push for one district, one product agenda||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said she has requested banks to work with all state governments to push the one district, one product' agenda. Banks have also been requested to have interaction with export promotion agencies, chambers of commerce and industry to understand and address the requirement of exporters in a timely manner, Sitharaman said while addressing media here on Wednesday. The Finance Minister, who is on a two-day visit to the financial capital, said between public sector banks, there should be some kind of a simple approach so that exporters are not made to run between one bank to another scouting for a better offer. During the day, she met heads of public sector banks (PSBs) to review their financial performance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
25-08-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points to hit fresh high||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points to scale a fresh intra-day record in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank.  After touching a lifetime high of 56,188.49 in the opening session, the 30-share index was trading 211.23 points or 0.38 per cent higher at 56,170.21. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 67.75 points or 0.41 per cent to 16,692.35.  Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 1 per cent, followed by NTPC, L&T, HDFC, Nestle India, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Finserv.  On the other hand, Titan, Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech, Asian Paints and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 403.19 points or 0.73 per cent higher at its lifetime peak of 55,958.98, and Nifty surged 128.15 points or 0.78 per cent to its all-time closing high of 16,624.60.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,644.91 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.  "The resilience in global equities continues with the Nasdaq and S&P 500 closing at fresh record highs. In India market momentum and sectoral rotation are taking the indices higher, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.  The Jackson Hole Symposium and the US Fed chief's commentary expected on August 27, will be keenly watched by global markets. If the Fed commentary indicates an earlier-than-expected tapering, FIIs are likely to press further sales. Investors may wait and watch, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading in the red in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was positive.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.62 per cent to USD 69.97 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||Business|| Simple Energy to raise funds to tune of $100 million||Bangalore-based EV maker Simple Energy on Tuesday announced its plans to raise funds to the tune of $100 million in Series A funding. The startup, which earlier this month launched its flagship electric scooter, Simple One, also said it is in talks with some global investors for this round, which is expected to be completed by later this year. Simple Energy eyes to become a unicorn firm as the valuation would increase post-closing Series A, it said in a release. The company has been aggressive about its expansion plans and has raised a total sum of $15 million before the launch, Simple Energy said. Khatabook raises $100m Khatabook on Tuesday said it has raised $100 million (about Rs 741 crore) in a funding round led by Tribe Capital and Moore Strategic Ventures (MSV) that valued the fintech company at close to $600 million. The series C round — which was oversubscribed — also saw participation from Alkeon Capital, with continued investment participation from B Capital Group, Sequoia Capital, Tencent, RTP Ventures, Unilever Ventures, and Better Capital, a statement said. In addition, Balaji Srinivasan and Sriram Krishnan participated as independent investors, among others, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||Business||Exporters feel let down by RoDTEP rates||Exporters who are disappointed with Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP) rates and product exclusion have asked the commerce ministry to revisit it. Sources have indicated that the issue was flagged by the industry and exporters during the recent interaction with  commerce minister Piyush Goyal. He had reportedly informed them that sectors including steel and pharma could be considered to be part of the RoDTEP. Goyal had, however, said that higher rates would lead the country being dragged to the WTO. He urged the industry to look at the RoDTEP not as an export incentive but as a remission of duties and taxes. The exporters’ body FIEO in its letter has pointed out that when the RoDTEP Scheme was announced on January 1, iron & steel, pharmaceuticals and chemicals were not in the excluded categories. “Moreover, all the exporters of the product groups have made shipments under the RoDTEP and also have the notional RoDTEP rates in their shipping bills,” the letter said. The pricing of the export items has been done assuming that they would get RoDTEP benefits. Now if these categories will not get RoDTEP benefit, their profits may take a hit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||Business||Optiemus Electronics pact with iPhone maker ||Home-grown mobile phone contract manufacturer Optiemus Electronics Limited (OEL) on Tuesday said it will partner the Indian arm of $30-billion Taiwanese giant Wistron Corporation to manufacture mobile devices, IT hardware and automotive-electronic vehicle products. Wistron, a contract manufacturer of Apple iPhones, and OEL, a multibrand mobile handset maker, were among the 16 entities that will get production-linked incentives (PLI) from the Union ministry of electronics and information technology. The PLI scheme offers an incentive of 4-6 per cent on incremental sales for a period of five years from 2019-20. The stocks of Optiemus Infracom gained 4.98 per cent on the BSE following the announcement. The current partnership is a second calling for both the companies. OEL was earlier formed as a joint venture of stock market-listed Optiemus Infracom  and Wistron in 2016. Optiemus Infracom in April this year announced that OEL has become a wholly owned subsidiary and the joint venture with Wistron Corporation has ceased to be effective. OEL said in a statement on Tuesday that there are plans to invest Rs 1,350 crore in the next 3-5 years taking advantage of the PLI scheme. The investment is aimed at catering to both capex and opex and company officials said the amount can be scaled up in the future. The company is targeting a revenue of Rs 38,000 crore across multiple product segments while ramping up its manpower to 11,000 in the next 3-5 years. OEL said the joint venture will explore both the domestic and overseas markets from its manufacturing facilities. The company further said that OEL and Wistron alliance will be able to offer Taiwanese technology at optimised cost and PLI sharing under one roof. “A world class design and manufacturing infrastructure in India is the need of the hour to fulfil the untapped demand from global players where quality is paramount,” David Shen, president and chief executive officer, Wistron Smart Devices said. “PLI will be a key enabler to bridge any gaps in the developing ecosystem for the next decade. It is time to extend our support to our Indian partner as we embark on a wonderful and exciting journey together,” Shen said. Noida base OEL has two factories in Noida and the company’s managing director A Gururaj said that the plan is to first utilise the 2 million handsets per month capacity first before planning on further expansion. “Our expansion plan will largely depend on what the customers would want. If there is a requirement for further capacity, we will do that,” said Gururaj. Wistron, which has a manufacturing base in Karnataka,had faced worker’s discontent over wages last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||Business||Govt urges investors to check antecedents of Nidhi companies||The government on Tuesday again urged investors to check the antecedents of Nidhi companies before putting in their money, as at least 348 entities have failed to meet the criteria to be declared as Nidhi companies. This is the second time in six months that the corporate affairs ministry has come out with an advisory as there are a large number of companies, which, though functioning as Nidhi companies, have not applied for such a status under the relevant rules. Nidhi companies are non-banking finance entities that are into lending and borrowing with their members. Under Section 406 of the Companies Act, 2013, and amended Nidhi Rules, companies incorporated as Nidhi need to apply to the ministry in form ‘NDH-4’ for declaration as Nidhi entities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||Business||Tata Consumer Products extends water portfolio to UK market||Tata Consumer Products Ltd (TCPL) on Tuesday said it has extended its water portfolio to the UK market with the launch of its premium natural mineral water brand Himalayan Water. This is the first water brand to be launched by TCPL in the UK, said a statement from the Tata Group FMCG firm. Initially, Himalayan Water will be available online only and distribution will be expanded gradually, it added. “The UK launch is in line with the company's strategy to cross-leverage its brands across markets and maximise brand potential,” the company said. Himalayan Water in the UK is carbon negative and water positive and uses fully recyclable packaging, said TCPL adding its bottling facility in the Shivalik Range in the Himalayan mountains uses 100 per cent renewable energy. Commenting on the development, TCPL managing director and CEO Sunil D'Souza said Himalayan Water is a brand with significant potential. “The brand is well known in India and launching it in the UK will help us cross-leverage and augment our beverage portfolio in one of our key international markets,” it added. TCPL (earlier Tata Global Beverages Ltd) was renamed after the merger of the consumer products business of Tata Chemicals, with an ambition to become a leading FMCG player. The company, which owns Tata Tea, Tetley, Tata Salt, Eight O'Clock Coffee, Himalayan Water and emerging brands like Tata Sampann, Tata Soulfull, Tata Gluco Plus and Tata Water Plus, is present in over 40 countries across the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||Business||Supreme Court reprieve for Airtel on Videocon dues||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the department of telecommunications (DoT) not to invoke the bank guarantees (BGs) of Bharti Airtel for three weeks for recovering Rs 1,376 crore in AGR-related dues of Videocon Telecom Ltd (VTL) which had sold its spectrum to the Bharti group. The top court, which refused to entertain Airtel’s plea that VTL dues are not payable by it, permitted the telecom major to approach the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) with the grievances. “The DoT shall not invoke the bank guarantee of Respondent...(Bharti Airtel) for the period of three weeks from today,” a bench comprising justices L. Nageswara Rao, S. Abdul Nazeer and M.R. Shah said in its order. At the outset, the bench made clear to senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for Airtel, that it will not interfere with the earlier judgment. “We are making it very clear that we will not interfere with the judgment and we will give you the liberty to withdraw to approach the appropriate forum,” the bench said. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta pleaded that the DoT was of the view that the TDSAT has no jurisdiction to entertain the plea as the apex court’s earlier order had finality. The court said the parties are free to raise their rival contentions before the TDSAT. In the meantime, it however, restrained DoT from invoking the bank guarantee. Airtel said a DoT communication of August 17 has directed it to pay AGR related dues of VTL within a week, failing which the telecom body will invoke BGs. Divan referred to various documents including the spectrum trading guidelines and said that the dues — arising from the adjusted gross revenue or AGR of VTL, the seller of the spectrum — were known at the time of the sale and hence the seller and not the buyer can be fastened with the liability to pay.VTL had sold its spectrum to Bharti Airtel in pursuance of agreements entered into in 2016. The Bharti group has already paid Rs 18,004 crore in AGR-related dues to the DoT by March 31, 2021 which is much more than 10 per cent of its total AGR dues of over Rs 43,000 crore, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||Business||Bajaj group all set to step into mutual fund arena||The Bajaj group is all set to  step into the mutual fund arena. The Securities and the Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has given its in-principle approval to Bajaj Finserv to sponsor a mutual fund, the company said on Tuesday. Bajaj Finserv said it would also  setup an Asset Management Company (AMC). “Accordingly, the company would be setting up an asset management company (AMC) and the trustee company, directly or indirectly i.e., itself or through its subsidiary in accordance with applicable Sebi regulations and other applicable laws,” Bajaj Finserv said in an exchange filing. The shares of Bajaj Finserv jumped 7.91 per cent on the Bombay Stock Exchange following the announcement. Bajaj Finserv is the holding company for the businesses dealing with financial services of the Bajaj group. Its business verticals include NBFC Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance, Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance. Other businesses include health tech platform Bajaj Finserv Health, digital marketplace Bajaj Finserv Direct and digital stockbroker Bajaj Financial Securities Limited . The expansion comes at a time the Indian mutual fund industry, comprising 44 companies, breached the Rs 35 lakh crore landmark for net assets under management for the first time ever in July 2021. According to industry body Association of Mutual Funds in India, retail investors held 8.72 crore accounts (folios) with the mutual funds at the end of July, which are an all-time high with 55 lakh folios added from April. By contrast, there were just 18 lakh new folios in the whole of the last fiscal. The trend projects an affinity towards mutual funds as an asset class for retail investors. Analysts said the Bajaj group’s foray into the rapidly growing industry will complement its other businesses in insurance and lending. For the quarter ending June 2021, Bajaj Finserv reported an over 31 per cent decline in consolidated net profit at Rs 833 crore. The company had reported a net profit of Rs 1,215 crore in the same quarter of the preceding fiscal. The consolidated total income also plunged to Rs 13,949 crore in the first quarter against Rs 14,192 crore in the year-ago quarter. On July 21, 2021, the board of directors of Bajaj Finserv had approved a Rs 342-crore investment by the company in Bajaj Finserv Direct (BFDL), a wholly owned subsidiary .  BFDL is primarily engaged in the business of distribution of financial products through the digital marketplace. Stocks break records Equity benchmarks darted up to fresh lifetime highs on Tuesday, propelled by heavy buying in banking, finance and metal stocks amid supportive global cues. Rising for the second straight session, the 30-share BSE Sensex soared 403.19 points or 0.73 per cent to end at its lifetime peak of 55958.98. On similar lines, the broader NSE Nifty surged 128.15 points or 0.78 per cent to its all-time closing high of 16624.60. Bajaj Finserv was the star performer in the Sensex pack. Equity investors became richer by more than Rs 2.79 lakh crore .  The market capitalisation of BSE-listed companies jumped to Rs 2,40,47,079.99 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki chairman asks India Inc chieftains to embrace frugality||Maruti Suzuki chairman R.C. Bhargava has advised the chieftains of India Inc to embrace frugality in the face of the pandemic and “curtail expenditures on themselves”, wading into a controversy that erupted last week when shareholders of two-wheeler maker Eicher Motors rejected a resolution to re-appoint Siddharth Lal as managing director with a substantial increase in his remuneration. Advising companies to build internal resources, Bhargava said shareholders were no longer prepared to ratify large payouts to top executives. “I think that's a good development for the whole of industry,” Bhargava told shareholders at Maruti Suzuki's annual general meeting that was held virtually. The Eicher board on Monday decided to approach the shareholders to sanction Lal’s re-appointment with changes in his salary. Commenting on the learnings from the pandemic, Bhargava said companies which had strong financial reserves, which were generating internal resources and kept reserves were the ones best able to tide over the difficulties created by Covid-19. Bhargava, who had in the past stated that the high tax regime is slowing down car demand, reiterated the need to address the issue. “I am quite clear that if a strong industrial base has to be built in India, the auto industry and the car industry has to reach double digit growths and at present the conditions do not permit that we have it,” he said. The auto industry veteran cited examples of state governments replacing the annual taxation by one time taxation on automobiles “in order to meet the immediate requirements of money”. This made the cost of acquisition for customers very high, Bhargava said.. “It restricts the ability of people to buy cars and therefore, it restricts the industry,” Bhargava said. The semiconductor shortage problem faced by the industry is temporary and is expected to be over by 2022. Maruti Suzuki India hasn't had a major impact due to it though its production has been hit partly, Bhargava said. The country's largest carmaker is also looking at the electric vehicle (EV) space but will enter it only when it is feasible for customers in terms of affordability and also for the company to operate without making a loss. Bhargava also said Maruti Suzuki India has outlined a capital expenditure plan of Rs 4,500 crore in the ongoing fiscal for its various business purposes but the actual expenditure by the company will be known only at the end of the year. No EVs for now Responding to a query on the company’s plans for EVs, he said Maruti Suzuki is the leader in the conventional car industry and the company’s intention is to achieve leadership position in the EV sector . However, he added that in India, EVs will be able to penetrate in large numbers only when these become affordable. He said the government's focus is now on the electrification of the two-wheeler segment. In passenger vehicles , a few manufacturers have brought EVs “but the sales volume is very small and it has had no impact on the market share of Maruti Suzuki”, Bhargava said. On the issue of climate change, zero emission and carbon neutrality, Bhargava asserted that India has to follow its own timelines and not be forced by what the West has set.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
