26-08-2021||Business||Central banks should not mandate 'green' investments: Raghuram Rajan||The onus of promoting sustainable investments should lie with governments and not central banks, which already have significant other policy commitments, said Raghuram Rajan, former Reserve Bank of India governor. Central banks should steer clear of politically-driven unlegislated areas such as "green" investments, as their mandates of providing financial and monetary stability are already quite wide, Rajan told the Reuters Global Markets Forum on Wednesday. "Asking the central bank to say you should buy only green bonds, not brown bonds, etc., is asking the central bank to impose its own views on something which is primarily a fiscal matter," he said. Rajan, who earlier served as chief economist for the International Monetary Fund, said central banks should instead turn their focus to the financial stability of these green investments and other threats such as crypto currencies and cyber security. Crypto currencies have a "potential future," particularly well-regulated stablecoins, Rajan said, but it wasn't clear what fundamentals were backing their valuations other than a "heady environment," with easy monetary policy fuelling all asset prices. Cryptos won't be "your last resort" in a doomsday scenario, he said. "I would be much more confident about the value of these cryptos once they find proper use cases," such as an effective means of payment, especially in cross-border transactions. Rajan, who is professor of finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, did not expect markets to react in a 2013-style "taper tantrum" as the U.S. Federal Reserve unveils its plan to withdraw stimulus, which he said was unlikely to happen at Jackson Hole on Friday. read more "Ideally, the Fed would like to observe as long as possible, (and) ... make sure that the economy is well on track towards growth, he said. "Of course, the problem is the Delta variant, plus whatever variants are lurking in the background." He expected inflationary pressures in the United States to be transitory, but said prices may remain elevated for longer than expected due to strong wages, unavailability of workers, and additional fiscal stimulus measures. "Firms are feeling confident enough to pass through price increase ... they don't do that until they think that these higher prices are to stay," Rajan said. Referring to India, Rajan said inflation there could rise in the short term as pent-up demand takes hold, resulting in supply-side bottlenecks, but demand will fall over the medium-term due to stressed households and economic scarring from the pandemic. Central banks in many emerging countries are being proactive and raising interest rates, Rajan said. "Now, obviously, the RBI (Reserve Bank of India) is watching the data and it will make the decision when it when it has to make it." This interview was conducted in the Reuters Global Markets Forum chat room||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
26-08-2021||Business||Markets eke out slim gains, Sensex ends 4 points higher to settle at 55,949||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended on a flat note on Thursday as monthly derivatives expired amid a weak trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund outflows. After trading range-bound through the session, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended just 4.89 points or 0.01 per cent higher at 55,949.10. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 2.25 points or 0.01 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 16,636.90. Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by M&M, HCL Tech, Axis Bank, ICICI Bank and HUL. In the other hand, Bharti Airtel, Maruti, SBI, PowerGrid, NTPC and Tata Steel were among the laggards. "Indian market started flat to marginally negative following negative Asian market cues as South Korea's central bank hiked interest rates, making it the first developed economy to do so in the pandemic era," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. During the afternoon session, markets attempted a comeback following buying in blue chip stocks from across various sectors, he said, adding that sentiments were positive amid reports that Indian economic growth will likely touch a record high in the June quarter. However, markets trimmed their gains in the closing session as a report from ratings agency Moody's said India's second COVID-19 wave has increased asset risks for banks in retail and the SME loan segment, he noted. Meanwhile, US equities extended gains in the overnight sessions with S&P 500 and Nasdaq witnessing fresh record highs ahead of Fed Chairman Jerome Powell's speech on Friday at the Jackson Hole Symposium. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended in the red, while Tokyo was positive. Equities in Europe were also trading with losses in mid-session deals. International oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.60 per cent to USD 70.85 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
26-08-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on choppy note||Equity benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty opened on a choppy note on Thursday, tracking a weak trend in Asian equities and sustained foreign fund outflow.  After opening on a negative note, the 30-share index was trading 46.78 points or 0.08 per cent higher at 55,990.99. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 16.80 points or 0.10 per cent to 16,651.45.  Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 1 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Bajaj Finserv, Asian Paints, Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finance and L&T.  On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, PowerGrid, Maruti, Titan and Axis Bank were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 14.77 points or 0.03 per cent lower at 55,944.21, while Nifty settled 10.05 points or 0.06 per cent higher at its new closing record of 16,634.65.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,071.83 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data.  Domestic equities look to be muted as of now, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities.  "The government's focus to improve credit growth through credit outreach programmes augur well for domestic economy and corporate earnings.  "Additionally, minutes of the MPC meeting continue to show RBI's commitment to ensure policy support to sustain economic recovery despite select members showing some apprehensions about high inflation and pitching for gradual normalization in ultra-loose monetary policy. These indicate a sharp economic recovery in the 2HFY22E," he said.  US equities extended gains with S&P 500 and Nasdaq witnessing fresh record highs ahead of Fed Chairman Jerome Powell's speech on Friday at Jackson Hole Symposium.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading in the red in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was positive.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.53 per cent to USD 70.90 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
26-08-2021||Business||TCS market capitalisation breaches Rs 13.5-lakh-crore mark||The market capitalisation of Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) on Wednesday breached the Rs 13.5-lakh-crore mark (Rs 13.5 trillion) — the second company after Reliance Industries Ltd to achieve the feat. At the close of trade, the market valuation of TCS stood at Rs 13,53,667.85 crore on the BSE. The company had touched the Rs 13-lakh-crore valuation level on August 17, when its market capitalisation (m-cap) stood at Rs 13,14,051.01 crore. On Wednesday, the TCS scrip opened at Rs 3,612.8 on the BSE and zoomed nearly 2.35 per cent to its 52-week high of Rs 3,697. It ended at Rs 3,659.5, up 1.31 per cent over the previous close. It was also the biggest gainer in the Sensex-30 pack on Wednesday. On the NSE, the scrip opened on a positive note at Rs 3,610 and climbed to its 52-week high of Rs 3,697.75. It finished at Rs 3,665, 1.43 per cent above the previous close. On Tuesday, Infosys had become the fourth Indian company to touch a market valuation of $100 billion (Rs 7.4 lakh crore), after TCS, Reliance and HDFC Bank. In the broader markets, the Sensex closed modestly lower, while the Nifty inched up to a fresh closing high on Wednesday as bulls took a breather amid a subdued trend overseas. After touching its all-time high of 56198.13 in early trade, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 14.77 points, or 0.03 per cent, lower at 55944.21. The broader NSE Nifty, however, ended 10.05 points, or 0.06 per cent, higher at its new closing record of 16634.65. The benchmark indices have flirted with record highs in recent months, but analysts have warned that the domestic market’s rally may not sustain. A Reuters poll of analysts has shown that the stock market rally is expected to cool next year as global and domestic monetary policy starts to tighten. The poll has predicted the Sensex index would gain 2.4 per cent to 56875 by the end of 2021 from Monday’s close of 55555.79. This year’s estimated gain of just over 19 per cent would be the highest since 2017. The index is predicted to rise only 4.6 per cent next year, the weakest annual performance in six years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
26-08-2021||Business||RBI approves re-appointment of Sandeep Bakhshi as ICICI Bank MD and CEO||The Reserve Bank of India has approved the re-appointment of Sandeep Bakhshi as the managing director and chief executive officer of ICICI Bank, the private lender said in a regulatory filing on August 24. The re-appointment will come into effect on October 15 and the tenure will continue till October 3, 2023. “The shareholders at the annual general meeting held on August 9, 2019, had already approved the appointment of Bakhshi for a period effective from October 15, 2018, up to October 3, 2023,” ICICI Bank stated in the stock exchange filing. On October 15, 2018, the RBI had approved the appointment of Bakhshi for a three-year term. Bakhshi took over the charge after his predecessor Chanda Kochhar’s exit following the ICICI Bank-Videocon loan controversy. He joined the group in December 1986 and has held leadership positions in both the bank and its insurance arms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
26-08-2021||Business||Carol Furtado appointed as Ujjivan Small Finance Bank interim head||Ujjivan  Small  Finance  Bank on Wednesday said that it has unanimously approved the appointment of Carol Furtado as the officer on special duty leading the day-to-day operation of the bank from August 26. A board meeting was scheduled to put in place a crisis management team six days after MD and CEO Nitin Chugh resigned amid signs of a clash of culture between the old and new guard at the fledgling bank that started operations in 2017. After Chugh vacates office on September 30, 2021, Furtado will take charge as the interim CEO, subject to RBI approval. The board will continue to hunt for suitable candidates to the post in parallel and will submit two names to the RBI for its approval. With over 25 years of experience in microfinance and retail banking, Furtado was one of the key members of the leadership team that laid the foundation and built Ujjivan and  has been part of Ujjivan group since 2005. Ujjivan founder Samit Ghosh who was reappointed on the bank’s board as a non-executive, non independent director to address the concerns of deteriorating asset quality during Covid pandemic and top level attritions and to oversee the reverse merger process, said that the bank will conduct an independent portfolio quality and process audit. He also expressed confidence in Furtado being able to manage the challenges. “Carol has been our go-to person during any major crisis. I am sure she will lead us out of this Covid crisis with flying colours. We do not foresee any near term major issues in the portfolio quality of the bank. With the provision coverage ratio of 75 per cent, the highest in the industry, we are very well positioned. The bank is undertaking an independent portfolio quality and process audit. We look towards streamlining  the provisioning  policy. We are  confident of strengthening the organisation and emerge as  a stronger Ujjivan,” Ghosh said. The bank also informed the bourses that its board on Wednesday approved the appointment of Banavar Anantharamaiah Prabhakar, who is an additional director (independent), as the part-time chairman of the bank to fill the vacancy caused due to the  resignation of  Biswamohan Mahapatra, subject to the prior approval of the RBI. The bank’s board has also approved the recategorisation  of the directorship of Rajesh Kumar Jogi from additional director (non-executive, non-independent) to additional director (independent) effective from August 25, 2021. The bank will hold its fifth annual general meeting on September 27, 2021. Addressing the concerns of market analysts last week on the implications of the change of management and further attrition, Ghosh had clarified that the bank will not change its direction following the departure of Chugh. “Nitin has hired a lot of people who are there in the organisation still and we have to make sure that those who want to stay with us will stay on and we certainly will not change our direction in terms of building the mass-market bank based on technology  and digitization, etc., so  that will certainly continue and it is certainly not going to go back to the pre Nitin days because we have  moved  ahead  quite  a  bit  and  we  will  move  further  beyond  that  line  and  we  will  stay the course we are not going to change the course,” Ghosh had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
26-08-2021||Business||Sebi lifts freeze on Rana Kapoor's bank accounts and share holdings||Sebi on Wednesday lifted the freeze on the bank accounts as well as share and mutual fund holdings of Rana Kapoor, former managing director and CEO of Yes Bank. Kapoor is currently in judicial custody after being arrested in March 2020 in the alleged Yes Bank fraud case. In March, the regulator had attached bank accounts, share and mutual fund holdings of Kapoor to recover dues of over Rs 1 crore. The decision was taken after Kapoor failed to pay a fine imposed on him. Sebi, in September 2020, had levied the fine on Kapoor for not making disclosures regarding a transaction of Morgan Credit, which was an unlisted promoter entity of Yes Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
26-08-2021||Business||McLeod Russel refutes defaulter charge ||McLeod Russel and its creditor, Techno Electric and Engineering Co Ltd, squared off for battle before the national company law appellate tribunal (NCLAT) today to determine whether or not the country’s largest bulk tea producer could be hustled through a bankruptcy resolution process. McLeod Russel, which was represented by legal eagle Abhishek Manu Singhvi, argued that the NCLT had erred in admitting Techno Electric’s petition while contending that there had been no default in the repayment of a Rs 100 crore loan accessed in 2018 because it had been backed by adequate assets that had been stumped up as collateral. Singhvi argued before the NCLAT bench that a committee of creditors — the first step towards initiating a bankruptcy resolution process — ought not to be formed until its appeal against the recent NCLT order was disposed of. The NCLAT bench, which also heard Kapil Sibal who represented Techno Electric, said it was ready to pass an order in the dispute but it wasn’t uploaded until the time this newspaper went to press. Singhvi built part of his argument around a clause in the loan agreement between the two parties on September 28, 2018 which stated no recovery process could be initiated until Techno had exhausted its option of selling the two properties pledged with it against the loan. McLeod argued that Techno could not proceed against the tea producer until it had exercised its right to sell the mortgaged properties and came up short on loan recovery. Sibal countered by saying that the matter had become irrelevant after the loan default and reminded the tribunal that a mere contract could not override the provisions of the IBC statute. The appellate tribunal was informed that the value of the two properties that had been mortgaged against the loan were worth Rs 113 crore — which was greater than the loan amount. The mortgaged assets included the 4, Sunny Park plot in Calcutta which is valued at about Rs 87 crore. Singhvi said under the terms of the agreement,Techno could proceed against McLeod only if it came up short after enforcing its right to sell the mortgaged properties. Techno had not moved to enforce the securities, Singhvi contended. As a consequence, McLeod could not be construed to be in default. He also argued that Techno had assigned the debt to a third party and could not as a result claim to be a creditor under Section 7 of Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code -- the provision that Techno had relied on while buttressing its right to proceed against McLeod. Techno Electric and Engineering is promoted by P.P. Gupta. Sibal argued that McLeod had admitted that it had taken the loan and had failed to return the amount. The missing entry in Techno Electric's balance sheet — reflecting the loan assignment to a third party — did not alter McLeod's liability. He argued the debt repayment had been delayed by two years and McLeod was trying to defer it further.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
26-08-2021||Business||Centre approves Bangalore airport FDI||The Centre on Wednesday cleared a Rs 15,000-crore investment proposal by Anchorage Infrastructure Investment Holding Limited. The Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs (CCEA) approved the FDI proposal specifically for the purpose of investment in infrastructure and the construction-development sectors. These may include transport and logistics, along with downstream investment in the airport sector and aviation-related businesses and services. Anchorage Infrastructure is the investment arm of billionaire Prem Watsa’s Fairfax India for airports and other infrastructure investments. Fairfax India has a 54 per cent stake in Bangalore International Airport Ltd. The investment includes transfer of share of Bangalore International Airport Limited to Anchorage. Besides, an arm of Canada pension fund giant Omers  is investing Rs 950 crore in Anchorage. The investment will also be a shot in the arm for the recently announced National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP). It will help fund lease of state-owned infrastructure assets, which involve handling assets such as roads, railways, airports, sports stadiums, power transmission lines and gas pipelines, to private operators. Anchorage Infrastructure Investment Holding is proposing to make a downstream investment in some of the sectors covered under the NMP. Sugarcane price The Centre on Wednesday increased the minimum price sugar mills pay to sugarcane growers by Rs 5 to Rs 290 per quintal for the marketing year starting October, but ruled out any immediate increase in the sale price of sugar. The decision to increase the fair and remunerative price of sugarcane  was taken in the cabinet meeting on Wednesday. The government had fixed sugarcane FRP at Rs 285 per quintal this year. The FRP is announced every year before the start of the sugarcane crushing season. However, states such as Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have been announcing their sugarcane rates (state advised price) over and above the FRP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
26-08-2021||Business||Bank employees family pension to be raised to 30% of last drawn salary of deceased||The Centre on Wednesday said the family pension of bank employees would be raised to 30 per cent of the last drawn salary of the deceased. The spouse or a nominee of the deceased will get a monthly pension of Rs 30,000 per month to Rs 35,000 per month against a maximum of Rs 9,284 per month at present, financial services secretary Debasish Panda said in Mumbai on Wednesday. “The cap has been completely removed and a uniform slab of 30 per cent at the last-drawn salary will be entitled as family pension,” Panda told reporters here, admitting that the earlier levels were “paltry”. However, the sum refers to the highest pension slab. The revised pension amount will range from Rs 8000 per month to a sum which could be as much as Rs 40,000 per month, C.H Venkatachalam, general secretary of the AIBEA claimed. The union leader said there were about 75,000 family pensioners. Besides, bank contribution to employees’ pension under the new pension scheme (NPS) has been raised to 14 per cent of salary from 10 per cent, while employee contribution stays the same at 10 per cent of salary. NPS is for employees who have joined after April 2010, and will benefit 60 per cent of staff. Panda has accompanied finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to Mumbai, where the FM is reviewing the performance of PSU banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
26-08-2021||Business|| Centre announces another loan outreach programme in October||The Centre on Wednesday announced yet another loan outreach programme in October, with bank credit growth remaining as flaccid as ever after the Modi government’s much tom-tommed loan mela less than two years ago in September 2019. “I think it is too early to conclude whether there is a lack of demand. Even without awaiting indications, we have taken steps to ramp up credit,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told reporters in Mumbai where she is reviewing the performance of PSU banks. A report by CARE Ratings shows credit growth slouching at 5-6 per cent rate since March last year, way below the smart double digit growth that prevailed till June 2019. While announcing the district-wise loan outreach programme by the PSU banks, the finance minister said there was a need to ramp up credit growth in the eastern pockets of the country in states such as Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha. Banks have also been asked to create state-wise plans for northeastern states to help the logistics sector and exporters. “The government will have a bare minimum presence in the strategic sectors. Banks and financial services have been identified as strategic sectors. The government  will look at amalgamating or selling government stakes in insurance firms over and above a bare minimum presence,” Sitharaman said. Finance secretary T.V. Somanathansaid the government is considering insurance bonds as an alternative to bank guarantee. Guarantees are usually asked for extending a loan and typically require a collateral. An insurance bond is also a surety but does not require any collateral. The government may also introduce legislative amendments in the budget session of Parliament to enable Indian companies to directly list certain prescribed classes of securities abroad.  “There are certain issues which need to be sorted out for this to become a success,” revenue secretary Tarun Bajaj said on Wednesday. Sitharaman also unveiled the fourth edition of the Public Sector Bank (PSB) Reforms Agenda “EASE 4.0” for 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
