27-08-2021||Business||Rupee climbs to 10-week high, rallies 53 paise against US dollar||The Indian rupee on Friday rose to a level not seen in over 10 weeks, surging 53 paise to close at 73.69 against the US dollar taking cues from bullish equities ahead of the key speech from US Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell. At the interbank forex market, the local unit opened strong at 74.17 against the greenback, then gained strength and settled for the day at 73.69, higher by 53 paise over its previous close of 74.22. This is the best closing level for the rupee since June 16 this year. The domestic unit moved in a range of 73.69 to 74.20 in the day trade. On a weekly basis, the rupee has appreciated 70 paise against the American crisis. "The Indian rupee marked single biggest day gain after April 16, 2021 on back of month-end rebalancing and foreign fund inflows ahead of the Jackson Hole symposium later tonight," said Dilip Parmar, Research Analyst, HDFC Securities. The global forex market remained calm ahead of the event while the domestic market took this as opportunity and has given range breakout, Parmar said adding that "the bias for the rupee has turned bullish after today's price action". According to Sriram Iyer, Senior Research Analyst at Reliance Securities, the local unit was range-bound for the whole week but had its biggest single session rise in over four months, on dollar sales by foreign banks amid anticipated inflows. "The Indian Rupee appreciated against the US Dollar on Friday and had its best week in four months, as the central bank's absence from the market prompted exit of long positions on the dollar," Iyer said. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, dipped 0.04 per cent to 93.02. On the domestic equity market front, the BSE Sensex ended 175.62 points or 0.31 per cent higher at 56,124.72, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 68.30 points or 0.41 per cent to 16,705.20. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, increased 1.32 per cent to $72.01 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||Ritwiz Tiwari, founder Bizgurukul is all set to turn the tide of the Indian EdTech industry  through 5000+ courses in the next 5 years.||The Indian education system today massively lacks the modern skillset and practical knowledge for modern businesses. Most of the things students learn today are outdated and do not match the requirements of employers. Bizgurukul was initiated to bridge that gap and offer an easier chance to people who wish to upskill themselves and be industry-ready. Although Bizgurukul initially started with just two courses- personality development and public speaking, they have added more technical courses such as Instagram Marketing, Digital marketing, video editing, and many more. It is founded by three young minds who aim to change the Indian education space by offering modern skill-based courses at a highly affordable rate. Ritwiz Tiwari, a young man who is currently CEO and founder of the Bizgurukul, laid the foundation with a dream to upskill Indian youth and make them market-ready. He had a thing for entrepreneurship since his childhood and wanted to build something of his own. He had always been a creative and opportunistic child who believed that if life has given you an opportunity, the first and the only step is to accept it and work for it. His inclination towards business brought him to Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, where he pursued his bachelor of business administration degree. He learned the academic and technical parts of business management. During his college life, he took upon various opportunities and got hands-on experience. Those opportunities helped him learn what the industries are looking for and how the Indian education system lacked. Ritwiz, after his graduation, joined a multinational company. He wasn’t delighted with his position there. However, he believed that he was built to do something big in his life and put in tremendous efforts to climb up the corporate ladder. Throughout the period, he felt that he wasn’t rewarded adequately for his actions and that no matter how hard he worked, there were still certain restrictions that hindered his growth in corporate culture. Despite these factors, he has always expressed his gratitude towards his corporate job, as it helped him learn a lot about the marketing field. After a few years, he then left his job to build something of his own and create an environment where everyone has a chance to grow without any set limit. Ritwiz, during his course of work, realized how massively India lacks in terms of modern skillsets and practical knowledge that today’s industry needs. He could envision the massive potential that EdTech holds for this country and desired to change the old model of “people reaching out to education” and “taking education to people.” He wanted to bridge the gap between what people are taught and what the industry needs. India is a young country and can cater to the world’s needs but what we are taught in our educational institutes is highly outdated, but very few people tend to observe it and work to change it; Ritwiz was one of them. So he reached out to his two like-minded friends- Rohit Sharma and Keshav Lal- and explained his vision to change India’s EdTech industry. They both jumped the bandwagon without any hesitation and joined Ritwiz hands; these three together laid the founding stone of Bizgurukul. Bizgurukul was established on 24th March 2020 and had been running for over a year. The company was founded during the uncertain times of COVID-19, where people were losing jobs, and almost every sector had no idea of their future. Sailing through these tough times, Bizgurukul passed with flying colors under the leadership of Ritwiz Tiwari. He has been spinal cord for his team and guided them during the tough times, which is the reason for the company’s immense success. Bizgurukul has touched a million-dollar mark in just one year, and they plan to reach out 1 lakh students mark before this year ends. Ritwiz recently announced that he plans to add on more than 5000 advanced courses that can help Indian youth to upskill themselves and work in the high-paying sector. Their education portal would also support live training and one-on-one mentorship programs so that if anyone has any doubts even after their courses, they could be addressed and solved. Ritwiz dream is to have a significant impact on India’s growth through education that matters the most. The way Bizgukul has performed till now under his leadership, the company will surely turn tides in the Indian education sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty close at fresh highs||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 175 points to close at its new lifetime high on Friday, boosted by gains in TCS, L&T and HDFC amid a largely subdued trend in global markets.  The 30-share index settled 175.62 points or 0.31 per cent higher at 56,124.72.  Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty gained 68.30 points or 0.41 per cent to finish at a record 16,705.20.  UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging over 3 per cent, followed by L&T, Dr Reddy's, Bajaj Finserv, Sun Pharma, TCS and Kotak Bank.  On the other hand, Infosys, IndusInd Bank, M&M, Nestle India and HCL Tech were among the laggards.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended with gains, while Hong Kong and Tokyo settled in the red.  Equities in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.94 per cent to USD 71.74 per barrel.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,974.48 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||Supreme Court asks Sebi not to take coercive action against NDTV promoters||The Supreme Court Friday asked markets regulator Sebi not to take any coercive steps against NDTV promoters Prannoy Roy and Radhika Roy till it hears their pleas on September 3 against the penalty proceedings related to alleged violation of securities norms by concealing information from shareholders on certain loan agreements. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana was requested by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) that the hearing on the pleas of the NDTV promoters be adjourned till next Friday. "We will adjourn, but do not take any coercive step," the bench, which also comprised Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta who was appearing for the Sebi. The bench inquired from senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the Roys, about the status of hearing on the NDTV promoters' appeal before the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT). The third member of the SAT is not there and the hearing on the appeals is stuck, Rohatgi said, adding that now the proceedings to levy the penalty have been initiated. The apex court on February 15 disposed of the pleas of the Roys asking the SAT not to insist on deposit of half the amount of fines as a pre-condition for hearing their appeals against the Sebi orders. The NDTV promoters challenged the SAT order directing them to deposit 50 per cent of the alleged unlawful gains which Sebi found to have been made by them. "Having heard the matter for some time, we pass the following order by consent: The appellants' Appeal nos...shall be heard by the SAT at Mumbai without insisting on any deposit of amount... It is directed that no amount shall be recovered coercively from the appellants in the absence of any deposit. This order shall not be treated as a precedent in any other case. The appeals are, accordingly, disposed of," the top court had ordered. The Solicitor General had said the deposit of money is a condition precedent for grant of stay on the direction of Sebi. The SAT had directed the NDTV promoters to deposit 50 per cent of the disgorged amount before Sebi which had imposed a penalty on them for alleged violation of various securities norms by concealing information from shareholders regarding certain loan agreements. While hearing their appeal against Sebi, SAT had further said that if NDTV were to deposit the amount, the balance would not be recovered during the pendency of the appeal before it. In two separate orders passed on January 4, the tribunal had noted that the appeals filed by the Roy couple needed consideration and directed the appeals to be listed before the tribunal for final disposal on February 10, 2021. This had come following appeals filed by the couple against a Sebi order passed in November last year, whereby the markets regulator had barred them from the securities market for two years and also directed them to disgorge illegal gains of Rs 16.97 crore for indulging in insider trading more than 12 years ago. However, the charges were denied by the company. Sebi had noted that the duo together made the gains by indulging in insider trading in the shares of New Delhi Television Ltd (NDTV) while in possession of UPSI relating to the proposed reorganization of the company. Prannoy Roy was the chairman and whole time director and Radhika Roy was the managing director during the period under investigation and were part of the decision making chain that had led to crystallization of the UPSI. Discussions pertaining to reorganisation of the company started on September 7, 2007 and the disclosure was made on April 16, 2008. Hence, September 7, 2007 to April 16, 2008 was unpublished price sensitive information (UPSI) period. "The couple sold shares on April 17, 2008, when the trading window for them was closed and made a profit of Rs 16.97 crore," as per the Sebi order. 'By doing so, they violated Prohibition of Insider Trading (PIT) norms and also acted in contravention of NDTV's code of conduct for prevention of insider trading which prohibited them from trading at least till 24 hours after the information was disclosed to the stock exchanges," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||How to Save Tax with ULIPs?||Over the next two months, most of us would be filing our tax returns for the financial year 2020-21. This is the time when many realise how they could have done a little more to save a little more money in taxes through different deductions that are available under the Income Tax Act 1961. While the time that has gone cannot be brought back, you can definitely review your tax planning for the current financial year, so you do not find yourself in a similar situation again next year. In terms of tax saving instruments, life insurance is often at the top of the list for most people[1][2]. However, lately, ULIPs, or Unit Linked Insurance Plans, are emerging as one of the most preferred instruments among the life insurance schemes, according to a survey by Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance[3]. This trend is natural given the fact that ULIP insurance policies offer market-linked wealth creation alongside protection in the same policy. Moreover, since these plans have the option to invest in both equity and fixed income asset classes, they have the potential to deliver good returns over time. What is a ULIP scheme ULIP or Unit Linked Insurance Plan is a type of life insurance plan, which offers you, the policyholder, the benefits of both investment and insurance. A ULIP gives you an opportunity of market linked wealth creation while providing you the security of a life insurance cover. Moreover, with ULIPs, you can select the type of fund (with varying degrees of risk-return potential) where you want your premium to be invested. With the incidence of untimely deaths rising, especially in the times of the Covid-19 pandemic[4], life insurance seems to become a necessity. Buying a life insurance policy takes up financial resources and resources are always limited. What if one could get the protection of life insurance along with market-linked returns? Return on your investment is as critical as achieving long-term life goals like children’s education, buying a dream car, or owning a house for which the investment has been made. A unit-linked insurance plan has the potential to accumulate market-linked wealth to achieve such life goals along while ensuring a fall-back option in case of any unfortunate event. Tax-benefits that come with ULIPs Investment in ULIPs offer substantial tax benefits at different stages of the policy. Let’s look at some of the ULIP tax benefits. Tax benefit on premium: The benefit of investing in a ULIP is that the entire premium that you pay can be deducted from your taxable salary, up to a limit of Rs 1.5 lakh, under section 80C of the Income Tax Act, 1961 subject to conditions specified therein.  If policy is not satisfying the Section 10(10D) conditions, amount of deduction under Section 80C is restricted up to 10% of capital sum assured for policies issued on or after April 1, 2012 and for policies issued before April 1, 2012 amount of deduction is restricted up to 20% of capital sum assured.   Tax benefits on maturity (for ULIPs issued before February 1, 2021): As per section 10(10D) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, benefits received from ULIPs are tax-free. This is applicable only if the annual premium is less than 10% of the capital sum assured for the policies purchased after April 1, 2012 (for the policies purchased before the said date, it is 20%). Tax benefit on maturity (for ULIPs issued on or after February 1, 2021): You invested in the ULIP and saved some tax at the time of making that investment. But what happens when you liquidate your investment after it has matured? The good thing is that ULIPs offer a tax-free maturity amount as per Section 10 (10D) of the Income Tax Act 1961, subject to conditions specified therein and as long as the annual premium does not exceed Rs 2.5 lakh for policies issued after Feb 1, 2021. Tax-free partial withdrawals If you wish to withdraw money from your ULIP plan after the five-year lock-in period, you don’t have to pay any taxes on that withdrawal, provided the amount withdrawn is less than or equal to 20 per cent of the sum assured. Tax-free pay-out in the event of death In the unfortunate event of the untimely demise of the policy holder, the nominees receive the entire sum assured, or the total value of the fund in which the policyholder had invested, whichever is higher as per the terms and conditions of the policy. As the family deals with the loss of the loved one, at least they do not need to worry about their life goals as the lump sum payment would help in taking care of those. Moreover, the entire pay-out in the event of the death of the policyholder is exempt from any taxes. Getting the right ULIP policy So, if you are looking for the right investment vehicle to save some tax in the current fiscal, ULIPs could be the right choice for you. You could choose from the various ULIP plans offered by Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance. The Bajaj Allianz Life Goal Assure - A Unit-linked Non-Participating Life Insurance Plan could be an option that not only offers you a combination of life insurance and investment, along with tax benefits, but also returns the life cover charges on maturity#. If you go with this plan, you can choose from four different investment strategies and eight funds to find the approach that best suits your financial goals and risk appetite. Not only can you buy their plans from their extensive offline network of 509 branches and over 80,000+ agents (as on 30 June 2021)[5], you can also buy Bajaj Allianz Life plans online from the comfort of your home by logging on to www.bajajallianzlife.com. With a claim settlement ratio of 98.48%~, you could be assured that not only your investment needs, but also your insurance needs would be served efficiently.  References: [1] https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/personal-finance-news/life-insurance-most-preferred-investment-for-affluent-indians-survey/articleshow/45890123.cms?from=mdr [2] https://www.financialexpress.com/money/indians-invest-primarily-in-life-insurance-fds-for-retirement-survey/2110069/ [3] https://www.business-standard.com/article/pf/ulips-gain-traction-as-preferred-insurance-schemes-amid-pandemic-survey-121070201367_1.html [4] https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/ [5] https://www.bajajallianzlife.com/about-us.html # Return of life cover charges = return of mortality charges (ROMC) which is payable on maturity, provided all due premiums have been paid. ~ Individual Claims Settlement Ratio for FY 2020-2021  BJAZ-WEB-ECNF-01759/21||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||Sensex slips 95 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 95 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, Infosys and ICICI Bank amid unabated foreign fund outflows.  The 30-share index was trading 96.18 points or 0.17 per cent lower at 55,852.92. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 23.70 points or 0.14 per cent to 16,613.20.  M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by HDFC, Tech Mahindra, ICICI Bank, Infosys and IndusInd Bank.  On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Finserv, L&T, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finance and Bharti Airtel were among the gainers.  In the previous session, the BSE index ended just 4.89 points or 0.01 per cent higher at 55,949.10. And the broader NSE Nifty advanced 2.25 points or 0.01 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 16,636.90.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,974.48 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red.  Equities in the US ended on a negative note in the overnight session.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude surged 1.03 per cent to USD 71.80 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||Steel Authority of India aims to bring down borrowing to Rs 20,000 crore||Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) aims to bring down its borrowing to Rs 20,000 crore by the end of this fiscal taking advantage of a robust margin. Soma Mondal, chairman of SAIL, said the PSU had brought down borrowing by around Rs 5,000 crore in the first quarter itself and the plan is to reduce it to Rs 20,000 crore depending on the market conditions. During 2020-21, SAIL had cut net debt by Rs 16,131 crore to Rs 35,350 crore. In aggressively reducing the debt overhang, SAIL joins top private sector steel majors such as Tata Steel and Jindal Steel & Power Ltd in deleveraging its balance sheet during the commodity upcycle. Speaking on the sidelines of an event to inaugurate the new headquarters of MSTC Ltd in Calcutta, Mondal said the PSU has a capital expenditure plan of Rs 8,000 crore this fiscal. Commenting on the domestic demand, which has moderated during the second wave of Covid-19, Mondal said there appeared to be a pick-up. “Flat products are stable and long products are showing indications of an increase.” she said. The MSTC office was inaugurated by Union steel minister Ram Chandra Prasad Singh. When asked if the government or SAIL would reconsider the decision to dismantle the raw material division of SAIL from Calcutta, the minister said the process was complete. “There is no scope for a rethink now,” Singh said. Market forces The government is unlikely to intervene in reining in steel prices even as some of the user industries in the MSME sector have been complaining about the high prices. While prices have come off from the record highs, they are still at elevated levels. “It is a cyclical industry. Covid had impacted supply even in the international market, which led to the increase in prices. We are focusing on increasing capacity, which should enhance supply and bring down prices,” said Singh. However, he pointed out that international prices were still 15-20 per cent higher than the domestic rates. He also did not offer to intervene in the export of iron ore and pellets which has created a shortage in the domestic market, spiking prices. “We are keeping a watch. But prices have started coming off now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||Industry expects Bengal’s warehousing potential to improve||Industry expects Bengal’s warehousing potential to improve with a tweak in rules on ground coverage — the percentage of covered area against the total plot area. The industry is also in favour of faster approvals and clearances. At a seminar organised by Assocham on Thursday, Darshan Hiranandani, managing director and CEO, H-Energy, said the state could consider raising the ground coverage levels to allow industry to unlock more land without the need to buy and develop additional land. The Hiranandani group is developing a logistics and data centre park in Bengal. “Land acquisition is a difficult subject in any part of the country. Industrial warehousing land is in big demand. Wherever land is there, giving restrictive ground coverage for industrial land does not make sense,” Hiranandani, who is also the chairman of the Assocham national council on hydrocarbon, said. “Where land is available for industry, please allow 55 per cent for ground coverage, don’t restrict it to 35 per cent. Other states are allowing it. It’s a small change but it could double the availability of warehousing and logistics which bring in a lot of jobs,” he added. Rajiv Sikka, CEO of Indian Oil Adani Gas Ltd, said there are significant expansion plans in the piped natural gas distribution business in Bengal with industry players looking to set up more than 400 CNG stations in the next 5-7 years and supply piped gas to cities. But this requires faster approvals from the state government. “By forming a high-powered committee headed by the chief minister, any inter-departmental problem will be solved and clearances will be done very quickly,” Bengal industries minister Partha Chatterjee said at the event. Those who have experienced delay in having clearances of their projects in the past, I assure them it will not happen once again,” Bengal industries minister Partha Chatterjee said at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||Barclays to pump more than $400 million into India arm||Barclays said on Thursday it is pumping in more than $400 million (Rs 3,000 crore) into its India arm to tap rising corporate and investment banking activity in the country that is now recovering from the pandemic. This is Barclays’ single largest capital infusion in its Indian business in the last three decades. It comes after the British lender pulled out of the retail business in Asia’s third-largest economy in 2011 and exited its equity investment business in 2016. Barclays said the investment would help grow its corporate and debt investment banking as well as private clients businesses. Revenue from investment banking in India so far this year was $498 million, versus $339 million in the same period last year and $538 million in 2020, according to Dealogic. Barclays leads India’s debt capital market by dollar bond volume, with a year-to-date share of 14 per cent, according to Dealogic. Rivals such as JP Morgan and StanChart have a share of 13 per cent each, while HSBC has 12 per cent. “As economic activity gathers momentum, there is increased demand for capital from clients,” said Jaideep Khanna, Barclays country CEO for India. Barclays India mainly lends to corporate houses with exposures largely to highly rated clients and subsidiaries of multi-national companies, according to Fitch unit India Ratings & Research. “Last year was a very good year for debt capital market in India, particularly as domestic bank credit didn’t take off much. There was a lot of interest in global credit and the overall market has been robust,” said Ananth Narayan, associate professor of finance at S.P. Jain Institute of Management and Research. With the fresh capital infusion, Barclays India’s Tier-1 capital is up 55 per cent. “According to central bank norms, there are limits placed on what a lender can do with respect to their balance sheet, but now that the bank’s overall capital base has expanded, its ability to lend more has increased,” said a source familiar with the matter. Barclays inaugurated its international banking unit branch at GIFT City in Gujarat in February, as part of its expansion plans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||Yahoo to shut down news and current affairs content operations in India||Stringent foreign direct investment rules have forced US web service provider Yahoo to shut down its news and current affairs content operations in India. The Yahoo website said effective Thursday, it has stopped publication of content in India and has shut down content operations here, which include Yahoo News, Yahoo Cricket, Finance, Entertainment and MAKERS India. “We did not come to this decision lightly,” said Yahoo. This is not the first time the Indian FDI norms in digital media with all its associated conditions have sounded the death knell for a global media content provider. Huffington Post too reportedly shut its operations in India last year because of the tough rules. The spotlight is on a clarification on the FDI policy for uploading/streaming of news and current affairs through digital media that was laid out by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade in October 2020. The department had clarified that the decision of permitting a 26 per cent FDI through the government route will apply to three categories of entities registered or located in India — digital media entities, news agencies and news aggregators. The existing entities were given one year to align their FDI levels to 26 per cent. Further, these entities would need to have an Indian CEO, majority of the directors would have to be Indian citizens and they would also have to obtain security clearance for foreign personnel to be deployed in India for more than 60 days in a year through appointment, contract or consultancy. “There have been changes in the rules limiting foreign ownership of media companies that operate in the news and current affairs space, including a digital media entity that streams/uploads digital news and current affairs content in India and news aggregators,” a Yahoo spokesperson told The Telegraph. “Having evaluated the operational and economic challenges in restructuring the media business within the specified time and in the absence of requisite government approvals to operate our news and current affairs content business in India, we have decided to shut down these operations. This does not impact our ad tech business and Yahoo Mail and Yahoo Search, which will continue to operate,” the spokesperson said. Need for review Industry observers said there is a need to review the rules  and ease out the low cap of 26 per cent through the government approval route. “We have worked with a lot of clients and there is really a strong sense of disappointment because this has limited the operational flexibility. This kind of narrow control really hampers overseas investment coming into India,” said Probir Roy Chowdhury, partner, J. Sagar Associates. Earlier on May 3, 2021, Verizon and Apollo Global Management had announced an agreement whereby funds managed by affiliates of Apollo will acquire Verizon Media for $5 billion. Verizon Media owns brands like Yahoo and AOL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||NCLAT admits application filed by McLeod promoter Aditya Khaitan||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal has admitted an application filed by Aditya Khaitan, the promoter of tea planter McLeod Russel India Ltd (MRIL), seeking a stay on the formation of a committee of creditors but did not put immediate fetters on the ongoing insolvency process. In its order published on Thursday, the tribunal said it would adjudicate on the McLeod plea only after respondent Techno Electric & Engineering Ltd, the creditor who had taken McLeod to court for a Rs 100-crore loan default, files a reply. The next date for hearing has been set for September 8. The consensus legal view emerging from the NCLAT order is that the interim resolution professional, appointed by the lower tribunal, would continue with the corporate insolvency resolution process as mandated by Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016. If a strict timeline is maintained, the CoC has to be formed within 30 days of the court order, which would precede the next hearing date. NCLT Delhi had sent McLeod to insolvency on August 6. “The appeal is admitted for hearing. However, we will consider the application for stay after filing a reply by the respondent,” the bench of Justice Jarat Kumar Jain and member technical Ashok Kumar Mishra ruled. Lawyers Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Kapil Sibal had a face-off at the NCLAT, representing Khaitan and Techno, respectively, on Wednesday. Udit Gupta, counsel for Techno who assisted Sibal, said under regulation 17(1), the interim resolution professional ought to file a report before the adjudicating authority (NCLT) certifying the constitution of the CoC within 30 days from the appointment of the IRP. Once the CoC is formed, McLeod can only come out of insolvency if 90 per cent of the creditor agree to it under Section 12A.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
27-08-2021||Business||SC directs Unitech duo be shifted to Mumbai jail||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed that former Unitech promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra be shifted from Tihar Jail to Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail and Taloja prison in Maharashtra after the ED said they were conducting business from the premises in connivance with the staff. The top court, which perused two status reports of the Enforcement Directorate, said Tihar Jail superintendent and other staff are “absolutely shameless” for conniving with the Chandra brothers to flout the court orders and undermine its jurisdiction. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah said the brothers will be lodged separately in Arthur Road and Taloja prisons. “Materials on record indicate that despite the orders of this court, activities are taking place within the Tihar Central Jail, where the two are lodged, which have the propensity to undermine the authority of the court, as also to derail the investigations which have been ordered to be done by the ED,” the bench said. During the hearing, the bench told additional solicitor- general (ASG) Madhavi Divan, appearing for the ED, “Tihar jail officials have actively connived with the accused to flout the orders of this court. We have to say that the Tihar Jail superintendent and his staff are absolutely shameless...Can you imagine it is happening right in the Centre and in the capital? We will certainly take them to task.” According to the ASG, despite being in jail the Chandra brothers managed to dispose of several properties and handle original documents, including the sale deeds of various apartments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
27-08-2021||Business||New drone rules announced, to pave way for air-taxi operations||The new drone rules announced on Thursday will pave the way for air-taxi operations in the country, civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said. “That time is not far when taxis, like the ones of Uber etc that you see on roads, you will see in the air under the drone policy. I believe this is very much possible,” he said, “Air taxis are being researched and invented globally and many startups are coming up,” the minister said . Scindia said the defence ministry, the home ministry and BCAS (Bureau of Civil Aviation Security) have been working together so that “counter rogue drone technology” can be developed and adopted quickly. In a notification, the ministry of civil aviation eased the rules regarding drone operations by reducing the number of forms that need to be filled to operate them from 25 to 5 and decreasing the types of fees charged from 72 to 4. The Drone Rules, 2021, were issued on Wednesday and they supersede the Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Rules, 2021, which had come into force on March 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
27-08-2021||Business||India’s aviation regulator lifts ban on Boeing 737 Max planes||India’s aviation regulator has lifted the ban on Boeing 737 Max planes after almost two-and-half years. On March 13, 2019, all Boeing 737 Max planes were grounded in India by the Directorate-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) after the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines 737 Max on March 10 near Addis Ababa which had left 157 people, including four Indians, dead. In its order dated August 26, 2021, the DGCA stated that the operation of Boeing 737 Max planes are permitted “only upon satisfaction of applicable requirements for return to service”. Hours before the announcement, Budget carrier SpiceJet  said it expects Boeing Co’s grounded 737 MAX jets in its fleet to return to service at the end of September following a settlement struck with lessor Avolon on the leases of the aircraft. Rakesh Jhunjhunwala, who plans to launch an airline by early next year, was said to be in talks with Boeing for a fleet of B737 Max. No checks in India The regulator’s move came in for sharp criticism from analysts as it did not carry out any independent safety checks, simply riding on the shoulders of the other regulators. “Based on design changes by Boeing, (America’s) Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issued an airworthiness directive on November 18, 2020, mandating actions for 737 Max airplanes return to service, ” DGCA chief Arun Kumar said. Following this, the US regulator lifted the ban on Max. “Subsequently, European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) also issued its own airworthiness directive on February 17, 2021 which has been mandated by the DGCA for compliance on Indian registered fleet,” Kumar said. Mark Martin, aviation consultant, said: “The DGCA should have conducted its own independent safety audit of the aircraft and not gone by the directives of other regulators.” The Indian regulator should allow the pilots to fly the B737 Max only after they are re-trained on the new modifications that Boeing has carried out following the crash, he said. Around 175 countries have allowed the 737 MAX to return to service, with 30 airlines already restarting their MAX aircraft services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
