28-08-2021||Business||Future Retail moves SC against Amazon again over $3.4 billion deal||India's Future Retail on Saturday filed a new case against Amazon.com Inc at the Supreme Court in its latest effort to seek clearance for its $3.4 billion retail assets sale, which the U.S. firm has challenged. The Supreme Court this month dealt a blow to Future when it said an interim decision by a Singapore arbitrator in October 2020 that put its deal with Reliance Industries on hold - following Amazon's complaint - was valid in India. The top court had also said Future could not appeal a lower court's decision against it. The retailer is now asking the top court to hear the challenge, people familiar with the case said. In its over 6,000-page filing, Future has argued that if the deal with Reliance doesn't go through, it would cause "unimaginable" damage to the group, including possible job losses for 35,575 employees, and put at risk roughly 280 billion rupees ($3.81 billion) in bank loans and debentures. "There is extreme urgency to hear this petition," Future counsel Yugandhara Pawar Jha said in the Supreme Court filing, which is not public. Reuters has seen the filing. Amazon and Future spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment on Saturday. Amazon has for months been locked in a dispute with Future, and accuses the Indian firm of violating contracts when it sold its retail assets to market leader Reliance last year. Future denies any wrongdoing. The outcome of the tussle involving two of the world’s richest men, Amazon’s Jeff Bezos and Reliance’s Mukesh Ambani, is seen as reshaping India’s pandemic-hit shopping sector and deciding whether Amazon can blunt Reliance's dominance of the country's nearly trillion-dollar retail market. The dispute started after Future, India's second-largest retailer, with more than 1,700 stores, including popular Big Bazaar supermarkets, entered a deal last year to sell its retail businesses to Reliance after COVID-19 hit its operations hard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||Business||Berger Paints sets goal of Rs 10,000-crore revenue from operations by 2023-24||City-based Berger Paints has set a milestone of Rs 10,000-crore revenue from operations by 2023-24, its centenary year. The company has clocked a consolidated revenue of Rs 6,817.59 crore for 2020-21. The company hopes to achieve the Rs 10,000-crore milestone with the help of capacity expansion, favourable demand and stable raw material prices, said Abhijit Roy, managing director and CEO of Berger Paints. “The year 2023-24 will be our 100th year in India. We started our operations in 1923 in Bengal. We are expecting to touch Rs 10,000 crore in 2023-24. We have two factories in Bengal and we have taken land for a third one here,” Roy said after the company’s annual general meeting on Friday. The paint maker has also scaled up its investment in Uttar Pradesh to Rs 800 crore and the plant there is expected to be commissioned in 2022. Roy said while the company in the past three years has grown 11-12 per cent by volume, there has been no value growth. This was primarily on account of raw material price fluctuations and price adjustments. Berger is eyeing a topline of Rs 8,000 crore this fiscal with expectations of a recovery in demand in the second half. “So with a volume growth of 13 per cent, I now have a value growth of 17-18 per cent this year,” Roy said. Berger does not expect raw material prices to rise further leading to better operating margins in the third and fourth quarter. “In July we bounced back to growth level and August also as we stand now, it looks good. Overall demand scenario looks healthy. The bases are very strong in the third and fourth quarter so, growth rate will not be very high, but we will still grow at a reasonable pace and profitability which has been compressed because of escalating raw material prices...will get restored to normal levels in the two quarters,” Roy had said at the AGM. On the international front the company is consolidating business under its subsidiary Bolix and the paint major is eyeing France and Switzerland as future markets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||Business||Delhi HC to hear in October appeals of WhatsApp, Facebook in privacy policy matter||The Delhi high court on Friday said it will hear in October the appeals of Facebook and WhatsApp, challenging its single-judge order dismissing their pleas against the probe ordered by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) into the instant messaging app’s new privacy policy. A bench of Chief Justice D. N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh listed the matter for October 11 while extending the time to file replies to the June 4 and June 8 notices issued by CCI to WhatsApp and Facebook, till then. While CCI was represented through additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, WhatsApp and Facebook were represented through senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||Business||Tata Motors gets NCLT nod for hiving off passenger vehicles business into separate entity||Homegrown auto major Tata Motors Ltd (TML) on Friday said it has received the approval of the National Company Law Tribunal’s (NCLT) Mumbai bench to hive off its passenger vehicles business unit into a separate entity. Earlier in March this year, the shareholders of the company at an extraordinary general meeting convened according to an order of the NCLT had voted and approved the transfer of the passenger vehicles business unit to TML Business Analytics Services Ltd as a going concern on a slump sale basis for a lump sum consideration. Subsequently, the matter moved back to the NCLT for a final order. “We are pleased to inform you that the Hon’ble NCLT vide its order dated August 24, 2021, has sanctioned the said scheme,” Tata Motors said in a regulatory filing. The company will be filing the said order along with a copy of the scheme with the Registrar of Companies, Mumbai, within 30 days of the date of receipt of the order, it added. Tata Motors had said that its passenger vehicles business unit has been valued at Rs 9,417 crore. Last year, Tata Motors had announced that it would turn its domestic PV business unit into a separate entity and seek a strategic partnership in order to help the unit secure its long-term viability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||Business||Indian start-ups seek law for app store fees||Indian start-ups want the Centre to enact laws to protect them from the 30-per-cent commission charged by Google and Apple on the in-app purchases made through their app stores. Further, a clarity on the definition of digital goods and services and flexibility in payment gateways are necessary according to a section of domestic start-ups. At a session organised by think-tank Alliance of Digital India Foundation on Friday, the founders of several Indian companies pointed out these issues. “OTT players spend a huge amount to create content and then a lot more to acquire users. On top of that we have to pay 30 per cent just to be listed (on the app store). That is probably why most OTT platforms no longer have payment options on their app,” said Vinay Singhal, co-founder and CEO of OTT platform Stage. “Google is acting as a gatekeeper and eating up a major chunk of the developers revenue which is going to result in loss for the developer and a higher cost for the user,” said Ravi Mittal, founder and CEO of QuackQuack. “On Apple if you allow users to sign up, you will have to use Apple’s payment gateway,” he added. Snehil Khanor, co-founder and CEO of TrulyMadly, said that India’s Competition Act clearly states that there must not be any misuse of dominant position. “Essentially, we are being asked to remove all other payment gateways being used on our app. We are then being charged 30 per cent for the same service that others are charging 2 per cent for,” said Khanor. Lack of choice is also stifling competition. “There is hardly any option in terms of platform experience,” said Deepshikha Kumar, founder and managing partner, SpeakIn. Amid mounting pressure over exorbitant commissions both Apple and Google over the past few months have introduced a slab based structure with developers who have earned less than $1 million in a year qualifying for a lower service fee of 15 per cent. Further Apple has announced that it would make major changes to its App Store as part of a proposed lawsuit settlement with developers in the US. A prominent change is allowing developers the flexibility to share information about payment methods outside of their iOS app.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||Business||Sebi imposes Rs 50 lakh fine on Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company||Sebi on Friday imposed a penalty of Rs 50 lakh on Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company (AMC) and barred the fund house from launching a fixed maturity plan (FMP) scheme for six months for violating regulatory norms. The market regulator has directed the fund house to refund a part of the investment management and advisory fees collected from the unitholders of the six FMP schemes along with a simple interest at the rate of 15 per cent per annum. In a statement, a spokesperson for Kotak Mahindra Group said that all the investors have been fully repaid along with applicable interest in September 2019 and the fund house is committed to protecting investor interest at all times. The case pertains to six FMP schemes that matured in April and May 2019, which held investments in non-convertible debentures (NCDs) issued by Edisons Utility Works Pvt Ltd and Konti Infrapower & Multiventures Pvt Ltd, belonging to the Essel group and secured by pledge of equity shares of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. Sebi found lapses on the part of Kotak Mahindra AMC in carrying out a due diligence and a laid-back approach adopted by the fund house in risk assessment while taking investment decisions vis-a-vis the zero coupon non-convertible debentures (ZCNCDs) of Essel Group entities. The fund house has not analysed various risk parameters — credit risk, liquidity and interest rate risk — while evaluating the proposal to invest in the ZCNCDs of “certain insignificant and financially handicapped entities” of Essel Group such as Konti Infrapower & Multiventures and Edison Utility Works, it said. Further, the events that took place involving the shares of ZEEL and the Essel Group from January 25, 2019 onwards clearly suggest that there were strong possibilities of default on the part of the two issuer companies to honour the redemption of the ZCNCDs on their maturities, an event which was prevented by the fund house by extending maturity dates of these ZCNCDs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||Business||IBC: Corporate affairs ministry working with FinMin, RBI on issue of committee of creditors' conduct||The corporate affairs ministry is working with the finance ministry, the Reserve Bank of India and the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) on the issue of the conduct of the committee of creditors under the insolvency resolution process, corporate affairs secretary Rajesh Verma said on Friday. The role of the Committee of Creditors (CoC) is crucial in deciding a resolution plan under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), which provides for a market-linked framework for resolving stressed assets. The discussions on the issue of the conduct of the CoC assume significance amid recent instances of creditors taking steep haircuts on their exposure under resolution plans. Verma also acknowledged that it has been upheld in judgments that commercial wisdom lies with the CoC as the IBC provides for a competitive market-driven process for value discovery of the debtor. According to him, the IBBI has been working on increasing the capacity of the CoC through various seminars and addressing the market issues. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) and the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) are key constituents under the IBC framework. Addressing a conference organised by the CII on five years of the IBC, Verma said erosion of the value of a debtor before it comes to the CIRP (Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process) is a matter of concern and emphasised that “timing and asset preservation is of real essence”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||Business||IOC to invest Rs 1 trillion to expand refining capacity||State-owned refiner IOC plans to invest close to Rs 1 lakh crore (trillion) over the next five years to expand its refinery capacity to 106.7 million tonnes (mt). At the company’s AGM on Friday, IOC chairman Shrikant Madhav Vaidya said fuel demand in Indian Oil was expected to rise to 400-450mt in 20 years against 250mt now. “This offers enough legroom for all forms of energy to co-exist.” The IOC chief said the forecasts “translate into refining capacity expansion of over 25mt and an investment commitment of close to Rs 1 lakh crore over the next 4 to 5 years.” IOC operates 11 refineries with a combined capacity of 81.2mt. It plans to raise the capacity of its Koyali refinery in Gujarat to 18mt from 13.7mt and the Panipat refinery to 25mt from 15mt. Expansion plans have also been lined up for Guwahati and Barauni, while subsidiary Chennai Petroleum Corp Ltd is setting up a new plant. The PSU has major plans for green energy to power new projects and expansions. “Indian Oil is charting its course as a future-ready global energy giant and we are working on a range of scalable alternative energy options to realise the vision,” he said. The company has tied up with Israeli company Phinergy to manufacture aluminium-air batteries for electric vehicles in the country. Vaidya said IOC will build the nation’s first “green hydrogen” plant at its Mathura refinery. The PSU is expanding the scope of its joint venture with Malaysia’s Petronas to cover  LNG terminals, CNG stations, city gas distribution projects, compressed bio-gas business and fuel outlets. “We are pursuing more such win-win associations with respective segment leaders to explore newer avenues of growth and gain competitive advantage in the future,” he said. Quick rebound Meanwhile, various performance indicators of IOC have rebounded quickly from the second wave of the pandemic. In the first quarter of the current fiscal, its capacity utilisation was 88.6 epr cent from 68.5 per cent a year ago. “As I say this, the sales volume of petrol has already crossed pre-Covid level, with diesel likely to reach the level in the next 2-3 months, say by Diwali,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||Business||Federal Reserve on track to slow aid for economy later this year||The Federal Reserve will start dialing back its ultra-low-rate policies this year as long as hiring continues to improve, chair Jerome Powell said Friday, signaling the beginning of the end of the Fed’s extraordinary response to the pandemic recession. The Fed’s move could lead, over time, to somewhat higher borrowing costs for mortgages, credit cards and business loans. The Fed has been buying $120 billion a month in mortgage and Treasury bonds to try to hold down longer-term loan rates to spur borrowing and spending. Powell’s comments indicate the Fed will likely announce a reduction — or “tapering” — of those purchases sometime in the final three months of this year. In a speech given virtually to an annual gathering of central bankers and academics, Powell stressed that the beginning of tapering does not signal any plan to start raising the Fed’s benchmark short-term rate, which it has kept near zero since the pandemic tore through the economy in March 2020. Rate hikes won’t likely start until the Fed has finished tapering its bond purchases. But Powell said inflation has risen enough to meet its test of “substantial further progress” toward the Fed’s goal of 2 per cent annual inflation over time, which was necessary to begin tapering. There has also been “clear progress,” he said, toward the Fed’s goal of maximum employment. At the same time, the Fed chair said the central bank is monitoring the economic impact of the highly contagious delta variant, which has caused a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in the US, especially in the South and West. “While the delta variant presents a near-term risk, the prospects are good for continued progress toward maximum employment,” Powell said. He spoke via webcast to the Jackson Hole Economic Symposium, which is being held virtually for a second straight year because of Covid-19. On Wall Street, investors appeared to welcome Powell’s message of a gradual withdrawal of the Fed’s economic support beginning this year and his view that surging inflation pressures will likely prove temporary. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose a sharp 225 points, or 0.6 per cent, soon after Powell spoke. The sharp jump in inflation has put the Fed’s ultra-low-interest rate policies under growing scrutiny, both in Congress and among ordinary households that are being squeezed by surging prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
