29-08-2021||Business||Govt releases draft of declaration to enable withdrawal of retrospective tax demands||In a move that will aid closure of retro tax demands against companies such as Cairn Energy and Vodafone PLC, the Income Tax Department on Saturday released draft of rules to drop such demands provided companies concerned give an "irrevocable" undertaking to withdraw all legal cases against the government as well as undertake not to pursue any in future. Earlier this month, the government enacted the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act 2021 to scrap a tax rule that gave the tax department power to go 50 years back and slap capital gains levies wherever ownership had changed hands overseas but business assets were in India. That rule had been used to levy a cumulative of Rs 1.10 lakh crore of taxes on 17 entities, including Rs 10,247 crore on Cairn and Rs 22,100 crore on Vodafone. Cairn was levied tax for a 2006 internal reorganisation of India business before listing while Vodafone was charged for not withholding tax from consideration it paid for acquiring Hutchison stake in India telecom unit. Scraping such demands, the government undertook to refund Rs 8,100 crore it had collected from companies to enforce the retro tax demand. A bulk - Rs 7,900 crore - is due to Cairn Energy of UK alone. This was to be done only if the companies concerned gave an undertaking to withdraw all present legal challenges as well as not take such recourse in the future. "The amendment made by 2021 Act also provides that the demand raised for offshore indirect transfer of Indian assets made before 28th May, 2012 (including the validation of demand provided under Section 119 of the Finance Act 2012) shall be nullified on fulfillment of specified conditions such as withdrawal or furnishing of undertaking for withdrawal of pending litigation and furnishing of an undertaking to the effect that no claim for cost, damages, interest, etc. shall be filed and such other conditions are fulfilled as may be prescribed," the tax department said in a statement. The amount paid/collected in these cases shall be refunded, without any interest, on fulfillment of the said conditions, it said, adding a draft of the undertaking is being released for comments. The declaration provides for "irrevocably withdraw, discontinue and not pursue" any present or future legal challenge against the tax demand. Both Cairn and Vodafone had challenged the retro tax demand before international arbitration panels which ruled their favour. Other companies too have got relief from various Indian courts. In the case of Cairn, the British firm was awarded USD 1.2 billion in claims for the value of its shares that were seized and sold by the tax department, dividend seized and tax refund withheld. The government failed to pay and the company moved jurisdictions such as the US and France to recover the money due by seizing Indian assets. The new law will require all the companies to withdraw Indian challenges and Cairn dropping its pursuits of Indian assets in the US, France and other foreign countries. "The aim of the amendment made by the 2021 Act is to bring tax certainty and ensure that once specified conditions are fulfilled, the pending Income-tax proceedings shall be withdrawn, demand, if any, raised shall be nullified, and amount, if any, collected shall be refunded to the taxpayer without any interest," the statement said. To implement the amendment made by 2021 Act, draft rules have been prepared to amend the Income-tax Rules, 1962 which specify the conditions to be fulfilled and the process to be followed to give effect to the amendment made by the 2021 Act, it said. "Suggestions/comments on the draft notification are invited from all stakeholders and the public and can be furnished electronically latest by 4th September, 2021." Nangia Andersen LLP Partner Sandeep Jhunjhunwala said in principle, the draft rule proposes that the taxpayer in whose case a specified order has been passed is required to irrevocably withdraw, discontinue and not to pursue any proceedings before the appellate forum, including proceedings for arbitration, conciliation or mediation and for enforcing or pursuing attachments in respect of any award, order or judgement. "Interestingly, any dispute with respect to any of the prescribed forms or orders under these rules would be governed by the Indian laws and Indian courts would have the exclusive jurisdiction to decide disputes," Jhunjhunwala added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
29-08-2021||India||Govt extends deadline for various tax compliances, VsV payments||The income tax department on Sunday extended the deadline for various compliances, including filing of statement for equalisation levy and remittances. The deadline for filing the Equalisation Levy statement in Form-1 for the Financial Year 2020-21 has been extended till December 31, against the original due date of June 30. The quarterly statement in Form 15CC to be furnished by authorised dealers in respect of remittances made for June and September quarter, can now be filed by November 30 and December 31 respectively. The original due date for filing this statement was July 15 and October 15 respectively. In a statement, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said on consideration of difficulties reported by the taxpayers and other stakeholders in electronic filing of certain forms it has been decided to further extend the due dates for e-filing of these forms. In a separate statement, the CBDT announced extending the deadline for making payments under the direct tax dispute resolution scheme Vivad Se Vishwas (VsV) by a month till September 30. However, taxpayers have the option to make payments till October 31, with an additional amount of interest. Also, the due dates for electronic filing of forms related to intimation by pension funds and sovereign wealth funds too have been extended. Intimation to be made by Pension Fund and sovereign wealth fund in respect of investment made in India for the June and September quarter, which is required to be furnished by July 31 and October 31, would now have to be furnished by November 30 and December 31 respectively. The CBDT also extended the due date for uploading of declarations received in Form 15G/15Hfor the June and September quarter till November 30 and December 31 respectively. The original due dates were July 15 and October 15 respectively. The deadlines are being extended as glitches marred the functioning of new income tax portal 'www.incometax.gov.in', launched on June 7. The Finance Ministry had last week ‘summoned’ Infosys CEO Salil Parekh to explain why issues continued to plague the portal developed by the software major. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in the meeting with Parekh on August 23, expressed ‘deep disappointment’ over persisting glitches for more than two months after portal launch and gave him time till September 15 to resolve all issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
29-08-2021||Business||Unitech promoters shifted from Tihar to Mumbai jails following SC order||Former Unitech promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra have been shifted from the Tihar Jail here to Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail and Taloja Central Jail, following a Supreme Court order, officials said on Sunday. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel confirmed that the brothers were shifted on Saturday. "Sanjay and Ajay Chandra both were taken under police escort to Mumbai by train on Saturday morning. They reached Mumbai and were lodged in the jails there in the early hours of Sunday," Goel said. A bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah had said that two reports of the Enforcement Directorate about the conduct of Sanjay and Ajay Chandra and the connivance of Tihar Jail staff in flouting orders and undermining the jurisdiction of the court have raised some serious and disturbing issues. "In the circumstances, we order and direct that both the accused, Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra be shifted from Tihar Central Jail to the premises of Arthur Road Jail, Mumbai and Taloja Central Jail, Mumbai, respectively, the bench said in its 27-page order. It directed the Delhi Police commissioner to personally hold an inquiry into the conduct of Tihar Jail staff in regard to the Chandras and submit a report to the court within four weeks. "In this backdrop, we are of the view that the Commissioner of Police must make an immediate enquiry into the contents of the communication dated August 16, 2021 addressed to him by the Directorate of Enforcement so that all the officers and staff of Tihar Central Jail who may be complicit in the violation of law are held accountable," the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
29-08-2021||Business||Air India asks US court to dismiss Cairn petition for seizure of assets||Air India has asked a New York court to dismiss a petition filed by Britain's Cairn Energy for seizure of its assets to enforce USD 1.2 billion arbitral awards against the Indian government, saying the litigation was premature as an appeal against the arbitration award was still pending. The petition by the airline, which is separate to Indian government's plea in a Washington court seeking dismissal of Cairn's lawsuit to seek confirmation of the arbitral award, said the New York district court lacks jurisdiction to adjudicate a "mere hypothetical question" or one that depends upon contingent future events that may or may not occur. Cairn first moved a court in the US District Court for the District of Columbia seeking confirmation of the arbitration award and then filed a petition in the New York court to seek declaration of Air India as "alter ego" of the Indian government and so it should be made liable to pay the USD 1.26 billion arbitral award. An international arbitration tribunal in December last year set aside the levy of capital gains tax, using a 2012 retrospective legislation, on a 2006 reorganization of India business that Cairn carried before listing it on local stock exchanges. It ordered India to return the value of shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund withheld to enforce levy. With India refusing to pay, Cairn moved courts in the US. "Cairn's petition to confirm the Award is pending in the District Court for the District of Columbia," Air India said in the August 23 petition seen by PTI. It went on to state that the Indian government has filed before a court in The Hague -- the seat of the international arbitration tribunal -- a Motion to Stay and a Motion to Dismiss the arbitral award. "In effect, the Complaint (by Cairn Energy) is a premature enforcement action dressed up as a declaratory judgment action, invoking this Court's federal jurisdiction to get a head start on executing the Award before the D.D.C. has had the opportunity to address the Republic of India's immunity defenses and its claims that the Award is not subject to enforcement under the New York Convention," Air India said. "Such an attempt is improper, and the Complaint should be dismissed." It sought dismissal on three counts - first because the court lacks jurisdiction "to issue a declaratory judgment because the alleged controversy is not ripe", second "Air India is immune from suit because none of the exceptions to sovereign immunity under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA) applies to a premature collection proceeding of a hypothetical judgment, and third "the Complaint, which presupposes an enforceable judgment that does not exist, fails to allege a cognizable cause of action." The Indian government had earlier this month asked the US District Court for the District of Columbia (DDC) to dismiss the case, arguing that it lacks jurisdiction since the country never agreed to arbitrate tax disputes. Meanwhile, litigation filed by New Delhi in the Netherlands to have the award set aside also remains pending. "Cairn asks this court to issue a declaration that Air India, as alleged alter ego of [India], will be liable on a judgment that does not, and may never, exist," the airline said in the August 23 petition. "Unless and until the court in the Cairn confirmation action determines the threshold question of the enforceability of the award against (India), whether Cairn can then enforce that judgment against Air India under an alter ego theory is purely academic and not ripe for adjudication." This comes within weeks of the government enacting a legislation to scrap the tax rule that gave the tax department power to go 50 years back and slap capital gains levies wherever ownership had changed hands overseas, but business assets were in India. That rule had been used to levy a cumulative of Rs 1.10 lakh crore of tax on 17 entities, including Rs 10,247 crore on Cairn. The Indian government and Air India are defending their positions as rules for withdrawal of such tax demands are in the process of being framed. "One of the requirements for the dropping of the retrospective tax demands is that the parties concerned have to give an undertaking for withdrawal of all cases against the government/tax department. So, while all this is in process, the government is obligated to respond in any legal matter where there is a time bar for doing so," an official explained. The government in the dismissal motion filed on August 13 before DCC, cited protections afforded by the US Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976. India in the filing said the court "lacks subject-matter jurisdiction under the FSIA because India never waived its sovereign immunity and, likewise, never offered - let alone agreed - to arbitrate the present dispute with Petitioners". "India also never "clearly and unmistakably" excluded judicial review or delegated exclusive competence to decide these questions to an arbitral tribunal", implying that Cairn couldn't satisfy any exception to sovereign immunity under the US law, the filing said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
29-08-2021||Business||Centre releases draft of declaration to be given by companies to enable withdrawal of retro tax demands||The draft rules for the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2021, which would end the retrospective tax disputes with Cairn Energy and Vodafone Plc, commits to refund the principal sum within a 30-day time period after compliance of all formalities. The companies concerned have to give an “irrevocable” undertaking to withdraw all legal cases against the government as well as undertake not to pursue any in the future. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has released the draft rules that specify the conditions to be fulfilled and the process to be followed to give effect to the amendment made by the 2021 Act. The CBDT sought comments from all stakeholders and the public by September 4. According to the proposed rule 11UE(5), the assessing officer shall issue a refund within 30 days of getting a direction from the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner of Income Tax. Tax experts said this should give some confidence to firms such as Cairn Energy and Vodafone to avail the offer, even though the forms were quite cumbersome. During the Monsoon session, Parliament had passed the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 seeking to nullify the controversial retrospective tax provision introduced in 2012 under the UPA government. The move is aimed at ending tax disputes with Vodafone, Cairn Energy and over a dozen other companies, besides facilitating fresh foreign investment. Subsequent to the amendment in the Income Tax Act in 2012 applying the provision retrospectively, income-tax demand had been raised in 17 cases. In two cases, assessments are pending because of a stay granted by the high court. Of the 17 cases, arbitration under the Bilateral Investment Protection Treaty with the United Kingdom and the Netherlands had been invoked in four cases. In two cases, the Arbitration Tribunal ruled in favour of the taxpayer and against the I-T department. Finance secretary T.V. Somanathan said a total of Rs 8,100 crore was collected using the retrospective tax legislation. Of this, Rs 7,900 crore was from Cairn Energy alone. This money will be repaid. As much as Rs 1.10 lakh crore in back taxes was sought from 17 entities that were levied taxes using the 2012 legislation. Of these, major recoveries were made only from Cairn. Tax advocate Narayan Jain said: “The draft rules prepared by CBDT run into as many as 30 pages. These should be simplified and made crisp.” “The parties concerned as well as the income tax department should cohesively work so that litigations come to an end and eligible parties get refund of tax paid by them  without any hassle or delay. The underlying principle of ease of doing business needs to be followed in its spirit even in such income tax matters,” he added. Sandeep Jhunjhunwala, partner at Nangia Andersen LLP, said: “Any dispute with respect to any of the prescribed forms or orders under these rules would be governed by the Indian laws and theIndian courts would have the exclusive jurisdiction to decide disputes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
29-08-2021||Business||Govt brings new 'BH' registration series for new personal vehicles ||The road transport ministry has come up with a new registration mark for new vehicles — Bharat Series (BH-series) — to ensure seamless transfer of personal vehicles across states. The government has notified a new vehicle registration regime that will free vehicle owners from the re-registration process when they shift from one state/Union Territory to another. “This vehicle registration facility under ‘Bharat series (BH-series)’ will be available on voluntary basis to defence personnel, employees of central government/ state government/central/state PSUs and private sector companies/organisations, which have their offices in four or more states/Union Territories,” the ministry of road transport and highways said. This scheme, it said, will facilitate free movement of personal vehicles across India upon relocation. An IT-based solution for vehicle registration is one such effort as “one of the pain points in the vehicle registration process that needed attention was re-registration of a vehicle while moving to another state”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
29-08-2021||Business||Future Retail moves Supreme Court to stay HC orders, says if not liquidation inevitable||Kishore Biyani-led Future Retail on Saturday said it has approached the Supreme Court against orders passed by the Delhi high court to maintain a status quo in relation to its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail and directing it to enforce the order of the Singapore-based Emergency Arbitrator. In a regulatory filing, Future Retail said, “Please be informed that the company has filed a special leave petition before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India against the impugned orders dated February 2, 2021, and March 18, 2021, passed by ‘Ld. Single Judge’...The SLP will be listed for hearing in due course.” In its petition, the company stated that “here is extreme urgency to hear” and “stay the impugned orders” passed by the single-member bench of the Delhi high court, failing which the company would go into liquidation. Future Retail, in its petition, said the scheme of amalgamation, which will be listed before the NCLT, cannot go through due to the orders of the high court. “... and as a result of which the scheme which benefits all the stakeholders, including the public at large and various public sector banks may fall through; If the scheme falls through, it is inevitable that FRL will go into liquidation,” it said. Besides “approximately Rs 28,000 crore of public money in the form of bank loans and debentures issued by FRL and its group companies will also be at risk”, said the Future group firm in its appeal. The magnitude of damage that may be caused to the public at large is “unimaginable” as livelihoods of more than 35,575 employees of FRL and various companies that are part of the scheme may be lost, it added. “The solvency of over 8,050 SMEs (excluding SMEs of Future Enterprises Limited) and their employees is at stake. The scheme, filed before the Mumbai bench of the NCLT, entails consolidation of Future Group’s retail and wholesale business, and the logistics and warehousing business into one entity (Future Enterprises) and then transferring it to Reliance Retail Ventures under the Rs 24,731-crore deal with RIL. The deal is contested by Amazon, an investor in Future Coupons that in turn, is a shareholder in FRL. Amazon, had approached Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC), where an Emergency Arbitrator (EA) had on October 25 last year restrained the Future group from going ahead with its Rs 24,731 crore deal with RIL. Later, the matter was taken to the Delhi High Court, where on February 2, a single bench of Justice J R Midha had directed FRL to maintain status quo in relation to its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. Justice J R Midha said the court was satisfied that an immediate interim order was required to be passed to protect the rights of Amazon. Later, on March 18, the court upheld the Singapore Emergency Arbitrator's (EA) order restraining Future Retail Ltd (FRL) from going ahead with the Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail to sell its business, which was objected to by US-based e-commerce giant Amazon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
29-08-2021||Business||We are fast progressing in FTA discussions with nations like UK, UAE: Goyal||The country is rapidly progressing in finalising free-trade agreements (FTAs) with several nations, including the UK and the UAE, Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal said on Saturday. Foreign fund inflows have risen more than two-fold to $17.57 billion during April-June this fiscal on account of measures such as policy reforms and ease of doing business, an official statement said. “We are fast progressing in our discussions with the UK, the UAE and other GCC (Gulf Cooperation Council) countries. Canada and Australia are really on a fast track,” Goyal said while addressing the JITO Trade Mahakumbh. Under an FTA, two trading partners reduce or eliminate customs duties on the maximum number of goods traded between them. Besides, they liberalise norms to enhance trade in services and boost investments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
29-08-2021||Business||Government extends tenure of UCO Bank's MD and CEO for 2 years||State-owned Uco Bank on Saturday said the government has extended the term of its MD and CEO Atul Kumar Goel for two years. The Centre, through a notification dated August 26, extended the term for a period of two years or until further orders, whichever is earlier, the bank said in a regulatory filing. Goel’s current term was to end on November 1, 2021. On Friday, PNB and Bank of Maharashtra had also informed about extensions given to their MD & CEOs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
