30-08-2021||Business||Ola looking to raise up to USD 1.5 bn via IPO||Ride-hailing major Ola is looking at raising USD 1-1.5 billion (Rs 7,324-10,985 crore) via an initial public offering (IPO) and is expected to file the DRHP (Draft Red Herring Prospectus) in the December quarter, according to sources. Ola is working with select banks, including Citigroup Inc and Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd, to manage the public offering, two people close to the development said. One of the persons said the details of the offering by ANI Technologies (which runs Ola), including size and timeline, could still change given that deliberations are still ongoing. E-mails sent to Ola did not elicit a response. Recently, Ola co-founder Bhavish Aggarwal had said the company -- which competes against US-based Uber -- is planning a public offering sometime next year, but has not yet set a date. Ola had previously talked of a possible listing as well. An IPO will help Ola investors like SoftBank, Tiger Global and Steadview Capital to exit or partially sell their stake in the company to return funds to their shareholders. Founded in 2011 by Bhavish Aggarwal and Ankit Bhati, Ola offers services in India, Australia, New Zealand, and the UK. It is estimated to have raised over USD 4 billion in funding so far. In July, Ola had announced an investment of USD 500 million (about Rs 3,733 crore) from Temasek, Warburg Pincus affiliate Plum Wood Investment and Bhavish Aggarwal. At that time, Aggarwal had said the company has made its ride-hailing business "more robust, resilient and efficient" over the last 12 months. "With strong recovery post lockdown and a shift in consumer preference away from public transportation, we are well-positioned to capitalise on the various urban mobility needs of our customers," he had said. In the same month, Ola had also announced the expansion of its employee stock options (ESOP) pool to Rs 3,000 crore and allocation of an additional Rs 400 crore worth of stocks to employees. A number of internet-led businesses in the country are gearing up to launch their IPOs, including Nykaa, Paytm, PolicyBazaar and Droom. Last month, Zomato made a stellar debut on Dalal Street with its shares zooming nearly 53 per cent against the issue price of Rs 76, and its market valuation crossing the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark. Recently, CarTrade also made its debut on the stock market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
30-08-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki to hike prices across models from September||The country's largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India on Monday said it will hike prices across models from next month amid rising input costs. In a regulatory filing, the company said, “.... over the past year the cost of company's vehicles continue to be adversely impacted due to increase in various input costs.” “Hence, it has become imperative to pass on some impact of the additional cost to the customers through a price rise,” it added. “The price rise has been planned across models in September 2021,” Maruti Suzuki India said. At present the company sells a range of models from entry-level hatchback Alto to S-CROSS, priced between Rs 2.99 lakh and Rs 12.39 (ex-showroom prices Delhi) lakh, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
30-08-2021||Business||Sensex skyrockets 765 points to end at new peak||Equity benchmark Sensex zoomed 765 points to scale a fresh lifetime high on Monday, driven by gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. After touching a lifetime high of 56,958.27 during the day, the 30-share index ended 765.04 points or 1.36 per cent higher at 56,889.76. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 225.85 points or 1.35 per cent to its record closing of 16,931.05. It touched an all-time intra-day high of 16,951.50. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Tata Steel, Titan, Maruti and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Nestle India, Infosys and TCS were the laggards. "Domestic equities skyrocketed on strong global cues with benchmark Nifty is just one notch away to surpass 17,000 mark," said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Dovish commentary from US Federal Reserve chairman in Jackson Hole Symposium lifted investors' sentiments globally, he noted. Financial and metals witnessed sharp recovery. Barring IT, most key sectoral indices traded in green with decent rebound. Strong buying in midcap and smallcap stocks continued as recent correction made risk reward propositions favourable for investors, Modi said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains. Equities in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.20 per cent to USD 71.56 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
30-08-2021||Business||Sensex soars over 400 points to scale fresh lifetime peak||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 400 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC and Bajaj Finance amid positive cues from global markets.  After touching a lifetime high of 56,527.81 in the opening session, the 30-share index was trading 376.65 points or 0.67 per cent higher at 56,501.37. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 100.95 points or 0.60 per cent to 16,806.15.  Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Tata Steel, M&M, Maruti, L&T, Reliance Industries and HDFC.  On the other hand, Tech Mahindra and HCL Tech were the laggards.  In the previous session, the BSE index settled 175.62 points or 0.31 per cent higher at 56,124.72, and Nifty gained 68.30 points or 0.41 per cent to finish at a record 16,705.20  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 778.75 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data.  Domestic equities look to be good as of now, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  "No mention about actual time frame for reversal of USD 120 billion monthly asset purchase programme by US Fed chief Jerome Powell and indications of no interest rate hike in the medium term essentially show that taper tantrum is still not in the sight in the near term, which augurs well for global equities," he noted.  US equities were upbeat last week with all three key indices in the US recording weekly gains to the tune of 1-2.8 per cent, Modi added.  In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.36 per cent to USD 72.96 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
30-08-2021||Business||PFRDA allows subscribers joining NPS after 65 years of age to take up to 50 per cent equity exposure||The PFRDA has allowed subscribers joining the National Pension System (NPS) after 65 years of age to allocate up to 50 per cent of the funds in equity, besides easing the exit norms. The Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) has revised the guidelines on entry and exit following an increase in the maximum age for joining the NPS from 65 year to 70 years of age. The entry age for NPS has been revised to 18-70 years from 18-65 years. Any Indian citizen and Overseas Citizen of India in the age group of 65-70 years can also join NPS and continue till the age of 75 years, according to a PFRDA circular on the revised guidelines. It added that those subscribers who have closed their NPS accounts have also been permitted to open a new account, according to increased age eligibility norms. The maximum equity exposure, however, will be only 15 per cent if subscribers joining NPS beyond the age of 65 years decide to invest under the default “auto choice”. On the exit conditions for subscribers joining NPS beyond the age of 65 years, the circular said “normal exit shall be after three years”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Baring Asia set to accept $3 billion Carlyle offer for Hexaware||Private equity giant Baring Asia, which owns software firm Hexaware Technologies, is set to pick the $3 billion offer from the Carlyle group for the city-based company, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter. Washington-based Carlyle group is a multinational private equity, alternative asset management and financial services giant with over $260 billion in assets under management and specialises in private equity, real assets, and private credit. Carlyle is set to pip bulge-bracket private equity giants such as Bain Capital, KKR & Co and the Paris-based outsourcer Teleperformance and is most likely to be the winner with around $3 billion bid. All these bidders had submitted binding bids by mid-August. If the deal materialises, it will be the biggest deal in the domestic software services space. “Baring is set to go with the Carlyle group’s $3-billion bid, as it’s much higher than the other bids which are around $2.5 billion only,” one of the investment bankers negotiating the deal and advising the sell-side told PTI on the condition of anonymity, as the matter is private and yet to be completed. A Hexaware spokesperson refused to comment. A reply to an email sent to the Carlyle Asia headquarters on Saturday is awaited. Late last month Baring had shortlisted from around 10 bids Carlyle, KKR, Bain and the French Teleperformance for Hexaware. With 37 offices in over 30 countries and over 20,000 employees, its revenue grew 6.5 per cent in 2020 to $845 million, while operating profit jumped 24.4 per cent to $152 million.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||MSTC transforming from pure-play trading agency to e-commerce outfit||MSTC Ltd, the Calcutta-based public sector outfit, is steadily transforming itself from a pure-play trading agency to an e-commerce outfit to render services to government entities and private parties. The company has ventured into multiple sectors such as online sale of oil and gas, online allocation of coal, a bidding platform for the export and import of petroleum products, sand mining and liquor licence. It is also developing the sale of property as a vertical, including sale of enemy property by the government of India, and sale of idle land of the central public sector unit by the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam). “We have just made a beginning. The sky’s the limit. People need efficiency at their doorstep at the click of their mouse,” Surinder Kumar Gupta, chairman and managing director of MSTC Ltd, said. Sources said the company may be mulling a new identity, including change of name, to position itself as a new-age technology driven e-commerce firm. The suggestion to rechristen the PSU, which started its journey in 1964 as Metal Scrap Trade Corporation as a regulatory body for the export of ferrous scrap and thereafter a canalising agency for the  import of ferrous scrap and old ships for breaking in the country, came from the Union minister of steel Ram Chandra Prasad Singh. The pie of e-commerce in the overall revenue mix of MSTC is about 35 per cent but it is growing noticeably. The company, which had carried out spectrum auction on behalf of the government, is also working with Dipam for strategic as well as asset sale of sick PSUs. MSTC Ltd is also exploring venturing into the fintech sector, Gupta informed, adding that it was studying the opportunities there. While e-commerce is emerging as the new growth driver, the trading business also received a boost in the first quarter. The company’s revenue soared from this segment in line with the rising value of goods  —  iron ore, cotton bales and coal . The company is also expecting the vehicle scrappage policy announced by the Centre to spur the growth of its joint venture with Mahindra to recycle end-of-life vehicles. It has set up three centres and more are coming up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Demand for passenger cars and tractors show pre-Covid trends: Icra||Credit rating agency Icra said demand for passenger vehicles and tractors have almost reached pre-Covid levels. In the commercial vehicle segment, medium and heavy commercial vehicles (M&HCV), which were most impacted by the pandemic, is showing signs of recovery. Icra expects passenger vehicles, two-wheelers and commercial vehicles to report healthy double-digit growth in 2021-22. On the near to medium-term trends, Ashish Modani, sector head and vice-president-corporate ratings, Icra, said, “We expect the industry to witness 20-23 per cent revenue growth during FY22, supported by recovery in the domestic automobile industry and robust exports. Revenue growth The passthrough of increase in commodity prices will also add to the revenue growth. The industry gross margins improved sequentially in Q1 of FY22, but remained lower than the historical trend. The shortage of semi-conductors and increase in commodity prices remain the key challenges for the industry in the near term.” One of the concerns for the industry is the prices of key commodities, which continue to remain high, despite some moderation in recent months. Auto component suppliers usually pass on the impact of commodity price increases to OEMs with a lag of one to two quarters. The recent trend also suggests that auto component suppliers have gradually passed on the hike in commodity prices to their customers as reflected in the sequential improvement in their gross margin. However, the gross margin remains lower than the normal levels (prevalent in FY20) by 100 basis points. Further, given the average inventory holding period of 30-45 days, some companies would have also had the benefit of lower priced inventory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Mercedes Benz India scores with AMG vehicles||Performance cars, namely the AMG vehicles, remained the fastest growing segment for Mercedes Benz India in the first half of 2021. Mercedes-Benz India has introduced the AMG GLE 63 S 4MATIC+ Coupé, which will retail in India at Rs 2.07 crore (ex-showroom). Martin Schwenk, MD and CEO, Mercedes-Benz India, said, “The launch of the AMG GLE 63 S 4MATIC+ Coupé reinforces our strong presence in the luxury performance segment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Centre extends deadline for making payments under Vivad se Vishwas scheme till September 30||The government on Sunday extended by a month the deadline to make payments under direct tax dispute resolution scheme Vivad Se Vishwas till September 30. In a statement, the finance ministry said, “Considering the difficulties being faced in issuing and amending Form no 3, which is a prerequisite for making payment by the declarant under Vivad se Vishwas Act, it has been decided to extend the last date of payment of the amount (without any additional amount) to September 30, 2021”. The ministry had in June extended the deadline for making payments under the scheme till August 31. However, taxpayers have the option to make payments till October 31, with an additional amount of interest. “It is, however, clarified that there is no proposal to change the last date for payment of the amount (with additional amount) under Vivad se Vishwas Act, which remains as October 31, 2021,” the ministry said on Sunday. The finance ministry on Sunday extended the last date to avail the GST amnesty scheme, under which taxpayers have to pay a reduced fee for delayed filing of monthly returns, by three months till November 30. The filing of GST return electronic verification code (EVC) have been extended to October 31. The deadline for filing the equalisation levy statement in Form-1 for 2020-21 has been extended till December 31, against the original due date of June 30. The quarterly statement in Form 15CC to be furnished by authorised dealers in respect of remittances made for the June and September quarter, can now be filed by November 30 and December 31 respectively. The original due date for filing this statement was July 15 and October 15 respectively. Intimations by pension Fund and sovereign wealth fund in respect of investment made in India for the June and September quarter, which is required to be furnished by July 31 and October 31, would now have to be furnished by November 30 and December 31 respectively. Narayan Jain, tax advocate, said he welcomed the decision of the CBDT, which was necessary considering the practical difficulties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel board approves up to Rs 21,000 crore fundraising via rights issue||The Bharti Airtel board on Sunday approved a rights issue to raise up to Rs 21,000 crore from the shareholders. The shares will be offered at Rs 535 apiece, including a premium of Rs 530. Bharti shareholders will have 1 fully paid-up equity share of the company for every 14 shares held by them. The company’s board of directors at its meeting comprehensively reviewed the industry scenario, business environment, financial, business strategy of the company and approved the plan to raise further capital. “Accordingly, the board approved the issuance of equity shares of face value of Rs 5 each of the company on a rights basis to eligible equity shareholders of the company as on the record date (to be notified later), of an issue size of up to Rs 21,000 crore,” the telecom operator said in an exchange filing. On Friday, the telco’s scrip on the BSE closed 1.21 per cent higher at Rs 593.95. “Further, the board has constituted a ‘specialcommittee of directors’ to decide the other terms and conditions of the issue, including the issue period and the record date,” the telco said in a regulatory filing to the bourses. Bharti Airtel’s promoter and promoter group will collectively subscribe to the full extent of their aggregate rights entitlement and will also subscribe to any unsubscribed shares in the issue, the telecom player  said. The promoter holding in the company stands at about 55.8 per cent, while the public holds 44.09 per cent. Airtel will receive the money from the shareholders in tranches. The company said, “25 per cent on application and balance in two more additional calls as may be decided by the board/ committee of the board from time to time based on the company’s requirements within an overall time-horizon of 36 months”. The latest move is expected to give more firepower to Airtel as the company takes on rivals in the fiercely competitive Indian telecom market that is now gearing up for 5G. In its note last week, Jefferies had said that any capital raising by Bharti Airtel that aims to enhance its capacity in anticipation of large market share shifts from Vodafone Idea Limited could be seen “positively”. Jio Platforms, which houses Reliance Jio,  had raised about Rs 1,52,056 crore from marquee investors last year, including Facebook, Google, General Atlantic, KKR, Mubadala, ADIA, TPG, Intel Capital and Qualcomm Ventures. Vodafone Idea Ltd, the third operator in the sector, is struggling to stay afloat and analysts have sounded an alarm over the potential risk of the market turning into a duopoly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Scheduled international passenger flights suspension extended till September 30||The suspension of scheduled international passenger flights because of the coronavirus outbreak has been extended till September 30, aviation regulator DGCA said on Sunday. “However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis,” it added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020 because of the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral “air bubble” arrangements with select countries since July 2020. India has formed air-bubble pacts with around 28 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. The circular issued by the directorate general of civil aviation also said the suspension does not affect the operations of international all-cargo services and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Country liquor manufacturers expect spike in prices in Bengal||Country liquor manufacturers are expecting a spike in prices in Bengal following amendments to the excise rates which come into effect from September. The changes are a precursor to further amendments in foreign liquor excise rates, expected ahead of the festive season to boost dwindling sales. The rates will be based on the new excise structure introduced amid the Covid pandemic. Industry sources said country spirit prices could rise 20 per cent — which means the price of a 600 ml bottle could inch up to Rs 120 from Rs 100 taking it closer to beer prices, prompting a section of manufacturers to re-evaluate their product strategy. Captain, Bengal Tiger, Dada are among the popular brands in the segment. “We will now have to look at the foreign liquor segment. But it is very tough for the country liquor players who are mostly local operators to take on the top foreign liquor brands well established in the segment,” said a senior executive of a country liquor manufacturer with plants in Bengal. “As licensees we will comply and act as directed by the excise department. We are certain that the new pricing will serve the interest of the state revenue and be beneficial to all,” another manufacturer pointed out to a query from The Telegraph. Country spirit is not a small category by any means in Bengal. It contributes around Rs 3,000 crore to the state exchequer and has consistently constituted around 30 per cent of the overall net excise proceeds of the state. The state has estimated its contribution to the net excise proceeds to increase to 35 per cent in 2021-22 with an estimated net earnings of Rs 5,605 crore. The change according to industry sources while affecting the country liquor prices could be introduced to strike a balance with any revenue forgone from a probable tweak in the rates in the foreign liquor category to boost volumes. Bengal’s share in national IMFL sales in 2020-21 had contracted to 3.3 per cent against 4.2 per cent previous year. This was on the back of several factors — introduction of an additional duty of 30 per cent which was subsequently scrapped with a new slab that eventually inflated foreign liquor prices in the state by 40-90 per cent. The other factor is lockdowns in the first wave affecting sales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Air India asks New York court to dismiss Cairn petition||Air India has asked a New York court to dismiss a petition filed by Britain’s Cairn Energy for the seizure of its assets to enforce a $1.2 billion arbitral award against the Indian government, saying the litigation was premature as an appeal against the arbitration award was still pending. The petition by AI, which is separate to the Indian government’s plea in a Washington court seeking the dismissal of Cairn’s lawsuit to seek confirmation of the arbitral award, said the New York district court lacks jurisdiction to adjudicate a “mere hypothetical question” or one that depends upon contingent future events that may or may not occur. Cairn first moved a court in the US District Court for the District of Columbia seeking confirmation of the arbitration award and then filed a petition in the New York court to seek declaration of Air India as “alter ego” of the Indian government and so it should be made liable to pay the $1.26 billion arbitral award. An international arbitration tribunal in December last year set aside the levy of capital gains tax, using a 2012 retrospective legislation, on a 2006 reorganisation of the India business that Cairn carried before listing it on local stock exchanges. It ordered India to return the value of shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund withheld to enforce levy. With India refusing to pay, Cairn moved courts in the US. “Cairn’s petition to confirm the Award is pending in the District Court for the District of Columbia,” Air India said in the August 23 petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Ease of doing business still cumbersome at grass-root level: CII report||Doing business at the level of grassroots is proving to be cumbersome for companies, This along with the high cost of doing business is styming the animal spirits of the private sector, according to a survey by industry chamber CII released on Sunday. However, it said that significant recovery in corporate performance is expected in 2021-22 as the government’s pro-growth initiatives and announcements have helped nurture the animal spirits of the sector, according to a CII survey. “Responding to the question on what is affecting the animal spirits of the private sector, majority of the CEOs (51 per cent) indicated that ease of doing business was still cumbersome at the grass roots, followed by cost of doing business (other than capital cost) being high, as indicated by 32 per cent of the CEOs,” CII said in a statement. About one-third of the CEOs indicated that the current capacity is still in excess of demand, it added. The survey also said about 46 per cent of the 117 CEOs, who participated in the survey, expected more than 10 per cent revenue growth of their respective company in the first half of the current fiscal compared with the first half of pre-pandemic year 2019-20. “The CEOs’ poll clearly indicates significant recovery in corporate performance with both topline (revenue) and bottomline (profit) growth expectations to be better than the pre-pandemic levels. “The government’s pro-growth initiatives and announcements have helped nurture the animal spirits of the corporate sector which has seen the worst economic shock of our lifetime,” it added. On exports, it said the majority of the CEOs polled indicated that countries, including the US and Canada, will post significant growth in the first half of the current fiscal year, followed by Europe, West Asia and Africa and Asia-Pacific. “About 70 per cent of the CEOs polled expected inflation to be up to six per cent during the year 2021-22, which is within the RBI’s inflation range and should help the RBI retain low interest rates to promote growth,” it said. FSDC meet on Sept. 3 Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has called a meeting of the Financial Stability and Development Council (FSDC) on September 3 to discuss the state of the financial sector and a strategy to support the nascent recovery of the pandemic-hit economy. This would be the 24th meeting of the FSDC and the first during the current financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
30-08-2021||Business||Five golden rules every beginner must know before investing in stocks||Investing in stock markets is a great way to grow your wealth over the long term. However, it is not as simple as depositing funds and just hitting the buy button on any random stock. If you have never invested before, the good news is that the process is now much simpler and easily accessible from anywhere in the world. The olden days of paying hefty fees to brokers, who may or may not have had our best interests at heart, are now behind us. Moreover, you don’t need to have a boatload of money to start investing in stocks. A small investment, made consistently over a long period, cumulatively yields great returns over time. Here’s what you must consider before setting foot into the world of stocks. Don’t let emotions get the better of you: “Success in investing doesn’t correlate with IQ; what you need is the temperament to control the urges that get other people into trouble while investing.” says investment guru and chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, Warren Buffet. Investment decisions are driven by your gut, not your brain; don’t let emotions trigger impulsive reactions. It is a sure shot method of cutting the branch you’ve been resting on. Tip: Know your fundamentals, read up on companies, and trust your instincts even if it means going against the trend. Identify your risk-taking appetite before you start investing: This is a measure of “how much you are willing to lose if the market capsizes” and is one of the most important factors that influence your investment strategy. For example, if you are saving for your child’s future, you will be driven to make less risky investments to protect it from market shocks. Long-term investments undoubtedly yield good returns, but the returns depend on the investments you make over time. The more rewarding the investment, the riskier it is. Tip: Invest in multiple sectors. As a beginner, you can reduce risk by diversifying your portfolio. It is called ‘hedging’. Choose performers, not ticker symbols: The most reliable investment is an investment in a company that consistently delivers results. When you embark upon your investment journey, an overwhelming amount of information can appear on your screen and cajole you into making the wrong move. Stocks that rise and fall rapidly when the market sentiment changes are not rewarding but “volatile”. The fall hurts as much as the rise rewards. In order to construct a reliable portfolio, enter stocks of companies that are guaranteed to perform even under challenging circumstances. Tip: Investing in a stock makes you a part-owner of the company. Therefore, prefer investing in established companies (blue chip stocks) that are aligned with your goals and values. Plan to avoid the classic gaffe - buying high & selling low: Intelligent investing based on fundamentals seldom goes wrong. Unless unforeseen catastrophes such as the Covid-19 pandemic hit (from which we are recovering at a steady rate as well), this will help all beginners. Making a BUY decision: As a beginner, you can note down the metrics you measure a company by, or ask yourself ‘What attracts me to this particular company?’ For example, the market strategy, the dividend yield, positive consumer sentiment, etc. As long as the company satisfies your criteria, you should remain invested in it. Making a SELL decision: For this, your reason cannot be the drop in the price of that particular stock. All stocks rise and fall but you must see it through. A sell decision must be based on fundamental changes in the business that you think reduce the worth of that company. Example, losing a large customer or change in the leadership, etc. Tip: Your reasons to enter or exit a stock do not have to match with anybody else’s. Every person measures a company’s performance on the basis of different metrics. If the decision is hard, read rule number 1. Build your portfolio gradually: Time, and not timing is an investor’s best friend. Most investors grow their portfolios expecting to reap the benefits over the years through dividends and price appreciations. This means that an investor can take all the time  he needs to buy stocks. Here are a few strategies to use when building your portfolio: Beginners tend to be excited and over-protective of their investments. It’s okay to get jittery, but do not check on your investments too often and expose yourself to multiple emotional shocks. Check your investments once in a few months or once every quarter, unless the company you invested in comes out with important revelations that could potentially impact its stock prices negatively and harshly. Investing is a game of patience and resilience. Possessing both qualities yields the returns you desire. The writer is founder, Gaurav Bhagat Academy||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
