31-08-2021||Business||India's GDP grows 20.1 per cent in first quarter of 2021-22||India's economic growth surged to 20.1 per cent in the April-June quarter of this fiscal, helped by a low base of the year-ago period, despite a devastating second wave of COVID-19. The gross domestic product (GDP) had contracted by 24.4 per cent in the corresponding April-June quarter of 2020-21, according to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Tuesday. The government had imposed a nationwide lockdown at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic last year. This year, the massive second wave of the pandemic hit the country in the middle of April, which forced states to impose fresh restrictions. However, the economy has still not returned to the pre-COVID level. In value terms, the GDP stood at Rs 32,38,020 crore in April-June 2021-22, lower than Rs 35,66,708 crore in the corresponding period of the 2019-20 financial year. The GDP had shrunk to Rs 26,95,421 crore in April-June last year during the nationwide lockdown. "GDP at Constant (2011-12) Prices in Q1 of 2021-22 is estimated at Rs 32.38 lakh crore, as against Rs 26.95 lakh crore in Q1 of 2020-21, showing a growth of 20.1 percent as compared to contraction of 24.4 percent in Q1 2020-21," the NSO said in a statement. With a view to containing the second wave of the pandemic, localised and calibrated lockdowns were imposed during the first quarter of 2021-22, it added. Restrictions were imposed on the economic activities not deemed essential, as also on the movement of people. "The lockdown instructions in various States were duly considered by the National Statistical Office. The impact on economic activities and the data collection mechanisms owing to COVID-19 pandemic has an effect on the Quarterly GDP estimates also. "The impact of these measures on overall economic activity are embedded in source data," it stated. According to the NSO data, gross value added (GVA) growth in the manufacturing sector accelerated to 49.6 per cent in the first quarter of 2021-22, compared to a contraction 36 per cent a year ago. Farm sector GVA growth was up at 4.5 per cent, compared to 3.5 per cent earlier. Construction sector GVA grew by 68.3 per cent compared to 49.5 per cent contraction earlier. Mining sector grew by 18.6 per cent, as against a contraction of 17.2 per cent a year ago. Electricity, gas, water supply and other utility services segment grew by 14.3 per cent in the first quarter of this fiscal, against 9.9 per cent contraction a year ago. Similarly, trade, hotel, transport, communication and services related to broadcasting grew by 34.3 per cent compared to 48.1 per cent contraction earlier. Financial, real estate and professional services grew by 3.7 per cent in Q1 FY22 compared to a contraction of 5 per cent. Public administration, defence and other services grew at 5.8 per cent during the quarter under review, compared to (-) 10.2 per cent a year earlier. Meanwhile, China has posted a growth of 7.9 per cent in the April-June period of 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business||A financial advisor and crypto expert who had a good sum of experience in trading- Manish Yadav||Cryptocurrency has scored up both in calls of fame and success in recent times. Cryptocurrency can be termed as a digital currency that only exists electronically. You usually exchange cryptocurrency with someone online, using your phone or computer, without using an intermediary like a bank. If you have traded crypto in recent times, you would know that the currencies have almost tripled to the amount that existed 5 years ago.  The crypto market had outshined the stock exchange year over year with insane returns never before seen in any financial institution. Short term and long term crypto have made enormous returns for its investors. Numbers of investor are increasing every day and along with traders, people who educate and train crypto-economics are profiting even more. Launching crypto is a very technical process and you might need professional assistance to go through with it. There are lots of mini-steps in between the main milestones on the way to launch a cryptocurrency. The person who educates and trains crypto-economics should have traded in crypto and must have seen its ups and downs, profit and loss to be experienced and capable enough to train. Here you will find a brief clarification on cryptocurrency in the words of Manish Yadav.  Manish Yadav is a financial advisor and crypto expert who had a good sum of experience in trading. He gives advice not only on crypto but also on forex and general financial planning. Five years back when Manish Yadav started trading, the crypto industry not like today had fame or enough recognition and policies in favour of it. This was because of its use in illegal trading and for being used in the silk route of the internet, commonly known as the dark web. During that time, Manish Yadav learned the fundamentals and developed skills in trading. He did not master it in a day. He says that this part of economics requires a lot of patience. He attempted and tested techniques and learned with practical knowledge. Hence in this way, his role in educating people about crypto and helping them make money is favourably justified. It displays a fact that one should not skip the learning part when one has to start trading any commodity. The time invested in learning will incredibly help in winning the goal result. The websites that ensure techniques of earning thousands of dollars in a day is a wholesome scam. Therefore, in such circumstances trusting an experienced trader like Manish Yadav is a strong and wise choice. The cryptocurrency market cap is around $1.5 trillion right now. Just a year and a half ago it was less than $500 billion, and just ten years ago it wasn’t even a billion dollars. The industry has progressed so much in much less time than it is the stuff of legends. Manish Yadav tells that in the last 3 years, he has seen such a huge profit growth in his trading practices. According to him, his achievement depends on two factors. One, a good and strong foundation, and two, patience. No one is a billionaire in a day. Manish Yadav speaks that crypto is the best investment you can make on a risk-adjusted basis right now. It has a lot of potentials, on the condition that you invest in coins with strong fundamentals. According to Manish, you generally shouldn't only invest in tokens that have no backing. This means that those coins are falsely pumped up by a few rich investors. Such investors who try to falsely pump um some coins are caught by ICOs (Initial Coin Offerings). That is the way money is raised to launch a new cryptocurrency. This process is similar to other product launches where the actual product does not come into the market immediately but the sales begin. Here, similarly, the investors can buy the coins before the actual launch and are delivered the product after its official launch. Everyone from a small trader in his room to the Tesla owner himself has cast the light on cryptocurrencies and shown their interest in them. At this point, you are at the right time and the right place if you are thinking of starting your cryptocurrency. The next notable point is that most of the ICOs fail to reach their goal point. The reason a lot of ICOs fail is that the investors do not completely believe in the project. Launching crypto does not mean just putting up a new coin in the market. It is about to maintain its success later. In brief, Manish Yadav states that in the game that is cryptocurrency trading, the main tool one can have is patience. His goal now in life is to simply help people to make money in crypto using his deep knowledge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business||Omegapro co-founder, Dilawar Singh addresses providing better experience services to their patrons||When the world is still recovering from the setback and repercussion of the Pandemic Captivity. Entrepreneur, Dilawar Singh the co-founder of Omegapro is all set to give the best to its clients and customers with the utmost sincerity he can. Dilawar Singh is a renowned global thought leader for Forex trading, creative undertakings, and cryptocurrency vending. He has toured the world, conveying his discourse around the globe from Asia to Europe, halting in countries like India (where he was born), Japan, the USA, Columbia, UK, and others. This Entrepreneur always understands and reckons in the aspect of quality and integrity. His trademark group of OMG banking is a pioneer that is defined in the future of forex trading. Their establishment has made it easier for people to trade online, keep a track of indices, ETFs, shares, stakes, investment, etc There isn't any means that their application cannot bestow to the related associate masses. However, Dilawar believes and strategies concepts and ideates new ways, brainstorming that, in what more aspects they can offer as an organization to his prospect, subordinates, and consumer. The brilliant magnate believes that the only way to keep succeeding is improving before the need for advancement. So, along with the strategy of providing promising ease in the room of managing finances online, the exchange of payouts, and customizing and altering techniques that suit their customer's financial designs, they are also trying to provide transparency to their customers. The org is also planning to robe itself as a helping guide to its patrons, be it a beginner or an expert, they are trying to make their application modest enough so that even a non-techy person can also use the software with ease and without getting frustrated with hefty procedures and turmoil of complications.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 663 points to close above 57k-mark||Extending their record-setting streak, the Sensex rallied 663 points to close above 57,000 for the first time while the Nifty scaled the 17,000-mark on Tuesday, driven by gains in Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Finance and TCS amid positive global cues. After touching a lifetime high of 57,625.26 during the session, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 662.63 points or 1.16 per cent higher at its record close of 57,552.39. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty soared 201.15 points or 1.19 per cent to an all-time closing peak of 17,132.20. It touched an intra-day record of 17,153.50. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying nearly 7 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, Asian Paints, Titan, TCS and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, Nestle India, IndusInd Bank and Reliance Industries were the laggards. Domestic equities extended gains with Nifty surpassing 17,000 levels within a month, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Sustained buying momentum across all sectors and favourable global cues aided markets. All key sectoral indices traded in green with metals, financials (excluding banks) and pharma witnessing stronger recovery," he noted. Bharti Airtel was in focus again due to clarity over fundraising and indication of tariff hike. However, midcap and smallcap stocks underperformed on profit-booking, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Equities in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.83 per cent to USD 71.63 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business||Supreme Court orders demolition of twin 40-story buildings of Supertech||Nefarious complicity of NOIDA with Supertech Ltd in violation of the law allowed the twin 40-storey towers in Emerald Court project, which would have blocked the sunlight and fresh air for the residents, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday while ordering that the structures built so far be demolished. Illegal construction has to be dealt with strictly to ensure compliance with the rule of law, the apex court said. NOIDA made no effort to ensure compliance of the Uttar Pradesh Apartments Act 2010, as a result of which the rights of the flat purchasers have been brazenly violated, it said. This cannot point to any conclusion, other than the collusion between NOIDA and the appellant to avoid complying with the provisions of the applicable statutes and regulations for monetary gain, at the cost of the rights of the flat purchasers, said a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah, upholding the Allahabad High Court verdict. The order passed by the High Court for the demolition of Apex and Ceyane (T-16 and T-17) does not warrant interference and the direction for demolition issued by the High Court is affirmed, it said. The top court directed that the work of demolition shall be carried out within three months from the date of this judgment. "The record of this case is replete with instances which highlight the collusion between the officers of NOIDA with the appellant and its management. The case has revealed a nefarious complicity of the planning authority in the violation by the developer of the provisions of law," the bench said. The high court has dealt with the collusion between the officials of NOIDA and the appellant (Supertech Ltd), it said. "This is writ large from the facts as they have emerged before this Court as well. The High Court has in these circumstances correctly come to the conclusion that there was collusion between the developer and the planning authority , the bench said. It added that the rampant increase in unauthorized constructions across urban areas, particularly in metropolitan cities where soaring values of land place a premium on dubious dealings has been noticed in several decisions of this Court. This state of affairs has often come to pass in no small a measure because of the collusion between developers and planning authorities, the bench said, adding that from commencement to completion, the process of construction by developers is regulated within the framework of law. It pointed out that the regulatory framework encompasses all stages of construction, including allocation of land, sanctioning of the plan for construction, regulation of the structural integrity of the structures under construction, obtaining clearances from different departments (fire, garden, sewage, etc.), and the issuance of occupation and completion certificates. While the availability of housing stock, especially in metropolitan cities, is necessary to accommodate the constant influx of people, it has to be balanced with two crucial considerations -- the protection of the environment and the well-being and safety of those who occupy these constructions, it said. The top court said the regulation of the entire process is intended to ensure that constructions which will have a severe negative environmental impact are not sanctioned. Hence, when these regulations are brazenly violated by developers, more often than not with the connivance of regulatory authorities, it strikes at the very core of urban planning, thereby directly resulting in an increased harm to the environment and a dilution of safety standards, the bench said, adding, Hence, illegal construction has to be dealt with strictly to ensure compliance with the rule of law . It said that the judgments of this Court spanning the last four decades emphasize the duty of planning bodies, while sanctioning building plans and enforcing building regulations and bye-laws to conform to the norms by which they are governed. A breach by the planning authority of its obligation to ensure compliance with building regulations is actionable at the instance of residents whose rights are infringed by the violation of law, it said. The bench, in its 140-page verdict said that their quality of life is directly affected by the failure of the planning authority to enforce compliance and lauded the efforts of home buyers in pursuing the litigation for their rights. Unfortunately, the diverse and unseen group of flat buyers suffers the impact of the unholy nexus between builders and planners. Their quality of life is affected the most. Yet, confronted with the economic might of developers and the might of legal authority wielded by planning bodies, the few who raise their voices have to pursue a long and expensive battle for rights with little certainty of outcomes, the bench said. It said as this case demonstrates, they are denied access to information and are victims of misinformation. Hence, the law must step in to protect their legitimate concerns . The top court said that the sanction given by NOIDA on November 26, 2009 and March 2, 2012 for the construction of T-16 (Apex tower) and T-17 (Ceyane tower) is violative of the minimum distance requirement under the Noida Building Regulations of 2006, 2010 and National Building Code of 2005. The appellant (Supertech Ltd) has raised false pleas and attempted to mislead this Court, while the officials of NOIDA have not acted bona fide in the discharge of their duties, the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points to cross 57K mark in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex crossed the 57,000-mark for the very first time, as it jumped over 200 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Infosys, HDFC Bank and TCS amid fresh foreign fund inflows.  In tandem, the broader NSE Nifty was trading a tad below the crucial 17,000-mark.  After touching a lifetime high of 57,124.78 in the opening session, the 30-share index was trading 115.53 points or 0.20 per cent higher at 57,005.29. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 24.15 points or 0.14 per cent to 16,955.20.  Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, TCS and Asian Paints.  On the other hand, M&M, IndusInd Bank, SBI and Reliance Industries were among the laggards.  In the previous session, the BSE index ended 765.04 points or 1.36 per cent higher to 56,889.76, and Nifty surged 225.85 points or 1.35 per cent to its record closing of 16,931.05.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) turned net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,202.81 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.  "A distinguishing feature of this bull market which started in April 2020, is that it has been remarkably stable without any major correction," V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.  So, the newbie retail investors who entered the market since April 2020 (1.42 crore new Demat accounts opened in FY21) have been buying every dip, successfully, he noted, adding that with the Fed giving a commentary favourable to bulls, momentum is likely to take the Nifty to 17,000.  US equities extended gains mostly with S&P 500 and Nasdaq recording fresh highs.  In Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Tokyo and Seoul were positive.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.53 per cent to USD 71.85 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business||List of banking aspirants in India grows||The list of banking aspirants in India is growing with the Reserve Bank of India receiving two new applications as part of the on tap licensing for Small Finance Banks. Bangalore based business management software company Tally Solutions and Mumbai based financial intermediary Cosmea Financial Holdings have applied with the regulator for a small finance bank licence. There are 11 licensed small finance banks in India. Many of these banks have migrated from their initial business as a non-bank finance company or a microfinance institution to a small finance bank. Earlier, in April, the RBI had said that eight institutions and individuals have applied for on-tap licences to set up universal banks and small finance banks. UAE Exchange Financial Services, Repatriates Cooperative Finance and Development Bank and Chaitanya India Fin Credit, an entity headed by Flipkart co-founder Sachin Bansal, had sought licences for universal banks. Vsoft Technologies, Calicut City Service Co-operative Bank Ltd, Akhil Kumar Gupta and Dvara Kshetriya Gramin Financial Services were interested in setting up small finance banks, the RBI had said. The RBI in June had given its in principle approval to Centrum Financial to set up a small finance bank. It had set up an advisory panel in March led by former deputy governor Shyamala Gopinath to evaluate the applications  from universal and SFBs, with the latter mandated to focus on priority sector lending and small loans. RBI in 2019 had introduced on tap licensing for small finance banks. As part of the guidelines, the regulator had set a minimum paid up voting equity capital or net worth requirement of Rs 200 crore. For urban co-operative banks looking to convert into small finance banks the initial net worth requirement was Rs 100 crore, which has to be increased to Rs 200 crore within five years from commencement of business. With the Covid pandemic affecting small borrowers, RBI had allowed priority sector classification for loans from small finance banks to microfinance institutions for on-lending.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business||HSBC appoints former SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar as a non-executive director||Banking giant HSBC has appointed former SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar as a non-executive director for its Hong Kong-based Asia unit. Kumar, who retired from the country’s largest lender after four decades of service in October last year, was previously appointed as senior adviser by Baring Private Equity Asia and an adviser to Kotak Investment Advisors. His experience across India’s financial sector will be an invaluable addition to the board of HSBC Group’s Asian entity as it directs focus on the region, Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation’s chairman Peter Wong said. “The opportunities presented by its 1.4 billion population, 18 million non-resident Indians and 40,000 MNCs make India a key component of HSBC’s growth strategy,” Wong added. HSBC’s operations in India, which include 26 retail branches and other financial services, are a part of HSBC Asia. Kumar will also be a member of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation’s audit committee and risk committee, according to a statement. Canara, BoI ED terms The government has extended the tenure of two executive directors of Canara Bank and Bank of India for two years, the state-run lenders said on Monday. The government has extended the term of office of A Manimekhalai, executive director of Canara Bank, for a period of two years beyond her currently notified terms that expire on 10 February 2022, or until further orders, whichever is earlier, Canara Bank said. Bank of India said the term of office of P.R. Rajagopal, executive director, has been extended for two years, beyond his currently notified term or until further orders, whichever is earlier. His current term was to expire on February 28, 2022, the bank said. Change at BoB Bank of Baroda on Monday said Shanti Lal Jain would cease to be its executive director from September due to his appointment as the MD & CEO of Indian Bank. Jain’ cessation as the executive director of Bank of Baroda will be effective from September 1, 2021, the bank said in a regulatory filing. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business|| NTPC ramps up coal output to meet stock depletion at power stations||State-owned NTPC said it was ramping up coal output from its mines and importing 2.7 lakh tonnes of the fossil fuel under existing contracts amid a massive depletion of coal stocks at power stations. The stocks  have depleted to an average 7-days inventory by the end of August from 13 days at the beginning of the month. Power generators have to cope with a sudden rise in demand as the second wave of the pandemic recedes amid falling coal stocks . The Centre on Saturday said it will ration coal supplies to power plants with high inventories. Supplies to plants with more than two weeks’ inventory will be halted for a week. NTPC said it was geared up to meet rising power demand and recorded electricity generation growth of 23 per cent over the previous year. Under the flexible utilisation of the coal policy, NTPC is arranging coal at the power stations where the stock position is critical. The company also said that it is continuously co-ordinating supplies with Coal India and Indian Railways to augment coal supply at critical stations and diverting rakes wherever required. The power ministry is likely to issue a statutory order allowing the plants of Tata Power and Adani Power at Mundra which have a capacity of 4,400mw to sell electricity on the power exchanges for a month, officials said. This will take the pressure off the domestic coal based plants, he said. NTPC said the Indian states are not buying gas-based power even as the PSU can make available 7 gigawatt of gas-fuelled electricity during peak hours. “Demand has gone up by about 17 per cent in August led by the opening up of the economy and a favourable base impact. This coupled with a lag in coal supply pickup and also coal supply regulation is leading to a shortfall in coal stock at various plants,” Sabyasachi Majumdar, senior vice-president & group head — corporate ratings, ICRA, said. Besides rising demand for electricity which have reduced coal stocks, the monsoons have hit coal supplies amid a lower generation by hydroeletric plants. India’s peak electricity demand reached an all time high of 200.57 giga watt on July 7, 17.6 per cent more than a year earlier. The demand is around 192-193gw at present. Aluminium hit Aluminium companies have said the drastic curtailment of supplies by Coal India Ltd without advance notice have brought the industry to a standstill as it has been left with no time to devise any mitigation plan to continue sustainable operations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business||Ola to raise up to $1 billion through initial public offering ||Indian ride-sharing giant Ola plans to raise up to $1 billion through an initial public offering (IPO) and is finalising banks to advise on the fund-raise, three sources told Reuters, becoming the latest startup to join the capital markets boom. Ola, backed by Japan’s Softbank Group, has roped in Citigroup, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said. It has also brought Kotak Mahindra and Morgan Stanley on board, said two other people familiar with the plans. The company, which competes with Uber Technologies, is also in talks with Bank of America and JP Morgan, one of the people said. Ola, JP Morgan and Kotak Mahindra did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Bank of America, Citi and Morgan Stanley declined to comment. The successful listing of food delivery service Zomato, backed by China’s Ant Group, in July has made other technology startups more bullish about raising money through the capital markets, two of the people said. Over half a dozen startups, including payments company Paytm, e-pharmacy PharmEasy and online insurance aggregator Policybazaar, are preparing for IPOs, giving investors such as Ant and Softbank an opportunity to exit. Founded in 2010 by Bhavish Aggarwal, Ola has a majority share of India’s ride-hailing market which took a hit last year as lockdowns kept people at home, forcing the company to cut its workforce and temporarily halt the bulk of its business. Ola also has a growing presence in several global markets such as Australia and the United Kingdom. In July, private equity firms Temasek and Warburg Pincus invested about $500 million in Ola ahead of its planned IPO. At that time, Aggarwal had said the company has made its ride-hailing business “more robust, resilient and efficient” over the last 12 months. “With strong recovery post lockdown and a shift in consumer preference away from public transportation, we are well-positioned to capitalise on the various urban mobility needs of our customers," he had said. In the same month, Ola had also announced the expansion of its employee stock options pool to Rs 3,000 crore and allocation of an additional Rs 400 crore worth of stocks to employees. Bloomberg News first reported of Ola’s IPO plans earlier on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
31-08-2021||Business|| Go Airlines, or ‘Go First’, gets Sebi go-ahead for IPO||Budget carrier Go Airlines, which has rebranded itself as ‘Go First’, has received market regulator Sebi’s go-ahead for its initial public offer. The airline plans to garner up to Rs 3,600 crore through the sale of shares, according to the draft red herring prospectus. It also plans to raise up to Rs 1,500 crore by way of a pre-IPO (initial public offer) placement. The carrier, which filed its preliminary papers for the IPO in May, received its observations on August 26, according to Sebi’s latest update on processing the status of the draft offer documents. The information was updated on August 27 and made public on Monday. In Sebi parlance, issuance of observations implies its go-ahead for the IPO. In June, Sebi had kept in abeyance the processing of Go Airlines’ draft papers for the initial share sale. From the net IPO proceeds, the airline plans to utilise over Rs 2,015.81 crore towards pre-payment or scheduled repayment of all or a portion of certain outstanding borrowings, according to the DRHP. An amount of Rs 279.26 crore would be for “replacement of letter of credits, which are issued to certain aircraft lessors towards securing lease rental payments and future maintenance of aircraft, with cash deposit”. Further, the carrier plans to repay dues of Rs 254.93 crore to Indian Oil for fuel supplied to it, according to the draft plan. The Wadia group owns a 73.33 per cent stake in the carrier while the remaining shareholding is with other entities, including Baymanco Investments. The latter holds a 21.05 per cent stake. Others are Sea Wind Investment and Trading Company Ltd (3.76 per cent shareholding), Heera Holdings & Leasing Pvt Ltd, Nidhivan Investments & Trading Company Pvt Ltd and Sahara Investments Pvt Ltd — all the four entities have 0.62 per cent stake each in the airline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
31-08-2021||Business||Equity benchmarks maintain record-setting spree on all-round buying||The Sensex surged 765 points while the Nifty cruised past the 16900-level on Monday as equity benchmarks maintained their record-setting spree on all-round buying amid supportive global cues. A firm trend in the rupee, which rallied 40 paise against the dollar, added to the momentum. After touching a lifetime high of 56958.27 during the day, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 765.04 points, or 1.36 per cent, higher at its new closing peak of 56889.76, extending its winning run for the third session. The broader NSE Nifty advanced for the sixth consecutive day, surging 225.85 points or 1.35 per cent to its record closing of 16931.05. It touched an all-time intra-day high of 16951.50. The Nifty has closed at fresh lifetime highs in five of the previous six sessions. Bharti Airtel was the top performer in the Sensex pack, rallying 4.44 per cent, after the company’s board raised up to Rs 21,000 crore via a rights issue. Investors were richer by Rs 3.56 lakh crore, with the market capitalisation of all BSE-listed companies reaching a record Rs 247.30 lakh crore. “Domestic equities skyrocketed on strong global cues with the benchmark Nifty just one notch away to surpass the 17000 mark,” said Binod Modi, head-strategy at Reliance Securities. Dovish commentary from the US Federal Reserve chairman in the Jackson Hole Symposium lifted investors’ sentiments globally, he noted. “Global markets strengthened as the anxiety over the Jackson Hole symposium subsided following the dovish tone of Fed chairman Jerome Powell with his wait-and-see approach giving reassurance that the easy money policy will continue this year with a smaller rate of tapering,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains. Equities in Europe were also trading in the positive zone in the afternoon session. International oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.20 per cent to $71.56 per barrel. The rupee surged 40 paise to close at 73.29 against the dollar, marking its third straight session of gains. The local unit has appreciated by 95 paise against the greenback in three days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
31-08-2021||Business||Jio-Google smartphone to launch on September 10||Jio will launch its smartphone — Jiophone Next — in partnership with Google on September 10. Market analysts predict further pricing aggression from Jio in a bid to shore up its subscriber base with the telecom major’s launch of the new phone. According to Trai data, Jio held a 36.98 per cent share in an 118-crore wireless subscriber market in India at the end of June 30, 2021. While Airtel had a market share of 29.82 per cent, Vodafone Idea held a market share of 23.15 per cent. The private operators dominate the telecom industry in India with an overall subscriber share of 90 per cent. “JioPhone Next is expected to be launched on September 10, and it could turn out to be another round of pricing aggression from Jio to accelerate its subscriber market share gains,” said Naval Seth, research analyst at Emkay. Reliance Jio chairman Mukesh Ambani had announced the JioPhone Next launch on Ganesh Chaturthi at the company’s annual general meeting in June. With an Android operating system, the phone is expected to include features such as Google Assistant, language translation, camera with augmented reality features among others while being an affordable 4G smartphone. Sundar Pichai CEO, Google had said that the phone will support an optimized version of Android and will support the latest updates. Jio currently has feature phones as JioPhones and the market is expecting announcement from the company soon on pre-orders of the JioPhone Next.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
31-08-2021||Business||Sunil Mittal pitches for tariff hike and a cut in government levies||Bharti Airtel chairman Sunil Mittal on Monday made a strong case for a hike in tariffs and a cut in government levies to save the industry. Mittal said as much as 35 per cent of the industry’s revenues go towards paying taxes even as Airtel and Vodafone are burdened with high AGR (adjusted gross revenue) dues along with spectrum payments. Speaking at an analyst call following the announcement by Airtel of a Rs 21,000-crore rights issue on Sunday, Mittal said the issue proceeds would be used in the rollout of 5G services, fibre and the data centre business. “People are consuming average 16GB of data per user per month. It is time that tariffs do take a tick up to make the industry viable and, more importantly, have decent and appropriate returns on capital to grow into more technology areas, to roll out more networks, and become a more viable model of sustainability in the future,” Mittal said. He stressed that the industry needs to have a “right economic model”, and rued that “for far too long, we have played in this game by growing this industry at a very minimal pricing level”. Levies are far too high in the telecom sector, Mittal said adding that “levies and the load on industry needs to be brought down”. Mittal made it clear that Airtel will not shy away from raising tariffs. He argued that tariff changes effected by Airtel over the last few months are a “testimony” that the company has indeed “run out of patience”. Asked if Airtel will take a lead in raising tariffs in the future, Mittal said that the company has already been doing it in a limited manner by pushing up base tariffs to Rs 79. “Can this go to Rs 99 eventually, my answer is yes, the question is when... In the end, we are also bound by market forces, we can’t be outlier beyond a point. You can be having some premium given the strength of the brand but you can’t go beyond a point where you start to hurt yourself,” Mittal observed. “We have seen the worst tariff war, and contraction in average revenue per user,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
31-08-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India to raise prices across models||India’s No. 1 car maker Maruti Suzuki on Monday said it would raise prices next month across its models to counter higher input costs. The company did not specify the amount of increase in the prices, the fourth in 2021. “With respect to price increase, we wish to inform you that over the past year the cost of company’s vehicles continues to be adversely impacted due to the increase in various input costs,” the car maker said in a regulatory filing. “Hence, it has become imperative to pass on some impact of the additional cost to the customers through a price rise,” Maruti Suzuki said. “The price rise has been planned across models in September.” MSI executive director (sales and marketing) Shashank Srivastava told The Telegraph that the “input costs of steel and copper have doubled since April 2020, the prices of precious metals like Rhodium have spiked from Rs 18,000 per gram to over Rs 68,000 per gram since April last year.” “Material costs compromise 75 per cent of our total cost of production hence it is effecting us in a very strong way,” he said. Srivastava said during the first lockdown the company did not raise prices as it expected input costs to soften. “But that did not happen. Now our profitability is taking a hit. So we had to increase prices.” On asked what would be the range of the price hike, he said: “It’s going to be substantial across all models.” Maruti reported a drop in profit after tax at Rs 440.8 crore in the first quarter of the current fiscal, a sharp 62 per cent decline on a sequential basis. Prices have already been raised thrice this year in January, April and July. On January 18, Maruti had hiked prices of some models up to Rs 34,000. Again  it increased prices by 1.6 per cent (ex showroom) in April across all models. In July, it had hiked the prices of the hatchback Swift and the CNG variants of other models by up to Rs 15,000. The price rise will come just before the start of the festive season which kicks off with Ganesh Chaturthi on September 10. Rivals Tata Motors, Honda Cars, Mahindra & Mahindra, Renault, and Toyota had raised prices in the July-August period. Input prices The hikes have been exercised to offset the increase in raw material costs such as steel and precious metals. Commodity prices are expected to remain at multi-year highs in the first half of this fiscal before softening in the second half of the year, according to an Icra report. Maruti sells a range of models from entry-level hatchback Alto to S-CROSS, priced between Rs 2.99 lakh and Rs 12.39 lakh (ex showroom Delhi), respectively. With inputs from Calcutta Bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
