02-02-2021||Chandigarh||PS (Home), DGP Haryana Police and CP Gurugram sleeping like ‘Kumbhkarna’ over prosecution sanction: CBI court||Passing strictures against Principal Secretary (Home), DGP Haryana Police and Commissioner of Police (CP) Gurugram for sitting over prosecution sanction against four police officials for over five months, CBI Special Judicial Magistrate, Haryana, Dr Aman Inder Singh, on Tuesday said that they were “sleeping over the request of the premier investigating agency of the country like a ‘Kumbhakarna’” instead of discharging their duties without any delay. The case is related to the murder of 7-year-old boy on September 8, 2017 in a Gurugram school. After the registration of FIR, the local police had arrested Ashok Kumar, conductor of the school bus. Later, the case was handed over to the CBI which claimed that Ashok Kumar was falsely framed and a senior student of class 11th murdered the 7-year-old by slitting the throat with a knife. Last month, the CBI filed a chargesheet against the then ACP Sohna, Gurugram, Birem Singh; Inspector Narinder Singh Khatana, retired Inspector Shamsher Singh and ESI Subhash Chand for wrongly framing Ashok Kumar before CBI magistrate at Panchkula. It said that they “knowingly, intentionally, dishonestly, wrongfully, fraudulently fabricated false evidence with intent to procure conviction of capital punishment” against Ashok Kumar.  The CBI had approached Principal Secretary Home on August 19, 2020 for prosecution sanction against Birem Singh and DGP Haryana Police was approached on September 30, 2020 for sanction against Khatana and Shamsher Singh. The CP Gurugram was approached for sanction against Chand on September 30, 2020.  But no sanction was granted despite reminder on January 22 this year, submitted the CBI before the court today.   “Here, more than five months have elapsed and the sanctioning authority is yet to wake up from its deep slumber,” observed the judge.  “It is indeed dismal state of affairs on the part of the authority saddled with the task of granting/declining the sanction to prosecute the accused, that so far as the decision whatsoever upon the request of the investigating agency has been ducked by it despite being approached time and again,” added the judge. “Unfortunately, this court has been pushed against the wall in making a candid observation against the authority tasked with the exercise of sanction to prosecute the accused that at an appropriate stage, appropriate proceedings under the law of the land may be initiated against that authority. It has been rightly said that ‘be you ever so high, the law is above you,’” observed the court.  The court observed that it appeared that the “sanctioning authority is having a dogged determination not to grant sanction to prosecute the accused owning to the sense of camaraderie and at the same time, it appears to be frightened of the fact that the order of declining the request of the investigating agency may fall short of facing the judicial scrutiny”. The judge ordered the CBI for sending the copy of today’s order to the concerned competent sanctioning authority “within a period of eight days and the compliance of the same be intimated to this court within next ten days”.  “If the sanctioning authority fails to take the request of the investigating agency to its logical conclusion by the next date of hearing, it shall file a detailed affidavit highlighting the facts and circumstances coming in its way, in this regard,” said the order.   The next date of hearing is February 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ps-home-dgp-haryana-police-and-cp-gurugram-sleeping-like-kumbhkarna-over-prosecution-sanction-cbi-court-206991
02-02-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Girl goes missing from children’s home in Nuh||Gurugram, February 2A 14-year-old girl went missing from a children’s home at Peepaka village in Nuh district on Monday night. Administration and police are on their toes as the girl is still untraceable while an FIR has been registered at Tauru police station.According to a complaint filed by Jaheer Ahemad, in-charge of children’s home, the child welfare committee, Nuh, had sent the girl to the home on December 29 last. A case of kidnapping and forced marriage was registered by the girl in October in Punhana police station.“In the wee hours of today the guard of children’s home called me and told that the girl was missing. They found that the back gate of the room where the teenager was putting up was open,” Jaheer Ahemad told police.On the other hand, the family of the girl alleged the disappearance was a conspiracy of the officials of the children’s home. An alleged attempt to abduct their daughter from the children’s home was reported five days ago.“A boy had kidnapped our daughter on November 23 last year. He was going for court marriage after producing fake birth certificate of his daughter in court as showing her age 18 while she was only 14. On their appeal the Punjab and Haryana high court sent their daughter to children’s home but she was again kidnapped,” said the father of girl.After getting the information Rajesh Chonker, chairman of child welfare committee, visited the children’s home today. He said they are investigating on their part with the help of CCTV footage and the call detail report of all of employees and officials of children’s home. Action will be taken against who found involved in the same. Meanwhile, police said that they are conducting raids to find out girl.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/girl-goes-missing-from-childrens-home-in-nuh-206963
02-02-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur ||15th Finance Commission recommends Rs 63K crore to Haryana over next 5 years||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, February 2 The 15th Finance Commission has recommended a transfer of Rs 63,098 crore to Haryana from 2021-22 to 2025-26. This will include Rs 46,177 crore as state’s share in central taxes and duties, and Rs 16,921 crore as grants-in-aid. However, Rs 81,977 crore in total has been recommended for Himachal Pradesh (HP) and Rs 1.2 lakh crore for Punjab.Haryana’s share in central taxes has been increased to 1.093 per cent from 1.084 per cent. Punjab’s share has also been enhanced to 1.807 per cent from 1.577 per cent and that of HP to 0.830 per cent from 0.713 per cent.In case of grants-in-aid for Haryana, the Commission, headed by NK Singh, has recommended Rs 132 crore as revenue deficit grant. The states which still show a revenue deficit post devolution have been recommended revenue deficit grants. Post devolution, Haryana is reflecting only Rs 132 crore as revenue deficit in 2021-22, while there will be a surplus of Rs 6,444 crore in 2022-23, Rs 14,312 crore in 2023-24, Rs 24,600 crore in 2024-25 and Rs 38,901 crore in 2025-26. On the other hand, post devolution Punjab is reflecting a deficit of Rs 10,081 crore in 2021-22 which will reduce to Rs 8,274 in 2022-23 and then to Rs 5,618 in 2023-24 and further to Rs 1,995 in 2024-25. Only in 2025-26 it is showing a surplus of Rs 5,260. So, for Punjab Rs 25,968 crore as revenue deficit grant is recommended.For Haryana’s local governments, Rs 9,066 crore has been recommended. Also, there has been a recommendation for Rs 2,715 crore for disaster management and Rs 695 crore for health and Rs 1,696 crore for agriculture sector. For Pradhan Mantri Grameen Sadak Yojna (PMGSY), maintaining statistics and judiciary, Rs 128 crore, Rs 40 crore and Rs 300 crore has been proposed respectively. For higher education, Rs 146 crore has been suggested. There is a state specific grant of Rs 2,003 crore for Haryana too.On risks and challenges, the Commission observed that interest payments are a huge liability for Haryana. “Between 2011–12 and 2018–19, interest as a percentage of Total Revenue Expenditure (TRE) has been in the range of 12.5% to 17.6% (among the highest in India),” says the report.   The Debt–GSDP ratio also increased from 18.33 per cent (2011–12) to 25.09 per cent (2018–19). Haryana’s Revenue Deficit (RD)–Fiscal Deficit (FD) ratio has been increasing over time and is currently 51.4 per cent (2018–19) indicating that most of the borrowings have gone for financing its RD.The Commission pointed out outstanding liabilities, substantial budgetary support and huge arrears in accounts of state public sector units.   The Commission says that Haryana needs to improve on certain Sustainable Development Goals (SDG)-‘Zero Hunger’, ‘Gender Equality’, ‘Sustainable Cities and Communities’, ‘Sustainable Consumption and Production’, ‘Climate Action’, and ‘Life on Land’. “Intra-state disparity between the most advanced district of Gurugram (part of NCR) and most backward Nuh (aspirational district) is staggering. Without Gurugram in the equation, Haryana’s GSDP and per capita income would reduce drastically,” says the Commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15th-finance-commission-recommends-rs-63k-crore-to-haryana-over-next-5-years-206953
02-02-2021||New Delhi||Delhi-Haryana’s most wanted gangster finally falls in police net||The Special Cell of Delhi police has arrested Delhi and Haryana’s most wanted gangster 36-year-old Ashok Pradhan alias Shoki, a resident of Nilothi village in Jhajjhar district of Haryana, who was wanted in seven cases including four cases of murder and robbery.He was carrying a reward of Rs 5,00,000 on his head in Haryana and Rs 25,000 in Delhi and was on the run since 2014 after jumping parole, police said on Tuesday.His close aide Arun, from Matindu village in Haryana, who was wanted in three criminal cases including two cases of murder and one case of attempt to murder and was carrying a reward of Rs 1,00,000 on his head in Haryana has also been arrested.A Maruti car, being driven by the accused and stolen from Rohtak, has also been recovered along with two sophisticated firearms. Both were arrested from Millennium Park, Outer Ring Road.Ashok Pradhan has an ongoing rivalry with Neeraj Bawana (in jail) and his gang. In this feud, over a dozen persons have been killed in the last 10 years.“Ashok Pradhan’s current obsession was eliminating Neeraj Bawana and his associate Naveen Bali, both of whom are presently in jail, on one of their upcoming court appearances. Since after implementation of the COVID-19 protocols, physical appearances of undertrial prisoners have been stopped, the accused were waiting for its resumption which has just begun.The timely apprehension of these dreaded criminals has scuttled their plans and saved many lives,” said Manishi Chandra, DCP Special Cell.Ashok Pradhan joined neutralised gangsters Neetu Daboda and Kismat in 2001. He marked his arrival on the big crime stage with the murder of a village head in Bahadurgarh, Haryana, closely followed by the murder of a doctor in Bahadurgarh city.Both these murders were executed on the orders of Neetu Daboda and were contract killings. Thereafter he went on a crime spree with Neetu Daboda, Kismat and others and was named in a number of criminal cases including contract killings, murders and kidnapping for ransom.In 2004, while he was behind bars, his brother was murdered by his rival Rajeev, a resident of Ashoda in Haryana. After obtaining bail, Ashok Pradhan eliminated Rajeev and many of his associates one by one. He was again arrested, tried and sentenced for life.In 2009, he got out on parole. After the neutralisation of his mentor Neetu Daboda by the Special Cell in 2013, he took over the reigns of Neetu’s gang and transformed it into the infamous ‘Pradhan gang’.In 2016, he murdered Krishan, a resident of Barahi village of Haryana, who had murdered his second mentor Kismat.After obtaining bail again he went off the police radar and owing to his continued criminal activities a reward of Rs 5,00,000 was  put on his head in Haryana and of Rs 25,000 in Delhi.In the last four months of the previous year, he had masterminded the murder of Neeraj Bawana’s gang member Shakti in October 2020. He also plotted the murder of Rohit, an associate of gangster Kala Jhathedi, in Katewra village in Bawana, Delhi in December 2020. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-haryanas-most-wanted-gangster-finally-falls-in-police-net-206933
02-02-2021||---||6 senior citizens, 2 minors among 122 arrested for Republic Day violence||New Delhi, February 2The list of 120 people arrested by Delhi Police in connection with the violence on January 26 during tractor rally by protesting farmers include six senior citizens.The list was released by Delhi Police, which also warned the general public about “rumours” being spread about “illegal detentions” and missing farmers. Among those arrested include 80-year-old Gurmukh Singh of Shanashapuri village of Fatehgarh Sahib in Punjab, 70-year-old Jeet Singh of Khanouri Kalan village of Sangrur district in Punjab, 63-year-old Joginder Singh of Boha village of Mansa district in Punjab, 63-year-old Dharampal of Dhansa village of Delhi, 62-year-old Daya Kishan of Ashodha village in Bahadurgarh of Jhajjar district in Haryana and 60-year-old Jagbir of Rithal village of Rohtak district in Haryana.Also read: Delhi Police cement nails, barricade border protest sites with barbed wiresPainful to see farmers lose lives in this manner: Amarinder at all-party meetingFarmers prepared to stay put till October, says Rakesh TikaitThe list contains the names of people arrested in FIRs registered at Mukherjee Nagar, Nangloi, Uttam Nagar, Najafgarh, Seemapuri, Baba Haridas Nagar, Paschim Vihar West, Ali Pur Outer North and Mundka Outer District police stations.Delhi Police on its part warned people about “rumours” being spread about “illegal detentions” and missing farmers. They said in a Twitter post: “No one has been illegally detained by the police.”Delhi Police PRO Eish Singhal said 44 FIRs had been lodged and 122 people arrested. Two of the arrested persons’ names had not been released, as they are under 18.The FIRs have been registered under the IPC sections for rioting, unlawful assembly, assaulting and obstructing public servant, attempt to murder, dacoity and robbery.A total of 394 police personnel were injured and about 30 police vehicles damaged in the clashes. The commissioner of Delhi Police has approved financial assistance for the injured personnel—Rs 25,000 for those grievously injured, and Rs 10,000 for those with other serious injuries.In a statement released two days after the clashes, the police had said that a “conspiracy” was hatched that culminated in the violence on Republic Day. The police have also issued over 50 notices to people, including farmer union leaders, in connection with the violence. Their passports would be seized in the days to come, the police said.Several groups of protesters broke a pre-decided route for the rally and clashed with the police. Mobs also breached the walls of the Red Fort on Republic Day and hoisted a religious flag at the Red Fort.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-senior-citizens-2-minors-among-122-arrested-for-republic-day-violence-206904
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temps below normal in Punjab, Haryana; Adampur coldest at 3 deg C||Minimum temperatures in most places of Punjab and Haryana hovered below normal on Tuesday, with Chandigarh, the joint capital of the two states, recording a low of 6.2 degrees Celsius.Adampur was the coldest place in Punjab recording a minimum temperature of 3 degree Celsius, followed by 3.2 degrees Celsius in Amritsar, 3.9 degrees Celsius in Gurdaspur, 4.3 degrees Celsius in Bathinda and 4.8 degrees Celsius in Faridkot.In Haryana, Sirsa shivered at 3.6 degrees Celsius, Karnal registered a low of 5.5 degrees Celsius, Narnaul 4.9 degrees Celsius, Rohtak 6.6 degrees Celsius, Hisar 4.4 degrees Celsius and Ambala 5.4 degrees Celsius.While the night temperatures have been hovering well below normal for several days now, the day temperatures, however, have registered a slight increase in the past two to three days, a weather department official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minimum-temps-below-normal-in-punjab-haryana-adampur-coldest-at-3-deg-c-206889
02-02-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar seeks CJ’s transfer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 1The crisis in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, brought about by shortage of judges and pendency of cases, has worsened. The relationship between its Bar and the Bench today took a direct hit with the lawyers’ association not only seeking Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha’s transfer, but also deciding to boycott his court for non-resumption of physical hearing of cases.Rift also surfaced between the HC Bar Association and the Bar Council over the issue of removing Punjab Advocate-General Atul Nanda from the association’s membership.In an out-of-the-ordinary move, the Bar Association’s general house decided to remove Nanda from membership for working against “physical opening of the court and interest of Bar” — a move dubbed by the council as ex facie illegal. Staying the decision, the council said disciplinary action against any Bar member could not be taken without following the drill. A specific agenda with due notice was required to be circulated, if a member’s conduct was to be discussed in the house.Describing the association’s decision as unfair and uncalled for, the Bar Council said Nanda had publicly supported the resumption of physical working.The council also referred to Nanda’s letter dated January 30 giving his consent for appearance of law officers of the State of Punjab during physical hearing of cases. Nanda’s approval is significant as consent of both parties is required for hearing a matter physically. Nanda refused to comment on the issue. But a senior functionary in the AG office said Nanda was in favour of physical hearing.Bar president GBS Dhillon, meanwhile, made it clear the resolution passed during the general house meeting this afternoon on Chief Justice’s transfer and boycott would remain in force until complete opening of physical courts or his transfer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-bar-seeks-cjs-transfer-206629
02-02-2021||---||Spikes at Tikri, concrete barricades at Singhu||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar/Sonepat, February 1Strengthening security arrangements, the Delhi Police have put spikes at Tikri and constructed a three-foot-high concrete wall on the highway at the Jharoda border, leading to Najafgarh.3-hr nationwide 'chakka jam' on Feb 6Sonepat: The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha on Monday announced a nationwide 'chakka jam' on all national and state highways from noon to 3 pm on February 6. Morcha leaders said they were ready for talks, but the atmosphere was not conducive it. TNSAt the Singhu border, the police have started placing concrete barricades to restrict the movement of farmers. Workers under the watch of police personnel were today seen hooking iron rods between two rows of cement barriers. A four-ft high and three-ft wide concrete wall has come up at the site.The action was taken following intelligence input about the law and order situation. It was aimed at preventing the entry of any vehicle from Haryana.“The work to put spikes at Tikri and construct a concrete wall at Jharoda was done late at night. It is an effort to strike fear among farmers, but we do not care,” said a protesting farmer.In a sudden move, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation suspended Metro services at four stations from Brigadier Hoshiar Singh station in Bahadurgarh to Tikri in Delhi in the morning, leaving commuters high and dry.Meanwhile, the Bahadurgarh MC called back its sanitation workers from Tikri, leading to unhygienic conditions at the protest site.The Public Health Department also stopped water supply to farmers. The district administration kept mum over the issue.Jagbir Malik, Superintending Engineer (Public Health), said the daily supply of water to farmers in more than 40 tankers was stopped a few some days ago.As per an announcement by Saroha khap, a cavalcade of vehicles from various villages in Sonepat arrived at Singhu on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/spikes-at-tikri-concrete-barricades-at-singhu-206602
02-02-2021||Pradeep Sharma||By quitting, Abhay takes moral high ground over Dushyant Chautala||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 1Senior INLD leader Abhay Chautala seems to have taken a moral high ground over his arch political rival and Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala by resigning from the Haryana Assembly over the farm laws.Besides, the decision seems to be a smart move to revive the INLD, which appears to have fallen on bad days, in the Haryana politics and emerge as the true inheritor of Devi Lal’s legacy.The move may also put the JJP on the back foot whose seven of the 10 MLAs had vociferously demanded the repeal of the three farms laws.Experts said by resigning from the Haryana Assembly, Abhay had apparently taken a lead over other politicians, who had merely been extending lip service to the farmers’ agitation. By being the first MLA to resign in favour of the protesting farmers, Abhay has sent the JJP and Congress MLAs in a tizzy.Through the move, Abhay also hopes to revive the INLD’s political fortunes, which had been at the low ebb since 2019 Assembly elections.Both INLD and the JJP had been claiming to be true inheritors of Devi Lal’s legacy since Abhay and his elder brother Ajay Chautala parted ways over two years back, with the latter forming the JJP.The JJP emerged as the kingmaker after the 2019 Assembly polls and forged alliance with the BJP which fell short of five seats by winning 40 seats in the 90-member House.Meanwhile, Abhay said the people would force their MLAs to resign, with the farmers’ agitation picking up momentum with each passing day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/by-quitting-abhay-takes-moral-high-ground-over-dushyant-chautala-206603
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Mobile Net ban extended in 7 Haryana districts||The Haryana Government on Monday extended the suspension of mobile internet services, bulk SMS service and all dongle services provided on mobile networks except voice calls in the territorial jurisdiction of seven districts — Kaithal, Panipat, Jind, Rohtak, Charkhi Dadri, Sonepat and Jhajjar — till 5 pm of February 2.A government spokesman said that the state government had decided to impose this suspension of internet services in order to stop the spread of disinformation and rumours through various social media platforms. — TNSIs it arbitrary? HC to decideThe High Court will adjudicate whether the suspension of mobile internet services was arbitrary and “a measure of collective punishment for crores so they do not exercise their right to freedom of speech and expression”. The HC will also decide whether the suspension of internet services was violation of fundamental right of the petitioners. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mobile-net-ban-extended-in-7-haryana-districts-206604
02-02-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Union Budget 2021-22: Nothing for Haryana, hopes dashed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 1The 2021-22 Union Budget, presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, has disappointed BJP-ruled Haryana, with no major announcement for the state.While the entire North India seems to have been ignored in the Union Budget, Haryana, pinning hopes on the Budget, has special reasons to feel ignored in the wake of economic crisis triggered by the pandemic. This is despite the fact that Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had batted for special financial assistance of Rs 5,000 crore for Haryana for its development in the upcoming Union Budget 2021-22 during pre-Budget consultations with the Union Finance Minister recently. The special financial assistance amount sought for by Khattar included Rs 3,000 crore for Covid management, creation of health and medical infrastructure and rural development.It included Rs 1,000 crore for NCR development and Rs 1,000 crore for creation of capital infrastructure under micro-irrigation and pond rejuvenation. However, official sources said the incremental benefits of the schemes announced in the Union Budget would go a long way in kick starting the development process in the state. There might not be a big announcement for the state, yet new initiatives in the Budget in the agricultural, rural development and industrial sectors would benefit a large section of the state’s population, the sources asserted.Sitharaman’s announcement in the 2020-21 Budget of developing Rakhigarhi, an archaeological site tracing its origin to the Indus Valley Civilisation, as an iconic site with on-site museums seems to have remained on paper. In fact, the pandemic seems to have taken its toll on the project, with not much progress having been witnessed.Leader speakThe Budget will create new employment opportunities, uplift education, improve health services, bring more improvement in agriculture and strengthen the country’s infrastructure. It will lay the foundation of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’.— Dushyant Chautala, Deputy Chief MinisterI thank Nirmala Sitharaman for increasing the allocation to the health sector by 137 per cent. The Budget focuses on strengthening the framework for ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ — Anil Vij, Health MinisterFarmers are protesting in the cold, but there is nothing for them in the Budget. The allocation for the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi has been reduced from Rs75,000 crore to Rs65,000 crore. — Kumari Selja, State Congress ChiefThe Centre should have said in clear terms that it was going to present a Budget in favour of the capitalists so that farmers and common people would not have pinned their hopes on it. — Abhay Chautala, INLD Leader||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/union-budget-2021-22-nothing-for-haryana-hopes-dashed-206608
02-02-2021||---||Bhagat Singh’s nephew backs protest in Hisar||Hisar, February 1Terming the farmers’ agitation as historic, a nephew of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Jagmohan Singh, has alleged that some organisations are trying to create a wedge in society in an attempt to crush the ongoing agitation.Addressing the farmers at the dharna site of Chaudhariwas toll plaza in Hisar on Monday, Jagmohan Singh said that it has become apparent now that the farmers have been able to convince a large number of people across the country about the ill-effects of the three agriculture laws enacted by the NDA government.“I am hopeful that the farmers will be able to convince the government as well and get the ‘anti-farmer’ laws repealed as there is no other way out of the ongoing stand-off,” he maintained.Jagmohan Singh stated that some outfits are well known for their nefarious designs to divide society on the basis of religion and caste. “But the people have given a befitting reply to these organisations as people are united in this struggle. The prolonged struggle will definitely bear fruit,” he said.He blamed negligence on part of the Delhi Police for the unfortunate incident at the Red Fort on Republic Day. The farmers’ organisations welcomed Jagmohan Singh with a cavalcade of 25 bullock carts carrying the national flag.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhagat-singhs-nephew-backs-protest-in-hisar-206609
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Balanced Budget with humane touch: Haryana CM||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has hailed the Union Budget as “pro-people and balanced with a humanitarian touch”. He tweeted today that the Budget took into account the interests of farmers, youth, women and middle class.“The Budget holds promise to rev up the economy, which took a hit by the pandemic,” he said.“The Budget will not only revive the economy, but also make citizens ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant). The initiatives mentioned for the agriculture sector will double the income of farmers,” he said and hailed Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for presenting the first paperless Budget. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/balanced-budget-with-humane-touch-haryana-cm-206610
02-02-2021||Rohtak||Privatisation, inflation to rise, says Hooda||Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the provisions in the Budget would increase privatisation and inflation. “The additional tax on petrol, diesel and gas will directly hit the common man,” he claimed.“The agricultural budget has been reduced from Rs 1.54 lakh crore last year to Rs 1.48 lakh crore. Farmers and middle class were expecting a reduction in taxes on petrol and diesel, but the Budget provided no relief. The 40 per cent reduction in fertiliser subsidy will increase the input cost of farmers,” the Congress leader told the media here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/privatisation-inflation-to-rise-says-hooda-206611
02-02-2021||Palwal||Farm laws: Dharna by members  of 52 khaps||Members of 52 khap panchayats on Monday launched an indefinite dharna at the KMP interchange, near Antoha village, seeking the repeal of the three farm laws and withdrawal of criminal cases against some farmers. A heavy police force has been deployed to maintain law and order.Mahender Chauhan, a protester, said they had launched the agitation in support of the farmers. Political leaders and their supporters were welcome to join it since it was in the larger interest of the farming community, he added.Congress leader Karan Dalal said the protest was peaceful and vehicular movement on the national highway would not be affected. He announced to intensify the stir if cases against 2,200 persons in connection with the Red Fort violence were not withdrawn within 15 days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-laws-dharna-by-members-of-52-khaps-206612
02-02-2021||Hisar||Rakesh Tikait to attend mahapanchayat by Kandela khap on Feb 3||Elaborate arrangements are being made to hold a khap mahapanchayat in Kandela village of Jind district.It will be hosted by Kandela khap which has a history of spearheading the farmers’ agitation in Haryana.The pradhan of Kandela khap, Tekram Kandela, informed that seven acres have been earmarked on the outskirts of the village where the mahapanchyat would be held on February 3. It would be attended by Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait besides others.He said that all khap panchayats in Haryana had been intimated about the mahapanchayat, which would not only chalk out the further strategy to intensify the agitation, but also set alarm bells ringing for the government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rakesh-tikait-to-attend-mahapanchayat-by-kandela-khap-on-feb-3-206613
02-02-2021||Chandigarh||Functions mark ex-IAS officer’s death anniv||Functions in Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panipat, Jind and Yamunanagar marked the death anniversary of former IAS ML Verma, who was gunned down along with his wife, two children, driver and gunman by Babbar Khalsa militants in 1992.At Karnal, DC Nishant Yadav attended the function while at Panipat DC Dharmender Singh presided over a prayer meeting. Similarly, a function was organised at Kurukshetra where DC Sharandeep Kaur was the chief guest. People paid their respects at Verma’s statue in Jind. Similar prayer meetings were held at Verma’s native village in Yamunanagar, Kaithal, Hisar and Bhiwani. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/functions-mark-ex-ias-officers-death-anniv-206616
02-02-2021||Faridabad||Session on e-waste management||Webinar on women empowermentFaridabad: The faculty development cell of the DAV Institute of Management, Faridabad, organised a webinar on women empowerment titled, “Under the umbrella of pink- exploring feminism’ recently. Claiming that women empowerment and achieving gender equality is vital for the growth of any country Dr Archana Bhatia, a renowned speaker, said empowering means making women free from any kind of social and societal pressure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/session-on-e-waste-management-206617
02-02-2021||Panchkula was planned and developed by Haryana in the 1970s and was supposed to be the capital||Panchkula sector not developed||Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-sector-not-developed-206618
02-02-2021||New Delhi||Samyukta Kisan Morcha announces nationwide roadblock on February 6||Farmer unions Monday announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways for three hours in protest against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues.Union leaders told a press conference at the Singhu Border here that they will block the roads between 12 pm to 3 pm on February 6.They also alleged that farmers have been "ignored" in the Union Budget 2021-22, and water and power supply have been curtailed at their protest venues.The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions, also alleged that the Twitter accounts of Kisan Ekta Morcha and a user named 'Tractor2Twitter' have been restricted.Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav alleged the action against the Twitter account was taken at the "request of government authorities".He also claimed that the Union government has "reduced the allocation to agriculture sector" in this budget. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukta-kisan-morcha-announces-nationwide-roadblock-on-february-6-206438
