04-02-2021||Chandigarh||Major reshuffle in Haryana, 24 IAS officers transferred||In a major administrative reshuffle, the Haryana government on Thursday issued transfer and posting orders of 24 IAS officers, including nine officers of the additional chief secretary (ACS) rank. Varinder Singh Kundu, ACS, Fisheries Department and CEO of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority and Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority, has been transferred as ACS, Labour, Sainik and Ardh Sainik and Printing and Stationery Departments. Pranab Kumar Das, ACS, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs has been transferred as ACS for Power, New and Renewable Energy Departments. Trilok Chand Gupta, ACS (Power, New and Renewable Energy) will now be ACS for Mines and Geology, Employment and Housing for All Department besides being Member Secretary of Haryana Governance Reforms Authority and looking after work related to CM’s announcements, Amit Kumar Jha, ACS, Science and Technology has been given the charge of Development and Panchayat Department after taking away Women and Child Development from him. Sudhir Rajpal, who ACS, Development and Panchayats, will now be ACS, Civil Aviation besides being CEO of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority and Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority. Ankur Gupta, ACS, Higher Education and Technical Education will now be ACS, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department and Fisheries Department. Anurag Rastogi, ACS, Excise and Taxation Department will now have the charge of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs too. Anand Mohan Sharan will now be ACS for Higher Education and Technical Education Departments. Raja Sekhar Vundru, ACS, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department will now be ACS for Skill Department and Industrial Training Department relieving Vineet Garg, who will now be Principal Secretary for Electronics, Information and Technology and Communication Department, Social Justice and Empowerment Department and Welfare of SCs and BCs Department. V Umashankar, Principal Secretary to CM will now also look after the charge of Information and Public Relations Department, Citizen Resources Information Department and Haryana Administrative Reforms Department besides his present duties. Vijayendra Singh will be Principal Secretary, Industries and Commerce Department, General Administration Department and CEO of Haryana Saraswati Heritage Board. Rakesh Gupta will be Commissioner and Secretary, Women and Child Development Department besides his duties as Project Director of CMGGA. Vijay Singh Dahiya, Director Agriculture and Farmers Welfares will now be Director, Higher and Technical Education. Amneet P Kumar, DG, Medical Education and Research will now be MD, Dairy Development Corporation and MD, Haryana SC Finance Development Corporation. Amit Kumar Agarwal, Additional Principal Secretary to CM will also have the charge of Director General of Information and Public Relations Department. Ajit Balaji Joshi will be Chief Administrator of Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran, Vikas Yadav will be Direcor Rural Development and Vinay Singh will be Chief Administrator of Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board. PS Meena has been transferred as Director, Skill Development and Industrial Training, A Sreenivas as Director, Mine and Geology Department, Hardeep Singh as Director, Agriculture, Shaleen as Director Medical Education and Research and Munish Sharma, has been transferred and posted as Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Manesar and Additional Labour Commissioner, Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/major-reshuffle-in-haryana-24-ias-officers-transferred-207974
04-02-2021||---||Haryana DGP, senior cops get inoculated||Chandigarh, February 4The Covid-19 vaccination programme for the frontline warriors of Haryana Police kick-started on Thursday with Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava being the first one to receive the jab.  Other senior police officers were also vaccinated for protection against the coronavirus.The DGP encouraged the police officers and jawans by getting himself vaccinated. Subsequently, DGP, State Vigilance Bureau, PK Agrawal; DGP, Crime, Mohd. Akil; ADGP, Administration and IT, AS Chawla; ADGP, Vigilance, Ajay Singhal; IGP Dr M Ravi Kiran; IGP Rajinder Kumar; CP, Panchkula, Saurabh Singh; and other police officers and employees got vaccinated.Speaking on the occasion, DGP Yadava said that the entire police force had worked tirelessly on the frontline when Covid-19 was at its peak.Besides maintaining law and order, each of our officers and jawans fearlessly ensured food to the poor and needy persons, safe home return of migrant workers and labourers and took care of the elderly, he said.During lockdown, the humane face of the police came to fore and police efforts in serving mankind were also recognised at the national level, the DGP added.He informed around 3,000 state police personnel had been infected till now during the pandemic, out of which 14 police personnel working on the frontlines had lost their lives due to Covid-19.“More than 40 lakh persons have been already injected with the dose of this vaccine and it is completely safe,” he asserted.The DGP appealed to the entire police force as well as the general public to come forward and get vaccinated in the upcoming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-dgp-senior-cops-get-inoculated-207954
04-02-2021||---||When PM says he is a phone call away, then who is between him and farmers, wonders Deepender Hooda||New Delhi, February 4Congress leader Deepender Singh Hooda, during the Budget session on Thursday, said farmers’ protest entered 76th today and the protest by farmers still continued even after 11 round of talks with the government.During his speech, he also gave a list of farmers who had died during the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws.He said: “As many as 194 farmers died during the protest.”“The BJP says people are with it but in Haryana, the Chief Minister is not even able to hold his function in the state. People in Haryana have lost faith in the BJP,” Hooda said, taking a dig at the BJP.Farmers did not come to sit on borders but at Ramlila Ground, where JP and Anna Hazare ran their agitation, he said, adding that the Haryana government and th eDelhi police stopped them at the borders.Speaking on the violence that happened on Republic Day, Hooda said: “Violence is not acceptable. What happened at the Red Fort is not acceptable but culprits should not be spared and no innocent be published. Farmers are holding peaceful protest but cases are lodged against them.”Also read: Opposition tears into govt’s handling of farmers’ protest, says monologue should stopIron nails fixed on roads at Ghazipur border being ‘repositioned’, say Delhi PoliceFace-off between BJP, Congress in Rajya Sabha; Scindia, Digvijaya Singh take on each otherOpposition MPs not allowed to reach Ghazipur protest site: HarsimratBraving rain, Haryana Congress MLAs march to Governor’s House against farm lawsToday’s India democracy was of publicity, for publicity and by publicity, he said while accusing the government of lodging cases against farmers.“How can farmers be anti-national when members of their families are deployed at China border? Now, this government has forced a face-off between farmers with security personnel. But the truth will prevail and all these nails, concrete walls and barbed wires will not help the government,” the Congress leader said while criticising the government for restricting the farmers’ movement.When the Prime Minister says he was only a phone call away, then who was between him and the farmers, he asked.The Congress leader also remembered his grandfather and Sir Chhotu Ram, and said farmers are protesting to protect the MSP and the APMC.He urged the government to concede to the demand of farmers and suggested introspection in place of ‘atmanirbharta’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/when-pm-says-he-is-a-phone-call-away-then-who-is-between-him-and-farmers-wonders-deepender-hooda-207908
04-02-2021||---||Braving rain, Haryana Congress MLAs march to Governor’s House against farm laws||Chandigarh, February 4Haryana Congress MLAs led by former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday marched towards the Governor’s House here, demanding that the three farm laws be repealed.The MLAs marched despite the rain. They were stopped near the Governor's House.Heavy police contingent was present on the scene.Also read: Opposition tears into govt’s handling of farmers’ protest, says monologue should stopAfter some time, the rain increased but the Congress MLAs kept raising slogans against the Khattar government.Finally, they ended the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/braving-rain-haryana-congress-mlas-march-to-governors-house-against-farm-laws-207884
04-02-2021||Hisar||26 selected in placement drive||Varsity, Royal Enfield ink pactFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, has signed an MoU with Royal Enfield, a unit of Eicher Motors Limited, to provide training in various categories of two-wheeler maintenance and service. A state-of-the-art service training cell (Centre of Excellence) will be set up on the campus. Registrar Sunil Kumar Garg and Royal Enfield customer experience head Arindam Chakraborty signed the MoU. Vice Chancellor Dinesh Kumar said the university was promoting industry-academia partnership to fill the skill gap required for employment by providing them with a holistic and job-centric learning environment. It would also address the need of the industry to have skilled people, he added.World Wetlands Day observedYamunanagar: Guru Nanak Khalsa College in collaboration with the DAIS and SDG Lab organised a daylong webinar on the occasion of World Wetlands Day. It was aimed at making the public aware of the conservation of wetlands and its importance in the ecosystem, with special attention to Haryana. The panel discussion was headed by Keshav Gupta and convened by Dr Alok Goyal, who said the SDG Lab was the first of its kind in the colleges in Haryana for becoming part in the UN’s 17 sustainable goals, 2030.Integration Day celebratedAmbala: Integrity Day was observed in GMN Public School to make every student feel and celebrate the quality of honesty and the morality upright in their life that add value to one’s life. Shashank Aggarwal and Rohit Jain members from JCI Ambala Cantt conducted the oath ceremony in the morning assembly. All students and staff took the oath that they will pursue, encourage and promote a healthy and dignified environment in their school, family and society and to eliminate any temptation to commit any act of cheating, lying or stealing. Principal Sheetal Sharma said this kind of programme help students to inculcate positive thoughts in one self and support the integration of different aspects of our nation and help in promoting the integration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/26-selected-in-placement-drive-207748
04-02-2021||Unauthorised motor vehicle are being used to carry materials such as iron||Take Unregistered vehicles off Ambala roads||Reopen Urban Estate side railway booking windowSome years ago, the railway authorities had opened a ticket-booking window towards the Urban Estate in Kurukshetra city. For a few months, this window functioned, but now, it has been closed down. So the people from the Urban Estate side have to cross over the railway overbridge to reach the other side of the station to buy the ticket and then travel through the bridge to board trains towards Delhi. In this process, time gets wasted and it becomes difficult for the elderly to board the trains. Sometimes, in the process, one misses the train. The railway authorities concerned are requested to make this window operational at the earliest. — RL Bansal, KurukshetraPeople deserve relief in income tax slabIt is a matter of great satisfaction that union Budget 2021-22 had no surprises. There was no Covid tax, no wealth tax and no levying of any kind that made markets edge. People were too worried and luckily they were relieved. I feel that masses deserve relief in the income tax slabs as Covid-19 has broken the backbone of the common man as there was a shortage of cash and people suffered a lot during the lockdown. Now, better provision is made for the betterment of the masses. — Subhash Taneja, GurugramIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you? The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/take-unregistered-vehicles-off-ambala-roads-207747
04-02-2021||Hisar||Tikait hardens stance at Jind meet||The farmers today displayed a massive show of strength with a mahapanchayat at Kandela village in Jind district, further boosting their agitation for repeal of the three laws.Calling for a “wapsi” (withdrawal) of the laws, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait indirectly warned the Modi government that it could lose its “gaddi” (power) if the agitation continued. “We have so far talked about ‘law wapsi’. What will you do if we call for gaddi wapsi (removal from power)?” he said.Cops offer Rs1L bounty on Deep Sidhu, othersThe Delhi Police have announced a cash reward of Rs1 lakh for anyone who can give information leading to the arrest of Deep Sidhu and three others in connection with the Republic Day violence in the national Capital. TNSTikait said there would be no change in the committee of farmer representatives holding talks with the government.On the government setting up multiple layers of barricades on the Delhi borders, Tikait said: “When the king is scared, he secures the fortress. The fortification is not going to deter us from moving ahead.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tikait-hardens-stance-at-jind-meet-207578
04-02-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal admn begins HSRP home delivery||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, February 3Aiming to push people to get high-security registration plate (HSRP) installed on their vehicles, the district administration has started home delivery facility of HSRPs for those who have yet not affixed the plates on their vehicles.The HSRP is booked at company points at the time of purchase of new vehicle, while for old vehicles, the owner has to go to the SDM concerned or RTA offices.With this step, vehicle owners can book the plate on hsrphr.com portal. As per the officials, the number plates will be affixed within four to five days after the booking.10K plates lying unclaimedDue to the lethargic approach of vehicle owners, nearly 10,000 HSRPs are lying unclaimed at the office of the RTA and SDM offices concerned.“We have started this facility for the people’s convenience as they don’t need to come to the registration office to get the HSRP booked,” said Veena Hooda, Additional Deputy Commissioner-cum-Secretary RTA.“We have deployed two riders for Karnal city to get these plates affixed after the booking. People will not be charged for the home delivery of plates,” she added.As per the orders of the Supreme Court and the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act-1988, the HSRP and colour-coded stickers are mandatory to be affixed on new and old vehicles. The vehicles found not having HSRP and colour-coded stickers will be challaned in compliance of the order of the Supreme Court, she said.On the directions of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, the district administration also started the process of affixing HSRP on vehicles in 2012. Due to lethargic approach of the vehicle owners, around 10,000 HSRP are lying unclaimed at the office of the RTA and SDM offices concerned .The ADC said the chromium-based hologram plates had been made mandatory to check vehicle thefts. These get laser-stamping and can’t be copied or forged. “The data of these vehicles is available at VAHAN portal, through which we can easily know about the owner of the vehicles. It also helps in tracing the vehicles used in crime,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-admn-begins-hsrp-home-delivery-207592
04-02-2021||Chandigarh||Beneficiaries can avail ration for Jan till Feb 6||The Haryana Government has decided that the ration for January will be distributed to beneficiaries till February 6. While giving information, a spokesperson of the Haryana Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department said the beneficiaries, who were deprived of receiving ration in January, could now get their ration from the ration depot concerned till February 6. He said in case of any problem in obtaining the ration, the DC concerned, District Food and Supplies Controller or Headquarters of the Food and Supplies Department, could be contacted on helplineNo 1967 (BSNL) and 1800-180-2087. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/beneficiaries-can-avail-ration-for-jan-till-feb-6-207593
04-02-2021||Kurukshetra||Youth out on parole shot||A 28-year-old jail inmate out on parole was shot dead by unidentified assailants near Gita Niketan School on the Salarpur road here today. The deceased was identified as Ravi alias Gorkha, a resident of Amin village. According to information, Ravi went in his car to a mobile phone accessories shop around 10:30 am to purchase an auxiliary cable. The assailants, who were following him in another car, fired at him outside the shop. Ravi suffered multiple bullet injuries. After the incident, the assailants fled the spot. Ravi was out on parole in a murder case. “Ravi was shot dead by four or five men. He was travelling with a woman friend in his Bolero when he was attacked. He was taken to Aggarwal Hospital, from where he was referred to Cygnus Hospital, where he was declared dead,” said Sahil, the deceased’s brother. In his complaint, Sahil stated that Ravi had enemies inside and outsidethe  jail. A case was registered at the Krishna Gate police station. “Ravi had been sent to the Kurukshetra jail in November 2018 in Ankush murder case. He was released on parole on January 12. At least five persons are involved in his murder. We are trying to nab the suspects and the CCTV footage has been obtained. The postmortem will be conducted on Thursday,” said SHO Sunil Vats. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-out-on-parole-shot-207594
04-02-2021||Saurabh Malik---||Cops not obtaining CCTV footage to be booked, High Court told||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, February 3 Police officials investigating criminal cases will be booked under the IPC for their failure to obtain CCTV footage wherever available, the Haryana Police have told the Punjab and Haryana High Court. In an affidavit submitted in the High Court, state crime branch Superintendent of Police Virender Singh stated that instructions had been issued to all field units to ensure that copies of CCTV footage were obtained from the source in every case where claimed to be available. The requisite certificate under Section 65-B of the Indian Evidence Act would have be obtained in accordance with the law. The certificate under Section 65-B is mandatory when a party wants to adduce electronic evidence, but original device cannot be brought in court. In case of omission, instructions had been issued to direct the registration of a case under Section 166-A of the IPC against the defaulting investigating officer for knowingly disobeying the direction of law. The instructions came less than two months after the High Court made it clear that CCTV footage, whenever available, was required to be obtained during probe and FIR for knowingly disobeying the direction of law was required to be registered against the defaulting investigating officer. Directions were also issued to the Haryana DGP. He was asked to issue appropriate instructions to Commissioners of Police and Superintendents of Police to exercise effective supervision in this regard on officials posted in their districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cops-not-obtaining-cctv-footage-to-be-booked-high-court-told-207595
04-02-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram trader ends life||Disturbed over not receiving the money he had lent, a local trader reportedly committed suicide in his factory located near the district’s Jharsa village last night. The deceased has been identified as Sudesh Jain (47), a resident of Friend’s Colony here. In the suicide note recovered from the spot, he blamed Rinku, alias Sandeep, of Pataudi for ending his life.  The deceased’s son, Saurabh Jain, said: “My father had lent Rs 8 lakh to Sandeep. After some time, Sandeep stopped paying the monthly instalments. This disturbed my father a lot.” On Saurabh’s complaint, an abetment to suicide case was registered against Sandeep at the Sadar police station.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-trader-ends-life-207596
04-02-2021||---||Fire breaks out at garment showroom in Panipat||Panipat, February 3A major fire broke out in a three-storey garment showroom here in the wee hours of today. Fire brigade officials said short-circuit might have caused the fire.Around 2 am, the guard saw smoke billowing out of the showroom. He immediately informed the owners and the police control room.“In all, 16 fire engines were pressed into the service. Firefighters had to demolish walls of the showroom to douse the flames. It took around 12 hours to control the flames, but it will take more time to completely put the fire,” said fireman Amit Kumar. One of the owners, Vipin Chaudhary, said readymade garments, watches and other goods worth Rs 15 crore were gutted.Goods worth Rs15 crore damagedTehsildar Kuldeep Malik said that fortunately, a tank containing 700-litre diesel, which was kept on the top floor, did not catch fire.Satish Vats, DSP (Headquarters), said: “The traffic has been diverted for the safety purpose. The teams are on the job to douse the flames.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fire-breaks-out-at-garment-showroom-in-panipat-207597
04-02-2021||Hisar||2 cops removed from service||Two police officials have been dismissed from service and another was superannuated after they were found negligent in discharging their duties when 17 juveniles escaped from an observation home here in October last year.  A police spokesperson said the services of constables Vinod and Raghuvinder were terminated, while ASI Jagraj Singh was retired forcibly. Six pay increments of another constable have been withheld. The action has been taken on the basis of an inquiry report, in which it has been found that only one of the constables was on duty at the time of incident. The indicted police officials were accused of dereliction of duty, the spokesperson said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-cops-removed-from-service-207598
04-02-2021||---||High Court notice to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar||Chandigarh, February 3Taking up a contempt of court petition alleging non-compliance of a judicial order passed in a civil writ petition, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued notice of motion to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in his capacity of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran chairman.The notice by Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu came on a contempt petition filed by Haryana City Gas Distribution Limited through counsel Abhinav Sood and argued by Anmol Gupta. Fixing March 24 as the next date of hearing in the matter, Justice Sidhu called for a compliance report in the matter by then.The petitioner had claimed filing of numerous representations on the issue of land allocation for setting up CNG stations in Gurugram. Taking up the writ petition, the High Court had, in September last year, directed the respondents to take a decision on the representations by December 1.Sood submitted in the petition that the respondent wilfully and deliberately did not comply with the order without any plausible explanation and the representations had not been decided till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-notice-to-haryana-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-207599
04-02-2021||---||Will march to Raj Bhawan if no meeting with  Governor: Congress||Chandigarh, February 3The Congress Legislature Party today decided to approach Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya again to seek a special session of the Assembly. The MLAs would march towards Raj Bhawan if he did not agree to meet party representatives on Thursday.“We are in touch with the Governor’s office. We will wait till 11 am on Thursday for an appointment. If the Governor does not agree to meet us, we will march from the MLAs’ hostel to the Governor’s residence,” said Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda.The Congress would bring in a resolution in the Assembly to oppose the three agricultural laws and a Bill to amend the APMC Act to guarantee MSP to farmers.“Farmers have the democratic right to agitate for their demands. Withdrawing their electricity, water supply, sanitation and internet facilities to harass them is inhuman. The government should resume all facilities immediately,” Hooda told mediapersons.He claimed that the BJP-JJP government had lost public confidence. “The Congress has decided to bring in a no-confidence motion in the upcoming session. Voices of dissent are being heard from MLAs supporting the government. They are constantly making statements against the government and in support of farmers. The no-confidence motion will let people know which MLA stands with the government,” he said.On Kalka MLA Pardeep Chaudhary’s disqualification after conviction, Hooda said the MLAs had discussed how Speaker Gian Chand Gupta acted in haste. “It is murder of democracy. The action was taken without issuing any notice to him,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-march-to-raj-bhawan-if-no-meeting-with-governor-congress-207600
04-02-2021||---||Trade unions protest in Faridabad||Faridabad, February 3Hundreds of members of the Joint Trade Union Council staged a demonstration outside the Mini-Secretariat here today in protest against the Centre’s new farm laws and the amendment to labour laws announced in the Union Budget.Babu Lal Sharma, convener of the JTUC which represents the All-India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS) and ICTU, said: “The three laws are anti-farmer. Because of these laws, the country is in turmoil.”Bechu Giri, a member of the ESI Regional Board and state secretary of the state unit of the All-India Trade Union Congress, condemned the defiant stance of the Modi government and accused it of adopting anti-democratic policies.He said the council supported the agitation of Power Department employees against the Electricity Bill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/trade-unions-protest-in-faridabad-207601
04-02-2021||Karnal||JJP IT cell dist president quits party||JJP IT cell district president Bhadur Singh Mehla along with some other workers quit the party in support of the farmers’ agitation on Wednesday.  He criticised the party leaders for not taking stand for farmers. “I was disappointed due to no positive stand taken by my party leaders, so I quit the party,” said Mehla. Meanwhile, Congress workers led by All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Virender Rathore took out a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ from Gharaunda to Bastara toll plaza to extend support to the farmers’ agitation.  The AICC secretary said they had been supporting the farmers against these laws. Earlier, they had also held a meeting at Gharaunda Community Centre and criticised the government for passing these laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jjp-it-cell-dist-president-quits-party-207603
04-02-2021||Mukesh Tandon---||Farm leaders: Will consider demands of stir-hit industry||Tribune News Service Sonepat, February 3 The district administration held a meeting with leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) and members of the Kundli Industries Association (KIA) today after the industrialists demanded open passage to the local industrial area. The SKM assured the KIA that they would think positively on the issue. Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Poonia said industrialists and residents of adjoining villages had been supporting the protesting farmers.  Farmer leader Darshan Pal Singh and Manjeet Singh Rai said they did not want to create problems for the people. They told the administration that they would decide after discussing the issue with other organisations and farmers. The SKM demanded basic amenities like electricity, toilets and potable water and sought fogging at the protest site. Poonia said 27 tankers had been deployed for potable water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-leaders-will-consider-demands-of-stir-hit-industry-207604
04-02-2021||Sonepat||Two farmers die at Singhu||Two protesting farmers from Punjab died at the Singhu border today. Their bodies were sent to the General Hospital for postmortem examination. The deceased were identified as 68-year-old Jogender Singh of Dal village in Tarn Taran and 47-year-old Jasmail Singh of Chananwal in Barnala. Jogender was found dead in his tent at a protest site in Kundli. He had come here on January 20. His associates informed the police about his death. Jasmail died this evening under suspicious circumstances. He was a part of the farmers’ protest since November 27. Earlier, he had joined protests in Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-farmers-die-at-singhu-207605
04-02-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Finance panel recommends Rs 63K cr for state over 5 years||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 3The 15th Finance Commission has recommended a transfer of Rs 63,098 crore to Haryana from 2021-22 to 2025-26.This will include Rs 46,177 crore as the state’s share in Central taxes and duties and Rs 16,921 crore as grants-in-aid. However, Rs 81,977 crore has been recommended for Himachal Pradesh (HP) and Rs 1.2 lakh crore for Punjab.Haryana’s share in the Central taxes has been increased to 1.093% from 1.084%. Punjab’s share has also been enhanced to 1.807% from 1.577% and that of HP to 0.830% from 0.713%.In case of grants-in-aid for Haryana, the commission, headed by NK Singh, has recommended Rs 132 crore as revenue deficit grant.The commission’s report, tabled in Parliament on Monday, says the states that still show revenue deficit post devolution have been recommended grants. Post devolution, Haryana is reflecting only Rs 132 crore as revenue deficit in 2021-22, while there will be a surplus of Rs 6,444 crore in 2022-23, Rs 14,312 crore in 2023-24, Rs 24,600 crore in 2024-25 and Rs 38,901 crore in 2025-26.On the other hand, Punjab is reflecting a deficit of Rs 10,081 crore in 2021-22, which will reduce to Rs 8,274 in 2022-23 and then to Rs 5,618 in 2023-24 and further to Rs 1,995 in 2024-25. Only in 2025-26, it is showing a surplus of Rs 5,260. So, for Punjab, Rs 25,968 crore as revenue deficit grant is recommended.For Haryana’s local governments, Rs 9,066 crore has been recommended while Rs 2,715 crore for disaster management, Rs 695 crore for health and Rs 1,696 crore for agriculture sector.For the Pradhan Mantri Grameen Sadak Yojana, maintaining statistics and judiciary, Rs 128 crore, Rs 40 crore and Rs 300 crore have been proposed respectively, while Rs 146 crore for higher education. There is also a state-specific grant of Rs 2,003 crore for Haryana.On risks and challenges, the commission observed that interest payments are a huge liability for Haryana. “Between 2011-12 and 2018-19, interest as a percentage of total revenue expenditure has been in the range of 12.5% to 17.6% (among the highest in India),” says the report.The Debt-GSDP ratio also increased from 18.33% (2011-12) to 25.09% (2018–19). Haryana’s revenue deficit-fiscal deficit ratio has been increasing over time and is currently 51.4% (2018-19), indicating that most of the borrowings have gone for financing its revenue deficit.The commission pointed out outstanding liabilities, substantial budgetary support and huge arrears in the accounts of state public sector units. It says Haryana needs to improve on certain sustainable development goals — zero hunger, gender equality, cities and communities, consumption and production, climate action and life on land.“Intra-state disparity among the most advanced district of Gurugram (part of the NCR) and most backward Nuh (aspirational district) is staggering. Without Gurugram in the equation, Haryana’s GSDP and per capita income will reduce drastically,” it adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/finance-panel-recommends-rs-63k-cr-for-state-over-5-years-207607
04-02-2021||Sanjay Yadav---||80 spots sanctioned, but over 600 illegal hoardings in Gurugram||Gurugram, February 3 Among several civic issues plaguing the city, defacement is emerging as a major challenge. While the city has only 80 spots earmarked for hoardings, the MC has so far identified over 600 illegal boards. A majority of the hoardings are thronging the new Gurugram area, Dwarka and Delhi-Jaipur expressways, Sohna Road, Pataudi Road, Badshahpur and Kherki Daula toll plaza. Though the MC is carrying daily drives but illegal hoardings are still coming up in the city. Local builders are being cited as the biggest culprits. Advertisement groups offer monthly packages wherein they guarantee that the hoarding will be put up and not removed from the specific spot for stipulated time.  Sources claim that several groups, who were openly contacting prospective customers promising them to ‘take care of the MC’, had become active along the Dwarka expressway. Interestingly, a majority operate through WhatsApp calls and take fee in cash.  “You decide on how much time you want to keep the hoarding on for and we will guarantee the same. It can stay longer than the stipulated time if anti-hoarding drive does not happen,” one of the agents said.  “A majority of the premium sites are not legit and these people charge five times. I paid the money for three months but my hoarding was removed in 15 days and now, these people are not returning the amount,” said a Sohna-based builder.  Meanwhile, the MC has issued a warning against any such groups and asked people to report them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/80-spots-sanctioned-but-over-600-illegal-hoardings-in-gurugram-207608
04-02-2021||Faridabad||Two UP natives arrested for insurance fraud||The police have arrested two more persons in an alleged fake insurance racket. One person was arrested in September last year. As per a police spokesperson, the accused nabbed on January 30 had been identified as Devesh and Ranjan, both residents of UP. He said they had admitted their involvement in a racket run through a fake call centre in which the accused posing as officials of the LIC and other prominent companies used to call customers and asked them to invest in certain schemes to get more returns and went inaccessible after transfer of money in their accounts. He said a case pertaining to a fraud worth lakhs was registered on January 11, 2018, at Mujesar police station. Ranjan Kumar from Sector 63, Noida, has been allegedly running a telecaller company Ideal Investment, in which he had recruited several youths. The Economic Offence Wing of the police had earlier arrested Gaurav Chauhan from Ghaziabad on November 30 and recovered Rs 20 lakh, it is claimed. The duo will be sent to judicial custody on Thursday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-up-natives-arrested-for-insurance-fraud-207610
04-02-2021||Ambala||Vij takes dig at Rahul over ‘dictator’ tweet||Home Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday took a dig at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for his tweet, ‘Why do so many dictators have names that begin with M?’ and asked his opinion on Mahatma Gandhi.In his tweet, Rahul said: “Why do so many dictators have names that begin with M? Marcos, Mussolini, Milosevic, Mubarak, Mobutu, Musharraf and Micombero.”“Rahul Gandhi, you say most dictators’ name start with word M, what is your opinion about Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi? It also starts with word M,” Vij tweeted.Speaking to the media,he said: “Ignorant Rahul Gandhi in a tweet has said that most dictators’ name starts with ‘M’, I have asked his opinion on Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, ‘Ahimsa ke Pujari’, who is well-known across the world, as his name also starts with ‘M’.”Earlier in 2017, Vij had sparked a row by saying that PM Narendra Modi was a bigger brand and it was good that Mahatma Gandhi has been replaced from the khadi stationery and he’ll be replaced from currency notes too. Later, he withdrew his statement. In 2018, he had compared Rahul to Nipah virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vij-takes-dig-at-rahul-over-dictator-tweet-207613
04-02-2021||Deepender Deswal||Farmer leaders at Jind khap mahapanchayat adopt 5 resolutions||Tribune News ServiceJind, February 3The khap mahapanchayat here on Wednesday adopted five resolutions.The mahapanchayat in the presence of farmer leaders Rakesh Tikait, Gurnam Singh Charuni and Balbir Singh Rajewal demanded repeal of the three laws, making a law to ensure minimum support price, waiving of the loan of the farmers, implementation of the Swaminathan Commission recommendations and to withdrawal the criminal cases registered against the farmers in Delhi on January 26.A large number of farmers gathered at the mahapanchayat hosted by the Sarv Jatiya Kandela khap near Jind.#WATCH | The stage on which Bharatiya Kisan Union (Arajnaitik) leader Rakesh Tikait & other farmer leaders were standing, collapses in Jind, Haryana.A 'Mahapanchayat' is underway in Jind. pic.twitter.com/rBwbfo0Mm1Kandela village, located about 10 km from Jind, is the headquarters of the Kandela khap which has influence in about 20 adjoining villages. People from these villages have been providing logistic support and the manpower to the ongoing farmers’ stir near Delhi borders for over two months.Following the emotional outburst by Tikait on Thursday, farmers from the region, including Kandela village, had rushed to the Ghazipur border after which the agitation got strong and the government authorities who are mulling to remove the farmers from the dharna site, had to retreat.Tekram Kandela, pradhan of the Kandela khap, said the farmers from the village immediately started a tractor march to the Delhi border when the video of Tikait breaking into tears went viral on social media on January 28 as the government was planning to launch a crackdown on Tikait and other farmers sitting on dharna at Ghazipur. Overwhelmed by the support from Haryana, Tikait called Tekram Kandela and decided to hold a meeting at Kandela village. The khap pradhan said they had invited all the khap panchayats of Haryana for the meeting and expected a huge turnout.He said they had demarcated seven acres of land near the chabutara of Kandela khap in the village and made preparations for providing food and water to the participants.Kandela village was also the centre of farmers’ agitation in 2002 against the then INLD government on the issue of power bills.The stage on which the farmer leaders were sitting also collapsed, according to a report by news agency ANI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-leaders-at-jind-khap-mahapanchayat-adopt-5-resolutions-207375
