05-02-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Khaps, lawyers, professors – all extend support to farmers agitation||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, February 5The farmers protesting against the recently enacted agriculture reform laws are getting support from diverse quarters ranging from village communities to various groups of intelligentsia.Different khaps across the state have been mobilising support for the agitating farmers by exhorting the villagers to reach Delhi borders to strengthen the protest demonstrations. Some voluntary organisations have been even organising community kitchen (langar) for the protesting farmers.Office-bearers and members of the Rohtak District Bar Association observed a day-long fast here recently to support the farmers’ demand for repealing of farm laws. Members of the civil society had also observed a fast in support of the protesting farmers.“While many members of intelligentsia have been backing the agitation on social media platforms, many others have reached out to the farmers to show their solidarity, which indicates that the movement would intensify,” observes Prof Rajendra Sharma, a noted political scientist. Faculty members of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) in Rohtak have also extended their support to the farmers, with several serving as well as retired university lecturers, officials and college principals visiting the sites of protest demonstrations at Haryana-Delhi borders.Some of the professors can even be seen cooking food for the farmers and providing medical aid to them under the aegis of the university’s National Service Scheme (NSS) unit.On the other hand, some teachers/officials have reached the protest sites riding tractors. The university/college teachers also gave speeches to motivate the farmers, with some of them even giving out bytes to the media.“Farmers are the backbone of our country. It is our duty and responsibility to support them in this hour of need,” maintains Prof Ranbir Gulia, NSS programme coordinator at MDU.Professor Gulia said that he had been providing medical aid to the farmers at an NSS camp near Haryana-Delhi border in Bahadurgarh. “I also cook food for the protesting farmers,” he said.Prof Harish Kumar, head of Journalism and Mass Communication Department at MDU, reached Tikri border recently to extend support to the protesting farmers.Ved Prakash Sheoran, a former principal of NRS Government College, Rohtak, who has been actively participating in the farmers’ stir on the ground as well as on social media, informed that several retired college principals, teachers and senior government officials had been visiting the protest sites to motivate the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khaps-lawyers-professors-%E2%80%93-all-extend-support-to-farmers-agitation-208395
05-02-2021||Hisar||Kuldeep Bishnoi's son set to engage with Punjabi model Mehreen Kaur Pirzada on March 13||Congress leader Bhavya Bishnoi, son of Adampur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi, who also contested last Lok Sabha election from Hisar seat as a Congress candidate, is set to engage with Punjabi model Mehreen Kaur Pirzada on March 13 at the Alila Fort near Jaipur.A close relatives of MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi told media persons today that 26-year-old Mehreen Kaur’s birth place is in Bathinda district.Mehreen Kaur Pirzada is an Indian model and actress who has appeared in Telugu and Tamil-language films. Pirzada made her debut in 2016 with the Telugu film “Krishna Gaadi Veera Prema Gaadha”, in which she played the character of Mahalakshmi.In March 2017, she debuted in Hindi cinema with the movie Phillauri alongside Anushka Sharma, Diljit Dosanjh and Suraj Sharma and her Kollywood debut with “Nenjil Thunivirundhal” directed by Suseenthiran in 2017. She also appeared in Naga Shaurya starrer, Ashwathama, which released in 2020.Bhavya’s grandfather Bhajan Lal has been chief minister of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kuldeep-bishnois-son-set-to-engage-with-punjabi-model-mehreen-kaur-pirzada-on-march-13-208394
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Mobile internet services to remain suspended in Sonepat and Jhajjar till February 6||Haryana Government has extended the suspension of mobile internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), SMS services (only Bulk SMS) and all dongle services etc. provided on mobile networks except the voice calls in the territorial jurisdiction of Sonipat and Jhajjar districts till 5 pm on February 6.This means that the mobile network at Singhu border (Sonepat) and Tikri border (Jhajjar) will remain suspended.This order is issued to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of these districts of Haryana and shall be in force with immediate effect.Any person who will be found guilty of violation of aforesaid order will be liable for legal action under relevant provisions.The spokesman said the suspension has been ordered under Rule 2 of Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules, 2017. All telecom service providers of Haryana, including the head of BSNL (Haryana jurisdiction), are hereby directed to ensure the compliance of this order.The spokesman said the state government has decided to impose this suspension of internet services in order to stop the spread of disinformation and rumours through various social media platforms, such as WhatsApp, Facebook Twitter, etc on mobile phones and SMS, for facilitation and mobilisation of mobs of agitators and demonstrators who can cause serious loss of life and damage to public and private properties by indulging in arson or vandalism and other types of violent activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mobile-internet-services-to-remain-suspended-in-sonepat-and-jhajjar-till-february-6-208378
05-02-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Most PGIMS staffers stay away from Covid vaccine; Admn pushes students||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, February 5While a majority of employees working at Rohtak PGIMS have not come forward to get jabs of anti-Covid vaccine, a motivational session was organised today to exhort the students pursuing different courses at the institute to get the vaccine administered on them.The health workers attending the session were categorically told that tomorrow would be the last day to get themselves registered for getting the vaccine, following which the opportunity would be extended to the other frontline Covid warriors.Addressing the students and officials on the occasion, Prof (Dr) O.P.Kalra, the Vice-Chancellor of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, pointed out that he as well as his 87-year-old mother had volunteered for the human trials of Covaxin.“More than 800 staff-members of the PGIMS have got jabs of the Covid vaccine and all of them are doing well. Hence, instead of succumbing to misconceptions about the vaccine, all staffers as well as students should get themselves vaccinated to stay safe,” Professor Kalra maintained.The PGIMS Director, Dr Rohtas Kanwar Yadav, cautioned that the health workers would not be able to get themselves registered for getting the vaccine after tomorrow, hence it was in their own interest to come forward and get the jabs.Dr R.B.Jain, the nodal officer for the anti-Covid vaccination programme at the PGIMS, said all-out efforts would be made to accommodate the health workers in the vaccination drive.“The registration for vaccination will remain open till tomorrow. We will continue the registration-cum-vaccination procedure till midnight instead of 5 p.m. tomorrow, so that nobody desirous of getting the vaccine remains deprived of it,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/most-pgims-staffers-stay-away-from-covid-vaccine-admn-pushes-students-208372
05-02-2021||Parveen Arora||Crash barriers being put up on 43 flyovers in Karnal district||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, February 4The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has started the process of installing metal beam crash barriers (MBCBs) on the central verge of all 43 flyovers situated between Panipat district limits and Ambala district limits.The authorities claim the work on around 25 flyovers has been completed and the work on the remaining is underway. It is expected that the installation work will be completed by the end of March.“The installation work of MBCBs is being done in compliance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. We have started the process of installing barriers on the central verge of all the flyovers on NH-44 to ensure safer road for commuters. Besides, we are also erecting around 5,000 signages and boards to display major landmarks and cities on NH-44,” said Bhanu Pratap Singh, Section Engineer, NHAI, Ambala.He said that an overlay work of bitumen is also being done on the stretch of 116 km between Panipat and Ambala districts. A sum of Rs 15 crore would be incurred on these works including installing barricades, erecting signage and overlaying work of bitumen, he added.MBCBs prevent vehicles from colliding with another vehicle after crossing the divider. These ensure minimum damage to the vehicles and occupants as these absorb maximum energy by flattening out and laterally, restrain the vehicle from veering over. Besides, these provide a good visual guide to drivers especially in the night. These barricades could be repaired quickly in case of accidents, he added.Notably, several fatal accidents had taken place on National Highway-44 in the past in which a vehicle crossed the divider and hit another vehicle coming from the other side. “This step will reduce the number of such accidents,” said Singh.Haryana had 9,431 accidents in 2020 in comparison to 10,944 in 2019. As many as 4,507 persons died in 2020, while in 2019, 5,057 persons died in accidents. In 2020, 7,659 persons received injuries in accidents in comparison to 9,362 in 2019.Towards safer travel||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crash-barriers-being-put-up-on-43-flyovers-in-karnal-district-208061
05-02-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court seeks report on causes of delay in disposal of cases||Chandigarh, February 4The Punjab and Haryana High Court today asked seven District and Sessions Judges to furnish reports on the causes of delay in disposal of honour killing cases. The reports are required to state, among other things, action taken against prosecution witnesses not attending court without lawful excuse and action taken against police officials for non-execution or non-return of the court process.Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi directed the High Court Registry to ask the District and Sessions Judges of Kaithal, Hisar, Rohtak, Karnal, Bhiwani, Sirsa and Sonepat to send their reports in time so as to reach this court before the next date of hearing.Justice Tyagi asserted that the reports could not be sought from them as particulars of the cases were not available with the Registry. Taking note of the delay in recording prosecution evidence in pending honour killing cases, the High Court had, on the previous date of hearing, asked trial courts to conclude the process expeditiously by conducting trial on a day-to-day basis “as far as possible”.Justice Tyagi had also directed the courts with cases pending for prosecution evidence to “allocate block of dates” for trial as directed by the Supreme Court and by issuing coercive process for securing the presence of witnesses, if so required.Honour killingsOrders to 7 district judgesJustice Arun Kumar Tyagi has directed the High Court Registry to ask the District and Sessions Judges of Kaithal, Hisar, Rohtak, Karnal, Bhiwani, Sirsa and Sonepat to send their reports in time so as to reach this court before the next date of hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-seeks-report-on-causes-of-delay-in-disposal-of-cases-208062
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Jab for DGP, senior cops||The Covid vaccination programme for frontline warriors of Haryana Police started today. Director General of Police Manoj Yadava was the first to participate in the drive.Subsequently, DGP, State Vigilance Bureau, PK Agrawal, DGP, Crime, Mohd Akil, ADGP, Administration and IT, AS Chawla, ADGP, Vigilance, Ajay Singhal, IGP M Ravi Kiran, IGP Rajinder Kumar, Commissioner of Police, Panchkula, Saurabh Singh, and other police officers got themselves vaccinated.The DGP appealed to the police force as well as the general public to come forward and get vaccinated in the upcoming days.Meanwhile, a total of 3,771 persons got themselves vaccinated in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of total vaccinations in the state to 1.34 lakh. Two deaths due to Covid were reported. With 73 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 2.69 lakh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jab-for-dgp-senior-cops-208063
05-02-2021||---||29 car owners get notice in RC scam||Yamunanagar, February 4Bilaspur SDM Virender Kumar Dhull has issued notices to 29 car owners, asking them to furnish documents that they had furnished at the time of applying for registration certificates (RCs).It is suspected the car owners had submitted fake documents. Sources say several fake RCs were made after having tampered with engine and chassis numbers in the past few months.“The RCs of 29 car owners are in question. These might be fake. After getting their documents, their authenticity will be verified,” said Dhull.On the SDM’s complaint, a case was registered against an official in connection with the RC scam on February 1. He had formed a three-member team to verify the authenticity of the RCs.The sources say incidents related to fake RCs are reported mostly in cases of loan default — when firms take away vehicles financed by them, or when a buyer fails to get the vehicle registered within the stipulated time period. Firm agents get fake RCs of such vehicles prepared to sell them further at cheaper rates, they added.Last month, the RC scam had surfaced in Jagadhri as well. SDM Darshan Kumar had ordered a preliminary verification of documents after having received a letter from the CIA staff of the Sirsa police on January 16 seeking the registration details of some vehicles.After the preliminary verification, the SDM got an FIR registered against four data entry operators on January 21 for allegedly making fake RCs of cars.Told to furnish documents||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/29-car-owners-get-notice-in-rc-scam-208064
05-02-2021||Chandigarh||Issue appointment letter to shooter: Punjab and Haryana High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the issuance of appointment letter to international-level shooter Vishwajeet Singh for the post of HCS (Executive Branch) officer. The Bench held that the concerted effort to deprive the petitioner of his rightful entitlement showed that he was being victimised on the basis of an ill-informed perspective which complainant Ashok Khemka entertained regarding the sport of shooting.Justice Rajbir Sehrawat asserted that there was nothing on record suggesting that he had any specialised knowledge regarding international tournaments, shooting or scoring and awarding of medals in the sport. Justice Sehrawat noted that the questions raised in the complaint reflected utter ignorance about the sports activity and regarding award of medals in the sport of shooting.Justice Sehrawat stated, “The complainant’s assertion could not but be an expression in frustration against the petitioner for reasons other than the sporting activity.” It gave credence to the arguments of the petitioner’s counsel that the complainant raised all complaints because of cadre rivalry between the complainant and the petitioner’s father, who happened to be an IAS officer junior to the complainant.Justice Sehrawat observed that Khemka went to demand personal hearing from the Chief Minister regarding complaints against all and sundry and craved for registration of criminal case against all of them. “This was the height of unfounded self-righteousness. This totally takes away the pretence of acting in public interest and shows that Ashok Khemka might have used all these tactics to bring the officers under pressure and to bring the junior officers of the department under fear psychosis, which forced them to continue the tirade against the petitioner in one form or the other.”Justice Sehrawat noted that in the present case, the senior IAS officer happened to be the king, while the surrogate king was the junior IAS officer promoted from state civil service. Justice Sehrawat added that the audience were officials working in government offices and dealing with the file in the present matter and the victim was the son of the surrogate king, who claimed to be a person of international repute in a particular sport and who was denied the benefit claimed by him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/issue-appointment-letter-to-shooter-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-208065
05-02-2021||ibune News Service---||Showers no damper at Singhu||Sonepat/Jhajjar, February 4 Farmers continued their protest at the Singhu border despite the chill and showers. Hundreds of farmers from adjoining villages arrived to express solidarity with the protesters. The showers and icy wind on Thursday added to the difficulties of farmers, but their spirits remained high. The farmers, especially the elderly, spent time in their trolleys and waterproof tents. Many gathered near a bonfire after rain stopped. Gurmukh Singh, an elderly farmer from Batala, said they were afraid of neither the biting cold nor rain. They had worked in their fields amid cold wave and heavy rain their entire life, he added.  At Tikri, intermittent rain on Thursday spelt trouble for farmers. Water entered their tents and their belongings were soaked. The muddy road from Bahadurgarh to Tikri was a cause of inconvenience, especially to the pedestrians. Farmers were seen drying their mats, clothes and other belongings after rain stopped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/showers-no-damper-at-singhu-208066
05-02-2021||---||Congress MLAs march to Raj Bhawan||Chandigarh, February 4Amid rain, Congress MLAs marched towards Raj Bhawan here today, maintaining that Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya had not been granting them time to meet him. The Congress had been seeking a special Assembly session for moving a no-confidence motion against Manohar Lal Khattar government.Led by Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, the MLAs raised slogans against the state government and farm laws. They had also been demanding a law to safeguard MSP.The police stopped the legislators near Raj Bhawan. After submitting a memorandum, the MLAs left for Hooda’s residence.“We have sought an appointment with the Governor four times, but in vain. We have sent letters to him twice. We are demanding a special session of the Assembly so that we can bring in a no-confidence motion against the government,” Hooda said.“It is our responsibility to take the people’s voice to the Governor and it is his responsibility to listen to it. The no-confidence motion will expose those MLAs who have been elected to the Assembly on farmers’ support, but are with the government,” he said. “The Chief Minister and other ministers had to change the venue of their Republic Day functions. This shows that they have lost the people’s confidence,” he said.He demanded withdrawal of cases registered against farmers and jobs for the next of kin of those who had died at the protest sites.“The government has snapped internet and water and power supply at the protest sites and mobile toilets have been done away with. Everyone has the right to protest in a democracy,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-mlas-march-to-raj-bhawan-208067
05-02-2021||Rohtak||‘Chakka jam’: Ambulances to be allowed||On the call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha to block state and national highways for three hours on Thursday, farmer outfits have formed committees to mobilise people in the district.Inderjit Singh, vice-president, All-India Kisan Sabha, said: “As the ‘chakka jam’ will be the first big programme after the Republic Day tractor parade, every farmer outfit is leaving no stone unturned to make it successful. Their representatives are visiting villages to encourage people to turn up in large numbers on Saturday.”Women and students, too, will reach the dharna spots to strengthen the agitation. “Only ambulances and vehicles related to emergency services will be allowed to pass ,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chakka-jam-ambulances-to-be-allowed-208068
05-02-2021||Deepender Deswal||Village-level panels raise funds for stir||Tribune News ServiceHisar, February 4Villages in the district have formed committees to ensure prolonged support to the farmers’ agitation at the Delhi borders. These committees collect donation from villagers, and supply milk and food to protesting farmers.Sisay village, which is one of the most populous in the state with 28,000 residents, has set an example of how to manage things efficiently by pooling in resources.The village, which was recently upgraded to the Municipal Committee, has formed a 10-member panel headed by former sarpanch Randhir Singh. Each member has been assigned a role. For example, Ajit looks after the accounts.“Recently, two persons donated Rs 51,000, while other farmers chipped in with Rs 11,000. The committee has asked villagers, who are working in the services sector, to contribute financially,” he said.Another committee member Pradeep Singh said: “A person is asked to donate on the basis of land he owns. Earlier, we collected Rs 100 per acre. Now, the contribution has been doubled. Donation is not collected from landless families.”He has donated Rs 1,000 as he owns five acres.The committee members gather near the village temple every day with goods contributed by villagers and then supply the articles at the Tikri border.“Each family has been asked to send one person to the dharna site every week. Since ours is one of the populous villages which was upgraded to town two years ago, we should lead by example,” another member Rajesh Kumar said.Like Sisay, other villages in the district have formed committees to support farmers in the form of funds and food.Balwan Singh, a khap leader of Sulkhani village, said: “It has become a people’s agitation. From Agroha to Bhiwani Rohillan and Bahbalpur to Adampur, every village stands in support of farmers. Even landless labourers have backed the agitation.”11 points earmarked in KarnalKarnal: On the ‘chakka jam’ call by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, local farmers have earmarked 11 points in the district where roads will be blocked from noon to 3 pm on Saturday. The major blockade will be at the Bastara toll plaza on the National Highway-44, where farmers are staging dharna. The other roads that will be blocked are the Karnal-Kaithal road in Nissing, the Karnal-Indri road at Ramba, the Nilokheri-Dhand road at Nigdhu, the Karnal-Assandh road near the grain market, the Indri-Garhibirbal road near the Biana grain market, the Indri-Kurukshetra road near Bhadson, the Karnal-Jind National Highway-709A at the Peont toll plaza, the Karnal-Dhand road at Kachwa, the Karnal-Meerut road at Nagla chowk and the Munak-Assandh road. TNSMobile Internet ban extended in 2 distsThe government has extended the suspension of mobile internet services, bulk SMS service and dongle services in Sonepat and Jhajjar districts till 5 pm on February 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/village-level-panels-raise-funds-for-stir-208069
05-02-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court cuts penalty on petty farmers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 4Alive to the plight of two “petty farmers with meagre land holdings”, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has come to their rescue by reducing the penalty imposed on each of them from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5,000.The penalty was slapped on them after their son, undergoing life sentence, failed to surrender after the expiry of three-week parole as he was arrested in some other case.Referring to the mitigating circumstances explained in the petition, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan set aside the penalty of Rs 2 lakh each imposed by Panipat District Magistrate and subsequent conditional order passed by the Additional Sessions Judge directing the petitioner-parents to pay reduced amount of Rs 50,000 each.Before passing the order, Justice Sangwan took into consideration the facts that the petitioners were aged, their financial condition was not good, life convict Pawan stood arrested in another case and had surrendered before the jail authorities, the petitioners were petty farmers having meagre land holdings and the Covid situation was prevailing in the country.Justice Sangwan also took into consideration a judgment rendered by the High Court before granting the petitioners three months’ time to deposit the reduced penalty. The relief for the petitioners came even though they were unrepresented by any lawyer as the advocates were abstaining from work while seeking the resumption of physical hearing in the High Court.Going into the background of the matter, Justice Sangwan observed the record had it that life convict Pawan was released on parole in accordance with order dated June 11, 2019, passed by Hisar Divisional Commissioner. He was directed to surrender on July 24, 2019. But he failed to do so on the specified date. Later, he was found to be arrested in some other case and was in jail.The petitioners stood surety for him by furnishing surety bonds of Rs 2 lakh each. The penalty of the same amount, imposed after their son’s failure to give up, was directed to be recovered as arrears of land revenue. The amount was reduced to Rs 50,000 by the Additional Sessions Judge with a direction to deposit it within a month.Justice Sangwan also took note of the petitioners’ contentions that the mother was an old woman without independent source of income and father is a retired military personnel owning only 1.25 acres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-cuts-penalty-on-petty-farmers-208070
05-02-2021||Pradeep Sharma---||Five non-HCS officers to be elevated to IAS||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, February 4  Decks have been cleared for the elevation of five non-HCS  officers to the  Indian Administrative Service (IAS). The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC)  has scheduled interviews of  27 shortlisted candidates for the final selection  on February 15. These candidates were shortlisted  after the  first-ever  written examination conducted by the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) on  August 9 last year for the recruitment to the IAS from the non-HCS officers’ category. Sources said the maximum number of shortlisted candidates (11) were assistant/associate professors of the Higher Education Department. While eight candidates were from the Dairying and Animal Husbandry Department, three were from the Health Department. Two candidates were from the Town and Country Planning Department while one candidate each belonged to the Industry and Commerce, Technical Education and Excise and Taxation Departments. The interview board comprises the UPSC Chairman or one of the members, Haryana Chief Secretary and Central Government officials. The five officers are to be recruited for the  2019 selection  list of the IAS. To bring about transparency in the selection process, the government had conducted a written examination for the first time last year to shortlist candidates for the interview. Earlier, discretion rule the roost with successive state governments forwarding the names of their “favourites” to the UPSC for interview.  However, the Punjab and Haryana HC stayed the selection process on August 18, 2020, which was vacated on September 23, thus paving the way for holding interviews.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-non-hcs-officers-to-be-elevated-to-ias-208071
05-02-2021||---||2 held for making fake BPL cards||Karnal, February 4The police have arrested two persons, identified as Sanjay and Ram Gopal, for allegedly making fake BPL and Ayushman cards.SP Ganga Ram Punia said a complaint in this regard was lodged by Parveen Dhiman of Panchkula, who was the state manager of CSC e-governance Services India Ltd and looked after the Ayushman scheme.In the complaint, he alleged that fake BPL and Ayushman cards were being generated at Atal Sewa Kendra on the Meerut road.He said the accused were produced in the local court, which remanded them in two-day police custody.The SP said the accused would charge Rs 10,000 for making a BPL card, which was further used in generating a fake Ayushman card.“We will get all fake BPL and Ayushman cards cancelled,” he said, adding that five laptops, 1 CPU and three cellphones had been recovered from their possession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-held-for-making-fake-bpl-cards-208072
05-02-2021||Gurugram||Former Navy officer gets extortion call||A retired Navy officer, resident of Jhajjar district, accused that he received an extortion call seeking Rs 10 lakh. An FIR has been registered at Pataudi police station. According to a complaint filed by Brahm Prakash of Chamanpura village in Jhajjar, it was on Wednesday when he was near Gurugram Chowk in Pataudi that he received a call on his mobile phone.  “The caller misbehaved and abused me and demanded an extortion of Rs 10 lakh. He threatened to kill me on the non-payment of the amount. I suspect that the caller might be from Nainital, as I recently built a house in Nainital’s Pasoli area,” the complainant told the police.  As per the complaint, an FIR has been registered against unknown caller under Sections 384 (extortion) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at Pataudi police station.  A senior police officer said they had put the mobile number on surveillance. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-navy-officer-gets-extortion-call-208073
05-02-2021||Gurugram||Firm penalised for corridor collapse||Oriental Structural Engineers Private Limited has been fined Rs 3 crore after it was found responsible for the collapse of a portion of an elevated corridor being built as part of the six-laning of NH-248-A from Rajiv Chowk to Sohna. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had entrusted an inquiry into the case to a four-member committee. The incident was reported on August 22 last year, though there was no casualty.  Later, the NHAI barred construction major Oriental Structural Engineers from participating in future bids till it demonstrates “reliable construction methodologies, designs and adequate safety measures”.  “The decision has been taken after reviewing the situation and penalisation norms,” said Shashi Bhushan, project director, NHAI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/firm-penalised-for-corridor-collapse-208074
05-02-2021||---||24 IAS officers get transfer, posting orders||Chandigarh, February 4In a major administrative reshuffle, the Haryana Government today issued transfer and posting orders of 24 IAS officers, including nine of Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) rank.Varinder Singh Kundu, ACS, Fisheries, and CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority and Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority, was transferred asACS, Labour, Sainik and Ardh Sainik and Printing and Stationery.Pranab Kumar Das, ACS, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, was transferred as ACS,Power and New and Renewable EnergyTrilok Chand Gupta, ACS, Power and New and Renewable Energy, would now be ACS, Mines and Geology, Employment and Housing for All, and Member Secretary, Haryana Governance Reforms Authority, besides looking after work related to CM’s announcements.Amit Kumar Jha, ACS, Science and Technology, was given charge of Development and Panchayats after taking Women and Child Development from him.Sudhir Rajpal, ACS, Development and Panchayats, would be ACS, Civil Aviation, and CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority and Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority.Ankur Gupta, ACS, Higher Education and Technical Education, would be ACS, Animal Husbandry and Dairying and Fisheries.Anurag Rastogi, ACS, Excise and Taxation, would have charge of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs. Anand Mohan Sharan would be ACS, Higher Education and Technical Education.Raja Sekhar Vundru, ACS, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, would be ACS, Skill Department and Industrial Training. He would relieve Vineet Garg, who would be Principal Secretary, Electronics, Information and Technology and Communication, Social Justice and Empowerment and Welfare of SCs and BCs.V Umashankar, Principal Secretary to CM, would also look after Information and Public Relations, Citizen Resources Information and Haryana Administrative Reforms, besides his present duties.Vijayendra Singh would be Principal Secretary, Industries and Commerce and General Administration and CEO, Haryana Saraswati Heritage Board.Rakesh Gupta would be Commissioner and Secretary, Women and Child Development, besides his duties as Project Director, CMGGA.Vijay Singh Dahiya, Director, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, would be Director, Higher and Technical Education.Amneet P Kumar, DG, Medical Education and Research, would be MD, Dairy Development Corporation, and MD, Haryana SC Finance Development Corporation.Amit Kumar Agarwal, Additional Principal Secretary to CM, would also have charge of Director General of Information and Public Relations.Ajit Balaji Joshi would be Chief Administrator, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran. Vikas Yadav would be Director, Rural Development. Vinay Singh would be Chief Administrator, Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board.PS Meena was transferred as Director, Skill Development and Industrial Training, A Sreenivas as Director, Mines and Geology, Hardeep Singh as Director, Agriculture, Shaleen as Director, Medical Education and Research, and Munish Sharma as Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Manesar and Additional Labour Commissioner, Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/24-ias-officers-get-transfer-posting-orders-208079
05-02-2021||APROPOS ‘10- tier barricading at Tikri border’ it is shocking that more than 10 layered barricading||Farmers being harassed by authorities||Prem Singh Dahiya, RohtakIllegal hoardings dot shahabad roadsILLEGAL hoardings of shops can be seen defacing on a number of roads in the whole city. Be it electric poles, telephone poles, commercial walls or walls of houses, these can be found hanging or pasted on all of them. These also lead to accidents and mishaps on wearing or tearing of the boards or displays. Neither the advertisers not the civic body authorities are paying any heed to the issue which poses a huge threat to people. In the coming months, another flood of such hoarding is expected with the beginning of fresh admissions in schools for the new academic year. The roads and streets will again be dotted with school advertisements. The authorities should take a note of it and get the needful done.Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaChannels deprive viewers of newsA number of television news channels these days are not doing justice to their viewers. Advertisement banners are laid in such a manner that the main focus of the viewer is grabbed by them. Displaying ads, breaking news flash and highlights all at the same time makes it difficult for the viewers to focus on a single element. Sometimes, the voice of the anchor is also not audible which adds to the viewers' woes. Due to these ads displayed on the screen, there are times when one is unable to read the names of discussion panel members and the participating entities. Also it is hard to control some of the vocal and promiscuous debaters. They are icons of the young generation and should set a good example rather than being abusive, violent and irrelevant. The department concerned should take a cognisance of the issue and lay down certain guidelines and protocols so that discipline is maintained and time and power spent by viewers is not wasted.Gian P Kansal, Ambala cityPanchkula gets ODF++status for 3rd timeI felt very happy on reading news in The Tribune about Panchkula getting ODF++ status for the third time. Authorities of the MC and citizens of Panchkula, both, deserve appreciation and congratulations for this. It is said that the tag was given after random inspection of 32 locations, including slums, residential, commercial areas. This will definitely boost ranking of Panchkula in annual cleanliness survey and there also a growing enthusiasm among people of the city. I hope that taking an inspiration, similar efforts are made in other areas too. Nothing can be done without the coordination and cooperation of people.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-being-harassed-by-authorities-208091
05-02-2021||Palwal||University inks pact with Amazon||Placement drive for MCA studentsFaridabad: The Training Development and Consultancy Centre and the MCA department of DAV Institute of Management, Faridabad (DAVIM), organised a placement drive for the final year students of MCA. An aptitude test was conducted as part of the first round of the selection process by KVCH-ORACLE WDP, Noida. Manish Kumar, GM, KVCH-ORACLE WDP, briefed the students on job description. Dr Sanjeev Sharma, Principal Director, encouraged them to participate in such activities on a regular basis.NCC camp of 14 Hry Battalion endsYamunanagar: An NCC camp of 14 Haryana Battalion organised at Guru Nanak Khalsa College and Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, concluded on Thursday. It was organised under the supervision of Commanding Officer Col Ajay Pal Kaushish and under the guidance of Brig AS Brar. Cadets from various local educational institutions participated in this camp. Principal, Khalsa college, Harinder Singh Kang said that it was compulsory to attend the camp as part of B-certificate exam. He said the cadets were educated on field and battle craft, drill, weapons and other NCC subjects.Colleges to hold essay-writing eventChandigarh: State government and aided colleges will organise an essay-writing competition on the Right to Information Act. A spokesperson for the Higher Education Department said the first, second and third position holders would be given a cash reward of Rs 2,000, Rs 1,500 and Rs 1,000, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/university-inks-pact-with-amazon-208092
05-02-2021||---||Internet ban in Sonepat, Jhajjar extended till Friday evening||Chandigarh, February 4 Haryana Government has extended the suspension of mobile internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), SMS services (only Bulk SMS) and all dongle services, etc., provided on mobile networks except the voice calls in the territorial jurisdiction of two districts namely Sonepat and Jhajjar till 5 pm on February 5. Read also: Govt negotiating with farmers, says MEA in response to US statementWhen PM says he is a phone call away, then who is between him and farmers, wonders Deepender HoodaThis order is issued to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of these districts of Haryana and shall be in force with immediate effect. Any person who will be found guilty of violation of aforesaid order will be liable for legal action under relevant provisions. The spokesman said the suspension have been ordered under Rule 2 of Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules, 2017. All telecom service providers of Haryana, including the Head of BSNL (Haryana jurisdiction), are hereby directed to ensure the compliance of this order. The spokesman said that the state government has decided to impose this suspension of internet services in order to stop the spread of disinformation and rumours through various social media platforms, such as WhatsApp, Facebook Twitter, etc on mobile phones and SMS, for facilitation and mobilisation of mobs of agitators and demonstrators who can cause serious loss of life and damage to public and private properties by indulging in arson or vandalism and other types of violent activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/internet-ban-in-sonepat-jhajjar-extended-till-friday-evening-207949
