06-02-2021||New Delhi||3 more held in connection with Red Fort violence on R-Day||The Delhi Police have arrested three more people in connection with the Red Fort incident on Republic Day, taking the total number of those in its custody for the violence that took place across the national capital during the farmers’ tractor parade to 126, officials said on Saturday.The three have been identified as Harpreet Singh (32), Harjeet Singh (48) and Dharmender Singh (55), all residents of Delhi, they said.They were nabbed by the special investigating team (SIT) of north district on Wednesday. The crime branch, which is also investigating the cases, formally arrested them on Friday, police said.Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre’s new agri laws had clashed with the police during the tractor parade on January 26.Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and a flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled on Independence Day.Police said they have released pictures of over 70 people who were involved in the violence on January 26. Now their identification is underway, they said.So far, a total of 126 people have been arrested in connection with the Republic Day violence across the national capital, police said.“We are constantly examining the videos and footage which we have received to get clear picture of the people involved in the violence. The process of identification is underway,” Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said.The objectionable videos on farmers’ issue being uploaded from locations out of India are also being examined. The Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police is investigating the matter, he added.The Cyber Prevention Awareness and Detection (CyPAD) unit of Delhi Police has served around seven to eight notices.“We have sent notices to around seven to eight people. However, only two of them have responded. They have asked for some time to join the investigation,” a senior police officer said.The Delhi Police on Wednesday arrested a man named Dharmendra Singh in connection with the violence at Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor parade on Republic Day.Earlier, the police had announced cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information that can lead to the arrest of actor Deep Sidhu, Jugraj Singh, Gurjot Singh and Gurjant Singh who hoisted flags at the Red Fort or were involved in the act.A cash reward of Rs 50,000 each was also announced for Buta Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Jajbir Singh and Iqbal Singh for allegedly instigating protesters. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-more-held-in-connection-with-red-fort-violence-on-r-day-208843
06-02-2021||New Delhi/Chandigarh||Farmers’ ‘chakka’ jam’ protest affects Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan; scattered demonstrations in other states||Farmers in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan blocked highways with tractor-trolleys and squatted on key roads on Saturday, while scattered protests were held in other states during a three-hour ‘chakka jam’ called by agitating farmer unions which are demanding scrapping of the Centre’s new agri laws.Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait declared that their protest on Delhi’s outskirts will continue till October 2 and farmers will return home only after the government repeals the contentious legislations and makes a law ensuring legal guarantee for the minimum support price (MSP). No untoward incident was reported in any part of the country during Saturday’s protests though scores of people were detained in several states, including 50 at Shaheedi Park in the national capital which was brought under a thick security blanket in light of the violence during the farmers’ tractor parade on January 26.Protesters were also held briefly by police as they stalled traffic in parts of Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.Read also: Farmers block roads in Punjab, Haryana as part of ‘chakka jam’Farmers block Chandigarh-Zirakpur, Panchkula-Zirakpur border pointsWill remain at Delhi borders till Oct 2, no compromise on demands: Rakesh TikaitThe Congress and Left parties too joined the protests in some states in support of the ‘chakka jam’ called by the agitating farmer unions.While Delhi along with Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand was kept out of Saturday’s road blockade from 12 noon till 3 pm by agitating farmer unions, authorities suspended internet at the protest sites of Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri as well as adjoining areas for 24 hours till Saturday night and closed entry and exit facilities at 10 prominent Delhi Metro stations for few hours.Singhu border looked crowded than before as more tractors and farmers made their way to the protest sites, while drone cameras, multilayered barricades, nail-studded roads and barbed wires were in place as part of precautionary measures by the police.Security forces, including anti-riot police, were deployed at important junctions across the national capital, including Red Fort and ITO, which had witnessed violence on January 26.The police also monitored content on social media, officials said.Raising slogans against the Centre, farmers parked their tractor-trolleys or squatted in the middle of roads with posters, flags and banners in Punjab and Haryana, blocking several highways, including the Chandigarh-Zirakpur, Amritsar-Pathankot, Tarn Taran-Kapurthala, Ferozepur-Fazilka, Muktsar-Kotkapura, Bathinda-Chandigarh, Ludhiana-Jalandhar, Panchkula-Pinjore and Ambala–Chandigarh highway, leading to traffic snarls.Women also took part in the stir in a sizeable number at several places.Folk songs blared from speakers and people perched atop truck-tractors hoisted the tricolour on the KMP Expressway.In Rajasthan, farmers at many places including Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Dholpur and Jhalawar stalled traffic on the highways and main roads and held demonstrations, police said.Farmers in Uttar Pradesh handed over a memorandum to respective district authorities, demanding the withdrawal of the laws.Several farmer groups and the Congress held a protest in Mumbai. ‘Rasta roko’ protests were held in Karad and Kolhapur cities in Maharashtra.At least 40 protesters, including senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan’s wife Satvasheela Chavan, were detained for holding a protest on a busy road at Kolhapur Naka in Karad in western Maharashtra this afternoon, a police official said.Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatna leader Raju Shetti and others were detained briefly in Kolhapur.In Telangana, police said several people were taken into preventive custody as leaders of opposition parties joined the farmers in ‘raasta roko’ protests on various.Farmers blocked highways in different parts of Karnataka to show their solidarity, following a call given by various farmers’ associations led by Kuruburu Shanthakumar.  A few pro-Kannada organisations too came in support of the agitators.The demonstrations were held in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Kolar, Koppal, Bagalkote, Tumakuru Davangere, Hassan, Mangaluru, Haveri, Shivamogga and Chikkaballapura and protesters courted arrest in some parts of the state.Condemning the protests, Union Minister for Chemical and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda said the Narendra Modi government has implemented the recommendations of the Swaminathan Committee report to address the agrarian distress and farmers’ suicide.Protests were also held in Chennai and other parts of Tamil Nadu.The Congress had on Friday extended support to the countrywide ‘chakka jam’, saying party workers will stand shoulder to shoulder with farmers in their protest.Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-chakka-jam-protest-affects-punjab-haryana-rajasthan-scattered-demonstrations-in-other-states-208837
06-02-2021||---||Armed youths gun down Rohtak villager, injure father||Rohtak, February 6Vikas Kaushik, alias Vicky Pandit of Baliana village in Rohtak district was shot dead while his father Raghubir was injured in a firing incident on Saturday. Some old rivalry is stated to be behind the incident.Vicky (40), who also had a criminal record, was out on bail. He was playing cards with his friends in front of his brother’s shop at the village when a group of armed youths rained bullets at him, killing him on the spot. One of his friends was also injured in the assault.Armed youths also opened fire at Raghubir, an ex-serviceman, who was also playing cards with his friends at another location in the same village. He was rushed to PGIMS, Rohtak.Vicky’s brother Amit has alleged that local municipal councilor Rahul and former sarpanch Rajesh were behind the attack. The police have registered an FIR on his complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/armed-youths-gun-down-rohtak-villager-injure-father-208833
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Fraudsters could dupe people by seeking details in name of vaccine registration: Haryana Police||The Haryana Police Saturday warned people against sharing their personal details with unverified callers in the name of registration for COVID-19 vaccination, saying fraudsters could use these information to dupe them of their hard-earned money.Haryana Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk said in an advisory here that cyber criminals never run out of ideas to cash in on difficult situation.They may defraud citizens through phone calls, emails, WhatsApp and other social media platforms by asking them their personal details such as Aadhaar number in the name of registration for COVID-19 vaccination, he said in a statement here.On their modus operandi, he said they are making phone calls to people offering to register their names for the vaccine.This way they are collecting sensitive personal information such as Aadhaar number, email id and then also asking for OTPs for authentication, he said.The moment the OTP is shared, money is siphoned off from the Aadhaar-linked bank accounts, he said.Virk advised people to exercise caution and not to entertain any phone calls regarding the vaccine registration.“Don’t share your personal data with anyone and use only the government health department approved/issued mobile application for COVID -19 vaccination,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fraudsters-could-dupe-people-by-seeking-details-in-name-of-vaccine-registration-haryana-police-208828
06-02-2021||Chandigarh||Cold conditions persist in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions prevailed in Punjab and Haryana on Saturday, according to the Meteorological Department here.Adampur in Punjab recorded its minimum at 4 degrees Celsius, according to an official of the MeT Department here.Among other places in Punjab, Pathankot, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur recorded their respective lows at 4.8, 5, 4.6, 5.2 and 7.2 degrees Celsius.Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded their minimum temperature at 6, 8.8 and 8 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded a minimum of 6.6 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced cold weather conditions at 6.9, 6.7 and 6.4 degrees Celsius, respectively—up to three degrees below the normal for this time of the year.The minimum temperatures of Narnaul, Bhiwani and Sirsa were 6, 6.5 and 6.2 degrees Celsius, respectively. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cold-conditions-persist-in-punjab-haryana-208784
06-02-2021||Saurabh Malik---||Renewal of job contract not a matter of right: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, February 5 In a significant judgment on retrenchment, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a contractual or temporary employee cannot claim protection against termination unless the action taken by the authority concerned is shown to be vitiated by infirmities. Elaborating, the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash ruled that the action should not have an element of illegality, perversity, unreasonableness, unfairness or irrationality and should not be “demonstrably defiant of logic”. The Bench asserted that renewal of contract could not be sought by a temporary or contractual employee as a matter of right and it depended upon the perception of the management “as to the usefulness of the employee and the need for an incumbent on the position held by such an employee”. The Bench also ruled that the principle of “last come first go” was not applicable to a case where the employee’s initial appointment was against public policy or the employer found his work and conduct unsatisfactory. The Bench further ruled that the services of an employee paled into insignificance and could be terminated in accordance with the terms and conditions in case his work and conduct was found to be unsatisfactory even though he was a senior. The ruling came on an appeal by four data entry operators in the office of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran since 2018 and 2019. Their counsel contended that their services had been wrongly dispensed with by ignoring the principle of “last come first go” as some of their juniors were still working in the department. The matter was placed before the Division Bench after their counsel submitted that the single Judge had wrongly relegated them under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, on the grounds that they did not come within the definition of “workmen”. Dismissing the petition, the Bench observed that the writ petitioners were appointed without advertisement or public notice. The Bench noted that their entry was per se illegal and consequently, the authority concerned was well within its right to dispense with their services. “Since the initial appointment of the appellants was against public policy, their services were rightly terminated by the respondent-employer,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/renewal-of-job-contract-not-a-matter-of-right-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-208523
06-02-2021||ibune News Service---||IMA observes relay fast to oppose ‘mixopathy system’||Faridabad, February 5 Members of the district unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) observed one-day relay fast in protest against the Centre’s decision to allow non-allopathic doctors (BAMS) to conduct surgeries. Claiming that today’s fast was a part of the nationwide and statewide agitation programme announced by the IMA, Dr Suresh Arora of the district IMA, said 10 doctors observed the fast organised at BK Chowk in the NIT area of the city. He said the protest started at 9 am and continued till 5 pm in the evening. Revealing that the call for agitation had been given by the IMA against the recent notification of the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), in which it had included 58 modern medicine surgical procedures to be studied and performed by Post Graduate students and practitioners of the ayurveda system of medicine in the country. “Describing the new system as ‘mixopathy’, the memorandum submitted by the IMA association to the district authorities said it was a cheap alternative in healthcare system which could result into acute suffering and threat to many lives if no remedial measures were taken. The association has sought immediate repeal of the amendment in the larger interest of the healthcare and patients. All 900 members of the district unit of the IMA had earlier observed a one-day strike by keeping OPDs shut on December 11 last year in protest of the move.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ima-observes-relay-fast-to-oppose-mixopathy-system-208524
06-02-2021||Gurugram||Head constable dies by suicide||A head constable, identified as Pankaj Kumar (35) of Rewari’’s Majra Sheoraj village, allegedly died by suicide at his residence on late Wednesday evening.  Pankaj was posted as the reader to the ACP, Pataudi. According to information, he was in depression. No suicide note was recovered from the spot. The body has been sent for autopsy. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/head-constable-dies-by-suicide-208525
06-02-2021||---||4,069 more vaccinated against Covid in Haryana||Chandigarh, February 5A total of 4,069 people got vaccinated in the state today, taking the total number of vaccinated people in the state to 1.38 lakh.Also, with one death in Gurugram and 84 fresh cases, the overall Covid tally of Haryna reached 2.68 lakh.No new case was recorded in seven districts today. A total of 96 people got cured in the last 24 hours.Rohtak: A motivational session was organised on Friday to exhort PGIMS students to get the vaccine administered on them.The health workers attending the session were categorically told that Saturday would be the last day to get themselves registered for getting the vaccine.Prof (Dr) OP Kalra, Vice-Chancellor of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences, pointed out that he as well as his 87-year-old mother had volunteered for human trials of Covaxin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-069-more-vaccinated-against-covid-in-haryana-208526
06-02-2021||---||RTA staffer to face action under anti-corruption law||Chandigarh, February 5 On the recommendation of the Vigilance Bureau, the state government has issued orders to register a criminal case under the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act against the then assistant of the RTA office, Ambala, Zile Singh. An official spokesperson said the assistant was found guilty of acquiring disproportionate assets. The officials concerned had also been asked to recover Rs 7,92,121 from a contractor for using “sub-standard” material in the construction of residential quarters for officials of the Central Jail, Hisar.  Earlier, a probe conducted by the Vigilance Bureau revealed that officials of the RTA office, Ambala, had committed irregularities in the registration of vehicles while assistant Zile Singh had acquired disproportionate assets amounting to Rs 27.25 lakh. While the RTA officials involved in irregularities will face departmental action, a case will be registered against the assistant.   In another case, the Vigilance Bureau has recommended to register a case against Rajesh Sharan, a resident of Tezli village in Yamunanagar, for sending 16 players to Korea illegally.  Sharan allegedly charged Rs 20,000 from each player and created a federation during his posting in the Sports Department, Yamunanagar. Nine players continue to stay in Korea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rta-staffer-to-face-action-under-anti-corruption-law-208527
06-02-2021||Gurugram||Robbers attack businessman, flee with car||An armed vehicle robbery was reported from Rajendra park area and the entire episode was caught by a CCTV camera installed at a home nearby. An FIR has been registered at Rajendra park police station.  According to the complaint filed by businessman Kuldeep Kumar, a resident of Dhankot village, he was returning from Basai village in his car at 10.30 pm on Wednesday. On the main road, another car overtook his car and stopped in front of it. “When I stopped my car, two armed men came out and indicated to me to open the window. When I did not open it, one of them broke it and another hit my head with the butt of a pistol. The duo then pushed me out of my car and fled away. Their third accomplice went away in his car after firing into the air,” Kuldeep told the police. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/robbers-attack-businessman-flee-with-car-208528
06-02-2021||---||Sarpanch suspended for embezzlement||Yamunanagar, February 5Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar has suspended the sarpanch of the district’s Karkoli village for allegedly embezzling Rs 6 lakh meant for a community centre and instead spent on a “chaupal”.Sarpanch Harvinder Singh was suspended under Section 51 of the Haryana Panchayati Raj Act, 1994, on January 29.As per the suspension order, the gram panchayat of Karkoli village had received 6 lakh for the construction of a “chaupal” for the general category on August 30, 2017. It had received another Rs 6 lakh on May 9, 2018, for some repair work of the community centre.It was alleged that Harvinder had embezzled Rs 6 lakh by not spending the grant on the community centre.This came to light after Karkoli village resident Harbans Singh had lodged a complaint with Block Development and Panchayat Officer Pratap Nagar, accusing Harvinder of embezzling money.Subsequently, the BDPO got the record of development works verified. It came to light there was no record (an approval letter of the government, an estimate letter, measurement book and bills) which could correspond to the expenditure shown to be spent on the community centre.On receiving the BDPO’s inquiry report, the DC had on January 6 issued a showcause notice to the sarpanch, seeking his reply on the alleged embezzlement of Rs 6 lakh.In his reply, the sarpanch had claimed he had spent Rs 9,42,920 on the construction of a general “chaupal” and Rs 2,57,080 on a “chaupal” for Backward Classes.“The gram panchayat got Rs 6 lakh for the the community centre, but sarpanch Harvinder Singh spent the amount ‘chaupals’. As per rule, it is wrong. The sarpanch has intentionally committed embezzlement of Rs 6 lakh by violating rules and regulations. Therefore, he is suspended from the post of sarpanch,” reads the DC’s order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sarpanch-suspended-for-embezzlement-208529
06-02-2021||Deepender Deswal||Farmers all set for 3-hour ‘chakka jam’ in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceHisar, February 5Protesting farmers are geared up for a “chakka jam” on Saturday and have earmarked 50 spots in Hisar, Sirsa, Jind and Bhiwani districts, which will be blocked.The police have stepped up security and made all arrangements to divert traffic in the region. The district administration has designated duty magistrates to ensure law and order.State president of the Kisan Sabha Phool Singh Sheokand said there would be a complete jam for three hours on all toll plazas and other designated spots.Farmers said they would block traffic at 20 points in Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri districts. The protesters at the toll plaza in Kitlana village said they had also identified spots on state and national highways as part of the protest. In Fatehabad, farmers have identified eight points.The farmers, however, said emergency and essential services such as fire brigade and ambulance would not be stopped anywhere.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-all-set-for-3-hour-chakka-jam-in-haryana-208530
06-02-2021||Karnal||28 duty magistrates deployed in Karnal||In view of a ‘chakka jam’ on Saturday, the district administration has deployed 28 duty magistrates and 1,500 police personnel to maintain law and order.  DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said nobody would be allowed to take law into their hands. Superintendent of Police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia said if required, they were ready with a traffic diversion plan. “Police personnel are keeping a close watch on the movement of farmers,” said the SP.  On the other hand, farmers reiterated that their protest would be peaceful. “We will block roads at 11 points, including one at the Bastara toll plaza on NH-44. Our protest will be peaceful. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/28-duty-magistrates-deployed-in-karnal-208531
06-02-2021||---||‘Kisan Kesari Samman’ for Abhay Chautala||Hisar, February 5 A ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ today honoured INLD leader Abhay Chautala, who has resigned from the Assembly in support of the farmers’ protest, with the “Kisan Kesari Samman”. “For me, there is no post bigger than the farmers’ cause. I will be back in the Assembly with people’s blessings in the byelections,” Abhay said while addressing farmers at Nathusari Chopta in Sirsa. He further said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had assured farmers of waiving their loans and implementing the Swaminathan Commission recommendations. But under pressure from the corporate sector, the Centre took an about-turn. It took steps which will leave farmers at the mercy of corporate houses.” The former Ellenabad MLA hit out at leaders, who claimed to follow in the footsteps of late Deputy Prime Minister Chaudhary Devi Lal. “They have shut themselves in their homes, fearing backlash of farmers.”  Abhay urged farmers to participate in tomorrow’s “chakka jam” announced by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kisan-kesari-samman-for-abhay-chautala-208532
06-02-2021||---||Haryana cops step up security||Chandigarh, February 5With the protesting farmers announcing “chakka jam” for three hours on Saturday, the Haryana Police have stepped up security across the state.SKM guidelinesIn view of violence in Delhi during the tractor march on January 26, senior police officers had been asked to personally supervise security and traffic arrangements at vital junctions and roads and district police chiefs directed to ensure deployment of adequate personnel, according to a communication from the DGP.“In view of the incidents in Delhi on January 26, some anti-social elements and aggressive youth creating law and order problems cannot be ruled out,” read the communication.“It is assessed that as part of the protest on February 6, protesting farmers may attempt blockade of important highways and interior roads,” it said, asking the police to ensure necessary security.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cops-step-up-security-208533
06-02-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court issues notice on plea against Net suspension||Chandigarh, February 5 The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued notice of motion to the Union of India and Haryana against the shutdown of internet services following the farmers’ agitation. Taking up the plea seeking immediate restoration of the services, Justice Fateh Deep Singh fixed February 8 as the next date of hearing in the matter. The Bench, among other things, would now adjudicate whether the suspension of mobile internet services was arbitrary and  “a measure of collective punishment for crores of people so they do not exercise their right to freedom of speech and expression”. The High Court would also decide whether the suspension of mobile internet services was violation of the fundamental right of the petitioners — Sandeep Singh and two other lawyers putting up in Haryana. The vital questions of law had been raised by the petitioners through counsel Rajvinder Singh Bains, Navkiran Singh and Mohan S Chauhan following the Haryana Government’s decision to suspended mobile internet services in 17 districts “to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order”. The petitioners referred to a report in The Tribune on the issue before seeking directions for restoration of internet services. The petitioners claimed that the shutdown of internet services was wrong and illegal and directly affecting the lives of the petitioners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-issues-notice-on-plea-against-net-suspension-208534
06-02-2021||---||Ex-IAS, judges appointed as chairmen can’t retain govt houses||Chandigarh, February 5 With the new Government Residences (Chandigarh Administration General Pool) Allotment (Amendment) Rules, 2020, coming in force, retired senior government functionaries, including bureaucrats and judges, will not be able to retain their palatial  government bungalows in Chandigarh even after their appointment as the chairmen of various commissions. Now, only  five chairpersons of the statutory commissions such as those of Human Rights Commission,  Lokayuktas,  the Chief Information Commissioners,  the State Election Commissioners and the Chief Commissioners of Right to Service established by Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh will be entitled for government accommodation.  “The state government/UT Administrator  will decide as to which commission will be given benefit. The quota of five houses  under this category will not be extended under any circumstances,” said a notification issued by Vinod P Kavle, Secretary, House Allotment Committee of the Chandigarh Administration. Till now, a majority of the former IAS and  IPS officers  and judges managed their posting as the chairpersons of various commissions, enabling them to retain their government accommodation even after retirement. A large number of  eligible officers from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh are staying  in below category houses or transit accommodation or in UT Guest House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-ias-judges-appointed-as-chairmen-cant-retain-govt-houses-208535
06-02-2021||Nitish Sharma||Gates on Mahabharata theme to come up in Kurukshetra||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, February 5To beautify Thanesar City in Kurukshetra, the Thanesar Municipal Council has come out with a plan to construct at least 40 entry gates (including on the entries of the city and sectors on the Pipli to Kurukshetra University stretch). The entry gates will be constructed on the Mahabharata theme and named after characters of the Mahabharata.Designs being prepared, work will begin soonThe designs are being prepared. Soon, the budget will be finalised and the work will start. The beautification of the city is a part of projects being carried out to promote Thanesar as a tourist destination.—  Naveen Kumar, Thanesar Municipal Council Municipal EngineerCurrently, there is one entry gate at the entrance of Thanesar city known as Gita Dwar at Pipli.As per the information available, each entry gate will come up at a cost of around Rs 15 lakh.Municipal Engineer, Thanesar Municipal Council, Naveen Kumar said that entry gates on Mahabharata theme would come up at all entry points of the city including at Amin road, Umri road and sectors situated on the Pipli-Kurukshetra University stretch. The designs are being prepared. Soon, the budget would be finalised and the work would start. The beautification of the city is a part of projects being carried out to promote Thanesar as a tourist destination. The council would also get the beautification work done at major roads, curves and dividers.Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha said, “The aim is to create an ambience and attract people towards Kurukshetra. We want people to feel the difference when they enter Kurukshetra. Besides getting the gates constructed by the Municipal Council, we will invite social and religious organisations, resident welfare associations and other people to come forward and get the gates of their localities and societies constructed. But they have to follow the design and theme prepared by the Municipal Council so that uniformity is maintained. Soon, a meeting will be held with the organisations soon. A committee has also been formed for the beautification project.”To a query, he said, “The Gita Dwar at Pipli is presently out of the Municipal Council limit. As a result, the MC is not able to maintain it. People often make complaints about the poor sanitation when they enter Kurukshetra. During the Gita Mahotsav and other festivals, we get it cleaned. To beautify Gita Dwar and area around it, we have already started the process to get the Pipli panchayat under the MC limits. The current MC limit is till the Police Lines. A file has been sent to the government in this regard after getting all objections removed. We are hopeful that soon, the government will take a decision and include Pipli in the MC limit.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gates-on-mahabharata-theme-to-come-up-in-kurukshetra-208536
06-02-2021||---||16-yr-old ends life at Ambala hostel||Ambala, February 5A 16-year-old girl allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her hostel room in Kalpana Chawla government polytechnic for women in Ambala City late on Thursday night.She was a student of first year electronics engineering and had come to the hostel on January 31. She hailed from Nawada district of Bihar. No suicide note was found from the spot.The extreme step taken by the girl at room number 44 on the third floor of the hostel has spread fear among the other hostellers.Her body was shifted to Civil Hospital Ambala City for the post-mortem examination. Her family members were informed and her brother had reached Ambala from Delhi late in the evening on Friday.At around 8 pm on Thursday night, she took the key from her roommates and went to the room. When her roommates found the room bolted from inside at around 10 pm, they informed the warden. Later, they found the girl hanging from the fan. She used two scarves to hang herself.One of her roommates said, “She used to remain quiet most of the time and we have no idea what happened.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/16-yr-old-ends-life-at-ambala-hostel-208537
06-02-2021||---||Karnal municipal corporation serves final notice on 241 shopkeepers||Karnal, February 5 The municipal corporation (MC) has served final notice on 241 shopkeepers who have not deposited rent for the past several months. Their dues are around Rs 1 crore. The MC has warned the shopkeepers to deposit the rent in a week or face sealing. “We have served final notice on 241 shopkeepers for depositing their dues, failing which action will be initiated against them,” said Vikram Singh, Municipal Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-municipal-corporation-serves-final-notice-on-241-shopkeepers-208538
06-02-2021||Karnal||Illegal structures razed in four Karnal colonies||A team of the Department of Town and Country Planning on Friday carried out a demolition drive and razed several illegal structures in four “unauthorised” colonies in the city. Vikram Kumar, District Town Planner (DTP), said, “One colony spread on 2.5 acres on Guru Brahmanand Chowk and Hansi Road was razed, while two colonies — spread on 2 acres and 3.5 acres — were demolished in JTPL colony. Another colony spread on 1.2 acres near Nikka Singh School was also razed.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-structures-razed-in-four-karnal-colonies-208539
06-02-2021||---||Panipat schoolteachers protest non-payment of salary, arrears||Panipat, February 5A total of 166 of the 170 teachers with a private school here have been protesting for the past eight days, demanding their salaries and arrears.Threatened dismissal by school admnThe protesting teachers said when they demanded salaries, the school administration forced them to sign a proforma and threatened to sack them.The protesting teachers said when they demanded salaries, the school administration forced them to sign a proforma and threatened to sack them.Shakuntla Garg, senior teacher at SD Vidya Mandir, said the management gave them 45 per cent salary in April, May and June last year, no salary in July and 55 per cent salary in August.She claimed that the management gave some part of salary to a few select teachers and most of them were ignored as they were waiting for salary since November.A team led by the District Education Officer reached the school to resolve the issue, but nobody from the management was available.Some members of the SD Education Society came out in support of the protesting teachers. They visited the school and went to meet the management, but the president and secretary were not present in school.School chairman Satish Chandra and Principal Sabita Chaudhary could not be contacted for comment despite several attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-schoolteachers-protest-non-payment-of-salary-arrears-208540
06-02-2021||Hisar||Rakesh Tikait to attend mahapanchayat||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait will arrive at the Kitlana toll plaza in Charkhi Dadri district on February 7.Tikait, along with Gurnam Singh Charuni and other leaders, would participate in a mahapanchayat, said Independent MLA from Charkhi Dadri and Sangwan khap pradhan Sombir Sangwan.He claimed that the mahapanchayat would be a turning point in the agitation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rakesh-tikait-to-attend-mahapanchayat-208576
06-02-2021||---||Hoardings pulled down in Gurugram||Our CorrespondentGurugram, February 5The Municipal Corporation today pulled down illegal hoardings of top builders and approached the police seeking action against developers under the anti-defacement Act.The civic body’s action comes a day after The Tribune reported on the menace of illegal hoardings in the city. It was reported that the MC had earmarked 80 spots for hoardings, but more than 600 illegal hoardings were found in new Gurugram and Badshahpur, and on the Dwarka expressway, Delhi-Jaipur expressway, Sohna road, Pataudi road.The MC also conducted awareness drives in Dwarka expressway, SPR near Kadarpur, Ullahwas and Nayagaon village, apprising local project owners and builders of the MC’s advertisement policy.Vinay Pratap Singh, MC Commissioner, formed a special wing to take action against unauthorised hoardings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hoardings-pulled-down-in-gurugram-208592
06-02-2021||Karnal||MBBS session begins at KCGMC||Girls excel in poster-making eventAmbala: Three students of Sanatan Dharma College secured the first prize in a state-level inter-college and inter-school poster-making competition held at Khalsa College, Patiala, in association with DBT-Government of India. Ruchika, Iti Saini and Bipasha from the mathematics department brought laurels to the college. Principal Rajendra Singh and department head Naveen Gulati congratulated the students on the achievement. As many as 28 schools and colleges had participated in the competition.Workshop on communication at DAVFaridabad: The training department and the holistic growth department of the DAV Institute of Management (DAVIM), Faridabad, organised a workshop on “Communication: There is always a better way” for the first year students of BBA (CAM), BCA and BBA (BE) courses. Jaya Goyal, chairperson the of Women Entrepreneur Cell-IAMSME of India, and a corporate trainer, said, “Communication does not mean merely being able to speak good English, but also encompasses the skills to convey your message to the other person in the right sense without involving non-verbal communication.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mbbs-session-begins-at-kcgmc-208602
06-02-2021||A road in front of House Number 342 to 170||Dug up road in Ambala not repaired||Ashok Kumar, Ambala CityRepair work victim to official apathyAN internal road between House Numbers 262 to 492 in Sector 8 of Panchkula was dug up on January 31 to carry out some repairs. However, the affected portion was not expectedly restored back to its original position soon thereafter. The situation worsened after light showers on Thursday which caused a lot of much avoidable inconvenience to the commuters, residents and mainly the pedestrians. The authorities concerned must loof into the problem and get the needful done immediately. SK Gupta, PanchkulaBike ambulance service neededIT is observed that public is reluctant to transport road accident victims to the hospitals due to the fear of undue harassment by the police. The MC should start bike ambulance service at accident-prone spots and strategic sectors of the city, to ferry injured patients to the hospitals to prevent mortality due to delayed medical treatment.Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaJUNK vehicles clutter roadTHE scrap dealers in Kaithal have turned a portion of berms of PWD Kaithal-Jind road into a trash market by dumping a large number of damaged vehicles on both sides of the road. This has been happening for the last couple of years but officials of the Public Works Department Buildings and Roads (PWD B&R) have turned a blind eye to this situation. The residents are unable to understand as to why huge numbers of these vehicles have been allowed to be dumped on government land. The situation at ground level irks the residents and those entering Kaithal city from Jind side. Shockingly, the officials concerned have not initiated any action against those involved in this illegal act. The intervention of the district administration and senior officials of the PWD is immediately needed to address the problem.Satish Seth, KaithalWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dug-up-road-in-ambala-not-repaired-208603
06-02-2021||---||Haryana Police step up security ahead of Saturday’s ‘chakka jam’||Chandigarh, February 5Haryana Police have stepped up security measures in view of the call for a countrywide ‘chakka jam’ on Saturday, even as farmer unions said there would be no jam in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the farmer unions protesting the three farm laws, also said there would be no 'chakka jam' in Delhi.Senior Haryana police officers have been asked to personally supervise security and traffic arrangements at vital junctions and roads while district police chiefs have been directed to ensure deployment of adequate personnel, according to an official communication issued to them."In view of the January 26 incidents in Delhi, some anti-social elements and aggressive youth creating law and order problems cannot be ruled out,” read the communication dated February 4.“It is assessed that as part of the protest programme on February 6, protesting farmers/unions may attempt road blockades of important national highways, state highways and interior roads,” it said, asking the police to ensure necessary security arrangements were in place.The police commissioners and district police chiefs have been asked to make all-out efforts to liaison with local leaders of farmer organisations to ensure peaceful conduct of their proposed programme.Also read: No 'chakka jam' in Delhi says farmers' bodyFarmer unions had on Monday announced that they would hold a countrywide chakka jam on February 6 and block national and state highways for three hours to protest against the Internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, and alleged harassment meted out to them by authorities, and other issues.In Uttar Pradesh, though, two deaths, that of Navreet Singh, who died during the January 26 violence at ITO in New Delhi and another of Baljinder Singh's, who was killed in an accident, has forced a rethink.The decision against ‘chakka jam’ in UP and Uttarakhand was taken after a meeting between Samyukta Kisan Morcha's Balbir Singh Rajewal and Bhartiya Kisan Union's national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait in Gazipur on Friday."People near the Pilibhit belt are very angry. Those deaths have angered the youth and we may see a reaction during the jam so that's why we have called it off in these two states," said a leader who attended the meeting."We are keen to avoid any untoward incidents during the jam. It has to be peaceful," he added.Farmers in these two states will sit in dharna in selected places and then hand over a list of their demands to the district administration regarding monies due to the farmers.Samyukta Kisan Morcha has also issued a list of guidelines as per which only national and state highways are to be jammed from 12 noon to 3 pm. However, there will be no chakka jam in and around the National Capital Region.Also the leaders have appealed to keep it peaceful and non violent.Meanwhile, Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij has appealed to the peasant leaders to call off the chakka jam.Replying to a question in Gurugram, Vij said, "Biggest problems in the world and even international issues are solved through dialogue.”Vij said the government was always ready for talks and the protesting farmers must come forward. “The government is always ready for talks and the Prime Minister has said the doors for talks are open. So they should come forward,” he said.Vij said that in a democracy everyone had the right to protest and hold dharnas, “but while exercising that right, one should also keep in mind that they should not violate the rights of others and common man should not be inconvenienced”."So it is my appeal to farmer leaders that they should call off their chakka jam programme.” (With PTI inputs)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-police-step-up-security-ahead-of-saturdays-chakka-jam-208326
