07-02-2021||Rohtak||Ex-Haryana minister, five others sustain burns||Former Haryana minister Manish Grover and five others sustained burns when some balloons filled with an inflammable gas burst after catching fire during an event here on Sunday, police said.Police said the incident took place at the Anaj Mandi where a 85-foot Tricolour was to be unfurled.All those who sustained burns were provided medical treatment, they said.“Luckily, no one sustained serious burn injuries,” said a police official. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-haryana-minister-five-others-sustain-burns-209223
07-02-2021||Charkhi Dadri (Haryana)||No ‘ghar wapsi’ till farmers’ demands are met: Tikait||Asserting that the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws is a people’s movement that will not fail, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said there will be no “ghar wapsi” till protesting farmers’ demands are met.Tikait lauded the role of “khap panchayats” (caste councils) and their leaders in supporting the farmers’ stir.Addressing a “Kisan Mahapanchayat” near here, Tikait said the government should rollback the contentious farm laws, frame a new legislation to assure the continuation of the minimum support price (MSP) for crops and release the farmers arrested recently.“There will be no ‘ghar wapsi’ till farmers’ demands are met,” he said.“Yeh jan andolan hai, yeh fail nahi hoga (this is a people’s movement, this will not fail),” he added.Tikait claimed the campaign against the agriculture laws is going strong.                                  Dadri MLA and chief of the Sangwan Khap, Sombir Sangwan, who in December withdrew support to the BJP-JJP government in Haryana, and another Independent MLA, Balraj Kundu, were also present at the event.Earlier on February 3, Tikait had addressed his first “Kisan Mahapanchayat” in Jind’s Kandela.The BKU leader from Uttar Pradesh has been camping at Ghazipur on the Delhi-UP border as part of a campaign by farmer unions against the central laws enacted in September.Tikait said “khaps” go back to the days of King Harshvardhana and have been playing their role in society ever since.“We need these khap panchayats today. You should not let anything divide you,” he said, adding that when the stir started, attempts were made to divide farmers.Cautioning the protesting farmers against such attempts, Tikait said some people will try to divide them in Sikh or non-Sikh, Jats or non-Jats, but they should remain united.Tikait said he salutes the 40 farmer leaders spearheading the agitation. There is not a single weak link in the agitation, he claimed.Seeking to project unity among farmer unions, Tikait said the “manch (stage) and panch (leaders leading the stir) will not change”.The BKU leader, whose emotional appeal recently had revived the protest that was losing momentum after the January 26 violence in Delhi, said people from different sections of society are part of the stir.Tikait praised BKU leader from Punjab, Balbir Singh Rajewal, who was present on the occasion, for providing a sound leadership to the stir.“Rajewal is our elder leader, he is very wise. We will fight this battle strongly,” he said.Hitting out at the Centre, Tikait said, “This government is pro-capitalist.”                Tikait also made a mention of the tragedy caused by a glacier burst at Joshimath in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, leading to a massive flood and causing large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas.“A big tragedy has struck Uttarakhand. I appeal to the BKU family and other farmer organisations to lend a helping hand and assist the local administration,” he said.He appealed to all to conserve water and plant trees to protect the environment.Taking a lesson from the Jind Mahapanchayat where the stage had collapsed, the organisers had brick-lined the stage this time.Meanwhile, another “Kisan Mahapanchayat” was organised at Sunehda in Nuh district, where Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni accused the government of being stubborn and not considering farmers’ demands.The laws will destroy farmers, Chaduni said at the event, which was attended by Congress leader Aftab Ahmed. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-ghar-wapsi-till-farmers-demands-are-met-tikait-209210
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||Police constable kills parents, self in Haryana’s Sonepat||A 39-year-old Delhi Police constable committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance after allegedly axing his parents to death at his home in Sonepat’s Matindu village on Sunday, police said.  Kharkhoda police station SHO Inspector Bijender Singh said Deepak was found dead in a room while half-burnt bodies of his parents bearing head injuries were recovered from the ground floor of the house.“We found Deepak, a constable with the Delhi police, lying motionless in an upper storey room,” the SHO said, adding that they had to break open its door as it was bolted from inside.“Half-burnt bodies of his parents, aged around 65, were found from the ground floor of the house,” the SHO said over the phone.He said parents bore head injuries, which appeared to have been inflicted with an axe, which was found from Deepak’s room with blood and white hair stuck to it.“Prima facie, it appears that petrol had been poured on the two elderly persons after they were killed,” he said.He said Deepak took some poisonous substance and was rushed to a hospital, where he was declared brought dead.“Going by the sequence of events, it appears that Deepak murdered them with an axe, which was found from his room, before consuming poison,” he said.Asked what could be the motive behind the crime, the police officer said, “We have registered a case and further investigation is under way.” PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-constable-kills-parents-self-in-haryanas-sonepat-209202
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana farmer’s body found hanging from tree near Tikri border protest site||A farmer from Jind in Haryana who was supporting the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws allegedly hanged himself from a tree merely two kilometres from the Tikri border protest site on Sunday, police said.The 52-year-old farmer left a suicide note, which is being verified, they said.“The farmer, Karamveer Singh, hailed from a village in Jind. He was found hanging from a tree in a park, which is around two kilometres away from the Tikri border,” Bahadurgarh City police station SHO Vijay Kumar said.His body was found in the morning, he said.According to the police, the hand-written suicide note purportedly left behind by the deceased said, “Dear farmer brethren, Modi government is giving date after date... No one knows when these black farm laws will be rolled back.”     Over a fortnight ago, another farmer from Haryana had allegedly consumed a poisonous substance at the Tikri border. He died during treatment at a Delhi hospital later.In December, a lawyer from Punjab had allegedly killed himself by consuming poison a few kilometres away from the protest site at the Tikri border.Earlier, a Sikh preacher, Sant Ram Singh, had also allegedly ended his life near the Singhu border protest site, claiming that he was “unable to bear the pain of the farmers”.Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November 2020 at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-farmers-body-found-hanging-from-tree-near-tikri-border-protest-site-209136
07-02-2021||---||‘Chakka jam’ ends peacefully in Haryana||Panipat/Sonepat, February 6Farmers observed ‘chakka jam’ at five points in Panipat including Panipat-Haridwar highway; Panipat-Rohtak-Rewari national highway, Panipat-Jind highway, NH-44 and Assandh road for three hours.As per the schedule programme, scores of farmers, members of the Congress, CPI, CPM and other social organisations gathered at toll plaza near Dahar on Panipat-Rohtak highway (NH-71A) and Panipat toll plaza on NH-44 and Karhans village in Samalkha area on NH-44, Bhalsi village on Jind highway, Kurar and Ugrakheri turn on Haridwar highway.Over 2,000 protest on Natl Highway-19They protested against the Centre by raising slogans and demanded that the three ‘black’ farm laws be repealed.Sonepat: Farmers observed ‘chakka jam’ at 12 points in Sonepat district including Sonepat-Gohana, Sonepat-Rohtak road, KMP and KGP expressways.The 12 points were Mahalakshmi dhaba, Golden Hut Dhaba and KMP zero point; four points in Baroda – Madina, Bhainswan Khurd, Mudlana, Noorankhera; two points in Kharkhoda-Delhi road; Rohat and Sisana on Sonepat-Rohtak road; Badwasni and Lath Joli on Sonepat-Gohana road.SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said no untoward incident was reported from the district.The number of vehicles witnessed on NH-44 was very less in comparison to other days. To ease traffic movement, the police made use of diversions at some places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chakka-jam-ends-peacefully-in-haryana-208846
07-02-2021||---||Farmers protest in Ambala, Kurukshetra||Ambala, February 6On the call of a nationwide chakka jam given by farmer unions, farmers today blocked national and state highways for three hours at seven locations each in Ambala and Kurukshetra.Farmers from Haryana and Punjab held a joint protest near the Shambhu toll plaza and raised slogans against the Union Government. Farmer leaders accused the government of making attempts to disturb harmony and not accepting farmers’ demands.The farmers also blocked the highways near Devi Nagar, Saini Majra near Karasan and Hema Majra in Ambala, Rattangarh near Pipli, Teokar, Ladwa road and Karah Sahib in Kurukshetra.united they standEarlier, we had planned to hold our protest at the Shambhu toll plaza, but a few farmers from Punjab suggested that we should hold a joint protest as it is an area on the border of Haryana and Punjab. It is also an attempt to give a clear message to the government that it should stop making attempts to create differences between Haryana and Punjab. —Gulab Singh, Farmer leaderDue to these blockades, the local police diverted traffic towards alternative routes. However, a large number of vehicles and roadways buses of Punjab preferred to wait till the blockades were lifted. Some people were also seen travelling on foot.Harmit Singh, who was waiting near the Shambhu toll plaza, said, “I drive a commercial vehicle and after offloading some stock, I was on my way back to Punjab. I extend my full support to the farmers and I will keep waiting here till the blockade is lifted.”Several local leaders from the Congress, Indian National Lok Dal and the Haryana Democratic Front reached the dharna site to express solidarity with the farmers’ agitation. However, they were not allowed to address the farmers.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) Ambala district vice-president Gulab Singh said, “Earlier, we had planned to hold our protest at the toll plaza but around three days ago, a few farmers from Punjab suggested that we should hold a joint protest as it is a bordering area of Haryana and Punjab. Following their suggestion, we held a joint protest. It is also an attempt to give a clear message to the government that it should stop making attempts to create differences between Haryana and Punjab. We have held a peaceful agitation, the government is under pressure and we are hopeful that our demands will be met soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-in-ambala-kurukshetra-208847
07-02-2021||---||Dialogue only way out: Khattar to farmers||Karnal, February 6Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday urged the protesting farmers to come forward for dialogue as it is the only way to resolve any stalemate.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already made it clear that he is a phone call away from farmers. They should come forward to join the dialogue to resolve the issue,” said Khattar, while talking to the media at community centre, Sector-6, after the opening of lawn tennis, badminton court and walking path facility centre.The Chief Minister said such centres would be opened in other areas of the city as per the requirement.Khattar visited the district after a long gap. Earlier, he had to cancel his programme at Kaimla village last month due to the ongoing agitation.The Chief Minister also held a meeting with officials at PWD Rest House and reviewed development works. He said the “chakka jam” by farmers remained peaceful and no untoward incident was reported in the state. “I appreciate the efforts of the authorities and also thank the protestors for a peaceful stir,” said Khattar.To a query, he denied any shortage of budget for development works in the district. He said the government would provide funds if required. Khattar said he would take up the issue of dilapidated roads with the officials concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dialogue-only-way-out-khattar-to-farmers-208848
07-02-2021||---||Highway turns into cricket stadium||Panipat, February 6 National Highway (NH-44) virtually turned into a cricket stadium as supporters of two factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union — Tikait and Charuni — played a match near the toll plaza during a three-hour ‘chakka jam’ today. Earlier, scores of farmers gathered on the highway and held a protest. Meanwhile, some youths started playing a cricket match there. The teams were named BKU (Tikait) and BKU (Charuni). The toss was won by the BKU (Charuni) team, which chose to bat first.  It made 56 runs in 10 overs. After tea break, BKU (Tikait) made 57 scores in 8.4 overs and won the match. The commentary was done by volunteers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/highway-turns-into-cricket-stadium-208849
07-02-2021||---||22 key roads blocked in Karnal, Kaithal||Karnal, February 6Farmers from Karnal and Kaithal districts on Saturday parked their tractor-trailers in the middle of roads and raised slogans against the Centre during a three-hour "chakka jam" agitation.In Karnal, the protesters blocked 12 key roads, while 10 routes were blocked in Kaithal. Although the protest remained peaceful, commuters had to face hardships. The police had made traffic diversions and commuters had to cover extra distance to reach their destinations. A large number of heavy vehicles were seen stranded on NH-44 between Unchasamana and Kutail. “We were stopped by the police and not allowed to go ahead due to the blockade,” said Nasib Singh, a truck driver from Mohali, who was going to Delhi.Several farmers joined the protest at the Bastara toll plaza on National Highway-44 and raised anti-government slogans. “We are protesting peacefully and the government should accept our demands,” said Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, a member of the core committee of the BKU (Charuni).Traffic was also blocked on the Karnal-Kaithal road in Nissing, Karnal-Indri road at Ramba, Nilokheri-Dhand road at Nigdhu main chowk,Karnal-Assandh road near the grain market, Indri-Garhibirbal road near the Biana grain market, Indri-Kurukshetra road near Bhadson, Karnal-Jind National Highway-709A, Karnal-Dhand road at Kachwa, Karnal-Meerut road at Nagla chowk, Munak-Assandh, near Ballah and Assandh road, near Dupehri, said Rampal Chahal, a farmer leader.In Kaithal, farmers staged dharnas on the Hisar-Chandigarh road, near Titram Mor, and the Karnal-Kurukshetra road.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the farmers' protest remained peaceful and no incident of disturbance in law and order was reported. “I appreciate the efforts of the authorities for ensuring a peaceful agitation," Khattar added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/22-key-roads-blocked-in-karnal-kaithal-208850
07-02-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Revenue receipts hit 3-yr low in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 6Amid the Covid pandemic, the revenue receipts of the state government have hit a three-year low with a slump in earnings from the Goods and Services Tax (GST), stamps and registration, and the non-tax revenue.The state earned Rs 44,270 crore from April to December last year in revenue receipts, while the figure was Rs 51,026 crore in the corresponding period in 2019-20.Even in April-December of 2018-19, the state had earned Rs 46,808 crore.As per the CAG’s provisional figures, GST earnings till December was Rs 12,613 crore, which is 10 per cent lower than the collections in the corresponding period of the previous financial year.The earnings from the sale and purchase of properties have decreased by 33.1 per cent this financial year as Rs 3,131 crore revenue was earned, while the figure was Rs 4,683 crore in the last financial year.This fiscal, the land registration was suspended for some time after allegations of corruption had surfaced on the part of revenue officials.However, there is a marginal dip of 4.2 per cent in sales tax, which includes earnings from the sale of petrol and diesel, as Rs 6,176 crore was earned, and 0.5 per cent in excise duty as Rs 5,001 crore was collected.The collections from the state’s share of union taxes have come down to Rs 3,818 crore, while it was Rs 5,183 crore in the corresponding period of 2019-20.Overall, there is a dip of 13.8 per cent in tax revenue from the last financial year with the state earning Rs 32,516 crore in April-December 2020-21.There is a slump of 37.8 per cent in non-tax revenue, which includes collection from mining, transport and external development charges (EDC). In April-December 2020-21, the state earned Rs 2,807 crore, while the figure in the corresponding period of last fiscal was Rs 4,516 crore.The impact of slump in revenue receipts could be seen in capital expenditure, as only Rs 5,357 crore was spent from April to December, while the state had spent Rs 17,948 crore in the previous financial year.It implies expenditure has decreased by more than 70 per cent.“The state creates assets from capital expenditure. So, lesser capital expenditure means fewer development activities,” said Prof Aswini Nanda of the Population ResearchCentre, Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Chandigarh.Downward trendRevenue Dip from                  Receipts last fiscalGST                                           10%Stamps and registration            33.1%Sales tax                                    4.1%Non-tax revenue                         37.8%Total                                            13.2%||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/revenue-receipts-hit-3-yr-low-in-haryana-208851
07-02-2021||Rohtak||Man out on bail shot||Vikas Kaushik alias Vicky Pandit of Baliana village in Rohtak district was shot dead while his father Raghubir was shot at in his village in broad daylight on Saturday. Some old rivalry is stated to be behind the incident.Vicky (40), who has a criminal record, was out on bail. He was playing cards with his friends in front of his brother’s shop at the village when a group of armed youths rained bullets on him, killing him instantly. One of his friends was also injured in the assault.The armed youths also opened fire at Raghubir, an ex-serviceman, who was also playing cards with his friends at another location in the same village. He was rushed to Rohtak PGIMS and was undergoing treatment at the time of filing of this report.Vicky’s brother Amit has alleged that local municipal councillor Rahul and former sarpanch Rajesh were behind the attack. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-out-on-bail-shot-208852
07-02-2021||Mukesh Tandon||2 leaders suspended for straying from route||Tribune News ServicePanipat, February 6Two farmer leaders have been suspended allegedly for diverting from their routes during the tractor march on Republic Day in Delhi.Farmer leaders said a committee is inquiring into the matter and action would be initiated after the committee submits its report.Farmer leaders from Punjab on Saturday held a meeting of 14 Punjab unions and claimed that the ‘chakka jam’ for three hours was successful as well as peaceful across India . According to sources, the joint forum of 32 farmer unions has suspended two Punjab-based farmer leaders Surjeet Singh Phool, president, Bharatiya Kisan Union Krantikari, and Harpal Singh Sangha, Azaad Kisan Committee, Doaba, after the Delhi incident on Republic Day.Notably, the farmers’ movement had got a big setback after the Delhi violence and thousands of people started going back to their states.Farmer leaders of 32 Punjab unions reviewed the Delhi incident during their meeting and found that some farmer groups did not follow the route decided upon by Samyukta Kisan Morcha and Delhi Police.The farmer leaders formed a three-member committee to inquire into the matter and suspended Phool and Sangha reportedly for not following the route. Ruldu Singh Mansa, at a press conference today, said that it was an internal matter of the ‘jathebandis’ (farmer unions) and the committee would give its report in the matter.Darshan Pal Singh, president, Krantikari Kisan Union, said that the call for ‘chakka jam’ was given against the harassment of farmers by the Centre, in support of our demands and against the ‘anti-farmer’ Budget presented by the Centre. Harpal Singh, president, BKU Azad Kisan Committee, Doaba, said that he has given his written explanation to the committee. The committee has to decide on it, he said.Surjit Singh Phool could not be contacted despite several attemptsJanuary 26 violenceFarmer leaders of 32 Punjab unions reviewed the Delhi incident during their meeting and found that some farmer groups did not follow the route decided upon by Samyukta Kisan Morcha and Delhi Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-leaders-suspended-for-straying-from-route-208853
07-02-2021||Kurukshetra||Five arrested in murder case||With the arrest of five men, the police have claimed to solve the murder case of Amin village resident Ravi (28), who was shot dead near Gita Niketan School on the Salarpur road on February 3.The suspects have been identified as Saurabh, Rahul, Ashish, Sandeep and Raju. Ashish has been arrested for doing reiki for shooters.SP Himanshu Garg said, “Five men, including four shooters, have been arrested. Saurabh and Rahul belong to Amin village, while Sandeep and Raju belong to Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh. Sandeep and Raju had reached Kurukshetra around 15 days before the murder. The weapons used in murder were also brought from Uttar Pradesh and soon the people who provided the weapons to them would be arrested.”Ravi was the main accused in the murder case of Ankush, who was killed in 2018, while Saurabh was Ankush’s friends. Ravi had assaulted Saurabh’s father as well and to take revenge, Saurabh hatched a conspiracy and he involved Rahul, Ashish, Raju and Sandeep in his plan. Three weapons, a fake number plate, car, mobile and a motorcycle used in the crime have been recovered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-arrested-in-murder-case-208854
07-02-2021||Chandigarh||Advisory against vax registration fraud||The Haryana Police today cautioned citizens against miscreants who dupe people on the pretext of registering them for Covid-19 vaccination. Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order), Haryana, Navdeep Singh Virk said cyber criminals could dupe people through phone calls, emails, Whatsapp or any other social media platform by asking them their details for getting registered for the vaccine.He said they collected personal information such as Aadhaar card number and asked people to authenticate it by sharing an OTP. The moment the OTP is given, money is siphoned off from the Aadhaar-linked bank account of people, he said.He asked people not to entertain such calls. “Use only government-approved mobile application for vaccination,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/advisory-against-vax-registration-fraud-208855
07-02-2021||---||Only 16.6% staffers of PGIMS Rohtak get jab||Rohtak, February 6Merely 16.6 per cent of the staffers at Rohtak PGIMS, including faculty members, doctors, students and employees, got vaccinated during the anti-Covid vaccination programme which commenced at the institute on January 18 and culminated today.As per official sources, 8,194 staffers of the institute had been registered for vaccination. However, only 1,359 of them turned up to get the jab during the three-week-long vaccination campaign.Three-week driveWhile talking to The Tribune here today, Dr RB Jain, the nodal officer for the vaccination programme at Rohtak PGIMS, said they would request the government to extend the vaccination drive so that the remaining staffers could also get vaccinated.“Initially, most of the staff members and students were apprehensive that the vaccine would cause side-effects. Gradually, they started coming forward to get vaccinated. Of the 1,359 staffers who got vaccinated, 533 came on the last two days,” he said.Meanwhile, with 1,362 persons getting a jab in the past 24 hours, the total number of people getting vaccinated in the state reached 1.4 lakh.No death has been recorded today but 71 fresh cases came. Also, 112 got cured in the past 24 hours. There are 908 active cases in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/only-16-6-staffers-of-pgims-rohtak-get-jab-208856
07-02-2021||Gurugram||Hotel executive robbed during cab ride||A hotel executive was given a cab ride, robbed and dumped in Rewari.The victim claimed that he was picked up from IFFCO chowk, thrashed and held hostage the entire night while the robbers snatched his belongings and withdrew cash from his debit and credit card. He was allegedly dumped near Rewari after the night-long ordeal. An FIR has been registered at Sector 18 police station.According to the complaint filed by Ved Prakash, a native of Bihar food and beverages executive in a hotel, the incident happened on Thursday night when he was returning home from the hotel.At around 11.30 pm, he reached IFFCO chowk. After an hour, a white car came there and he asked the driver if he could drop him at Dwarka turn. The driver agreed. There were three other men in the car.“After 5-7 minutes, the two persons sitting next to me started thrashing me. I shouted for help but they put a cloth in my mouth and then blindfolded me after snatching my mobile phone and wallet and pushed me under the seat. They forcibly took my debit and credit card information. They drove around for long and finally fled after dumping me on the roadside at Rewari,” the victim told the police.He added that in his wallet, there were only Rs 3,000. But in the morning, he found that the miscreants had withdrawn Rs 80,000 using his bank cards. — OCThrashed, held hostage: VICTIMThe victim claimed that he was picked up from IFFCO chowk, thrashed and held hostage the entire night while the robbers snatched his belongings and withdrew cash from his debit and credit cards||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hotel-executive-robbed-during-cab-ride-208857
07-02-2021||Jhajjar||Father axes 7-yr-old girl to death in Jhajjar village||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly axed to death by her father in Dighal village here on Saturday. The girl’s brother also suffered minor injuries in the attack.  The accused fled the spot after committing the crime. The deceased has been identified as Deepika. The police have filed a case of murder against Anand on the complaint of his wife Lalita. She said her husband was an alcoholic and had killed their daughter under the effect of liquor.  “The victim’s body was handed over to the family after conducting autopsy and her brother was discharged from the Dighal community centre after treatment,” said the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/father-axes-7-yr-old-girl-to-death-in-jhajjar-village-208858
07-02-2021||---||Man booked for ‘rape’||Yamunanagar, February 6A woman has alleged that a man raped her “on the pretext of marriage” at a village falling under Buria town of Yamunanagar district.The woman belongs to Pipli town of Kurukshetra and the accused is Rakesh, a resident of Nilokheri town of Karnal district. However, they were living in a rented room at a village for about two and a half months.On the complaint of the woman, a zero FIR was registered against Rakesh at the Thanesar police station on February 4, but later the case was transferred to the Buria police station for further investigation.The complainant (35), who is a mother of three children, said Rakesh was known to her.He brought her to the village on November 20, 2020, on the pretext of marrying her.“He took a room on rent after telling the landlord that we were married. He brought me here after promising to marry me. He kept raping me and now, he has refused to marry me,” the woman stated in her police complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-booked-for-rape-208863
07-02-2021||New Delhi/Chandigarh||‘Chakka jam’ affects Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan||Amid stepped up security, protesters on Saturday blocked key roads in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan while scattered demonstrations were held in several other states during the three-hour ‘chakka jam’ called by farm unions agitating against the Centre’s new farm laws.Punjab observed a near-total bandh with traffic blocked at 350 places. In Haryana, toll plazas emerged as key protest sites. In Rajasthan, farmers at Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Dholpur and Jhalawar stalled traffic on highways.Will stay put till Oct 2: TikaitOur protest on Delhi’s outskirts will continue till October 2. Farmers will return only after the govt repeals the laws and makes a law to ensure guarantee for MSP. In Ghazipur, farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait declared the protest on Delhi’s outskirts would continue till October 2 and efforts made to “connect every village” with the agitation. Farmers in Punjab and Haryana parked their tractor-trailers or squatted on roads. Some perched atop tractors hoisted the Tricolour at the KMP Expressway. Commuters were politely requested to turn back.In Punjab, ambulances and other emergency services were unimpeded. Protesters at roundabouts, including Chandigarh, carried placards, posters and flags of kisan unions as well as the national flag.Farm unions along with Khet Mazdoor Union members blocked the Sirsa-Barnala highway in Mansa. The Mansa-Patiala highway near Bhikhi and the Mansa-Ratia highway at Budhlada too were blocked.The protesters raised slogans, demanding that Internet services and basic amenties at the protest sites on Delhi borders be restored, police cases against farmers cancelled and youths arrested post Red Fort incident be released. In Amritsar, the “chakka jam” call received a huge response with students and shopkeepers in large numbers expressing solidarity with the farmers.InJind district, roads were blocked at 50 sites. Highways connecting Rohtak to Delhi, Panipat, Jhajjar, Jind, Bhiwani and Sonepat were blocked at more than 10 places. In Karnal, the farmers blocked roads at 12 points while in Kaithal 10 roads were blocked. In Ambala and Kurukshetra, farmers from Haryana and Punjab held a joint protest near the Shambhu toll plaza.Protests were also held in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Kolar, Koppal, Bagalkote, Tumakuru, Davangere, Hassan, Mangaluru, Haveri, Shivamogga and Chikkaballapur in Karnataka besides parts of TN and Maharashtra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chakka-jam-affects-punjab-haryana-rajasthan-208941
07-02-2021||New Delhi||Punjab, Haryana, HP allowed to borrow additional Rs 5,034 crore post ease of doing biz reforms||The Finance Ministry has granted permission to four states of Assam, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab to borrow an additional Rs 5,034 crore for undertaking ease of doing business reforms. In a statement, the ministry said four more states namely, Assam, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab have undertaken ‘Ease of Doing Business’ reforms stipulated by the Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance. “Thus, these States have become eligible to mobilise additional financial resources and have been granted permission to raise additional Rs 5,034 crore through Open Market Borrowings,” it said. With this, 12 states, including Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Telangana, have undertaken the stipulated reforms to facilitate ease of doing business. On completion of reforms facilitating ease of doing business, these 12 states have been granted additional borrowing permission of Rs 28,183 crore, the statement added. In view of the resource requirement to meet the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Government of India had in May last year enhanced the borrowing limit of the states by 2 per cent of their GSDP.  Half of this special dispensation was linked to undertaking citizen centric reforms by the States. The four citizen-centric areas for reforms identified were implementation of One Nation One Ration Card System, ease of doing business reform, Urban Local body/ utility reforms and power sector reforms. Till now, 17 states have carried out at least one of the four stipulated reforms and have been granted reform-linked borrowing permissions.  Of these, 12 states have implemented the one nation one ration card system, 12 states have done ease of doing business reforms, five states have done local body reforms and 2 States have undertaken power sector reforms.  Total reform linked additional borrowing permission issued so far to the states stands at Rs 74,773 crore, the ministry added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-haryana-hp-allowed-to-borrow-additional-rs-5-034-crore-post-ease-of-doing-biz-reforms-208830
07-02-2021||Karnal/Bathinda/Palwal||Farmers block roads in Punjab, Haryana as part of ‘chakka jam’||Farmers on Saturday parked their tractor-trailers in the middle of roads and raised slogans against the Centre during a three-hour-long "chakka jam" agitation in Punjab and Haryana.Women took part in the stir in a sizeable number at several places.The call for the nationwide "chakka jam" was given by the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farm unions protesting the Centre's farm laws at the Delhi borders.Farmers blocked 11 points in Karnal district. Bastara toll plaza on NH-44 was the main site where farmers gathered.HIGHLIGHTSAmbala: Congress, INLD, and Haryana Democratic Front leaders reach the dharna site near Shambhu toll plazaYamunanagar: Farmers block road in Chhachhrauli town of Yamunanagar districtFarmers block Sonepat-Gohana road near Badwasni villageMembers of 52 Khaps (Pals) are also staging a sit-in on the National Highway 19, near Antola village of Palwal district as part of the Chakka Jam. Traffic on both sides of the highway and the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway has been halted.Also read: Farmers block Chandigarh-Zirakpur, Panchkula-Zirakpur border pointsMeanwhile, farmers in Bathinda blocked eight places in the district.All national and state highways in the district have been blocked.Farmers are protesting at Kanhiya Chowk, the Bathinda-Amritsar highway, Lehra Bega toll plaza and Rampura on the Bathinda-Chandigarh national highway among other places in the district.A large number of farmers are carrying the Tricolour along with the union flags at the protest spots.Emergency and essential services such as ambulance and school bus will not be stopped, the protesters have said. However, there was no report of violence from anywhere in both the states.Heavy police presence was seen at various places in Haryana and Punjab to maintain law and order in view of the protest by the farmers.Meanwhile, Delhi Police are all geared up to tackle any surprise element, including ‘flash mob’ tactics and ‘protest call on social media’ in view of the ‘chakka jam’.Security has been tightened at strategic locations and the police are keeping an eye on the protest build-up in the bordering states and the protest sites close to Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders. — With agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-block-roads-in-punjab-haryana-as-part-of-chakka-jam-208734
