08-02-2021||Sanjay Yadav||‘Pressured’ to sell land, property dealer hangs self; Delhi cop among accused||Gurugram, February 8Five persons, including a Delhi cop, have been booked for allegedly abetting suicide of a property dealer, a resident of Nathupur.The deceased was allegedly being pressured by five accused to sell off his land in Dehradun. An FIR has been registered against the five at DLF phase-3 police station.The deceased has been identified as Jogender Yadav alias Jugnu (44) who lived with family in DLF phase-3.According to a complaint filed by Manju Yadav, wife of Jogender, he was working with his uncle Mahender Singh at Jyoti Properties. It was in 2015 that her husband got into a partnership with Manoj and Jagvir Singh. They had purchased land in Dehradun through Prem Negi and Suresh Negi and planned to build villas.“Chakkarpur resident Vinod Nambardar also took some land nearby our land in Dehradun. Jagvir and Manoj were known to Vinod Nambardar. They allegedly conspired and sold a part of this land to Delhi police constable Vikram Dabas without my husband's knowledge and did not give him money. When he opposed they allegedly used contacts of Dabas and filed a complaint against him. He was arrested by police two years ago. This shattered Jogender. He was depressed, was being pressured and also got many threat calls. They would come home and threaten him repeatedly to sell off land,” complained the deceased's wife.She alleged that it was a threat call by Dabas on January 27 that forced her husband to take extreme step. His body was found hanging from a ceiling fan.Following the complaint an FIR has been registered against the five under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 34 (common intention) of IPC at DLF phase-3 police station.“We have lodged an FIR and are verifying the facts. Action will be taken as per the law,” said sub inspector Ram Niwas, the investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pressured-to-sell-land-property-dealer-hangs-self-delhi-cop-among-accused-209646
08-02-2021||New Delhi||Two Haryana BJP MPs defend Budget; say vested interests are misleading farmers||BJP Lok Sabha MPs from Haryana Sunita Duggal and Ramesh Kaushik on Monday mounted a defence of the Union Budget 2021-22, saying it is “holistic”, “balanced” and the best in the background of the devastating effect of the COVID-19 pandemic.“In spite of the heavy odds, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has presented a forward looking Budget which seeks to lay strong foundation for quantum leap of country’s economy in the future,” Duggal told reporters at a joint presser with Kaushik.The Budget provides well for core sectors like health, education, infrastructure and agriculture aimed to double the farmers’ income, they said.The MPs defended the Union government’s contentious farm laws. They said some vested interests were trying to mislead the farmers on the laws for ulterior motives.They said the Union government is ready for further talks with the farmers with regard to the farm laws. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has urged them to continue the talks, they said.The Union government is open to make amendments to the laws, if need be. It is ready to commit in writing the continuance of the MSP, the said.“The laws do not take away any facilities or rights. Rather they provide new choices and alternatives. It is up to the individual farmers to pick their choice,” Duggal said.With regard to the Budget, she said that it promotes welfare of women.The allocation for health in the 2021-22 Budget has been increased from Rs 94,000 crore to Rs 2.3 lakh crore — an increase of 137 per cent.As much as Rs 35,000 crore has been allocated with regard to coronavirus vaccines.Provision has been made with goal to double the farmers’ income, including on MSP for food grains at one-and-half times of the cost inputs, they said. Earlier the total annual budgetary allocation for giving loans to farmer used to be Rs 7 lakh crore. The Modi-led government increased it to Rs 15 lakh crore. It is being proposed to further increase it to Rs 16 lakh crore, the said.As many as 1000 “mandis” in the country will be linked to e-market portal. Also, Budget proposes to  expand the ambit of Centre’s "Operation Green Scheme" to include 23 more crops.Presently, the scheme is applicable only on tomato, potato and onion.They hailed the increased allocation for the Railways and the provision which allows exemption of elderly people above 75 years of age from filing annual Income Tax Returns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-haryana-bjp-mps-defend-budget-say-vested-interests-are-misleading-farmers-209636
08-02-2021||---||Cashless medical facility for Haryana govt employees, pensioners soon||Chandigarh, February 8Government employees and pensioners in Haryana are set to get cashless medical facility very soon as the state government has sped up steps in that direction.Unlike an earlier scheme whereby the cashless facility is provided for six life threatening emergencies, the scheme now approved by the state government will be comprehensive.The scheme will be implemented by the Ayushman Bharat — Haryana Health Protection Authority (AB-HHPA)“The scheme will cover all ailments where the patient is required to be admitted to a hospital and all government employees, pensioners and their dependents will be covered under this scheme,” said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, Haryana.He said the State Finance Committee had approved the “Haryana Employees Cashless Health Assurance Scheme” in its meeting held on December 18.As per the decision of the committee, an empowered committee comprising additional chief secretaries of health and finance departments, CM’s principal secretary, director general of health services and the CEO of Ayushman Bharat was constituted and its meeting is to be held soon.“A request has been made to the Finance Department to create a separate budget head for the scheme in 2020-21 state budget. A letter has also been sent to the citizens resources information department (CRID) for permission to utilize Parivas Pehchan Patra in the data base creation of the scheme,” said Amneet P Kumar, Chief Executive Officer, Ayushman Bharat – Haryana Health Protection Authority.In 2017, the state government introduced a limited cashless scheme, under which only six life-threatening emergencies — cardiac emergencies, brain haemorrhage, coma, electric shock, third and fourth stage of cancer and accidents — were covered.“The new scheme will be comprehensive, covering not only the six life-threatening emergencies, but all approved packages of treatment as well. It will be applicable to all indoor treatment, daycare procedures and diagnostics taken as indoor patients at all government medical colleges, government-aided medical colleges, district hospitals, health institutions and private empanelled hospitals,” added Arora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cashless-medical-facility-for-haryana-govt-employees-pensioners-soon-209619
08-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana government transfers 5 IAS officers||The Haryana government issued transfer and posting orders of five IAS officers on Monday, an official statement said.Among those who have been transferred is Atul Kumar, Director, AYUSH, Special Secretary, Health Department and Special Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management Department. He has been posted as secretary to the state governor.Sonipat Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Poonia has been given the additional charge of Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Sonipat, and District Municipal Commissioner, Sonipat, during the training period of Jagdish Sharma, the statement added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-transfers-5-ias-officers-209597
08-02-2021||Mumbai||Haryana youth arrested for hoax tweet on bomb blasts in Mumbai||The Mumbai police have arrested a 19- year-old youth from Haryana for allegedly posting a tweet about bomb blasts at some multiplexes in the city which later turned out to be a hoax, a police official said on Monday.Banwari Singh had also tagged the Mumbai police and their commissioner in his tweet posted on January 22, he said.The youth, in his post from a Twitter handle named 'Commando Singh', said explosions would take place in seven multiplexes where Hindi film ‘Madam Chief Minister’ was screened in suburban Malad and Andheri, and Vasai in neighbouring Palghar district.After the police came to know about the message, they carried out checks at various multiplexes and later declared it as a hoax tweet, the official said.In the meantime, the accused deleted the tweet.The police here registered a case and their cyber cell started a search for the accused, who was nabbed from Haryana last week, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber) Rashmi Karandikar said.The police also seized a mobile phone from which the accused had tweeted the message, another official said.The accused has been booked under the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-youth-arrested-for-hoax-tweet-on-bomb-blasts-in-mumbai-209565
08-02-2021||BS Dahiya||Farmers need a reliable shield against risks||THough the contribution of agriculture to the national GDP (gross domestic product) has gone down from 50 per cent to 16 per cent, India’s economy continues to be agrarian because agriculture employs around 60 per cent of our population. In the near future, agriculture will continue to be the main sector to provide livelihood to our population. Therefore, agriculture needs modernisation and investment to curb post-harvest losses and make it competitive at the international level. This can be achieved by framing a viable and dynamic agricultural policy. This policy will determine what to produce, where to produce and how much to produce. Animals are an integral part of our farming system. Depending on the agro-ecology of the area, we must decide whether it has to be buffalo, cow, goat/sheep, poultry or piggery.Consistent net exporter in recent decadesIndia has consistently been a net exporter of agro-food products in recent decades. Agro-food exports grew at an annual average rate of 11%, from $6.3 billion in 1995 to $47.1 billion in 2013; exports then decreased to $32.9 billion in 2016 due to a mix of lower global commodity prices, sluggish foreign demand, increased domestic consumption, and adverse climate events affecting the domestic production base. Agro-food imports increased from $2.2 billion in 1995 to $24.3 billion in 2016, growing at an even higher annual average rate of 14%. With a higher growth rate of agro-food exports in 2009-13, the trade surplus widened considerably until 2013. It then started to narrow, in line with exports’ decrease versus the consistent increase in imports.The country has been divided in15 broad agro-ecological zones and 127 agro-climatic zones. There was a time when agricultural production technology was being developed zone-wise, but experience showed that a small village with a landholding of 300-400 hectares represented three to four types of soil. Therefore, there is a need for location-specific technologies.The time has come for the policy-makers to frame farm policies which are product- and production-oriented rather than market-oriented like the recent farm laws. Since the MSP regime played a key role in achieving the feat of transforming the nation from a net importer to a net exporter of food, it has to be an integral component of the new policies.Due to various uncontrollable factors, the farmers’ produce gets damaged and they get low prices. Contracting companies can exploit farmers in such a situation. The bulk of our farmers (86 per cent) are small and marginal who can’t survive in a free market situation. Therefore, the government-controlled purchase centres (mandis) need to be upgraded and modernised; the management of these centres should be in the hands of efficient and honest people so that these can compete with the private/corporate markets.The time is ripe to shift production priorities from wheat and paddy to millets, pulses and oilseeds in a phased manner. Millets are rich in nutrients, require less agri-inputs, lesser exploitation of natural resources, eco-friendly and climate-resilient. The per capita and per-day requirement of food intake to meet the daily calorie needs (2,000 approximately) will be met from three-fourth quantity of wheat/rice. The government should create a favourable environment attractive to the farmers to shift to the coarse cereals through production subsidies, better MSP and total procurement. Let the PDS (public distribution system) make available only those grains which will have a long-lasting impact on national food and nutritional security. There is an argument put forth by some experts that these millets are low-yielding compared to wheat and paddy, so there is a possibility of food shortage. But there is a counter-argument that since we are wasting about 20 per cent of the food produced due to various reasons and if the reduction in production is of the same magnitude then food shortage is ruled out.Reduce technology gapAmong oilseeds, mustard oil is a major edible oil. The import of edible oils is a big burden on our foreign exchange; it needs concerted efforts to cut down the import by reducing the technology gap. Take mustard: the national average yield is 700-800 kg/acre, where as Rewari district of Haryana produces more than 1,800 kg/acre. The factors limiting production can be identified and the requisite inputs made available in time to the farmers. The outcome of these efforts will have a huge impact on the economy of the farmers and the nation as well. We can learn a lesson from China. China became surplus in wheat, rice and sugarcane; it cut down the production of these crops. It is cheaper to buy these grains from the international market (China wants to buy rice from India). It has preferred production of other crops which are in demand in the international market. We are also surplus in wheat, rice and sugarcane, so it is the right time to change our production priorities. The government can utilise these surpluses by aggressively feeding the PDS and targeting 190 million people under the National Food Security Act who are malnourished, as per the World Hunger Report (2020), without violating the international agreement for support to the producer. The other predominant practice in our system where there is exploitation of both the producer and the consumer is the gap between what a producer gets and the consumer pays. This is heavily loaded against the producer and affects the market prices. Take the example of moong dal. The producer farmer gets Rs 55/kg against the MSP of Rs 72/kg. But the consumer pays Rs 110/kg. Who is making profit at the cost of the farmer? The trader. Also, the MSP fixed by the government is a mockery of the prices. This is why the farmers are on the path of agitation. The world over, experience has showed that the farmers can’t take on the corporates in a free market. That is why they are seeking protection from the volatility of market prices.Support producersIndia is a signatory to the World Trade Organisation (WTO), so there are some obligations which have to be honoured. Across the world, particularly in the rich countries, agriculture is heavily subsidised by the governments. According to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), an inter-governmental organisation, there is significant backing for agriculture through producer support as percentage of gross farming receipts. During 2019, it was around 12 per cent in the US; in EU countries, the support was above 20 per cent, and in countries like Japan and South Korea, it was about 50 per cent. But in our country, what the government pays as a percentage of farming receipts is on the negative side (-5 per cent). Moreover, our agriculture is dominated by small and marginal farmers. The developed countries are finding new ways to support their farmers such as factoring in climate change risks and adopting eco-friendly practices for sustainability. Farming is becoming costlier because of increasing cost of all inputs, including labour, and increasing risk because of weather aberrations due to climate change, hence our farmers need to be paid for to cover these risks.The author is former Director of Research, Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-need-a-reliable-shield-against-risks-209511
08-02-2021||---||Sangrur protester dies at Tikri border||Sangrur, February 7A farmer, Lakha Singh, died today in the wee hours at the Tikri border. The son of freedom fighter Baza Singh, 65-year-old Lakha Singh always told his fellowmen that he would prefer to die protesting rather than go back without getting the farm laws repealed.He along with other farmers, under the banner of the BKU (Rajewal), had been at the Tikri border since the protest began. He had visited his house just once to attend a religious function related to the death of his niece at his Kalaudi village.“My uncle was highly influenced by the ideology of my grandfather Baza Singh, who was a freedom fighter. He had been participating in protests at various places. He was adamant that he would only return from Tikri once the farm laws are repealed,” said Mandeep Singh, nephew of the deceased farmer.On January 12, Lakha Singh was quoted as saying in The Tribune at Tikri that he had told his family not to wait for him as he would only come back after the farmers’ demands were met. “After he did not wake up in the morning, we took him to a Bahadurgarh hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. We are waiting for the elder son of the deceased farmer,” Sarvjit Singh, a protester, said from Tikri.BKU (Rajewal) district president Gurmeet Singh Kapial said they would take up the case of deceased Lakha Singh with the Punjab Government for financial compensation to his family.“He always remained in high spirits despite being old. He kept motivating others to remain calm during protests,” said Kapial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sangrur-protester-dies-at-tikri-border-209403
08-02-2021||---||Free labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur, demand unions||Bathinda, February 7Members of farmer unions, Khet Mazdoor Union and Association for Democratic Rights in the state have raised pitch for the release of labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur, who was arrested on January 12 by the Haryana Police near the Singhu border for protesting against a firm. She remains lodged in a jail in Karnal since then.Kendri Singh Sabha Extends SupportPolice deny assault chargesThe Sonepat police, meanwhile, have denied that Nodeep Kaur was assaulted by them. They alleged Nodeep and her associates had resorted to violence and attacked a police team which had gone in connection with the gheroao of the unitLawyer Meena Harris, the niece of US Vice-President Kamala Harris, had also recently tweeted about Nodeep’s alleged assault in the police custody and demanded her release. After Harris’ tweet, the matter has suddenly got the international attention and many other renowned figures on social media have condemned the incident and demanded her release.Weird to see a photo of yourself burned by an extremist mob but imagine what they would do if we lived in India. I'll tell you—23 yo labor rights activist Nodeep Kaur was arrested, tortured & sexually assaulted in police custody. She's been detained without bail for over 20 days. pic.twitter.com/Ypt2h1hWJz  Shingara Singh Mann, president, BKU (Ugrahan) Bathinda unit, said: “We condemn the arrest of Nodeep Kaur who is a fierce activist of labour class and Dalits and fights for the protection of their rights. We demand her immediate release and want strict punitive action against those who framed her.”Jora Singh Nasrali, state president, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, said: “We have extended full support to the farmers’ agitation. We condemn any sort of atrocities on the labour class or for that matter anyone. We strongly condemn the arrest of Nodeep and demand her release.”Nodeep Kaur, an advocate for Dalit & Worker rights from Punjab, was picked up by police 21 days ago for supporting farmers. She's been tortured & sexually assaulted in custody. She was denied a medical exam & bail. Calling on leaders to raise their voice for her. #FreeNodeepKaur pic.twitter.com/B96nJOV1Zl  Professor AK Maleri, state president, Association For Democratic Rights, said: “Her arrest and assault is nothing but a clear attempt at suppressing the voice of dissent.”The Sonepat police, meanwhile, have denied that Nodeep Kaur was assaulted by the police. They alleged Nodeep and her associates had resorted to violence and attacked a police team which had gone in connection with the gheroao of an industrial unit and manhandling of the staff or management by certain members of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan. They claimed seven of the police personnel, including a woman constable, sustained injuries.My Sister Nodeep Kaur has been kept in jail since January 12 and Shiv Kumar from January 23. They were tortured. Because nodeep, Shiv kumar and the worker organization have shown the courage to expose the loot of farmers and laborers.#ReleaseNodeepKaur #ReleaseShivKumar pic.twitter.com/SUztBeE7jl||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/free-labour-rights-activist-nodeep-kaur-demand-unions-209405
08-02-2021||Sonepat||3 of family found dead in Sonepat||Three members of a family — an elderly couple and their son — were found dead under suspicious circumstances at their house in Matindu village of Kharkhoda today.The police suspected that the son had murdered his parents, lit a fire and then consumed some poisonous substance in a room on the first floor.The police registered a case and initiated a probe into the matter. The deceased were identified as Ramdhan, his wife Kitab Kaur and their younger son Deepak.Police suspect murderRamdhan had retired as driver with the Health Department. Kitab was an anganwari worker. Deepak was posted as constable with Delhi Police.Dinesh Kumar, elder son of the couple and a Delhi Police inspector, told the police that he received a call from his father this morning about fire in the house.He told some neighbours to go to his house, where they found Ramdhan lying dead on a cot and Kitab lying dead on the floor.The villagers went to the room on the first floor and found Deepak lying unconscious. They took him to a hospital, where doctor declared him dead.DSP Ravinder Kumar, Kharkhoda SHO Bijender Kumar and a forensic team reached the spot. The police found injuries inflicted with some sharp-edged weapon on the heads of the couple.They recovered a bloodstained bed sheet and an axe. The police also recovered a packet of a poisonous substance from the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-of-family-found-dead-in-sonepat-209255
08-02-2021||Yamunanagar||Two booked for abetting suicide||Two financiers have been booked for allegedly abetting the suicide of a man.  In his statement to the police before his death, Ravinder Kumar of Railway Colony, Jagadhri workshop, accused financiers Bobi and Vipin of harassing him and forcing him to take the extreme step.  According to information, Ravinder Kumar had consumed some poisonous substances on February 5.   He was rushed to a private hospital, where he died the next day.  Mukesh, the victim’s brother, said he was not aware if his brother had taken money from financiers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-booked-for-abetting-suicide-209256
08-02-2021||Karnal||Khattar: Stir against laws India’s matter||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has condemned the tweets of pop singer Rihanna, climate activist Greta Thunberg and other celebrities in support of farmers’ protest and said it was India’s internal matter and would be resolved.“No person of any country should interfere in the internal matters of another country. It is against international laws. Farmers are ours, the Parliament is ours, the country is ours. We will resolve the matter,” the CM told the media at Panchayat Bhawan here today.He was in the city to inaugurate and lay foundation stones of 22 projects worth Rs 80.54 crore. The CM reiterated that dialogue was the only way forward. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-stir-against-laws-indias-matter-209257
08-02-2021||---||Three more farmers die at Tikri||Sonepat, February 7Three more farmers died at the Tikri border on Sunday during the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three farm laws. A farmer from Singwal village in Jind district reportedly hanged himself.Heart attack was suspected to be the reason behind the death of two farmers from Punjab.Karambir (52) of Singwal village in Jind district reportedly ended his life by hanging himself from a tree near the Sector 9 bypass. He was a part of the protest since the last week of November.One of them was BKU leaderFellow farmers said they played cards till 11 pm last night, after which they went to bed. They said they found his body hanging from a tree in a park this morning.The police reached the spot after getting information. The police recovered a suicide note from a pocket of the deceased, in which he blamed the three agricultural laws and the Centre.The police handed over the body of the deceased to his kin after postmortem.A large number of villagers and farmer activists attended his cremation. ‘Kisan ekta zindabad’ slogans reverberated as his body was being taken for cremation. The deceased is survived by his wife and three daughters.Two farmers from Punjab also died at the Tikri border today. One of them was identified as Sukhjinder Singh (57) of Dhulkot Ransi village in Moga district. He was president of the Nihal Singhwala block of the BKU (Qadian).He was part of the first group which reached the Tikri border on November 26 and had been putting up in a trolley near pillar number 75.Another farmer, Lakha Singh of Kalondi village in Sangrur district, died today. He had arrived at the Tikri border on February 3 and had been putting up with a group of farmers near the Sector 9 bypass.He went for a morning walk today and lay down after coming back. When other farmers called him for tea, he did not respond. They took him to the General Hospital, where doctors declared him dead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-more-farmers-die-at-tikri-209258
08-02-2021||---||Farmers show black flags to Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini||Karnal, February 7Farmers of Kaithal district showed black flags to Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini during his visit to the PWD Rest House in Kaithal on Sunday.They raised slogans against the Kurukshetra MP, who had come to interact with mediapersons to discuss the Union Budget presented in Parliament. The farmers tried to gherao the vehicle of the MP, giving a tough time to the police, who struggled to clear the road.After getting information that Saini had reached the PWD Rest House, a large number of farmers assembled near the venue and staged a dharna outside it. Earlier, they tried to go inside to meet the MP, but were stopped by the police.“We have elected the MP to raise our voice in Parliament, but he has failed to do so. He should have raised the issue of farmers in Parliament,” said Hoshiar Singh Gill, district president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni). “We have come here to oppose the visit of the MP and will continue to boycott the entry of BJP and JJP leaders in the district,” he added.They demanded the resignation from the MP and said he should come out in support of farmers. A protesting farmer said around 200 farmers had died during the protest, but no BJP or JJP leader had expressed condolences.Inaugurated bus stand ‘opened’Hours after inauguration by CM from Karnal, farmers ‘inaugurated’ the three-bay bus stand in Gharaunda. “We got the bus stand inaugurated from an elderly person. We have warned BJP and JJP leaders not to come till the farm laws are repealed,” said farmer leader Jagdeep Aulakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-show-black-flags-to-kurukshetra-mp-nayab-saini-209259
08-02-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Rules change, 2 IPS officers now head Transport Dept||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 7As the tug of war between IAS and IPS officers continues over appointment to top positions, the reins of the Transport Department, probably for the first time, are in the hands of two IPS officers with the Haryana Government posting 1997-batch IPS officer Amitabh Dhillon as Transport Commissioner and Secretary, Transport, today.This comes after the government posted 1990-batch IPS officer Shatrujeet Singh Kapoor as Principal Secretary, Transport, in October last year.He was appointed soon after Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had, in October last year, announced sweeping changes, including replacing the Regional Transport Officers with District Transport Officers to weed out corruption.The government, in an order dated January 21, had withdrawn 22 posts of Secretary, Regional Transport Authority, and 12 posts of General Manager, Haryana Roadways. These 34 posts were included in the posts of deputation reserve in the strength and composition of the HCS (executive branch) cadre.This means that HCS officers need not specifically be posted against these 34 posts. This notification has come after the government amended the Transport Group A rules, which now allow the appointment of any Group A officer in service of the state or the Centre rather than limiting it to HCS officers.Though Dhillon had already “crossed over” from policing to the administration when he was posted as Director General, Mines and Geology, two IPS officers are at the helm of affairs in the Transport Department after the today’s order.Sources say the idea is that the Kapoor-Dhillon team can push for IT-oriented programmes that would facilitate seamless working and minimise public inconvenience.Two officers transferredThe state government has transferred two IAS officers. Amneet P Kumar has been posted as Managing Director, Haryana Scheduled Castes, Finance and Development Corporation, and Chief Executive Officer, Ayushman Bharat, Haryana Health Protection Authority. A Sreenivas goes as Managing Director, Haryana Dairy Development Cooperative Federation, in addition to his present duties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rules-change-2-ips-officers-now-head-transport-dept-209260
08-02-2021||Parveen Arora||Nilokheri-Dhand road project  tardy, may miss March deadline||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, February 7The widening of the Nilokheri-Dhand state highway-33 is likely to miss the March 2021 deadline as the work on this project is going on at a slow pace. Of total 24.5-km stretch, carpeting had been done on just 8 km so far.Moreover, the drainage work of the project is still pending at various places, causing inconvenience to the commuters and posing accident threat.“The work on this project is going on at a snail’s pace, which poses accident threat. The road is full of potholes at various places, causing damage to the vehicles. The government should take a note on it and the work should be completed at the earliest,” said Rishpal Singh, a commuter.Extension till MayThe present status of the work shows that it may miss the March deadline, so we have given them extension till May 2021. Officials have given their consent to complete it before the new deadline. —Nishant Kumar Yadav, Karnal DCJatinder Kumar, another commuter, said he visits Nilokheri daily, but the incomplete work has increased the travel time which was another burden on the commuters.The widening work is a long-pending demand as it is an important road that connects Karnal with Kaithal and Kurukshetra districts in Haryana and Patiala in Punjab. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced the project during the Vikas rally at Taraori on August 9, 2015.As per the project, the road will be widened to 10 m from 5.5 m. The work on the project, costing around Rs 26 crore, was started in 2018 and the deadline was fixed for March 2021. Around 6,000 trees were chopped for the project.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the laying of material for the sub-surface had been completed and the work on carpeting was going on. “I had conducted a meeting with the officials on December 30, in which I reviewed the progress of the project. The present status of the work shows that it may miss the March deadline, so we have given them extension till May 2021. The officials have given their consent to complete it before the new deadline,” the DC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nilokheri-dhand-road-project-tardy-may-miss-march-deadline-209261
08-02-2021||---||Government to revive posts in cooperative sugar mills||Chandigarh, February 7In a major decision, the Haryana Government has decided to revive the posts of various cooperative sugar mills and cooperative societies.This decision was taken at a meeting presided over by Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar recently.Cooperation Minister Banwari Lal said by reviving the posts of the cooperative sugar mills, 109 employees had been appointed. Besides this, the employees who are likely to attain superannuation till December 31, 2025 and those who are not qualified for any of the posts, such 159 employees have been sent to sugar mills on retainership.The Chairman, Haryana Bureau of Public Enterprises, Subash Barala, said 237 employees of the cooperative sugar mills and cooperative societies had already been appointed on the revived posts according to their qualification.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/government-to-revive-posts-in-cooperative-sugar-mills-209262
08-02-2021||---||Now, e-filing portal for consumer complaints||Chandigarh, February 7Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala recently launched an e-filing portal for the convenience of consumers from his office at the Civil Secretariat.Now, consumers will be able to register their cases online from anywhere on the website www.edaakhil.nic.in.The president, State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Justice TPS Mann (retd), Additional Chief Secretary, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, PK Das and Joint Director, Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affair Department, Dr Inderjeet were also present.After launching the portal, the Deputy Chief Minster, who also holds the portfolio of the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, termed it as a major step by the state government in the interest of consumers. Das said the process of filing cases online was very simple. Consumers could also learn the above process through videos uploaded in Hindi and English language on the website.He said a total of 597 cases were received by the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in 2020. Similarly, 8,614 cases were registered in all district consumer redressal commissions of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-e-filing-portal-for-consumer-complaints-209263
08-02-2021||---||Students come out in support of protesting teachers||Panipat, February 7A number of students and alumni today gathered in front of SD Vidya Mandir School, Sector-12, and held a protest in support of their teachers, who have been staging a dharna for the last 11 days seeking their salaries and arrears.The students raised slogans against the management. Later, they also met BJP district president Archana Gupta and Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia.The students said they stood firmly with their teachers, who were forced to take to streets in support of their demands.A Class XII student said even amid the Covid crisis, the school management charged full fee from all of them, but failed to release the salaries of teachers.“It is unfortunate that our teachers, who make best efforts to shape our future, have been forced to protest for their rights. They have been staging a dharna for the last 11 days, but the school management has failed to take note of it,” said another student.The protesters said they would not go back till the management fulfilled the demands of the teachers.Paras Middha, a former student, said,”We stand by our teachers till their salaries are not released.”Shakuntla Garg, a senior teacher, said the management had started harassing them. It had released the salaries of some teachers for the month of January and also sent a message on their cellphones that if they did not join duty by February 8, their services would be terminated.She said the management had also advertised for the posts of teacher to mount pressure on them.School chairman Satish Chandra and Principal Sabita Chaudhary could not be contacted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/students-come-out-in-support-of-protesting-teachers-209264
08-02-2021||Yamunanagar||Two persons go missing in  Yamunanagar canal||Two persons went missing in augmentation canal near Hamida Head at Yamunanagar.The missing persons have been identified as Abhishek of Old Hamida Colony of Yamunanagar and Gaurav of Pirthipur village of the district.According to information, four friends Abhishek, Gaurav, Sagar of Old Hamida Colony and Sandeep of Lalhari village were sitting on the bank of the augmentation canal near Hamida head on Saturday.After some time, Gaurav reportedly fell inside the canal. Sagar told mediapersons that Abhishek also fell in the canal while trying to save Gaurav. “Sandeep and I don’t know swimming. We cried for help, but nobody could help us. Soon, our friends went missing in the water,” said Sagar. Divers could not trace the missing persons till Sunday evening. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-persons-go-missing-in-yamunanagar-canal-209265
08-02-2021||---||Two officers of groundwater cell suspended||Karnal, February 7Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today suspended two employees of the groundwater cell of the Irrigation Department for allegedly not making payments for works undertaken under the Jal Shakti Abhiyan, 2019.The two employees are head draftman Samrita and clerk Manoj Kumar.The CM suspended them during a ‘janata darbar’ at PWD Rest House here on a complaint by Mohit, a resident of Kurukshetra’s Samalkhi village. He had installed 16 water recharge structures and his payment of Rs 18.58 lakh was allegedly not disbursed even after having made several rounds to the groundwater cell’s office.Mohit had alleged the draftman and the clerk had sought bribe to clear his dues.About 60 complaints were listed for the “janata darbar”. Most of them were resolved on the spot. For the remaining ones, the Chief Minister directed officials to resolve the matter soon.Most of the complaints were related to widening of roads, police inaction and illegal colonies.A delegation raised the matter of a demolition drive in unauthorised colonies here. It said people had constructed their houses after having spent their hard-earned money or having taken loans. Members of the delegation demanded regularisation of colonies.To this, the CM said no old building would be razed and suggested people against purchasing plots in illegal colonies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-officers-of-groundwater-cell-suspended-209266
08-02-2021||Deepender Deswal||Meham MLA disrupts Balbir Singh Rajewal’s speech at mahapanchayat||Tribune News ServiceBhiwani, February 7Independent MLA from Meham Balraj Kundu today disrupted the speech of Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader Balbir Singh Rajewal while he was addressing the gathering during a mahapanchayat at the Kitlana toll plaza in Bhiwani.He was objecting to a khap panchayat’s decision to honour INLD’s Abhay Chautala, who had resigned from the Assembly in support of farmers, at the historical chabutara of Meham Chaubisi on February 11. Since Kundu is MLA from Meham, he sees the event in political terms.When Rajewal was speaking, Kundu rushed towards the dias and took hold of the mike.Without naming Abhay, Kundu alleged he had resigned from the Assembly at the instance of the BJP. “I want to tell you what this person, whom you are going to honour with the “Kisan Ratan award”, has done,” he said while refusing to leave the dais when the moderator asked him to calm down and let Rajewal continue his speech.Rajewal returned to his seat without concluding the speech.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/meham-mla-disrupts-balbir-singh-rajewals-speech-at-mahapanchayat-209267
08-02-2021||Ambala||Man held with 560-gm opium||The police have held a person and recovered 560-gm opium from his possession in Saha on Saturday night.  The suspect has been identified as Nagendra of Bihar. He was produced before a court which sent him to three-day police remand.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-with-560-gm-opium-209268
08-02-2021||Nitish Sharma||Ambala-Saha road project an ordeal for commuters||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, February 7The ongoing four-laning project on the Ambala-Saha road has become a cause of inconvenience not only for commuters, but also eatery operators, especially at the entry point of the Ambala Cantonment, which has been lying closed due to the construction work for the past over one month.The closure of the road has been forcing the commuters to take alternative routes increasing the traffic load in the busy market of the Ambala cantonment.The Ambala-Saha road is one of the busiest roads here and the four-laning project (a 14.84-km long stretch on NH 444-A) in the Ambala Cantonment is being carried out at a cost of Rs 220 crore.Complete work by March-end, Firm toldWe have instructed the company to get the work completed by March-end. Residents also understand and they have been cooperating. Directions have also been issued to the traffic police to ensure that there are no jams in the markets. —Mamta Sharma, sub-divisional magistrate, Ambala cantonmentSunny, a dhaba operator, said, “A majority of the customers for us were those travelling on the Sahranarpur route and railway passengers. Earlier, there was no business due to the Covid pandemic and now for the past couple of months we are not getting customers as the road in front of the dhabas here are lying completely uprooted. Earlier, I had a staff of six persons, but now I have only one worker left, as in the absence of business I am in no position to give salaries.”Kushal Batra, who runs a refreshment store, said, “With the road lying closed, there are no customers and I had to keep my shop closed for several days. The business is at its all-time low, but the expenses are still the same. We are getting the same electricity bills and we will be asked to pay the taxes also even when there is no business.”Harmeet Singh, a commuter, said, “Due to the ongoing construction work on the main road, the traffic load in the market area has increased. The commuters travelling in cars also enter the market and sometimes there is traffic jam there.”A site engineer said, “The road work is going at a good pace and the entry point of the stretch is likely to be completed within 10 days, while the entire road is likely to be completed by March end. Nearly 80 per cent work is complete. Along with the road, the drains are also being constructed and these will be completed by November.”Mamta Sharma, Sub-divisional Magistrate, Ambala Cantonment, said, “We have instructed the company to get the work completed by March end. Residents also understand and they have been cooperating. Directions have also been issued to the traffic police to ensure that there are no traffic jams in the markets.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-saha-road-project-an-ordeal-for-commuters-209269
08-02-2021||---||Development works pick up pace in Karnal||Karnal, February 7After several hiccups amid the Covid-induced lockdown and shortage of construction material, development works have finally picked up pace in the district. According to the authorities, the deadlines of some projects have been extended.Work on five major roads and six government college buildings is being carried out on a war footing and is likely to be completed by March-end. A 20-km stretch on the Karnal-Indri state highway, which is being constructed at a cost of Rs 86 crore, is likely to be completed soon.Similarly, work on a 12-km stretch of the central verge has been completed.The widening of the Karnal-Kaithal road is likely to be completed by March. The laying of storm water drains along the Karnal-Assandh National Highway 709A, which was stalled earlier, has resumed and is expected to be completed by the month-end.The widening work on the Karnal-Meerut road has been initiated. As many as 24 culverts and three bridges will be constructed along with a flyover at Nagla Megha Chowk. The deadline is February 2022.The construction of government college buildings at Jaisinghpura, Jundla, Padha, Bastali and Taraori is under way and the authorities claim that classes would commence from the new session.“I reviewed development works recently and asked the companies to complete them at the earliest. In most road projects, the deadlines have been extended. We are hopeful that the works will be completed before the new deadlines,” said Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/development-works-pick-up-pace-in-karnal-209270
08-02-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat---||Parents’ body seeks repair of 47 dilapidated school buildings||Tribune News Service Faridabad, February 7 With 47 government schools continue to function from unsafe buildings, the All-India Parents’ Association has written to the state government seeking immediate repair work or shifting classes to some other place. Ashok Aggarwal, president of the association, said the buildings of 47 government schools were declared unsafe in February last year. However, even after one year, the Education Department had failed to carry out necessary repairs.  He said if no action was taken within a month, they would be forced to move the High Court.  Aggarwal said he personally inspected government schools at Old Faridabad, Sehatpur village, Press Colony (NIT) and at Tigaon on Saturday. Aggarwal said the court had also served a notice on the government in response to a petition filed by Social Jurist, an NGO, on behalf of the association, in September 2017, regarding dilapidated buildings of several schools in the district. “Although the authorities had announced to float tenders for the repair work, nothing has been done so far,” said Kailash Sharma, general secretary of the association. An official of the Education Department, however, said, “The construction of new school buildings at Anangpur, Sehatpur, Faridpur, Gonchhi and Tigaon is under way. The repair of dilapidated ones will be carried out soon.” While District Elementary Education Officer Ritu Chaudhary could not be contacted for comment, Deputy Commissioner Yashpal Yadav said he was not aware of the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parents-body-seeks-repair-of-47-dilapidated-school-buildings-209271
08-02-2021||Chandigarh||61 vaccinated, 2 more die||With 61 health workers getting the vaccine today, the total number of persons vaccinated in the state went up to 1,39,762.The death toll reached 3,029 with two more deaths reported from Sonepat. The Covid tally was pegged at 2,68,431 with 67 fresh cases. Gurugram reported a maximum of 15 cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/61-vaccinated-2-more-die-209272
08-02-2021||Faridabad||Pink buses for women on 9 routes||Film-making skills of studentsAmbala: The local INTACH unit led by its convener, Col RD Singh (retd), participated in a webinar on short film-making by schoolchildren. The aim was to share films made by schoolchildren on various topics related to nature and cultural heritage. The webinar was attended by students of Army Public School, Convent of Sacred Heart and Police DAV School. A total of 146 children from across the country participated in the event. The films by Antariksh and Namit Chopra were selected for sharing across the country. Antariksh won the trophy in best screenplay category.Rally against drug addictionKurukshetra: An awareness rally on drug addiction was organised in Ratgal village of Kurukshetra on Sunday. Hariom Das of Vatsalya Vatika said they wanted to send the message that intoxication was a curse for mankind. Ashok Kumar Verma of the Haryana State Narcotics Control Bureau said awareness campaigns were necessary to end the drug menace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pink-buses-for-women-on-9-routes-209279
08-02-2021||Streetlights at the old bus stand area in Narwana used to function normally until one year ago. The Public Health Department dug up half-km-long road to lay sewerage/water pipes||Defunct streetlights bane of Narwana residents||Officials aware of illegal colonies being developedThe government should be aware that no illegal colony of a land mafia can develop in any city without the connivance of the District Town Planner, Municipal Corporation and Tehsil officials. It is not justified that the district administration should demolish buildings built in illegal colonies, but it is also the responsibility of the government to know the reasons for the development of these illegal colonies in cities, take preventive measures and identify and punish all guilty officials involved. —Shakti Singh, KarnalRoads at Shahabad Markanda in pathetic conditionThe poor condition of the road describes the woes of residents of Shahabad Markanda who have been suffering for the past many years. Many visits have failed to awaken the municipal authorities from slumber. Interlocking tiles were laid on these roads for betterment but, ironically, it proved otherwise as the whole work was done without planning. Soon after the laying of interlocking tiles, the work of digging for sewerage pipe started which continued for a long time. The roads were repaired so badly that these are a bane of commuters. The roads have become accident prone which should be repaired soon. —Dr Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion oughtto be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/defunct-streetlights-bane-of-narwana-residents-209281
08-02-2021||Kurukshetra||Workshop on academic writing||YCSD students felicitatedRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) Vice-Chancellor Rajbir Singh said to succeed in achieving career and life goals, one must work for it passionately. “Honing hard and soft skills are necessary to achieve one’s career goals,” he said while addressing the students of the Youth Centre for Skill Development (YCSD) of the university. The VC said students must work for qualitative improvement of their overall personality. He said effective communication skills and critical thinking skills were essential for students. He lauded the achievements of the YCSD and complemented YCSD project director Col DS Deswal. MDU Registrar GL Taneja and Students’ Welfare Dean Raj Kumar also spoke on the occasion. Four students of the YCSD –Vishal Deswal, Mohini, Akanksha and Ujjaval, who had been selected in the Armed Forces, were felicitated at the programme. Earlier, Col DS Deswal briefly highlighted the achievement of the YCSD.Talk on women’s rightsYamunanagar: The Legal Literacy Cell of MLN College, Radaur, organised a one-day awareness campaign on ‘Women’s Issues and Rights’. On the occasion, Advocate Neera Jain of district courts, Jagadhari, was the key speaker. She educated the students on various Acts and provisions which had been enacted in the law to safeguard the safety and security of women in the society. She discussed in detail about the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO Act), Domestic Violence Act and other Acts. The speaker also informed the students about “Which door to be knocked” to seek free legal help. Earlier, she was greeted by the convener of the cell, Dr Mala Sharma, and was presented with a token of appreciation for her fruitful efforts by the principal of the college, Dr Deepak Kaushik.Function for rural studentsKarnal: IUnder the Sushiksha programme, started by two sisters Sanjoli Banerjee (21) and Ananya Banerjee (17), an annual function named ‘Aashayein’ for raising hopes to be an achiever among rural students was organised in Darar village which was adopted by both the siblings. Under the programme, both Sanjoli and Ananya had been teaching underprivileged students and also training them to polish their dance, art and sports skills for the last more than a year. Sanjoli had done her graduation from Australian National University and had been a one-day Senator at the Australian Parliament, while Ananya is a Class XII student. Both of them are dedicating their time in nurturing the students of this village after their school time and helping them shape their personality free of charge. During the programme, both the sisters along with national level sportsperson Shivani, Rashmi,and other renowned doctors of the district honoured the students for their performance during the year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/workshop-on-academic-writing-209283
08-02-2021||Hisar||Farmer commits suicide near Tikri border; large number of villagers and farmer activists attend cremation||A farmer, Karamvir Singh, 52, resident of Singhwaal village in Jind district reportedly committed suicide on Sunday by hanging from a tree in a park near Tikri border in Bahadurgarh where the farmers are sitting on a dharna in support of their demands.The body of the farmer was brought to his native village.Large number of villagers and farmer activists attended the cremation.The slogans of ‘Kisan Ekta Zindabad’ reverberated during the last journey of the deceased farmer.The farmer was survived by his wife, three daughters, one of them is married.The Bahadurgarh police found a man hanging from a tree near Tikri border. The victim was staying put at dharna site with the protesters for the last many days. The police also got handwritten suicide note from victim’s pocket. The police booked a case under section 174 of the CrPC.The handwritten suicide note was addressed to the farmers. It has mentioned ‘Bharatiya Kisan Union Zindabad’.The letter written in Hindi stated that “Modi government is giving us dates after dates. We cannot predict when these laws will be cancelled. We will not go back until these laws are taken back.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-commits-suicide-near-tikri-border-large-number-of-villagers-and-farmer-activists-attend-cremation-209216
08-02-2021||Deepender Deswal||Thousands of farmers gather at Haryana mahapanchayat; leaders call for ‘turning point’ in agitation||Tribune News ServiceHisar, February 7Farmer leaders Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal and Darshan Pal Singh were among the thousands of farmers gathered at a mahapanchayat in Haryana’s Charkhi Dadri on Sunday to garner support for the protest against the three contentious farm laws.Farmer leader Darshan Pal Singh gave a call to intensify the agitation in Haryana.“The Haryana BJP government has let down people and has no right to stay in power,” he said.He said he had cautioned the government about the new Bills during the initial discussion but his voice was not heard.Also read: Farmer unions write to India head of UNHRC, seek intervention in farmers’ arrestNo ‘ghar wapsi’ till farmers’ demands are met: TikaitFarmer commits suicide near Tikri border; large number of villagers and farmer activists attend cremationTaking a lesson from the Jind ‘mahapanchayat’, organisers of the ‘mahapanchayat’ at Kitlana have set up a brick-lined stage and enclosed it with pipes to ensure the safety of the farmer leaders at the stage.Singh urged the youth to come ahead and take forward the agitation.“We have debated clause-wise on the law but lies have been spread about the discussion. Union Ministers have realised their mistake in the enactment of laws. Sarv khap panchayat has immense strength to take the stir ahead and we hope that a united struggle will ensure win of the farmers,” Singh reiterated.Haryana Deputy Chief Minister had stated that he would resign from the government if issue not resolved by January 26.Rakesh Tikait said khap panchayats had emerged as a strong social set up during the times of Raja Harshvardhan.“The government tried to divide people on the basis of Haryana and Punjab, Sikh and non-Sikh but you should stay strong. There is not a single weak link in the agitation,” he assured the kisan morcha leaders.On the violence of Republic Day, he alleged: “Our young people were misguided and taken to the Red Fort by government agencies.”“Two government representatives came to meet me yesterday but I refused to meet them separately as every discussion will be held collectively in the presence of 40 members of the kisan morcha,” Tikait said.The MLA from Charkhi Dadri and Sangwan khap pradhan, Sombir Sangwan, on Saturday had said the ‘mahapanchayat’ would be a ‘turning point’ in the agitation of the farmers against the farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/thousands-of-farmers-gather-at-haryana-mahapanchayat-leaders-call-for-turning-point-in-agitation-209146
