09-02-2021||---||Haryana board exams for classes 10, 12 from April 20||Hisar, February 9The Board of School Education, Haryana (BSEH), Bhiwani, has announced to hold the examinations of the classes 10 and 12 from April 20.BSEH chairman Jagbir Singh said on Tuesday they have revised the mode of examination as 50 per cent of the questions will be multiple choice questions (MCQs) and the time has also been reduced to two-and-a-half-hours instead of standard three hour for taking the examination.The Board has reduced the syllabus for the classes from ninth to 12 for the current academic session in the schools to ease pressure on students during ongoing academic year on the lines of the CBSE. Thus, the questions will be asked from the rationalised syllabus in the papers.The chairman said the examination schedule has been postponed by nearly one and a half months and will start from April 20 to conclude on May 31, he said, adding that the practical examinations will be conducted before the written examinations.The board has cut the syllabus by 30% in view of the Covid 19 pandemic in August 2020 as the schools remained shut for most of the time during the current academic session and later the studies were resumed in online mode.The chairman maintained that the state government has suggested to the Education Board to rationalise the syllabus after which the Board discussed the matter with the experts of the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and the principals and lecturers of the schools and colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-board-exams-for-classes-10-12-from-april-20-210057
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana farmer dies after falling from tractor-trolley at Tikri border protest site||A 28-year-old farmer from Haryana’s Rohtak district, who was providing voluntary services at Tikri border protest site, died after sustaining serious head injuries when he fell off a tractor-trolley, police said on Tuesday.Deepak was hospitalised at PGIMS, Rohtak where he died during treatment on Monday, Kuldeep Singh, SHO, Aasoda Police Station in Jhajjar district, said over the phone.He said the accident took place at Bahadurgarh bypass road on February 5.“Deepak was sitting in the tractor-trolley and distributing ration (to farmers sitting in protest at Tikri). He fell down and sustained head injuries. He died during treatment at PGIMS Rohtak,” the officer added.Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.However, the Centre has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.—PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-farmer-dies-after-falling-from-tractor-trolley-at-tikri-border-protest-site-210018
09-02-2021||New Delhi||Rajya Sabha remembers former Haryana MP MS Lather||The Rajya Sabha on Tuesday paid an obituary reference to Mohinder Singh Lather, a former member of the house from Haryana, who passed away on January 2. He was 88.Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu read out the obituary reference, saying born in 1932 in Karnal, Lather went to SD college and DAV college Ambala and later to Law College, Delhi university.Lather was a Municipal commissioner Karnal from 1961 to 1973 and the Chairman of the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board.He was a member of Rajya Sabha from Haryana from April 1988 to April 1994 and also a member of the sixth Lok Sabha from 1978 to 1979.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rajya-sabha-remembers-former-haryana-mp-ms-lather-209957
09-02-2021||---||PSU seeks release of Nodeep Kaur, action against cops||Jalandhar, February 8Women activists of the Punjab Students’ Union on Monday spoke in favour of Nodeep Kaur, an activist and member of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan, who was arrested on January 12. She is in detention ever since.The Punjab Students’ Union demanded the immediate release of Nodeep Kaur. Condemning her detainment and alleged torture by the Haryana Police, PSU activists demanded the dismissal of the police officials responsible.Notably, the demand to release Nodeep Kaur has grown into a robust online campaign, where various celebrities and prominent activists and organisations have demanded her release. She has also become the poster girl for labour rights in the midst of farm agitation. The Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan has also been actively supporting the farmers’ agitation.PSU district president Varjeet Kaur and general secretary Ramandeep Kaur, while speaking at Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar, said the police and the BJP government in Haryana violated human rights.They said she was a victim like other activists, who were constantly being targeted and arrested for speaking the truth. They said Kaur had spoken for the rights of labourers. They said despite the activist having undergone so much injustice, those responsible for jailing her walk free and haven’t been punished. They demanded that the officers responsible for jailing her be dismissed. They also demanded that the case registered against her be dismissed and she be released immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/psu-seeks-release-of-nodeep-kaur-action-against-cops-209904
09-02-2021||New Delhi||Stubble-burning up in Punjab, Haryana||Bill on unauthorised colonies in DelhiNew Delhi: The government introduced a Bill in the Rajya Sabha on Monday, which seeks to replace the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri introduced it in the RS. The unauthorised colonies that existed as on June 1, 2014, and had witnessed 50% development as on January 1, 2015, will be eligible for regularisation. PTIAverage pace of NH construction 28 km/dayNew Delhi: The pace of highway construction during April-December 2020, on an average, was 28 km a day amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Parliament was informed on Monday. Total highways constructed across India during the period were 7,767 km, Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari told the Rajya Sabha. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stubble-burning-up-in-punjab-haryana-209833
09-02-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Displaying flags for farmers' cause or self-use?||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comDisplaying flags for farmers' cause or self-use?A large number of private vehicle owners have been prominently displaying flags, atop bonnets of their cars etc, in support of the ongoing farmers' agitation. Notably, such a development is not only confined to the state of Haryana and Punjab alone but even the UT of Chandigarh is also increasingly witnessing such a trend. Do the displaying of flags truly represents their genuine concern for the protesting farmers or these flags are being used merely for getting some easy and unhindered access on various state and national highways in the twin states and elsewhere too? Vinayak G, PanchkulaOfficials cite Fund shortage for not laying street in Rohtak ColonyFor more than two years residents of New Friends Colony near Tilyar Lake Rohtak have been requesting the administration to lay a street. The work on which was started after regular follow up with all officers, but left in between for want of funds. Anil Vij is the minister of the department as well as the chairman of the grievance committee, Rohtak. He must look into the issue at the earliest. Rakesh Harjai, RohtakProvide adequate parking space at Pipli CSDThe Canteen Stores Department, (CSD) Pipli, caters to the requirements of retired soldiers and serving soldiers of Kurukshetra district. With the passage of time, the number of users have increased manifold. Users come here on their private vehicles, bikes and cars but there is no adequate parking space. The CSD authorities, District Soldiers Welfare Boards and district administration should look into the issue and provide adequate parking space. Ravi Bhushan, KurukshetraInstall complaint boxes in every Panchkula sectorThe new MC councillors should contemplate installing idea-cum-complaint boxes in their respective wards for the convenience of residents. This will help in getting feedback or shortcomings from residents regarding pruning of trees, repairing road lanes, running special drives for cleanliness and creating awareness among public. This will help the MC in getting rid of all perennial problems plaguing the city. Ramit Ritu Bagga, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/displaying-flags-for-farmers-cause-or-self-use-209743
09-02-2021||Rohtak||Induction programme at Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak||Lecture on remote sensingSonepat: Prof Suman Sangwan of the computer science and engineering department delivered a lecture on ‘Remote sensing-Opportunities and challenges’ in a short-term training programme on ‘Image processing and remote sensing’ held in Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and Technology (DCRUST). She said the amalgamation of new technologies like big data, Internet of Things, cloud computing and machine learning, with remote sensing provide new ways to collect, analyse and interpret data for new era of innovative applications for the betterment of mankind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/induction-programme-at-maharshi-dayanand-university-rohtak-209740
09-02-2021||Chandigarh||29,846 more inoculated in Haryana||With 29,846 health workers vaccinated today, the total number of persons vaccinated against Covid-19 is pegged at 1,69,608 in the state.Meanwhile, the Covid tally has gone up to 2,68,507 with 76 case reported today. Gurugram reported a maximum of 22 cases. No death was reported.Rohtak: The last date for the registration of healthcare workers for the administration of anti-Covid vaccine has been extended till February 15.The deadline has been extended on a special request made by the authorities of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences.Doctors at the PGIMS have been exhorted to get the jab. The university authorities have directed the PGIMS administration to seek explanation from doctors who still had not got inoculated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/29-846-more-inoculated-in-haryana-209739
09-02-2021||---||Vigilance DIG booked on complaint by Anil Vij’s brother||Ambala, February 8The Ambala police have booked Ambala DIG (Vigilance) Ashok Kumar under charges of voluntarily causing hurt, criminal intimidation and obscene act on a complaint by Kapil Vij, brother of Home Minister Anil Vij, here on Sunday.Satinder Singh Garg, DIG’s AdvocatePolitical pressureA false case has been registered. The minister’s brother, who was drunk, asked the DIG to serve him food and abused the DIG, who left the party. There is political pressure in this matter.The court of Additional Sessions Judge Sundeep Singh has stayed the DIG’s arrest till Tuesday. Ambala Cantonment SHO Vijay Kumar said teams had been formed to trace the DIG. The DIG and the minister’s brother had a face-off at the Sirhind Club on Sunday, where they had gone to attend a birthday party.“Around 2:30 pm, I went to Sirhind Club to attend a birthday party. When we were about to have lunch, Ashok Kumar, who was in an inebriated condition, started abusing me and my family without provocation and threatened me of dire consequences,” Kapil stated in his complaint.“We came to know later that Ashok Kumar was DIG, Vigilance, Ambala. While I was leaving, he said he was DIG and nobody could harm him, no matter who the person was. He also made some obscene gestures at me,” he added in his complaint.“One of my acquaintances asked me about the health of my brother Anil Vij as he had recovered from Covid. All of a sudden, Ashok Kumar started abusing me, misbehaving with me and saying there was nothing like Covid. He pushed me and said he would not leave,” he said.“A false case has been registered. The minister’s brother asked the DIG to serve him food. The minister’s brother, who was drunk, abused the DIG, who left the party. The DIG has been granted stay on arrest till Tuesday, when final arguments for bail will take place. There is political pressure in this matter,” said DIG’s advocate Satinder Singh Garg.“The incident took place at a family function where no CCTV camera had been installed. A private photographer had been hired by the organiser and we obtained photographs from him. The DIG’s mobile phones are switched off and he is not available at his house or office. Legal action will be taken after investigation,” said Ambala SSP Hamid Akhtar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vigilance-dig-booked-on-complaint-by-anil-vijs-brother-209723
09-02-2021||---||Karnal gets cyber crime police station||Karnal, February 8The Haryana Police have started a Karnal Range cyber crime police station, which will deal with the cases in the city along those in Kaithal and Panipat districts.Inspector Sandeep Kumar has been given the charge of the police station. Three male inspectors, a female inspector, two sub-inspectors, four assistant sub-inspectors, three head constables and six constables have been appointed.Karnal Range IGP Bharti Arora said the state government had decided to start six cyber crime police stations — five at the range level and one for the Faridabad Commissionerate. “We have started the police station of Karnal Range on Monday and it will delicately work to investigate the cyber crime cases of three districts,” she added.Accompanied by Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia, Panipat SP Shashank Kumar Sawan and Kaithal SP Lokender Singh, Arora said the police station will deal with all kinds of cases, including economic, bank, online and ATM frauds and sexual harassment among. “We have a good team of officials, who are tech-savvy to investigate all kinds of cyber crimes,” she added.The IGP said the adoption of new methods by fraudsters was a big challenge and emphasised on the need to upgrade the police at a greater pace.Earlier, while addressing the police personnel, she exhorted them to be sensitive for such cases, so that the justice could be delivered to the victims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-gets-cyber-crime-police-station-209724
09-02-2021||Gurugram||Constable among five booked for abetting Gurugram realtor’s suicide||Five persons, including a constable with the Delhi Police, have been booked for allegedly abetting the suicide of property dealer Jogender Yadav alias Jugnu (44).In her complaint to the police, Manju Yadav, the victim’s wife, said her husband had entered into partnership with Manoj and Jagvir Singh in 2015. They purchased a piece of land in Dehradun through Prem Negi and Suresh Negi.She alleged that Vinod Nambardar of Chakkarpur, also bought property near their land in Dehradun. “Jagvir and Manoj were known to Vinod. They allegedly hatched a conspiracy and sold a part of this land to Delhi Police constable Vikram Dabas without my husband’s knowledge. When he objected to it, they implicated him in a false case and he was arrested two years ago. Since then, my husband was in depression. His partners and their associates were pressuring him to sell the remaining land,” she added.Manju alleged that Vikram Dabbas made a threat call to her husband on January 27, following which he took the extreme step. An FIR has been lodged against five persons. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/constable-among-five-booked-for-abetting-gurugram-realtors-suicide-209726
09-02-2021||---||Cashless medical facility for govt staff, pensioners soon||Chandigarh, February 8Government employees and pensioners in the state are set to get cashless medical facility soon as the government has sped up steps in this direction.Unlike an earlier scheme whereby cashless medical facility is provided for six life-threatening emergencies, the scheme now approved by the state government will be comprehensive. The scheme will be implemented by the Ayushman Bharat — Haryana Health Protection Authority.Rajeev Arora, Addl Chief Secy, Health DeptComprehensive planThe scheme will be comprehensive, covering not only the six life-threatening emergencies, but all approved packages of treatment as well.“The scheme will cover all ailments where the patient is required to be admitted to a hospital and all government employees, pensioners and their dependants will be covered under this scheme,” said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department.He said the Haryana State Finance Committee had approved the Haryana Employees Cashless Health Assurance Scheme in its meeting on December 18.As per the decision of the committee, an empowered committee comprising the Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Additional Chief Secretary, Finance, Chief Minister’s Principal Secretary, Director General of Health Services and the Chief Executive Officer of Ayushman Bharat was constituted and its meeting would be held soon.“A request has been made to the Finance Department to create a separate budget head for the scheme in the 2020-21 Budget. A letter has been sent to the citizens resources information department for permission to utilise Parivar Pehchan Patra in the data base creation of the scheme,” said Amneet P Kumar, Chief Executive Officer, Ayushman Bharat – Haryana Health Protection Authority.In 2017, the state government had introduced a limited cashless scheme, under which six life-threatening emergencies were covered.“The new scheme will be comprehensive, covering not only the six life-threatening emergencies, but all approved packages of treatment as well. It will be applicable to all indoor treatment, daycare procedures and diagnostics taken as indoor patients at all government medical colleges, government-aided medical colleges, district hospitals, health institutes and private empanelled hospitals,” said Arora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cashless-medical-facility-for-govt-staff-pensioners-soon-209727
09-02-2021||---||Rewari man dies as vehicle rolls down gorge in Himachal||Mandi, February 8One tourist was killed while four sustained injuries this evening when the vehicle, they were travelling in, rolled down a gorge near here on the Chandigarh-Manali highway.The deceased was identified as Sanjay Kumar of Rewari district in Haryana.According to the police, at the time of accident, five persons were on board the vehicle. One person was killed on the spot, while four injured victims were rushed to the Zonal Hospital, Mandi. The condition of injured is stable.According to SP, Mandi, Shalini Agnihotri, the cause of the accident was rash driving. The vehicle fell into a gorge in the area. A case has been registered and investigation is underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rewari-man-dies-as-vehicle-rolls-down-gorge-in-himachal-209683
09-02-2021||Sonepat||2 held for looting scribe||The police on Sunday arrested two persons from the Madlauda area of Panipat for allegedly snatching a car and valuables from a Chandigarh-based scribe in Kundli.The accused have been identified as Mohit of Dikadla village and Manjeet of Kavi village in Panipat district.In his complaint to the police, Manoj had stated that he had gone to cover a press conference of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on February 2. When they reached near Rasoi Dhaba in Kundli after covering the event, unidentified youths stopped them and took away their Swift car, cellphones, cameras, batteries and other valuables.SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said the accused were arrested near Kavi village in Panipat on late Sunday evening. They were produced in the court today, which sent them to two-day police remand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-held-for-looting-scribe-209722
09-02-2021||---||Gender test racket busted in Panipat||Panipat, February 8A joint team of the Panipat and Sonepat Health Department on Sunday busted an illegal sex determination racket operating from a house in Sanoli Khurd village of the district.The police registered a case against six persons under various sections of the IPC and PNDT Act. Four persons were nabbed from the spot while two managed to flee.The team sent a decoy customer to a woman at Sewaha Garhi and the deal was finalised for Rs 30,000. The woman took her to Bunty Madar of Sanoli Khurd.Two women — Bhateri and Saroj — took the decoy customer to Bunty on Sunday. Bunty took her to the room where Rakesh reportedly conducted her ultrasound test.As the woman gave an indication to the team, they raided the premises and caught Rakesh red-handed while performing ultrasound test on another woman. Bunty managed to flee from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gender-test-racket-busted-in-panipat-209719
09-02-2021||---||Five IAS officers get new posting orders||Chandigarh, February 8The state government today issued transfer and posting orders of five IAS officers. PC Meena, Director General and Secretary, Skill Development and Industrial Training and Employment Department and Secretary, Finance Department, has been given additional charge of Nodal Officer, Centralised Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (CPGRAM) PG Portal.Atul Kumar, Director, AYUSH, Special Secretary, Health Department and Special Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management Department, has been posted as Secretary to Governor, Haryana.Amna Tasneem, Director, Consolidation of Land Holdings and Land Records, Special Officer (HQ) and Special LAO, and Special Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management Department, Special Secretary, Finance Department and Nodal Officer, CPGRAM PG Portal, has been posted as Director, Consolidation of Land Holdings and Land Records, Special Officer (HQ) and Special LAO, and Special Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management Department.Shyam Lal Poonia, Deputy Commissioner, Sonepat has been given additional charge of Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Sonepat and District Municipal Commissioner, Sonepat, during the training period of Jagdish Sharma.Priyanka Soni, Deputy Commissioner, Hisar, has given additional charge of Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Hisar, and District Municipal Commissioner, Hisar, during the training period of Ashok Kumar Garg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-ias-officers-get-new-posting-orders-209741
09-02-2021||Rewari||15 school kids injured in road mishap in Rewari||As many as 15 children of a private school at Palhavaas village here suffered minor injuries when their bus collided with a truck near the Rohdhai turn on the National Highway-71 on Monday.The children were taken to a trauma centre and discharged after being given first aid.The incident took place in the morning when the bus driver lost control over the vehicle. The front portion of the bus got damaged leaving the driver and the children injured. Some passerby reached the spot and rushed the injured to the hospital.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15-school-kids-injured-in-road-mishap-in-rewari-209742
09-02-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Parking woes at Mini-Secretariat in Faridabad as project lingers||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, February 8With a multi-level parking project yet to see the light of day, contractors are brazenly flouting the rules at the Mini-Secretariat, Sector-12, and fleecing visitors.They have also occupied public roads in the vicinity and charging fee in free parking zones.“The dedicated parking project has been hanging fire for long, thus giving a free hand to parking contractors to charge fee from vehicles parked on all public roads in and around the main building of the Mini-Secretariat,” alleged Varun Sheokand, a social activist. He asked how could the annual contract be leased out without the availability of an official parking lot?“As the parking contract fails to define the limits, fee is being collected for parking on all roads within half a km radius of the main building,’’ says Satinder Singh, an advocate.He alleged that sometimes, the parking fee was several times higher than the fixed amount. “The parking problem will aggravate once the head office of the MCF, which is under construction, becomes functional,” he added. Sources in the administration said, “The parking project was conceived in 2018, but not much progress has been made so far. Due to political patronage, parking mafia is earning up to Rs 1 crore per year.” However, officials said the project had been delayed due to unavailability of land.Rajeev Sharma, Executive Engineer, HSVP, blamed unavailability of space, technical issues and the Covid outbreak for the delay.DC Yashpal Yadav claimed that work on the project would soon be initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parking-woes-at-mini-secretariat-in-faridabad-as-project-lingers-209720
09-02-2021||Parveen Arora||Geo-fencing to keep track of garbage vehicles in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, February 8The Karnal Municipal Corporation (MC) has introduced the feature of geo-fencing to track the GPS-enabled garbage vehicles in the city.As per officials, if a vehicle fails to collect garbage from any house or divert its route, the MC will immediately get an alert. They claim it will help in checking the misuse of the vehicles and in monitoring the performance of employees.Vikram Singh, Commissioner, Karnal MCGIVES REAL-TIME REPORTWith geo-fencing, we can now get real-time report on the movement of garbage vehicles on a daily basis. The move will also help in checking the performance of employees and ensuring 100% door-to-door garbage collection.“We were not getting accurate information of the movement of the vehicles. However, now geo-fencing will help in tracking all 88 tippers involved in garbage collection,” said Vikram Singh, MC Commissioner.This step has been initiated following complaints that garbage vehicles were not regular in their services. “We were receiving complaints that the vehicles were not following their routes and collecting the garbage properly, so we initiated this step. These vehicles are already equipped with the GPS, which shows the location, but now with the help of this new software we are getting alerts if any tipper diverts from its route,” he added.“We can get real-time report regarding the vehicle movement on a daily basis, which will help in checking the performance of employees too,” Vikram added. He said the move would also help in ensuring 100% door-to-door garbage collection.Meanwhile, Joint Commissioner Gagandeep Singh said till August 2019, the service was outsourced and contractors maintained the record of the tippers. “We enrol these sweepers on payroll, after which we had witnessed a big challenge of logbook generation and fuel consumption. After introducing geo-fencing, logbook generation has become an easy task due to which the payments of the fuel stations are being made without any difficulty,” he added.Gagandeep said the involvement of technology in cleanliness was part of the Swachh Survekshan-2021 and it would help in improving the rankings. “This software automatically generates the performance of the employees based on the parameters fixed,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/geo-fencing-to-keep-track-of-garbage-vehicles-in-karnal-209716
09-02-2021||---||Karnal Civil Hospital to have ICU soon||Karnal, February 8The Civil Hospital will soon have its intensive care unit (ICU) as the administration has finalised the company for its construction. As per the authorities, the company will start work in a couple of days.Dr Piyush Sharma, Principal Medical OfficerWork to start in a day or twoAfter the approval from the state government, we had started the tender process. The company has been finalised and the work is likely to start in a day or two“After the approval from the state government, we had started the tender process. The company has been finalised and the work is likely to start in a day or two,” said Dr Piyush Sharma, Principal Medical Officer (PMO). A sum of Rs 4 crore will be incurred on the 10-bed ICU, he added.At present, the hospital does not have an ICU, and the patients are referred to the medical college, he said. “We have specialists to run the ICU and after the starting of this unit, the patients will not have to go to the medical college or other institutions for the ICU facility,” said the PMO.Apart from it, a new x-ray machine of 500ma will be installed in the radiography department, for which the government has already placed the order, the PMO maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-civil-hospital-to-have-icu-soon-209718
09-02-2021||---||Palwal farmers start installing submersible pump at stir site||Palwal, February 8Members of 52 khaps and farmers, who have been protesting at Antoha village for the last eight days, have initiated the process to install a submersible pump at the site for an uninterrupted water supply.Arun Jaildar, President of KhapsCENTRE STUBBORNThe PM said he is a call away from farmers. But we’ll appreciate if he himself visits the protest sites to discuss our demands. The stir is still going on due to the Centre’s stubbornness.A spokesperson for the khaps said the agitation was likely to continue in the coming months in view of the alleged indifferent attitude of the Central Government. He said currently, water was being supplied through tankers.The spokesperson claimed that the protest was getting stronger by the day with unprecedented support from all sections of society.Arun Jaildar, president of the khaps, said farmers would be able to grow vegetables with the help of water supply from the pump.He said Prime Minister Narandra Modi had recently stated that he was a phone call away from farmers. However, they would appreciate if the PM himself visited the protest sites to discuss their demands. He added that the stir had been prolonged due to stubbornness of the government and not the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-farmers-start-installing-submersible-pump-at-stir-site-209728
09-02-2021||Rohtak||Teacher faces action for taking part in farmers’ stir||The All-Haryana Private School Sangh has decried the state government’s move to suspend a schoolteacher allegedly for attending the ongoing farmers’stir at Tikri.“The state has suspended Ajay Balhara, who has been training teachers as well as government officials for the success of the state-level ‘paudhagiri’ plantation drive, which is highly deplorable,” said sangh president Ravinder Nandal in a statement issued here on Monday.“Balhara comes from a farming family and had gone there to know the concerns of the protesters, which is not a violation of any rule of law or constitutional provision,” said Nandal. The teachers’ association has demanded immediate reinstatement of Balhara, who had been serving as a postgraduate teacher of biology and was currently posted as the programme officer at the Director (Secondary Education), Haryana, at Panchkula. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/teacher-faces-action-for-taking-part-in-farmers-stir-209729
09-02-2021||New Delhi||Vested interests misleading farmers: BJP MPs||BJP MPs Sunita Duggal and Ramesh Kaushik on Monday defended the farm laws, saying some vested interests were misleading farmers.They defended the Union Budget, saying it was holistic, balanced and the best in the background of the devastating effect of the pandemic.On the farm laws, they said the government was ready for further talks with farmers and open to suggestions. They said it was open to amendments and ready to commit to continuation of MSP in writing.“The laws do not take away any facility or right. These provide new choices and alternatives. It is up to individual farmers to make their choice,” Duggal said.“In spite of the heavy odds, Nirmala Sitharaman has presented a forward-looking Budget, which seeks to lay a strong foundation for a quantum leap of the economy in the future,” she said.The MPs said a provision had been made with the goal of doubling the income of farmers, including MSP for foodgrain being one and a half times the input cost.They said 1,000 mandis in the country would be linked to the e-market portal. They said the Budget proposed to expand the ambit of Operation Green Scheme, applicable only on tomato, potato and onion, to include 23 more crops. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vested-interests-misleading-farmers-bjp-mps-209730
09-02-2021||Ravinder Saini||Zoom control camera to keep tab on movement at Tikri||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, February 8The district administration is gearing up to keep a tab on the movement of people, especially anti-social elements, on a one-km stretch from HUDA Sector-9 turn in Bahadurgarh town to Tikri, where farmers have been camping since November 26.Superintendent of Police (SP) Rajesh Duggal has written to the Deputy Commissioner requesting him to install a pan-tilt-zoom (PTZ) camera on the stretch.Farmer succumbs“A considerable number of people come to Tikri everyday. Locals also organise panchayats and meetings in connection with the ongoing agitation, hence the possibility of anti-social elements coming to the dharna spot at Tikri-Bahadurgarh cannot be ruled out. The area from Sector-9 turn to the Tikri border is sensitive, so the installation of a PTZ camera is necessary,” states the letter.The PTZ camera is capable of remote directional and zoom control. It has the ability to detect movement within its field of view. This can then be used to move the camera to keep the target in the centre of the video frame. Once the target exits the camera’s field of view, the camera returns to a pre-programmed position until further movement is detected.Sources said the Deputy Commissioner had directed the City Magistrate to ask the Executive Officer (EO), Municipal Council, Bahadurgarh, for the same.EO Attar Singh said the camera would be installed as soon as the orders in this regard were received.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/zoom-control-camera-to-keep-tab-on-movement-at-tikri-209731
09-02-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Unions back suspended farmers’ groups||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, February 8Farmers’ groups from Punjab have come out in support of the two farmers’ groups suspended after the violence in Delhi on Republic Day.During a meeting of the forum of 32 Punjab farmers’ groups at Kundli yesterday, the farmer leaders questioned the suspension of the two farmer groups and demanded revocation of their suspension. The three-member panel formed to look into the issue also sought more time to submit its report.The joint forum of 32 farmer unions had on January 27 suspended Surjeet Singh Phool, president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Krantikari), and Harpal Singh Sangha of the Azaad Kisan Committee, Doaba, for reportedly deviating from their route during the tractor march in the Capital.According to sources, the issue of suspension was raised by other farmer leaders from Punjab. They asked why action was initiated only against two groups when thousands of farmers had turned towards the Outer Ring Road on Republic Day.The farmer leaders stated that they had deviated from the route due to a traffic jam on account of tractors and other vehicles.The farmer leaders demanded revocation of the suspension and the matter was deferred for the next meeting as three senior leaders — Darshan Pal Singh, Balbir Singh Rajewal and Jagjeet Singh Dallewal — were not present.Major Singh Punnawal, general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha, and Baldev Singh Nihalgarh, general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha, submitted their statements in writing to the three-member panel.They stated that they had deviated from the route unknowingly and turned towards the Outer Ring Road. They stated that when Harpal Singh Sangha, accompanying them, came to know of this, he decided to move back to the border.They stated that their vehicle developed a fault, after which they reached Kundli in a private vehicle. A farmer leader from Punjab said on the condition of anonymity that the committee had sought four days to submit its report.Kin of Accused seek fair probeKarnal: “My father is innocent. He couldn’t have indulged in any violence,” says Amarjeet Singh, son of Sukhdev Singh (60), who was arrested by the Delhi Police from Chandigarh in connection with the Red Fort violence. “My father had been camping at Singhu for over two months. On Sunday, we were told that he was arrested from Chandigarh. He is innocent.” Seeking a fair probe, Sukhdev’s family claimed the police were hiding the truth. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unions-back-suspended-farmers-groups-209732
09-02-2021||---||Youth stabbed to death in Panipat, cousin booked||Panipat, February 8A 22-year-old youth was stabbed to death at Shastri Colony here last night. The police booked a cousin of the victim for murder.The body was handed over to kin of the deceased after the post-mortem examination. The family members of the victim protested in front of the Kishanpura police post today, demanding arrest of the accused.The deceased was identified as Gurmeet Singh alias Kaka of Pehowa in Kurukshetra. Victim’s brother Sunny said they had been staying with their maternal uncle Hardev Singh after the death of their parents and used to drive an autorickshaw.He said Gurmeet had a fight with Sukhdev Singh alias Sukha, a son of his younger maternal uncle Karnail Singh, 15 days back.He alleged that Sukhdev called Gurmeet out on Sunday night and started beating him up with four or five other youths.He stated that he came out after hearing the noise, but Sukhdev stabbed Gurmeet and fled the spot. He said they took him to hospital, where doctors declared him dead.Family members of the victim took his body to the Kishanpura police post and protested, demanding arrest of the accused.Chandnibagh SHO Harvinder Singh reached the spot and pacified the protesters. After his assurance, the victim’s family members performed the last rites. The SHO said a case had been registered and raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-stabbed-to-death-in-panipat-cousin-booked-209733
09-02-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Dilapidated e-toilets raise a stink in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, February 8Around two years ago, 10 state-of-the-art e-toilets were inaugurated in the city under Rs 2.19 crore Smart City project, which are now in a dilapidated state. These have become defunct due to poor upkeep and maintenance.Thakur Lal Sharma, Chief Engineer, FSCLRevamp on cardsWe are thinking of redeveloping these toilets on a viable public-private partnership model. “Owing to poor and filthy condition and nobody to clean them on a regular basis, a majority of locals and visitors to the Sector 19 market area are unable to use these facilities,” said Hari Ram, a local. He said the stinking toilets don’t even have proper water supply. He said the automated system in which the toilet doors open after inserting a coin got damaged soon after these were installed.“I have not seen any employee or staff of the MC or Faridabad Smart City Limited (FSCL) for the past several months cleaning and carrying out repairs here,” said Roshan, a shopkeeper from the Old Faridabad Market.The FSCL had come up with these toilets in Old Faridabad Market, Sector 19 market, Sector 21D and Saheed Bhagat Singh Chowk near Sector 28 under the Area Based Development of the Smart City Project worth Rs 2,600 crore. The FSCL Board of Directors on May 20 last year had reported that due to vandalism and misuse, the contractor had closed these e-toilets. “He may be blacklisted after issuance of a notice, it was claimed in an FSCL report, which added that appropriate action be taken against the firm or contractor,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dilapidated-e-toilets-raise-a-stink-in-faridabad-209734
09-02-2021||New Delhi||After PM’s invite, farmer leaders say ready for talks, ask govt to choose date||Farmer unions agitating against the three agri laws on Monday asked the government to fix a date for the next round of talks, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged them to end their stir and invited them to resume the dialogue.They, however, objected to Prime Minister Modi’s remarks in Rajya Sabha that a new “breed” of agitators called “andolan jivi” has emerged in the country, and said that agitation has an important role in a democracy.Modi appeals to agitators to give farm laws a chanceFarmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka, who is a senior member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha which is spearheading the ongoing stir, said they are ready for the next round of talks and the government should tell them the date and time of the meeting.“We have never refused to hold talks with the government. Whenever it has called us for dialogue, we held discussions with Union ministers. We are ready for talks with them (government),” Kakka told PTI.Centre complicating issue, says Rakesh Tikait on PM Modi's statement on MSPEleven rounds of talks have been held over the contentious farm laws but the impasse continues as the farmer unions remain firm on their demands—the repeal of the three laws and legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP).In the last round of talks, the government had offered to suspend the laws for 12-18 months, but the farmer unions rejected it.Thousands of agitating farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for over 70 days.Read also: Modi appeals to agitators to give farm laws a chanceCentre complicating issue, says Rakesh Tikait on PM Modi's statement on MSPTo weed out right-wingers, volunteers screen farmers living in Ghazipur tentsWhile replying in Rajya Sabha on Monday to a debate on the President’s address, PM Modi assured the farmers that Mandis will be modernised, saying “Not just this, MSP was there, it is there and will remain.”“We urge those sitting on the agitation that even though it is their right to agitate, the way the old people are sitting there, is not right.“They (agitators) should be taken back. They should end the agitation and we will together find a solution as all doors are open for dialogue. From this House, I again invite them for dialogue,” Modi said while appealing to farmers to end their agitation.Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, who is also a member of Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, said the government has already said “hundreds of times” that the MSP will not go anywhere and it will remain in place.“If the government is claiming that MSP will remain, why doesn’t it provide a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for our crops,” Kohar told PTI.He said the farmer unions are ready to resume talks with the government, but there should be a formal invitation.“Any issue can be resolved through proper dialogue. We are ready in-principle to resume talks,” the farmer leader.In his speech, Modi slammed the mushrooming of a new breed of ‘andolan-jivi’—professional protestors—who are seen at every agitation. These “parasites feast on every agitation,” he said.“Agitation has an important role in democracy. People have a right to oppose the government’s wrong policies,” Kakka said, referring to the remarks by the prime minister.Sukhdev Singh, Punjab general secretary of BKU Ekta-Ugrahan, sought to know why the government is not ensuring a legal guarantee on MSP for crops and alleged that it is trying to divert the issue.Farmer leader Baldev Singh also said government should repeal these farm laws and provide a legal guarantee on MSP for farmers’ crops.Earlier in the day, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said business over hunger will not be allowed in the country.To press their demands, protesting unions held a nationwide ‘chakka jam’ last week, during which national and state highways were blocked in Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-pms-invite-farmer-leaders-say-ready-for-talks-ask-govt-to-choose-date-209624
09-02-2021||---||Haryana DIG booked following complaint by Anil Vij’s brother||Ambala, February 8The Ambala police have booked Ambala DIG (Vigilance) Ashok Kumar under charges of voluntarily causing hurt, criminal intimidation and obscene act on a complaint by Kapil Vij, brother of Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij, here on Sunday night.The DIG and the minister's brother came face-to-face at Sirhind club on Sunday where the latter had gone to attend a birthday party.Vij, in his complaint, alleged that without any provocation, Ashok Kumar, who was in an inebriated condition, abused him and threatened him of dire consequences. "Around 2.30 pm, I, along with Rajesh, a resident of Shastri Colony, went to attend the birthday event of Rakesh Aggarwal's grandson at Sirhind club. When we were about to take lunch, Ashok Kumar, who we later found is a DIG Vigilance, in an inebriated condition, and without any provocation started abusing me and my family, and also threatened me of dire consequences. He said he is DIG Vigilance and nobody could harm him. He also made obscene gestures at me,” Kapil Vij alleged in his complaint. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Ambala Cantonment, Ram Kumar, said: "A case was registered under Sections 323, 294 and 506 of the IPC at Ambala Cantonment police station on Sunday night. We are trying to recover video footage of the incident. The matter is being investigated."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-dig-booked-following-complaint-by-anil-vijs-brother-209569
