10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana announces exemption in motor vehicle tax to autos, cabs operating in NCR||The Haryana Government on Wednesday decided to grant exemption in motor vehicle tax to auto rickshaws and taxis operating within the Delhi-national capital region (NCR).To encourage sportspersons, especially those who are economically weak but have qualified for the Olympic Games, the government will be providing them a grant of Rs 5 lakh as "preparation money" for better diet, training and capacity building, read an official statement.The decisions were taken during a meeting of the state cabinet held here under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.The exemption in motor vehicle tax was granted as per the contract carriage permit issued by the NCR states other than Haryana under the reciprocal common transport agreement (contract carriage), the statement added.At present, auto rickshaws and taxis registered in Haryana and having contract carriage permits under the RCTA are not required to pay tax while entering and operating in NCR states – Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi – with Haryana being an exception.It will ensure seamless movement of cabs and auto rickshaws in the NCR and provide better and efficient transport services to people, it said.“The decision aims to grant similar exemption in the motor vehicle tax by Haryana to auto-rickshaws and taxis operating within NCR as per contract carriage permits issued by the NCR states other than Haryana – that is Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and NCT of Delhi," read the statement.“Thus, no tax will be charged from such vehicles of other NCR states having contract carriage permits under the NCR reciprocal common transport agreement while entering and operating in Haryana,” it said.     The Cabinet also decided to create a separate cadre to promote sports in the state.For this, 50 posts of group-A (deputy director), 100 posts of group-B (senior coach), 150 posts of group-B (coach) and 250 posts of group-C (junior coach) have been sanctioned.The Cabinet also approved the proposal of the cooperation department for providing the state government guarantee for availing a term loan of Rs 113.03 crore by the HAFED from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development to construct 2.72 lakh MT capacity warehouses at 16 locations in eight districts to further strengthen storage system in the state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-announces-exemption-in-motor-vehicle-tax-to-autos-cabs-operating-in-ncr-210543
10-02-2021||Satya Prakash||Yamuna pollution: SC issues notice to Jal Shakti Ministry, DJB, others||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, February 10The Supreme Court has issued notices to the Ministry of Jal Shakti, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) and municipal bodies of Faridabad, Prayagraj, Agra and Aligarh on cleaning of the Yamuna which remains polluted with high ammonia content.The order came from a Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde which had on January 13 taken suo motu cognisance of the matter after the DJB alleged that water containing high pollutants was being released in the river from Haryana.The top court – which has already issued notice to Haryana Government on the issue – posted the matter for hearing after four weeks in view of a letter circulated by advocates-on-record for the parties seeking adjournment.On January 19, it had asked for a report from a National green Tribunal (NGT) committee on improving the water quality of the Yamuna and the action taken on its recommendations after amicus curiae and senior advocate Meenakshi Arora said the NGT-appointed panel has been monitoring the cleaning of the river.The NGT had in July 2018 set up a monitoring committee comprising its former expert member BS Sajwan and former Delhi chief secretary Shailaja Chandra on the Yamuna cleaning and asked it to prepare an action plan.The court had taken suo motu cognizance of the matter after the DJB pointed out that the water released by Haryana into the Yamuna had pollutants, including high ammonia content which becomes carcinogenic after mixing with Chlorine.The DJB usually halts water supply in Delhi after the ammonia content in water rises. It has moved the court seeking a direction to Haryana to ensure that pollutant-free water was released in the river. They have to keep an ammonia treatment plan in Haryana and even the National Green Tribunal had said their STPs are not working at Sonepat which is upstream, Arora had said.Maintaining that pollution-free water is a fundamental right which a welfare state is “bound to ensure”, the Bench had asked the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to submit a report identifying municipalities along the Yamuna which had not installed sewage treatment plants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamuna-pollution-sc-issues-notice-to-jal-shakti-ministry-djb-others-210532
10-02-2021||New Delhi||19-year-old man held from Faridabad for harassing over 50 girls, women on social media: Police||A 19-year-old man was arrested form Faridabad for allegedly harassing more than 50 girls and women by stalking them on social media platforms through a fake identity and morphing their pictures, police said on Wednesday.The accused, Rahim Khan, studied up to Class 8 and was engaged in operating various morphing mobile applications, they said.The police said the accused harassed more than 50 girls and women after stalking them over various social media platforms. He used to send them messages with sexual connotations on these platforms using a fake identity of a woman.The accused even targeted minors by morphing their pictures.Khan was arrested after a complaint was received at the RP Puram police station on Tuesday from one of the victims, who alleged that an unknown person was sending her morphed pictures to her from the Instagram handle “ch_rahim_khan786” and further demanding nude pictures, according to the police.Based on technical inquiry and details obtained from Instagram, a Cyber Cell team of southwest district traced the location of the accused. Khan was nabbed from his house in Haryana’s Faridabad, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said. During interrogation, Khan confessed to his involvement in the crime and told the police that he had victimised over 50 girls and women across the country for personal satisfaction, the officer said.The police have recovered incriminating evidence including chat details, video clips and photographs of various women from Khan’s mobile phone.Further investigation is underway, the police said, adding that efforts are being made to contact the other victims. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/19-year-old-man-held-from-faridabad-for-harassing-over-50-girls-women-on-social-media-police-210486
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Over 600 brick kilns in Haryana’s NCR face closure based on CPCB recommendations||Over 600 brick kilns in Haryana’s NCR region face closure after an expert committee of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has recommended allowing only brick kilns with Zig-Zag technology to operate.The brick kilns facing closure use Fixed Chimney Bull Trench Kiln (FCBTK) Technology, which causes more air pollution. Zig-Zag technology-based kilns, on the other hand, meet air quality norms, according to the expert committee.The report of the expert committee, dated February 9, has been submitted to the National Green Tribunal (NGT).There are 2,163 brick kilns in the NCR region of Haryana, out of which 1,543 (71.3 per cent) have converted to Zig-Zag technology while the other 620 use the old technology.In Uttar Pradesh (UP), 1,024 have converted to the new technology out of 2,215 (45.2 per cent) and in Rajasthan, the figure is 216 out of 255 (84.7 per cent).The five-member committee, constituted by the CPCB on NGT’s directions, says the “permission to operate the brick kilns in the winter months must be subjected to the restrictions” to control the concentration of particulate matter in the ambient air environment of Delhi NCR.It calls upon the CPCB to develop a methodology for conducting stack emission monitoring in zig-zag brick kilns at the earliest and recommended for organising training programmes on standard operating practices.It has also suggested for installing one night-vision CCTV camera focused on the exit of brick kilns stack with connectivity to the state pollution control boards and CPCB, to ensure visual monitoring of smoke emissions, and also a requisite number of ambient air quality monitoring stations (AAQMS) in all the districts.  The NGT is hearing a case for closure of brick kilns in the NCR. Earlier, the CPCB had told the NGT that brick kiln industry contributes about 5 per cent and 7 per cent PM10 emissions in winter and summer respectively, in the ambient air of Delhi and NCR.On October 15, 2020, the NGT had rejected the applications of owners for the vacation of interim order against the operation of brick kilns, without air quality assimilative capacity permitting such activity.It had clarified that the object of the order was not to stop any legitimate business activity “but to enforce the right to breathe fresh air which is right to file”. It had directed the expert committee to find solutions to make brick kilns sustainable.The committee had found tunnel technology-based brick kilns costlier to operate. Though the European brick industry, after the Second World War, and even China and Vietnam in the 1970s had shifted to this technology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-600-brick-kilns-in-haryanas-ncr-face-closure-based-on-cpcb-recommendations-210462
10-02-2021||Sanjay Yadav||4 Rohtak STF cops suspended for 'shooting' man in Charkhi Dadri taking him for a criminal||Gurugram, February 10Four STF policemen were suspended on Tuesday and one of them also arrested for allegedly killing a man in an encounter in Charkhi Dadri on Sunday, taking him for a criminal.An FIR has been registered at Charkhi Dadri where police arrested one of the STF men, constable Harender, who allegedly shot the man.Gurugram STF SP Virender Vij said a departmental inquiry had also been initiated, which would be conducted by DSP Pradeep Kumar of STF.He said Rohtak STF team incharge Hitender Kadiyan, ASI Ranbir Singh, and constables Sachin and Harender had been suspended while constable Harender had also been arrested.“This was unfortunate as the cops were chasing a black Alto car in connection with a murder in Rohtak. They had strong leads. How come an innocent man was caught in this is shocking,” Vij said.The deceased was identified as Binder, 27, a resident of Gaushala Mohalla, Charkhi Dadri, who was a Canter driver and father of one-year-old son.On Sunday, Binder was riding his black Alto car with friends Chotan and Dinesh at the Mahendergarh toll booth. Meanwhile, a car arrived there and its occupants opened fire on their car. Binder took a bullet in the neck and died on the spot.On Tuesday, it was revealed that Binder was killed by the STF Rohtak team while they were chasing criminals who were riding a black Alto car.Binder’s father Krishan Kumar said, “He was the only breadwinner of the family. We are not convinced by the police theory of a mistaken identity and want a thorough inquiry into the case and punishment for the erring cops.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-rohtak-stf-cops-suspended-for-shooting-man-in-charkhi-dadri-taking-him-for-a-criminal-210430
10-02-2021||Gurugram||Only 10 per cent of construction and demolition waste being treated in Gurugram||Gurugram manages to only treat 10 per cent of its average daily collection of Construction and Demolition (C and D) waste, leading to increasing heaps of untreated waste at collection points.With a channelised collection mechanism in place around 3,000 metric tonnes of construction and demolition waste is being collected daily while only a maximum of 300 metric tonnes of waste is treated at the sole treatment plant in Basai.The situation worsened with around nine lakh tonnes of legacy waste that has accumulated over the years.Out to tackle the issue the MCG is planning yet another treatment plant which will reduce the collection and treatment deficit and help in dealing its biggest civic crisis of C and D waste disposal.“We have a proper collection mechanism in place where people are proactively calling for waste collection but the treatment speed is yet to match this efficiency. We are mulling on setting up another plant with an increased output which will smoothen the C and D waste management of the city. We will soon be issuing tenders,” revealed a senior MCG official.The MCG has also been purchasing recycled aggregates from its Basai plant and plans to start manufacturing its paver blocks, for use in pavements and bicycle tracks, from October 2020 and a new treatment the plant would provide more raw material.Amidst the Covid crisis, Gurugram Municipal Corporation, led by commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, went ahead dealing with its oldestcivic issue—illegally disposed of construction and Demolition waste.Hiring a professional agency the authority went on clearing city’s empty plots, green belts and Aravali area of C and D waste which had been lying there since many such years. The Corporation managed to collect around 6 lakh metric tonnes of construction and demolition (C&D) waste from across the city the highest for not just for district till date but entire NCR. The sluggish pace of treatment however seems to be defeating what promises to be a perfect C and D disposal plan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/only-10-per-cent-of-construction-and-demolition-waste-being-treated-in-gurugram-210424
10-02-2021||Deepender Deswal||Covid crisis almost over, resume local trains, demand commuters||Tribune News ServiceHisar, February 9Since passenger train services are not yet operational, thousands of commuters who used to travel by these trains daily prior to the Covid pandemic are facing problems.Other transport services cost thriceCommuters said in the absence of local train services, the lower-middle class and poor sections of society were worst hit as they had to avail buses and other transport services, which are almost three-time costlier than the train services.On clearance, More trains to start operationsMore trains will start operations as soon as the Railway Board gives clearance.— YS Sharma, Spokesman, Indian railwaysAccording to railway officials in Hisar, there are 60 trains which used to offer services to the commuters daily in Hisar district. However, while 16 trains (mostly express train services), have resumed operations, remaining 44 are still suspended.The local passengers require the services of passenger trains to commute from nearby towns and villages to the cities. Hisar district has 11 railway stations, including one junction – Hisar. However, no trains halt at other railway stations located in Adampur, Uklana, Barwala, Chirod, Raipur, Dhansu, Mayyar, Nyoli Kalan, Jakhod Khera and Satrod. So, these stations are lying almost redundant as there is no footfall of commuters.The commuters said in the absence of the local train services, the lower-middle class and poor sections of the society were worst hit as they had to avail buses and other transport services, which are almost three-time costlier than the train services.Though the long-route express trains and some passenger trains which were turned into express trains, including Amritsar, Ajmer, Hardwar-Bikaner, Ganganagar-Rewari, Delhi–Bhatinda etc. have started operations, but these trains do not halt at local stations.Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Jakhod Khera village rued that he used to take the train to commute between Hisar and his village by paying less but now, he has to shell out three times more to visit Hisar. “Not only the passengers, the closed train services have also affected local businesses like that of tea-sellers and shops near the railways stations”, he said while demanding that since the Covid crisis is almost over, all the train services should be resumed now.An Indian Railways spokesperson YS Sharma said the train services were being resumed as per the clearance and instructions of the Railway Board. “More trains will start operations as soon as the Railway Board gives clearance”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-crisis-almost-over-resume-local-trains-demand-commuters-210224
10-02-2021||Nitish Sharma---||Ambala wants 26 trains restored||Tribune News Service Ambala, February 9 The Ambala division of the Northern Railway has proposed to restore 26 passenger trains that cover the entire division to facilitate the local passengers and increase fare revenue of the Railway. Due to Covid, the passenger trains were stopped last year. As per information, the division has sent a proposal to the headquarters to restore operations of 26 passenger trains having high occupancy figures (from 67 per cent to 111 per cent occupancy figures). However, like the mail express, superfast and other premium trains, only the passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed to travel in the trains. A railway official said the passenger trains were much popular among the people who travel on local routes, daily passengers and also for the labour class as these are much cheaper as compared to mail express or superfast trains. Besides, there are several small stations where only the passenger trains make a halt. In its proposal, the division has mentioned that due to the Covid crisis, the train operations were completely paralysed but now that the nation is heading towards normalcy there is a need to restore trains, particularly passenger trains, for the convenience of daily commuters, including students, businessmen, employees and labourers.  As per information, Saharanpur-Ambala Cantonment (64501), Saharanpur-Una Himachal (64511), Bathinda-Ambala Cantonment (54552), Nangal Dam-Ambala Cantonment (64514), Kalka-Saharanpur (54304) up to Delhi, Mohanpura-Ambala Cantonment (54758) from Shri Ganganagar, Doraha-Ambala Cantonment (74646) from Jalandhar city, Kalka-Shimla (52457), Bathinda-Fazilka (54559), and Firozpur Cantonment to Bathinda (54564) are among the trains proposed for restoration. A senior official said, “At present limited mail express and superfast trains are being run but we have sent a proposal to the headquarters for the restoration of some passenger trains that have high occupancy figures. The selected trains cover the entire division hence the restoration of trains will facilitate the local passengers throughout the division and generate fair revenue for the Railway.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-wants-26-trains-restored-210225
10-02-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Two employees among 3 held for Gurugram warehouse theft||Gurugram, February 9 The Gurugram police have nabbed three persons for allegedly stealing goods worth Rs 35 lakh from a warehouse of a transport company. They committed the crime while they worked in the company.  The police have recovered Rs 9 lakh from the possession of accused and are interrogating them.  Two main accused identified as Rakesh Kumar of Rewari and Shahid of Gurugram were nabbed on February 2 and the police took them on five-day police remand. On Monday, the police nabbed the third accused, Jahid of Delhi. The police have recovered Rs 3 lakh from Rakesh and Rs 6 lakh from Shahid.  According to the complaint filed by Dinesh Puri, area manager of Safeexpress Private Limited, 1,872 pieces of autocatalyst were stolen from the warehouse of the company located in Binaula village on January 6. Shift in charge Rakesh Kumar and machine operator Shahid had stolen the items and both stopped coming to the duty from January 8. An FIR was registered and the police nabbed them and the third accused, who purchased the stolen items from them.  “We are questioning the accused and hope anyone else involved in the crime will be nabbed soon,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-employees-among-3-held-for-gurugram-warehouse-theft-210226
10-02-2021||---||Two nabbed for youth’s murder||Faridabad, February 9 With the arrest of two persons, the crime branch of the local police has claimed to solved the murder case, wherein the partially burnt body of a 25-year-old youth was recovered from Trikha Colony at Ballabgarh in  the district on February 3. According to the police, Manish and Sagar, hailing from Sector 3 and Trikha Colony, respectively, had killed Sagar alias Datu by hitting a brick on his head on the night of February 2. A police official said the reason behind the murder was a quarrel between the accused and the victim after they had consumed liquor. According to the police, the three were friends and used to consume liquor together. The victim, who was hit on the head, died on the spot. His body was put in a wooden kiosk and set afire. The body was recovered on the morning of February 3 after someone informed the police. The police identified and nabbed the culprits on basis of inputs from the spot and CCTV footage collected from the area on February 6, said SI Anil Kumar, the investigating official. He said the two accused, after two-day police custody, were remanded in judicial custody today. Some clothes and bicycle used while committing the crime had been recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-nabbed-for-youths-murder-210227
10-02-2021||Karnal||Criminal killed in encounter||Wanted criminal Ikram was killed in an encounter with the Karnal police in Bhainswal village in Sonepat on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. He was wanted in a murder case and had a reward of Rs 25,000 on his head.  He was convicted and sentenced to 10 years in an attempt-to-murder case of 2015 registered at Gharaunda police station, said Vijay Deswal, DSP, Karnal. Ikram alias Machhar was also wanted in a case of robbery registered at Panipat, he maintained. Ikram and his accomplice Sanjid allegedly killed Mashuk Ali of Balhera village in November 2020. Sanjid was arrested earlier but Ikram was absconding. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/criminal-killed-in-encounter-210228
10-02-2021||---||Won’t allow our land to be grabbed: Tikait||Pehowa, February 9Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait today said farmers were under debt because of wrong policies of the government. Addressing a kisan ‘mahapanchayat’ at the Gumthala Garhu grain market in Pehowa, he said conspiracies were being hatched to weaken the farmers’ agitation, but they would not let them grab land.Punjabi Singer to return awardPunjabi singer Rupinder Handa announced that she would return the Lok Gayika Award, handed over by CM Manohar Lal Khattar in 2017.“Kurukshetra is the land of justice and struggle. We have to struggle for future generations. Attempts are made to demoralise us. Youth were misguided and taken to Red Fort. The government tried to divide us, but we should stay strong. We all are small farmers,” he said.“There is a need to strengthen the agitation. We will win this fight with dignity. There is not a single weak link in the agitation,” he said. He called upon the youth to strengthen their connection with their land. On the arrest of Deep Sidhu, he said the incident should be probed.Seeking the support of khap panchayats, Tikait said these had always fought against injustice. He said farmer leaders would visit Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and other states to motivate farmers to participate in the agitation.Karnal: Rakesh Tikait on Tuesday reacted strongly to the statement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, referring to protesting farmers as “andolanjivi”.He said if Bhagat Singh was an “andolanjivi”, so were they. He was addressing farmers at the Bastara toll plaza. Taking a dig at MPs and MLAs, he said their salaries had increased manifold, but MSP was not increased in the same manner.He appealed to farmers to continue their support to the agitation. “I appeal to you to continue your support to the protest at the Delhi borders and send support there,” he said.He said they had given an ultimatum till October 2 to the government and would decide the future course of action thereafter.Tikait appealed to consumers and traders to support the protest. “If these laws are implemented, the prices of agricultural produces will rise manifold. We are not fighting just for farmers, but for the common man and traders as well,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-allow-our-land-to-be-grabbed-tikait-210229
10-02-2021||---||Sops for mining contractors||Chandigarh, February 9After considering difficulties faced by the mining sector due to the Covid pandemic, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has announced to waive the dues on account of contract money/dead rent and Rehabilitation and Restoration (R&R) fund for the period from March 25, 2020 to April 19, 2020 for all such mineral concession holders who were operating mines at the time when lockdown was imposed.Post-covid stepsKhattar, who presided over a meeting with mining contractors here today, said the same would be subject to the condition that the proportionate production for the said 26 days was reduced from approved capacity.Mines and Geology Minister Mool Chand Sharma was also present at the meeting.The CM further said interest on non-payment of pending dues, if any, pending as on March 24, 2020 for the period 26 days would also be waived as a one-time relief package.He said mining contractors in case of seeking surrender (unconditional request) of lease/contract would be allowed the same subject to the condition that they submit an application with no-dues certificate up to the calendar month and also pay surrender fee equal to one-month dead rent/contract money. However, such surrender fee would be equal to two months dues in case applications are submitted during June 1 to September 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sops-for-mining-contractors-210230
10-02-2021||---||3 more farmers die||Sonepat, February 9Three more farmers died during the protest today. A 39-year-old farmer of Sewah village in Panipat was found dead in a tent at the Singhu border this morning. The police suspected that he died of heart attack.One of them died of heart AttackThe deceased, identified as Harender Singh of Sewah village, had been putting up at the Singhu border for the past 12 days.Another farmer died in hospital this evening. The deceased was identified as Darshan Singh (71) Roli village in Moga district. He had been putting up at a protest site near Rai village for the past 26 days.Harender went to bed in his tent after dinner last night, but did not wake up this morning. Other farmers in his tent tried to wake him up, but he did not respond. They called a doctor, who declared him dead.Virender Singh, brother of the deceased, said Harender had been active during the farmers’ protest for the past two and a half months.The police sent his body to the General Hospital for postmortem examination. The body was handed over to his kin after postmortem examination.Kundli SHO Ravi Kumar said prima facie, heart attack was the probable reason for the death, but the cause would be known after the viscera report.Sewah sarpanch Khushdil Kadyan said scores of village residents and some protesters were present during the cremation. Survived by two sons, he owned half-acre land.Meanwhile, Darshan’s son Jagjeet Singh told the police that the condition of his father deteriorated in the evening. They took him to the General Hospital, where he died during treatment.Rai SHO Vivek Malik said the body was kept at the hospital and the postmortem examination would be conducted tomorrow.Jhajjar: A farmer died at the PGIMS in Rohtak on Tuesday. He was identified as Bijendra (57) of Chhara village in Jhajjar district. He was hospitalised on January 16 after his condition deteriorated at the Tikri border.Before that, he had been camping at the Tikri border since the agitation began.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-more-farmers-die-210231
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Can’t have recruitment on basis of ‘tailor-made’ ad: HC||Acting on a petition alleging that a tailor-made advertisement was issued to re-employ retrenched physical training instructors as sports and school special assistants, the High Court today directed that recruitment would not be initiated on the basis of the advertisement. Justice GS Sandhawalia made it clear that the order would remain in operation till further orders, while issuing notice of motion to Haryana and another respondent for March 18. The direction came on a petition by Jangir Singh and other petitioners through counsel Vivek Khatri. Appearing before the Bench, Khatri contended that the advertisement, attached with public notice dated January 25, was issued pursuant to directions issued by the court in another petition decided on January 15. Describing it as tailor-made, he referred to minimum age limit of 18 years and maximum of 57 years and condition of experience in physical training, for which marks for every year, subject to a maximum of 60, were to be awarded. It was submitted that the instructors had served for 10 years before their selection was set aside on September 11, 2012, and as such, only one mark was to be given for every year, subject to maximum of 10 marks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cant-have-recruitment-on-basis-of-tailor-made-ad-hc-210233
10-02-2021||Hisar||Now, fly from Hisar to Dharamsala, Dehradun||The startup, which launched an air taxi under the Centre’s ‘Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik’ scheme from Hisar, has started flights to Dehradun and Dharamsala. The Director General of Civil Aviation has approved the flight schedule. Now, three flights will take off from Hisar daily — one each to Chandigarh, Dharamsala and Dehradun. The Chandigarh flight is scheduled at 2.30 pm. The plane for Dharamsala and Dehradun will take off at 10.30 am and 4.50 pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-fly-from-hisar-to-dharamsala-dehradun-210234
10-02-2021||---||Haryana Congress to hire 10K social media ‘warriors’||Chandigarh, February 9  The state Congress today launched a “Join Congress Social Media” campaign, aiming to hire 10,000 “warriors” to fight “hate”. “The BJP has a paid ‘troll army’. They are masked people who peddle lies. The Congress, on the contrary, will have real people who will connect with citizens,” state party chief Kumari Selja told the media here. She added, “Those who enroll for the campaign will be given basic training. They will be given responsibility according to their level of understanding of social media.” Vivek Bansal, state in-charge of the Congress, said: “Today, the democratic values are in danger. The democracy allows citizens to protest, but the Centre’s attitude towards protesting farmers raises a lot of questions.” To a query on meek responses by the Congress to the ruling party on several issues, Bansal said, “There is a team of TV channels that don’t broadcast protests by the Congress.” When asked why he and Selja were absent when CLP members marched to the Governor’s residence last week, Bansal admitted that it was an anomaly. “I had received a message about the march, but I saw it later. You will see more coordination now. There is no factionalism. We all are on good terms.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-congress-to-hire-10k-social-media-warriors-210235
10-02-2021||---||Haryana board exams for Class X, XII from April 20||Hisar, February 9The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH), Bhiwani, has announced to hold the examinations of Class X and XII from April 20.50% questions will be MCQThe board had revised the mode of examination, according to which, 50 per cent of the questions will be multiple choice questions (MCQ) and the time has also been reduced to two-and-a-half-hours instead of standard three hour for taking the examinationBSEH chairman Jagbir Singh said on Tuesday that they had revised the mode of examination as 50 per cent of the questions would be multiple choice questions (MCQ) and the time had also been reduced to two-and-a-half hours instead of three-hour time limit for the examination.On the lines of the Central Board of School Education (CBSE), the BSEH had reduced the syllabus for Class IX to XII for the current academic session in the schools to ease pressure on the students. Thus, the questions will be asked from the rationalised syllabus in the papers.The chairman said the examination schedule had been postponed by nearly one and a half months and would begin from April 20 and conclude on May 31. He said the practical examinations would be conducted before the written examinations.The board had cut the syllabus by 30 per cent in view of the Covid-19 pandemic in August 2020 as the schools remained shut for most of the time and later the studies were resumed in online mode.The chairman maintained that the state government had suggested to rationalise the syllabus after which the board discussed the matter with the experts of the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and principals and lecturers of the schools and colleges.He said the reduced syllabus would ease the pressure on the students as well as teachers. “We hope that the students and teachers will be comfortable with the cut in syllabus in absence of regular schooling on account of closure of schools,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-board-exams-for-class-x-xii-from-april-20-210236
10-02-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Factory owners, retailers switch to food business||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, February 9The lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid has spelt doom for a number of businessmen.Many local businessmen have been forced to close down their ventures and look for jobs and other sources of income to make ends meet.Several others have switched over to businesses involving food and medical services, which did not bear the brunt of the pandemic-induced lockdown.For instance, Pankaj Dhamija, a Rohtak-based businessman who runs a school uniform manufacturing unit as well as a retail showroom, has opened an eating joint to ensure regular income.“The schools and related sectors — like the uniform industry — were among the worst-affected ones during the lockdown. Children did not require uniforms as the schools remained closed. Most of our workers, who were from Bihar, went back to their native places as there was no work. The business has nosedived as there is no demand for uniforms. Hence, we have turned to food business,” says Dhamija.Pawan Setia, who used to run an outlet of gift items, joined hands with Dhamija for the eating joint after he had to shut his gift shop which did not make any considerable sales during the Covid era.“The government has not come forward to support the businessmen who suffered massive losses during the lockdown. The small and medium enterprises should get some bailout package or at least low-interest loans to emerge out of the crisis,” maintains Dhamija.Gulshan Dang, state president of Jan-Udyog Vyapar Sangathan, has urged the government to take some effective steps to help the businessmen who have been struggling to keep afloat during the unprecedented situation owing to the Covid pandemic and lockdown imposed due to it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/factory-owners-retailers-switch-to-food-business-210237
10-02-2021||Yamunanagar||Social crusader Jain dies at 94||Padma Bhushan awardee and social crusader Darshan Lal Jain (94) died at his house in Jain Nagar of Jagadhri on Monday. He is survived by two sons and two daughters.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar visited Jain’s residence at Jagadhri yesterday and expressed condolences to the bereaved family members.The President had awarded him ‘Padma Bhushan’ for social work at Rashtrapati Bhawan in New Delhi on March 16, 2019. RSS veteran Jain had made vital contribution in the freedom movement of the country, in the fields of education and social services, especially in the rejuvenation of the Saraswati river.According to the information, he was a founder secretary of DAV College for Girls, Yamunanagar; Geeta Niketan Residential School, Kurukshetra; founder member of Saraswati Vidya Mandir, Jagadhri; and Nand Lal Geeta Vidhya Mandir in Tepla village of Ambala district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/social-crusader-jain-dies-at-94-210238
10-02-2021||Ambala||Suspended, DIG gets interim bail till Feb 16||Even as the court of Additional Sessions Judge Sundeep Singh granted interim bail to DIG (Vigilance) Ashok Kumar till February 16 in a case of voluntarily causing hurt, obscene act and criminal intimidation, the DIG has been placed under suspension.The order issued by Additional Chief Secretary for Home Rajeev Arora stated that the headquarters of Ashok Kumar would be in the office of RTC, Bhondsi, Gurugram. He was booked on a complaint by Kapil Vij, brother of minister Anil Vij, after the two had a face-off at the Sirhind Club on Sunday.The court asked the DIG to join investigation within three days. His counsel contended that no violent act was committed by the petitioner. The counsel placed on record four photographs, three showing the petitioner not consuming liquor and the fourth showing the complainant seated with liquor in front of him.The public prosecutor, assisted by counsel for the complainant, contended that since the petitioner was DIG, he was likely to misuse his power and position, and prayed for dismissal of the bail application.The court, in its order, said as both parties were equally influential and there was no likelihood of the petitioner absconding, his right to liberty deserved to be protected. The court allowed the instant bail application and directed the investigation officer to report on February 16. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/suspended-dig-gets-interim-bail-till-feb-16-210239
10-02-2021||---||4 more deaths, 16,294 vaccinated||Chandigarh, February 9With two deaths each reported from Rohtak and Palwal, the Covid death tally was pegged at 3,033 in Haryana on Tuesday.Meanwhile, with 16,294 more health workers vaccinated today, the total number of those vaccinated against Covid has gone up to 1,85,902.The state's total case count was pegged at 2,68,600 with 93 fresh cases. Gurugram reported the maximum of 22 cases followed by Panipat (13) and Panchkula (10).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-more-deaths-16-294-vaccinated-210246
10-02-2021||Kurukshetra||KU exams to be held offline||Faridabad varsity offers new courseFaridabad: A value-added course on transmedia storytelling organised by the Department of Liberal Arts and Media Studies (LAMS) of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, here has begun. The inaugural session of the programme was presided over by Vice-Chancellor Dinesh Kumar. Assistant Director of All India Radio, New Delhi, Jainendra Singh and Professor of English in National Law University, Dwarka, and Director of Centre for Endangered languages Prof Prasannanshu Jain were keynote speakers in the inaugural session which was also attended by Registrar Dr SK Garg and Chairperson of LAMS Dr Atul Mishra. Addressing the session, Jainendra Singh focussed on elaborating the concept of transmedia storytelling which is not very popular. He underlined the difference between cross-media and transmedia storytelling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ku-exams-to-be-held-offline-210295
10-02-2021||Parking problem is common at most of the public places in Narwana. People add to the commuters' woes by haphazardly parking their vehicles on the roads and thus blocking the traffic. People find it hard to get a place to park their car||Parking problem in Narwana irks commuters||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaToilets at ambala court complex in bad shapeTHIS photo has been clicked at the office of Revenue Kanungo and Patwarkhana situated at the Court Complex, Ambala City. It is one of the important offices from the point of view that the number of people of all walk of life i.e. farmers, workers, students, women even aged people come here daily to get various reports of land record, income certificates etc. The office under the control of the Deputy Commissioner who is the first commanding authority and also looks after various development programmes, including sanitation. Moreover, two more senior officers i.e. SDM and DRO also have the administrative and functional control over the office. Despite the large number of people visiting the place, two toilets are permanently kept closed for the reason best known to the administration. The doors are jammed and sewerage choked with hard clay. It is due to this reason only that people can be seen urinating in the open. The government has been spending a huge amount of funds but state of cleanliness and required facilities at common places are missing.Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityError on board displayed by HSVPTHIS public notice board displayed by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) at the market area of Sector 8 in Panchkula, erroneously mentions the word “prosecuted” as “prosected”. However, its concerned wing has thus far failed to rectify the position even after being repeatedly informed thereabout. The authorities concerned must get the required amendments made.Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parking-problem-in-narwana-irks-commuters-210296
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to terminate services of 816 art & craft teachers||Nearly 11 years after their recruitment by the Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government, 816 art and craft teachers of the Haryana Education Department are set to lose their jobs in the wake of a Supreme Court verdict.The state government has asked the District Elementary Education Officers (DEEOs) to terminate their services. The recruitments were made in 2010 on the basis of an advertisement issued in June 2006.Sachin Garg of Yamunanagar later moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court alleging irregularities in the selection process. The HC set aside the selections in 2015. A Double Bench of the HC finally quashed the selections on November 10, 2020. Those affected filed a special leave petition (SLP) against the verdict in the SC. The plea was dismissed on December 14, 2020. Haryana Vidyalaya Adhyapak Sangh president CN Bharati alleged the state did not plead the case properly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-terminate-services-of-816-art-craft-teachers-210153
10-02-2021||Kurukshetra||At Kurukshetra ‘mahapanchayat’, Tikait criticises PM’s ‘Andolan-jivi’ remark on protesters||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Tuesday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Andolan-jivi’ (professional protesters) remarks and asked if people like great freedom fighter Bhagat Singh will also be put in that category.Addressing a well-attended ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ at Gumthala Garhu village in Pehowa in this district, a third within a week in Haryana, he said the government should not be under the wrong impression that the protesting farmers will return to their homes without their demands being accepted.Without naming the Prime Minister or using his ‘Andolan-jivi’ phrase, Tikait said, “In Parliament, they are saying these are parjivis (parasites). Was Bhagat Singh who sacrificed his life for this nation a parjivi? What about 150 farmers who died during this agitation? Were they parjivis too? Had they gone to Delhi to agitate and die?”Speaking in Rajya Sabha on Monday, the prime minister had hit out at those behind the farmers’ protests, saying a new “breed” of agitators called “Andolan jivi” has emerged in the country who cannot live without an agitation and the nation should guard against them.Kurukshetra is a land of ‘kranti’ (revolution) and ‘nyay’ (justice) and that is why the ‘mahapanchayat’ is being held here to get justice for the farmers, he said.Tikait also alleged that attempts were being made to divide the protesting farmers on the lines of region and other considerations, and appealed them to reject any such design.“They will try to divide you on Punjab-Haryana lines, as Sikh and non-Sikh, Hindus and Muslims..,” he alleged. “The farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws is nationwide and not limited to Punjab or Haryana.”“We will win this fight,” he declared.Projecting the 40 farmers unions spearheading the agitation as fully united, he said, “We have said we will neither change ‘Panch’ (leader) nor ‘Manch’ (stage).”“We have always said if government has to talk there are 40 representatives they can talk to them, whatever these unions decide will be acceptable to us,” he said.Tikait said the protesting farmers will divide their time between home, fields and the agitation. Every farmer’s family, he said, is required to participate in the stir by sending at least one person at the Delhi border protest sites while other members would continue to work in their fields.He said the protesters are prepared for a long struggle to get the three laws repealed and would visit other states like Maharashtra, West Bengal, Karnataka and Odisha to garner farmers’ support for their struggle.He said that a farmer does not transfer his agriculture land to even his son during his lifetime, how he can give it to the corporates.The BKU leader from Uttar Pradesh has been camping at Ghazipur on the Delhi-UP border as part of a campaign by farmer unions against the central laws enacted in September.“Over the past two days, they have brought this new issue of small farmers, saying this (agitation) is not fight of small farmers but that of big farmers who are coming in tractors,”’ he said, attacking the Centre.He appealed to the farmers to not be misled by such things. He claimed farmers have come under debt “due to wrong policies of the government”.He reiterated that the protesters demanding the rollback of the contentious agri-marketing laws will stay on Delhi’s borders till October 2 and there will not be any compromise on the demands.“Those occupying the seats of power, their purpose is something else...We don’t have to fall in their trap. We have to concentrate on our agitation. No business over hunger will not be allowed in this country,” he said.Rejecting the Centre’s assertions that farm laws were in the interests of farmers, Tikait claimed these legislations will adversely impact not just farmers but other sections too.“The PDS system will be finished, the poor will be impacted. Small traders will be finished, small businesses will be finished and farmers will be destroyed. Only malls and godowns will survive,” he said.Tikait also said while salaries of MPs, MLAs have increased by up to 500 percent over the years, rates of farmers crops have gone up by only 19-23 percent.Meanwhile, singer Rupinder Handa, who was also present at the event, announced to return the ‘Lok Gayika Puraskar’ award given to her by the Haryana government four years ago to protest alleged apathetic attitude of the ruling dispensation towards farmers’ demands.“Internet was suspended, farmers are not being supported. The government which did not respect farmers, I thought there is no point in keeping this award,” Handa told reporters later.Thousands of farmers have been protesting against the three farm sector reform laws enacted by the Centre in September last year. The Centre has been saying these laws will bring in new farming technologies and free the farmers from the clutches of middlemen. The farmers have been rejecting these claims, saying these laws will harm their interest. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/at-kurukshetra-mahapanchayat-tikait-criticises-pms-andolan-jivi-remark-on-protesters-210084
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana DIG suspended, days after spat with home minister Anil Vij’s brother||The Haryana government suspended a deputy inspector general of police on Tuesday, two days after the registration of an FIR against him following a spat with state Home Minister Anil Vij’s brother.A Haryana Home Department’s order said during the period of his suspension, DIG (Vigilance) Ashok Kumar will stay attached to the office of Regional Training Centre at Bhondsi near Gurugram.The Haryana police had earlier registered an FIR against DIG Kumar on the complaint of state home minister’s brother Kapil Vij, accusing the officer of assaulting and intimidating him. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-dig-suspended-days-after-spat-with-home-minister-anil-vijs-brother-210079
