13-02-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak akhara killings: Prime accused held in Delhi||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, February 13Sukhwinder, a prime suspect in the murder of wrestling coach Manoj Malik and four others, was arrested from the Samaypur Badli area of Delhi on Saturday in a joint operation by Delhi Police and Rohtak Police.    Sukhwinder, also a wrestling coach, is being interrogated by the members of the special investigation team (SIT) constituted by the Rohtak Police and will soon be brought to Rohtak on production warrant.Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma said the preliminary investigations revealed that Manoj had terminated the services of Sukhwinder following a complaint by a woman wrestler against him, due to which Sukhwinder developed animosity towards him.Also read: Wrestling coach among 5 killed in firing at Rohtak akharaEarlier, Rohtak Police had constituted an SIT to probe the incident. A reward of Rs 1 lakh had also been announced for information on Sukhwinder, who hails from Baroda village in Sonipat district.Manoj Malik, his wife Sakshi, wrestlers Pooja and Pradeep, and Satish – a coach from Mandothi village – were killed when Sukhwinder reportedly fired at them at an akhara in Rohtak on Friday.Manoj and Sakshi’s four-year-old son Sartaj and one Amarjit were injured in the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-akhara-killings-prime-accused-held-in-delhi-211970
13-02-2021||Jhajjar||As numbers swell at Tikri, farmer leaders  talk strategy||Farmer leaders from Punjab and Haryana on Saturday chalked out strategies to make their next events successful even as farmers’ numbers continued to swell.0“A candle march will be taken out at Tikri on Sunday evening to pay tribute to those personnel who lost their lives in the Pulwama attack in 2019. Besides protesting farmers, people from nearby areas will participate in it. We have also called upon others to take out a similar march in their village and city concerned to express their solidarity with us,” said Joginder Singh Nain, a farmer leader.Nain maintained the birth anniversary of peasant leader Sir Chhotu Ram would be celebrated on February 16. For which, duties had been assigned to the volunteers for contacting the people and ensuring their participation in it. Similarly, a discussion was also held for successfully carrying out ‘Rail Roko’ protest from 12 pm to 4 pm on February 18, he added.     Buta Singh, a farmer leader from Punjab, informed farmers along with local residents would peacefully sit on the rail track at every village on February 18 and they would also address the gatherings for encouraging the villagers to continue their support as it’s a decisive fight against three farm laws which needed to be repealed for protecting the future of farmers.  Meanwhile, the number of protesters rose In Tikri, with people from nearby areas joining. “Average 500 people had been having food at our langar for the past several days but the number suddenly rose to 900 on Saturday a day after the panchayat wherein the BKU leader Rakesh Tikait and other prominent farmer leaders called upon the people to ensure their presence in the protest,” said Gurcharan Singh, a farmer from Manuke Gill village in Moga district (Punjab).The number of Haryana farmers was much more than Punjab, he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/as-numbers-swell-at-tikri-farmer-leaders-talk-strategy-211949
13-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana State Commission for Women's officiating chairperson meets activist Nodeep Kaur at Karnal jail; offers legal aid||The officiating chairperson Preeti Bhardwaj of Haryana State Commission for Women met labour activist Nodeep Kaur on Saturday in Karnal jail.The 24-year-old was arrested by Sonepat police, and sent to Karnal jail.Haryana Women Commission has sought a report from Sonepat SP in the allegations levelled against Noodeep, and her family at Kundli police station. The officiating chairperson said that she offered legal aid, but Nodeep denied.On the other hand, the chairperson of Punjab Women Commission will meet the activist on Monday (February 15).Meanwhile, on Thursday, the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan activist got bail in connection with an alleged extortion case registered at Kundli police station on December 28.But she had to stay in jail as her bail plea was rejected by Sessions Court in another case registered on January 12. Besides, bail plea was pending in another case, which is fixed for February 13.It was pertinent to mention that there were three cases registered against Nodeep of Giadarh village in Muktsar district of Punjab and her associates in Kundli police station, and she was arrested on January 12.The Sonepat police alleged that Nodeep and her associates had resorted to violence and attacked a police team which had gone in connection with the gherao of an industrial unit and manhandling of the staff or management by certain members of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan.The Sonepat police claimed seven of the police personnel, including a woman constable, sustained injuries.After that the police arrested her, and she has been produced before the magistrate and the court has sent her to judicial custody on the same day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-state-commission-for-womens-officiating-chairperson-meets-activist-nodeep-kaur-at-karnal-jail-offers-legal-aid-211932
13-02-2021||Rohtak||SIT to probe killing of 5 Rohtak wrestlers; Rs 1 lakh reward for info on absconding coach||The Rohtak police have constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the murder case of wrestling coach Manoj Malik, his wife Sakshi Malik and three other wrestlers, including a woman, who were gunned down at an akhara on Friday evening here.A reward of Rs 1 lakh has also been announced for information on wrestling coach Sukhwinder of Baroda village in Sonipat district, who is the prime suspect in the murder case. “An SIT comprising two DSPs has been constituted to get to the bottom of the matter, and nab the suspect at the earliest. Concerted efforts are being made in coordination with the police forces of other districts and states,” said Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma while addressing a news conference on Saturday.The SP said the preliminary investigations had revealed that Manoj had terminated the services of Sukhwinder following a complaint from some woman wrestler against him, due to which Sukhwinder developed animosity towards him.Five people, including a wrestling coach and his wife, were killed and two, including the 4-year-old son of the deceased coach, were injured in a firing incident at an akhara.As per sources, Sukhvinder—a wrestling coach from Baroda village—reportedly opened fire at another coach, Manoj, his wife Sakshi, son Sartaj and others.Manoj, Sakshi, and Satisha—wrestling coach of Mandothi village—and wrestling trainees Pooja of Mathura and Pradeep of Mokhra village were killed, while Manoj and Sakshi’s son Sartaj and Amarjit were injured in the firing incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sit-to-probe-killing-of-5-rohtak-wrestlers-rs-1-lakh-reward-for-info-on-absconding-coach-211901
13-02-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Covid period witnesses rise in power thefts in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 13The Covid period in 2020-21 (till December) has witnessed detection of over 59,000 power theft cases in Haryana — which is 35.5 per cent more than the figure for 2019-20 when close to 44,000 cases had come to light.A total of 37,346 cases of power thefts till December of 2020-21 have been detected under the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), which is 50 per cent more than the figure for 2019-20 when 24,904 theft cases were detected.Even in 2018-19, there were 16,273 cases.The DHBVN distributes power in 12 districts of the state.Under the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam, which covers 10 districts, a total of 22,197 cases were detected till December of 2020-21 — which is 16.7 per cent more than the figure for 2019-20 — when 19,025 cases were recorded.In 2018-19, there were 22,746 cases.“Any unauthorised withdrawal of power is considered as power theft. More detection of theft cases reflect efficient enforcement by the UHBVN and the DHBVN,” said Additional Chief Secretary Power PK Das.However, the recovery has been dismal under both power distribution companies.  The DHBVN had imposed a penalty of Rs 126.50 crore in 2020-21 but only Rs 59.65 crore (47.2 per cent) has been recovered.In 2019-20, it had imposed a penalty of Rs 85.34 crore but only Rs 39.16 crore (45.9 per cent) was recovered.Only one-third FIRs lodged by DHBVN have been registered.In 2020-21 (till November), of the 25,635 FIRs lodged by the DHBVN, only 8,552 have been registered.“If the fine is paid, the offence is compounded. Otherwise, the FIRs are registered and courts decide the cases. The recovery will increase in the coming days. During the Covid period, the enforcement by the DHBVN has been quite active — which led to more detection of theft cases,” said DHBVN managing director Dr Balkar Singh.Under the UHBVN, against a penalty of Rs 74.26 crore till December of 2020-21, Rs 36.75 crore (49.5 per cent) has been recovered.In 2019-20, against the penalty of Rs 56.51 crore, Rs 38.90 crore (68.8 per cent) was recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-period-witnesses-rise-in-power-thefts-in-haryana-211884
13-02-2021||New Delhi||Delhi cop hangs self in ambulance after 3 hospitals refuse admission||A 39-year-old Delhi Police sub-inspector ended his life while he was being taken to a hospital in an ambulance, officials said on Friday.The deceased has been identified as Rajbir Singh. He was posted in southeast district lines and was mentally unsound, they said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) RP Meena said, "An information was received that Singh has ended his life by hanging himself with a piece of cloth in a CATS ambulance which was taking him to a hospital for admission from his house."        He had been on leave for five days and was marked absent on Friday morning at District Line, he said.According to the police, Singh called the CATS ambulance from his residence and was taken to the DDU hospital but doctors refused to admit him there.Thereafter, another CATS ambulance took him to the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS) hospital but due to absence of an attendant, doctors refused to admit him here too, police said.Thereafter, the same ambulance took him to Guru Teg Bahadur hospital where doctors asked the ambulance in-charge to get a slip prepared for the medicolegal cases (MLC).   During that time, Singh became aggressive and started running around in the hospital premises. When he insisted on going to IHBAS again, the ambulance in-charge tried to pacify him, a senior police officer said.However, finally when they were heading towards IHBAS again, Singh ended his life inside the CATS ambulance by hanging himself with the help of the curtains and spring wire while the vehicle was still inside the premises of Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, the officer said.Police said an enquiry is being conducted and legal action will be taken accordingly.      Singh, a native of Mahendragarh district in Haryana, was residing in Dwarka with his family. He is survived by his wife and a daughter and his parents reside at his native village. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-cop-hangs-self-in-ambulance-after-3-hospitals-refuse-admission-211874
13-02-2021||The area near the local electricity complaint centre in Sector 8||Cleanliness drive goes for a toss in Panchkula||Authorities should penalise wrongdoersThe reckless dumping of the household ‘malba’ by some errant residents living nearby, (near the newly constructed bus queue shelter) in Sector 8, Panchkula, is a regular feature. This comes at a time when the “Swachh Survekshan Abhiyan” is in full swing across the state. The authorities concerned should penalise the wrongdoers. —Vinayak G, Panchkula.Haphazard parking leads to traffic jamsA lot of people are parking their vehicles daily in a haphazard manner in the Sector 9 market, which is located opposite the Power House Colony, leading to frequent traffic jams. All this is happening under the nose of the police as the Sector-9 police post is situated in this market itself. Necessary action should be taken against those who are parking their vehicles in a haphazard manner. — Rajiv Anand, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cleanliness-drive-goes-for-a-toss-in-panchkula-211717
13-02-2021||Karnal||College excels in Youth Fest||Scholarship portal launchedHisar: RS Bawa, Pro Chancellor, Chandigarh University, on Friday launched an online portal ‘CUCET-2021’, through which students can apply for up to 100% academic scholarship. Bawa said, “Currently, more than 4,000 students from various parts of Haryana are studying at Chandigarh University and the number is increasing every year.” He said, “With the mission to motivate and reward talent among the Indian youth, the CU is offering a golden chance to students to earn scholarships worth Rs 33 crore through ‘CUCET-2021’, which is a national-level entrance-cum-scholarship exam conducted online.” The students can apply at https://cucet.cuchd.in/.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/college-excels-in-youth-fest-211713
13-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Girl thwarts molestation attempt||Gurugram, February 12A 27-year-old youth, identified as Yash Kumar, allegedly tried to molest a seven-year-old girl, who resides in his neighbourhood, at a colony on the Basai road last evening.Since the girl was aware of good and bad touch, she raised the alarm and managed to free herself from his clutches.According to information, the accused, who is a street vendor, offered a chocolate to the girl while she was playing outside her house.He took the girl to his room and allegedly tried to molest her. The police said the accused, who was absconding, had been booked under Section 10 of the POCSO Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/girl-thwarts-molestation-attempt-211712
13-02-2021||---||MBBS student hangs herself in Sonepat||Sonepat, February 12A 22-year-old MBBS first-year student at Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women in Khanpur Kalan reportedly hanged herself at her room in the hostel on Friday.The deceased was identified as Dimpy of Rohtak’s Kheri Sadh village. She had been staying in hostel number 1 of the medical college.SHO Shakuntla said the student’s mother had also been staying in her room. She said they came to the hostel two or three days back. As per information, her mother went to bring some eatables from the canteen when Dimpy reportedly hanged herself from a fan using her shawl.She was reportedly under pressure due to examinations, which were scheduled to start on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mbbs-student-hangs-herself-in-sonepat-211710
13-02-2021||Mukesh Tandon||‘Jalebs’ tickle taste buds of protesting farmers at Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, February 12A stall set up by Sonepat youths offering desi ghee ‘jalebis’ has been the centre of attraction for farmers protesting at the Singhu border for over 50 days. Large-sized ‘jalebs’ have been strengthening bonds between Haryana and Punjab farmers.The stall had been set up by a group of youths from Bhainswan Khurd village of Baroda in the Gohana subdivision over 50 days ago. Between 6,000 and 7,000 farmers had been savouring the ‘jalebis’ every day.Long queues of men and women holding paper plates to get ‘jalebis’ could be seen at the stall every day. The volunteers were having a tough time managing long queues. Two men start preparing ‘jalebis’ in two separate utensils around 10 am and continued till 6 pm.Bhagat Singh of Bhainswan Khurd village said he, along with 10 others, reached the Singhu border on the night of December 20 and set up desi ghee ‘jalebi’ langar.Six or seven tins of desi ghee were being used for preparing ‘jalebis’ and between Rs 45,000 and Rs 50,000 was being spent daily to provide desi ghee ‘jalebis’ for the past over 50 days, he said.He said residents of his village had been visiting the site to fulfil their requirements. People of adjoining villages had started supporting their effort, he added.The number of farmers from Haryana at the Singhu border had gone up after Rakesh Tikait was moved to tears. Only between 5 per cent and 7 per cent at the start of the agitation, they comprised between 45 per cent and 50 per cent of the protesters now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jalebs-tickle-taste-buds-of-protesting-farmers-at-singhu-border-211603
13-02-2021||---||Aiming to bring 40 lakh tractors to farmers’ agitation: Tikait||Jhajjar/Sonepat, February 12Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday said their next target was to bring 40 lakh tractors to the ongoing agitation and organise ‘kisan panchayats’ across the nation to mobilise people in support of their demand for the repeal of the three agricultural laws.The farmer leader called upon the protesters to be ready for a ‘foot march’.Tikait was addressing a gathering during a ‘sarva jatiya kisan majdoor panchayat’ organised by Dalal Khap-84 at the Bahadurgarh-Tikri border.“More kisan mahapanchayats will be organised across the nation to garner support. Farmers will march towards Delhi, if needed,” said Tikait, while holding the government responsible for the Republic Day violence.He called upon the farmers to write “Kisan Karanti Yatra January 26, 2021” on their tractor-trailers to spread the message that they would not go back till their demand was accepted.The BKU leader said the new farm laws would lead to the dismantling of the MSP system and exploitation of farmers from whom big companies would procure produce at cheaper rates and then store in big godowns.Without naming anyone, Tikait said attempts had been made to divide the farmers’ stir. “The agitation is pan-India and not limited to Punjab, Haryana or Uttar Pradesh, as is being projected by some,” said the BKU leader.He said farmer leaders would tour various parts of the country and he would also visit Gujarat soon.Tikait alleged that Gujarat farmers were being told not to lend support to the agitation. “We will soon hold meetings in Gujarat and other states,” he added.The panchayat was attended by a large number of people. Farmer leaders, including Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Dr Darshan Pal, Jagjit Singh Dalewal, Harmeet Qadian and Yudhvir Singh, also attended the mahapanchayat.“So far, 228 protesters have sacrificed their lives during the stir. It is shameful that the government is admitting on the floor of Parliament that it has no plans to extend support to the kin of such ‘martyrs’, said farmer leaders.Charuni said the protesters were ready for a long battle as they were fighting for justified demands. He demanded that there should be the guarantee of procuring the produce at the MSP while provision for punishment should be made if the produce was procured less than the MSP.Charuni said they were working on identifying anti-social elements, who were making efforts to join the agitation in order to spoil it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aiming-to-bring-40-lakh-tractors-to-farmers-agitation-tikait-211604
13-02-2021||Hisar||Minor gangraped,  five arrested||A woman kabaddi player (17) was gangraped by five youths of a Hisar village. All accused were arrested on Friday.A police spokesperson said the victim, a student of Class XI, was taken outside the village by one of the accused, who offered her some intoxicant.The complaint said that one of the accused, Durgesh, had taken a photo of the girl while she was changing her clothes and used to blackmail her with it. The complainant stated that on February 9, Durgesh took her on his motorcycle to the fields where she was given some intoxicant in a drink after which she was raped by five persons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minor-gangraped-five-arrested-211605
13-02-2021||---||High Court notice to Haryana over Nodeep confinement||Chandigarh, February 12Taking suo motu cognisance of emails alleging illegal confinement of Dalit labour activist Nodeep Kaur by the Haryana Police, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued notice of motion to the state.Gets bail in 1 case, yet behind barsThe notice by Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi came on a suo motu case against the state.It was accepted by Additional Advocate General Ranvir Singh Arya before seeking time to file reply or status report.In his detailed order, Justice Tyagi asserted that the matter was treated as criminal writ petition and ordered to be listed on the judicial side under Justice Jaswant Singh’s orders after complaints dated February 6 and 8 were received through email regarding her illegal confinement.Justice Tyagi noted that the complainants did not mention their addresses and other relevant particulars in the complaints. Fixing February 24 as the next date of hearing, Justice Tyagi directed the matter to be shown on the “urgent list”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-notice-to-haryana-over-nodeep-confinement-211606
13-02-2021||---||Ban on sale of chicken, eggs in 10-km radius of Ambala farm||Ambala, February 12Days after samples tested positive for avian flu (H5N8 strain), a ban has been imposed on the sale of birds, eggs and chicken within 10-km radius of a poultry farm at Bichpari village in the Shahzadpur block of Ambala. The farm has been declared as the epicentre of infection by the Ministry of Fisheries and Animal Husbandry.However, there are no birds to be culled as all of them had reportedly died last month and disposed of by the farm owner. Meanwhile, the Animal Husbandry Department claimed it had no information on the disposal of dead birds, following which Naraingarh SDM has ordered an inquiry into the matter and sought a report, besides constituting two rapid response teams to continue intensive surveillance to implement SOPs regarding avian flu.Vikas Saini, an official of the Animal Husbandry Department, said: “Around 15,000 birds had died. Following high mortality, samples were taken from Sumit poultry farm on January 16 and the results arrived from Bhopal on February 4 but it was yet to be notified by the government. There was another farm in the vicinity, with a few thousand birds, and samples were taken from there as well but they tested negative. As per the guidelines, culling is done after the samples test positive but at present, there are no birds in both the farms. The higher authorities have been informed about the situation. And there is no other poultry farm within the radius of 1 km.”Meanwhile, Assistant Poultry Development Officer Devender Dhull said: “The farm has the capacity of 1 lakh birds. The owner informed me that a majority of birds were already dead and he had disposed of the remaining ones before the report arrived. The farm is empty for the last over 20 days. The owner should have informed the department timely. However, the situation is under control and all efforts are being made to prevent and control the spread of flu.”However, the farm owner claimed all birds died within a few days after the samples were taken. He said he was not informed about the status of the results by the department.Naraingarh SDM Vaishali Sharma said: “The departments concerned have been directed to keep a watch and inspect the farms in the area. The owners had closed the farms and got the area sanitised as well. We have also sought a fact-finding report regarding the disposal of birds within a week. As per the department, around 25,000 birds have died. It has been declared as the epicentre of infection by the Ministry of Fisheries and Animal Husbandry.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ban-on-sale-of-chicken-eggs-in-10-km-radius-of-ambala-farm-211607
13-02-2021||---||Jail inmates can now meet kin||Chandigarh, February 12Nearly 11 months after the imposition of the Covid lockdown, prisoners in Haryana jails will be able to meet their family again with a high-powered committee permitting the resumption of ‘mulakaat’ on weekdays.The undertrials and convicts have also been allowed to meet their lawyers every Saturday. No less than 2,580 convicts, released as a part of the process to decongest the jails, will also be re-admitted.Covid curbs easedThe meeting of prisoners with their family was suspended following the Covid outbreak.Following the committee’s nod to resume the process, the undertrials will get to meet their family twice a month. The convicts will be allowed a meeting once a month.The jail authorities have also been directed to take all precautionary safeguards to avoid infection, including the wearing of mask, sanitisation of hands and social distancing during the meetings.The committee has also allowed the jail authorities to transfer the prisoners from one jail to another on security grounds or issues related to the pandemic.The decisions were taken during the committee’s meeting held under the chairmanship of Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge and executive chairman of the Haryana State Legal Services Authority (HSLSA) Justice Rajan Gupta.It was, among others, also attended by Haryana Additional Chief Secretary Rajeev Arora and District and Sessions Judge-cum-HSLSA Member Secretary Parmod Goyal.The committee was constituted at the state-level under the Supreme Court directions. Considering the prevailing situation, the committee has decided to re-admit convicts released on parole following its recommendations in nine phases. It was further decided that the prisoners released on parole/furlough from February 1 should surrender on the expiry of the specified period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jail-inmates-can-now-meet-kin-211608
13-02-2021||Parveen Arora---||Govt nod to Karnal eastern bypass||Tribune News Service  Karnal, February 12 The Haryana Government has given NOC for the construction of eastern bypass to ease the traffic congestion in the city.  It will be constructed at the cost of Rs 1,300 crore and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is preparing its detailed project report (DPR). The authorities claim that the work will commence by June 2021. “The state government has given consent to the project and the NHAI is preparing the detailed project report (DPR). The NHAI has sought NOC for some points, which has also been given by the government,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner. He maintained that after the DPR is ready, the land acquisition process would be started. Eastern bypass is a part of the outer ring road of the city. A portion of the western bypass between Kaithal road and Uchana had already been opened to traffic. It is claimed that work on the second phase of the Western bypass will commence soon.  With both bypasses, an outer ring road will be completed and commuters will get relief as they will not have to come to the city either go to Chandigarh or Delhi. As per the project, the proposed eastern bypass will be of 22 km between Bastara toll plaza and near Oasis Tourist Resort connecting Meerut road, Kunjpura road and Indri road with National Highway-44. Besides, the project will also provide direct connectivity to Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Medical University in Kutail village.  Earlier, the plan was to construct 19.4 km bypass between Madhuban and Uchana along augmentation canal. A large portion of this project was planned along the augmentation canal and around 73 acres was to be acquired, but with the new proposal, around 120 acres is expected to be acquired.  The state government would bear 50 per cent of the land cost which will be acquired. The remaining 50 per cent will be borne by the Union Government, said an official. Eastern bypass is a long-pending project of the residents of the city as the previous Congress government had also announced to construct an outer ring road.  Soon after assuming charge, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced an outer ring road to decongest the city’s roads by constructing two bypasses –- eastern and western.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-nod-to-karnal-eastern-bypass-211609
13-02-2021||Gurugram||Emaar MGF ex-MD, wife booked for fraud||Emaar India has filed a police complaint against its former joint venture partner Shravan Gupta for allegedly cheating the company of Rs 180 crore through an illegal land deal using forged documents.The FIR also names Gupta’s wife Shilpa Gupta, Rakshit Jain, Bishnu Kumar Singh, Prem Ranjan Choudhary, Chandra Bhushan Rai, Rajeev Gupta, MGF Developments Limited and Kayo Developers Private Limited. According to information, the former MD of the joint venture firm Emaar-MGF had also cheated the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) of Haryana by “unfair transfer of land parcels using forged documents”. No official statement has been released by Gupta or any MGF representative so far. Dubai-based Emaar Properties had stepped into the Indian real estate sector in 2005 and launched several projects in Gurugram and other cities . The two partners parted ways in 2016. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/emaar-mgf-ex-md-wife-booked-for-fraud-211610
13-02-2021||---||Arrest Karnal vandals or face stir, warn Dalits||Karnal, February 12Dalits in Phoosgarh on Friday threatened to launch a stir if the upper caste youths accused of assaulting members of their community, vandalising their houses and setting bikes on fire were not arrested by Sunday noon.They demanded compensation for the losses suffered in the attack and security for residents of Valmiki Basti. They initially threatened to leave the village and one resident threatened self-immolation.After a meeting with Deputy Commissioner (DC) Nishant Kumar Yadav and Superintendent of Police SP Ganga Ram Punia, they dropped the idea of leaving the village. The DC and SP said a case had been registered and three accused arrested.“We held held a panchayat and gave an ultimatum to the administration to arrest the accused, failing which we would launch a stir,” said Ram Kumar, a local resident. He had earlier threatened self-immolation if the demands were not met.Mainpal, another member of the community, said they were in fear after the attack. “Around 200 members of the upper caste created a ruckus on Thursday afternoon as our youths had refused to sell liquor and drugs,” he said. The attackers entered their houses and misbehaved with women, he said.“We have registered a case against around 200 persons, including 12 by name. Three accused have been arrested and the remaining will be arrested at the earliest,” said Punia.“All accused will be arrested and compensation provided to the victims as per the law. There is no need to fear anti-social elements. We will ensure law and order in the colony,” said Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arrest-karnal-vandals-or-face-stir-warn-dalits-211611
13-02-2021||Chandigarh||Selja demands release of cane farmers’ dues||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja on Friday demanded the immediate release of the outstanding dues of sugarcane farmers. “Sugarcane farmers in the state have not been paid for their crops even after several months due to which they are suffering,” she said.  Selja said against Rs 105 crore payment by the Naraingarh sugar mill during this season from November till date, only Rs 9.45 crore had been cleared so far. “The situation is similar in other mills of the state and arrears worth crores of rupees have not been paid to farmers. As per the rules, farmers should be paid for their crop within 14 days,” she added. The Congress leader said in the last six years, the BJP government had increased the MSP of sugarcane by just Rs 40 per quintal, whereas the cost of farmers had increased manifold over the years. “From 2005 to 2014, there was a record-breaking increase in the MSP of sugarcane. The Congress government had increased the MSP by Rs 193 per quintal,” she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/selja-demands-release-of-cane-farmers-dues-211612
13-02-2021||Chandigarh||Appointment under High Court lens||The petitioner-advocate, Ravinder Singh Dhull, submitted that the state appointed Pachnanda in complete contravention of Article 319 of the Constitution on “prohibition as to the holding of offices by members of commission on ceasing to be such members”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/appointment-under-high-court-lens-211613
13-02-2021||---||Congress protests fuel price hike||Faridabad, February 12 Congress activists staged a demonstration outside the Mini-Secretariat here today to protest the hike in petrol and diesel prices  and the new farm laws. A memorandum addressed to the President seeking rollback of petrol and diesel price hike and withdrawal of the farm laws was submitted to the district authorities. Addressing the protesters, former MLA Anand Kaushik said policies of the government had resulted in a host of problems for farmers and the common man. Demanding intervention of the President, he said thousands of farmers were on the roads for the past three months, but the government had failed to resolve the issue despite a large number of deaths. He said while lakhs of jobs had been lost and the economy was at its lowest ebb, increase in petrol and diesel prices would increase inflation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-protests-fuel-price-hike-211614
13-02-2021||---||Now, aptitude test part of HCS (prelims) exam||Chandigarh, February 12For the Haryana Civil Service (HCS) examination, the state government has decided to replicate the pattern used by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for conducting the civil services examination.The aptitude test will now form part of the preliminary examination, along with the general studies paper.Sources said the Haryana Civil Service (Executive Branch) Rules, 2008, have now been replaced with the Haryana Civil Service (Executive Branch) Amendment Rules, 2021, incorporating the aptitude test in the preliminary examination.Now, there would be two papers of 100 marks each (objective/multiple choice questions type) in preliminary examination. Questions related to general studies will be asked in Paper-1, while Paper-2 will have the aptitude test. It will be only a qualifying paper with minimum marks fixed at 33 per cent. The result of the preliminary exam will be based only on the marks obtained in the general studies paper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-aptitude-test-part-of-hcs-prelims-exam-211575
13-02-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Wrestling coach among 5 killed in firing at Rohtak akhara||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, February 12Five persons, including a wrestling coach and his wife, were killed while two persons were injured in a firing incident at an akhara in Rohtak late on Friday evening.The injured include the 3-year-old son of the deceased coach.Some enmity amongst wrestling coaches is stated to be behind the incident.Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma said that teams had been constituted to investigate the incident and nab the assailant(s).As per inside sources, Sukhvinder, a wrestling coach from Baroda village, reportedly opened fire at Manoj, his wife Sakshi, son Sartaj and others.Apart from Manoj and Sakshi, Satish, a coach from Mandothi village, Pradeep Fauji of Mokhra village, and Pooja were killed in the incident.Manoj and Sakshi’s son Sartaj and one Amarjit were injured in the shooting.   Police investigators and forensic experts were at the scene of crime, while the injured were undergoing treatment at the time of filing this report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wrestling-coach-among-5-killed-in-firing-at-rohtak-akhara-211492
