14-02-2021||Jalandhar||MC polls Sultanpur Lodhi: Chaos after mob fires in air and pelts stones||A group of men indulged in stone pelting and firing in the air at the Booth No.1 of Sultanpur Lodhi’s Ward No.1 minutes before polling came to an end.At least two people were a mob tried to forcibly enter the booth. Shiromani Akali Dal claims violence broke out when Congress tried to poll “fake votes”, an allegation Congress denies saying they were victims of violence.Akali leaders gathered at the Talwandi Chowk later in the evening to hold a sit-in protest against the violence. SAD leader Sajjan Singh Cheema said: “Things were absolutely peacefully till 3.45 pm, when a group of men started gathering outside the booth. Despite my repeated calls to the SDM, DSP and SHO to report the unusual gathering outside the booth, the crowd kept swelling until a clash broke out”.He claimed a mob tried to enter the booth while police were watching. The mob then turned on other people around.“The police tried to push them after they grew violent and tried to stop them. But they fired in the air and threw stones and bricks at people indulging in hooliganism. Eventually they were pushed back and stopped from entering the booth.”Cheema’s party demands an FIR over the incident.However local police claims it was a clash. The Congress meanwhile claims his party workers were attacked with sticks and spears.Sultanpur Lodhi Congress MLA Navtej Cheema claims that violence boke out when a group of people from a local dera came down and demanded that they should be allowed to cast their votes “despite being from Majha”. This group, he claims, had Akali’s support.“Doaba has been largely peaceful but these bunch of men have disturbed the peace. Our workers didn’t start the violence. They were rather at the receiving end of the violence. They were attacked with sticks and spears. Their turbans were taken off,” he said. “It is very unfortunate that the peace of the ward has been disrupted like this.”Viral videos of the incident show a mob of people pelting stones at passersby. Gunshots are heard in the video while a man with a head injury is still talking. A second video shows policemen being jostled and shoved as they try to control the angry crowd.SHO Harjit Singh, a policeman who was also manhandled, said police had no reports on any firing.“It was a clash between Congress and Akali workers. Two people have been injured in the stone pelting. We are looking into charges of firing. So far we haven’t received any reports on firing. An FIR has not been lodged so far but we are investigating into the matter,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mc-polls-sultanpur-lodhi-chaos-after-mob-fires-in-air-and-pelts-stones-212386
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover above normal in Punjab, Haryana||The minimum temperatures on Sunday hovered above normal limits in Punjab and Haryana.According to the Meteorological department officials here, Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 9.8 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a low of 11 degrees Celsius while Ludhiana and Patiala recorded minimum temperatures of 9.6 and 10 degrees Celsius.Adampur (10.4 degrees Celsius), Halwara (10.6 degrees Celsius), Pathankot (10.9 degrees Celsius), Bathinda (9.8 degrees Celsius), Gurdaspur (7.8 degrees Celsius) and Faridkot (11 degrees Celsius) also recorded above normal minimum temperatures.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a low of 8.4 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature in Hisar was 8.3 degrees Celsius.Karnal (8.6 degrees Celsius), Rohtak (9.8 degrees Celsius), Bhiwani (11.1 degrees Celsius) and Sirsa (9.5 degrees Celsius) too recorded above normal minimum temperatures.According to the Meteorological department, fog engulfed many places in the region including Ambala, Hisar, Karnal, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Faridkot and Gurdaspur on Sunday morning. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minimum-temperatures-hover-above-normal-in-punjab-haryana-212334
14-02-2021||Saurabh Malik---||High Court: Limited scope of interference with employee transfer||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, February 13 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the scope of its interference with the power of an employer to transfer an employee was “very limited”. A plea challenging the action can only be entertained in case the transfer was ordered without jurisdiction with the authority passing the order or it being mala fide. Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi asserted that the order being mala fide was required to be proven on the basis of the specific averments made in the petition. The assertion came after Justice Sethi referred to a judgment by the Supreme Court of India in the case of the “Union of India and another versus Deepak Niranjan Nath Pandit” decided on February 7, 2020. The SC judgment had held that it was within an employer’s domain to transfer an employee and the latter could not claim continuance at a particular place of posting. The SC held that the HC could not dictate to the employer as to where an employee should be posted even during the period of suspension.  The observations came during the hearing of a petition filed by Sandeep Kumar against the State of Haryana and other respondents. The petitioner had moved the court challenging the order dated January 27, whereby the petitioner was transferred from Panchkula HPHC division to Faridabad. The counsel for the petitioner submitted the transfer was on account of mala fide intention of the respondents. Taking up the matter, Justice Sethi asserted: “In the absence of specific pleadings and the impleadment of the officer against whom mala fide is alleged, the bald statement of the petitioner that the order suffers from mala fide cannot be entertained and is accordingly rejected.” Before dismissing the plea, Justice Sethi took note of the petitioner’s submission that his son was to appear in the JEE exam and, as such, he shouldn’t be forced to join at the place of posting at Faridabad before February 28. He said the counsel for respondents submitted he had instructions that the petitioner would be given time up to February 28 to join the new place of posting.  It is made clear that the respondents will be bound by their statement.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-limited-scope-of-interference-with-employee-transfer-212169
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||State to replace ‘Punjab’ with ‘Hry’ in 163 laws||The Haryana Government will bring a Bill in the next session of the state Assembly for replacing the word ‘Punjab’ with ‘Haryana’ in 163 laws.  Earlier, a panel was formed in this regard on the initiative of Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta. The panel has presented its recommendations. CM Manohar Lal Khattar has approved the recommendations, which have cleared the way for passing the Bill in this regard.  After that, Gupta held a meeting with Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan, Secretary Vidhan Sabha Rajender Kumar Nandal and Legal Remembrancer (LR) Bimlesh Tanwar.  “A Bill will be brought in the House session starting from March 5 for replacing the word ‘Punjab’ with ‘Haryana’ in 163 laws,” said Gupta. In a press statement issued by the Assembly, LR Bimlesh Tanwar is of the opinion that there is no legal obstacle in replacing the word ‘Punjab’ with ‘Haryana’ in the laws.   Haryana was carved out of Punjab in 1966. So laws which were in promulgation in Punjab continued in Haryana too.   In 1968, Haryana was allowed to modify these laws as per its requirements and it could remove those laws too, said the statement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-to-replace-punjab-with-hry-in-163-laws-212170
14-02-2021||---||BJP ignoring interests of farmers: Abhay||Kurukshetra, February 13 INLD leader Abhay Chautala on Saturday said the BJP government had been ignoring the interests of farmers and labourers just to benefit corporates.  He was addressing a gathering as part of the ‘Kisan Jan Jagran Abhiyan’ at Kharindwa village of Shahabad on Saturday.  Abhay, who was honoured for resigning from the Assembly in support of farmers, said: “We have launched the ‘Kisan Jan Jagran Abhiyan’. The objective of the campaign is to strengthen the ongoing stir and make farmers aware of the wrong policies and problems they are going to face after the implementation of the three laws. The BJP has been taking anti-farmer decisions. Other senior leaders of the INLD will hold meetings in villages to spread awareness across the state.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-ignoring-interests-of-farmers-abhay-212171
14-02-2021||Karnal||Uneasy calm in Karnal, 10 more arrested||Two days after the alleged vandalism in the houses of Dalits by youths of upper caste, an uneasy calm prevails in Phoosgarh colony in the city.  Residents of Valmiki Basti held meetings on Saturday to decide the future course of action. Meanwhile, the police have arrested 10 more accused, including kingpin Sita Ram, taking the number of arrested accused to 13. On Thursday, Phoosgarh colony in the city turned into a fortress with hundreds of police personnel in place following vandalism in the houses of Dalits.  Their bikes were also vandalised and set on fire. The members of the Dalit community had served an ultimatum for the arrest of the accused till Sunday afternoon and threatened to launch a stir. The residents had claimed that the illegal sale of liquor was the main cause behind the clash between the two groups. DC Nishant Kumar Yadav and Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia had already assured the residents that strict action would be taken against the illegal sale of liquor. The police have registered a case against 200 persons, including 12 by name. The residents of Valmiki Basti held meetings on Saturday and announced to protest on Sunday for the arrest of the remaining accused.  “Meetings were organised in the ‘basti’ today to decide the next course of action if the police fail to arrest all the accused,” said Ajay Kumar, another resident. On the other hand, the police have constituted an SIT headed by DSP City Vijay Deswal to inquire into the incident. Six teams are working on the case.  On Saturday, the police have arrested 10 more accused including the main accused Sita Ram, said the SP. He said that police have been deployed there for the security of the residents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/uneasy-calm-in-karnal-10-more-arrested-212172
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar holds pre-Budget meet with MPs||CM Manohar Lal Khattar has said like last year, the state Budget 2021-22 would be prepared and presented after holding discussions and seeking suggestions from MPs.  Their suggestions and their expectations regarding the development of their areas would be incorporated in the state Budget, said the CM. The CM held a pre-Budget meeting with the state’s Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs at the residence of Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria in New Delhi late on Friday.  Discussion on increasing Haryana’s participation in the Union Budget was also held, the CM said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-holds-pre-budget-meet-with-mps-212173
14-02-2021||Hisar||Selja: Bills were passed despite Cong uproar||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja on Saturday lashed out at the Central Government for passing the three farm Bills despite uproar by the Congress.  “The Congress had objected to the three agricultural Bills when these were introduced, but the Central Government did not listen to it. The government is not concerned about the sufferings of countrymen. Even during the peak Covid period and the lockdown, benefits were extended to capitalists,” alleged Selja while addressing a “kisan sammelan” at Barwala town here.  The Congress leader said the farmers’ agitation was showing a new path to the country and the world. People from all walks of life had extended support to the farmers. She said,”The state of Bihar had enacted agricultural laws in 2006, and today farmers there are working like labourers. Now, the Centre wants to create a similar situation for Haryana and Punjab farmers. The three ‘black laws’ will encourage hoarding and for this, capitalists have already built big warehouses.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/selja-bills-were-passed-despite-cong-uproar-212174
14-02-2021||Mukesh Tandon---||Appear before police with counsel: SKM||Tribune News Service Sonepat, February 13 The legal cell of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday asked farmers, who are getting police notices, not to appear before the force directly and instead approach the legal cell for any assistance. Kuldeep Singh, a member of the SKM’s legal cell, alleged the Delhi Police had implicated innocent youths and other farmers in false cases to sabotage the agitation. He demanded a high-level judicial inquiry into the violence that took place during the tractor parade on January 26 and “false” cases slapped on farmers by the Delhi Police.  Addressing a press conference, convener of the legal cell Prem Singh Bhangu said he along with other members — Raminder Patiala, Kiranjeet Sekhon, Inderjeet Singh, Harpal Singh and Vikas Ishar — visited the Tihar jail on Friday to meet farmers lodged there.  They met Ranjit Singh of Kajampur village in Nawanshahr, who was arrested after the violence at the Singhu border on January 29, and Ranjit Singh of Tataryewala village in Moga district. As many as 11 youths from Tattaryewala village were lodged in the Tihar jail under Section 307 of the IPC, he added.  Bhangu demanded that a retired judge of the Supreme Court or High Court should probe the incident.  Another leader, Raminder Patiala, said the Delhi Police were issuing notices to farmers in Punjab, Haryana and UP under Section 160 of the CrPC and asking them to join the investigation.   Describing it as a trap, he said, “We have come to know that the police are calling farmers by issuing  notices and then slapping false cases on them.”  He again appealed to the farmers not to appear before the Delhi Police directly and instead approach the legal panel. As per information, 122 farmers had so far been arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with 14 of the 44 FIRs registered on January 26. “We have the copies of only 22 FIRs,” he added. Raminder Patiala said eight farmers had been released on bail while two others would be released on Monday. “Now, our priority is to seek the release of the remaining 112 farmers. A panel of 150 advocates is working on it,” the farmer leader added.  According to the legal panel, 16 persons — Haryana (nine), Rajasthan (one) Punjab (six) — are still missing.  The panel has decided to extend monetary help to each farmer lodged in the jail. The money would be deposited in their bank accounts by Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/appear-before-police-with-counsel-skm-212175
14-02-2021||Jhajjar||Farmers strategise for future events||Farm leaders from Punjab and Haryana on Saturday chalked out strategy to make their future events successful.“A candle march will be taken out at Tikri on Sunday evening to pay tributes to the 2019 Pulwama martyrs. Besides farmers, people from nearby areas will take part in it. We’ve also called upon others to take out a similar march in their villages and cities concerned to express their solidarity with us,” said Joginder Singh Nain, a farmer leader.Nain said the birth anniversary of farmer leader Chhotu Ram would be celebrated on February 16. Similarly, a discussion was also held for successfully carrying out the ‘rail roko’ protest on February 18 from 12 pm to 4 pm, he added.Buta Singh, a farm leader from Punjab, said farmers along with locals would peacefully sit on the rail tracks in every village on February 18. They would encourage the villagers to continue their support as it’s a decisive fight against the laws, he added.Meanwhile, more people from nearby areas joined the farmers at Tikri on Saturday. “Average 500 people were eating food at the border for several days but the number rose to around 900 on Saturday, a day after the mahapanchayat wherein BKU’s Rakesh Tikait and other prominent farm leaders called upon the people to ensure their presence in the stir,” said Gurcharan Singh from Moga. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-strategise-for-future-events-212176
14-02-2021||Deepender Deswal||NPCIL chips in to preserve wildlife in 2 Fatehabad villages||Tribune news ServiceHisar, February 13Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL), which is setting up a nuclear power plant in Gorakhpur village of Fatehabad district, has come up with a project to protect and preserve wildlife in Dhangar and Kajlaheri villages of Fatehabad district.The NPCIL is likely to spend Rs 1.35 crore under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) to develop a community reserve area for the protection of engendered species of blackbucks and soft-shell turtles in Dhangar and Kajlaheri villages of Fatehabad district.Rs 1.35 crore to protect turtlesNuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL) is likely to spend Rs1.35 crore under the corporate social responsibility to develop a community reserve area for the protection of engendered species of blackbucks and soft-shell turtles in Dhangar and Kajlaheri villages.The works include sterlisation of dogs and relocation, water supply and sprinkling system for vegetation for preserving blackbucks in Dhangar village. Similarly, it will construct a boundary wall and wire mesh fencing, interpretation centre, disposal of village sewage to safe place and guard hut in Kajlaheri for protection of turtles.A pond spread over five acres on the outskirts of Kajlaheri village is the home of about 200 rare turtles and the residents of this area have been taking care these. Similarly, the area around Dhagar village is a hub of blackbucks. The NPCIL has decided to contribute in developing two spots as per the guidelines of the Haryana Forest and Wildlife Department.The project director of NPCIL, Puneet Pathak, said they had started the work on these two projects — to set up a boundary wall and information centre. He said around Rs 65 lakh would be spent on the turtle project in Kajlaheri and the blackbuck project in Dhangar village is likely to cost about Rs 70 lakh.He said people in the region were wildlife friendly and took keen interest in the preservation and conversation of wildlife.The Gorakhpur Haryana Anu Vidyut Pariyojana (GHAVP), situated in the Fatehabad district of Haryana is proposed to have 4 x 700 MWe PHWR types of nuclear Power Plants at the GHAVP site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/npcil-chips-in-to-preserve-wildlife-in-2-fatehabad-villages-212177
14-02-2021||Hisar||Dalal makes controversial remarks||State Agriculture Minister Jai Prakash Dalal on Saturday made a controversial remark against the farmers, who have died at the Delhi borders. He said they would have died even if they had stayed back home.Addressing a press meet at Bhiwani, Dalal said, “Ye ghar mein hote toh bhi marte”.Trying to justify his claim, the minister said, “You can figure out the average age of people in India and get the data of deaths every year. They have died in the same ratio of deaths,” he said, adding that there were different causes of deaths such as heart failure and ailments. He alleged that the farmers’ agitation was being carried out at the behest of Left activists. He described BKU leader Rakesh Tikait as ‘sadak chhap’, who was “trying to lead the people of Haryana for his vested interests”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dalal-makes-controversial-remarks-212178
14-02-2021||Parveen Arora||Nodeep ‘assault’ case: Women panel seeks report from Sonepat SP||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, February 13Taking cognisance of reports that labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur (24) was “physically assaulted” by Kundli police station staff while in custody, the Haryana State Commission for Women on Saturday sought a report from Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa.Preeti Bhardwaj, officiating chairperson of the commission, who met Kaur in the Karnal jail today, said, “The labour rights activist refused to take legal help offered by us.”She said, “I came here to meet Nodeep after taking cognisance of media reports that she was assaulted in custody. I also inquired about the allegations from her. A report in this regard has been sought from the Sonepat SP,” said Preeti Bhardwaj.Bail plea deferredSonepat: The bail plea of activist Nodeep Kaur in another extortion case was on Saturday deferred by a local court. It was set for hearing on February 15. Jitender Kumar, counsel of Nodeep, said the court deferred the hearing in the extortion case registered against the activist and her associates on January 12. TNSShe added that Kaur was fine and had no issues with the Karnal jail authorities, but her co-inmates complained that she was non-cooperative.Nodeep has been granted bail in an extortion case, but she will have to remain in the jail as she is yet to get bail in two other cases.Preeti Bhardwaj said her Punjab counterpart Manisha Gulati would visit Kaur on Monday. “The jail authorities have been asked to follow proper protocol during her visit to the jail,” she added.On the other hand, the Sonepat SP denied allallegations and said they would soon submit reports to the Haryana and Punjab women commissions.“Nodeep was arrested for extorting money from industrialists. She had even attacked police personnel during the protest,” the SP added.The police official said Nodeep’s medical examination was conducted soon after the arrest. “There are some videos in our possession in which she can be seen creating a ruckus and taking the law into her hands,” the SP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nodeep-assault-case-women-panel-seeks-report-from-sonepat-sp-212179
14-02-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Why accused in land scam not named in challan, court asks CBI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 13The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Special Court, Haryana, has questioned the CBI over leaving out the name of Amit Katiyal, Director of M/s Krrish Builtech Pvt Ltd, from the array of accused in the challan in a Gurugram land release case.The CBI had filed the challan in the case before the CBI Special Court, located in Panchkula, on January 4.CBI Special Judge Jagdeep Singh observed, “It came to the notice of the court that in the challan/chargesheet filed by the CBI, there is specific mention to the effect that ‘In furtherance of criminal conspiracy entered with Amit Katiyal, Director of M/s Krrish Builtech Pvt Ltd, despite having major discrepancies, accused JS Redhu (former Chief Town Planner of Town and Country Planning Department) dishonestly and fraudulently, proposed to seek approval of the government to grant licence to the accused company, by releasing notified land of 130 acres from acquisition proceedings, thereby causing cheating to the related land owners/HUDA/state of Haryana’, but in the array of the accused, the said person, namely, Amit Katiyal has not been arrayed an accused.”He added, “On a pointed query, learned PP (Public Prosecutor of the CBI) could not clarify the position.”The CBI court ordered, “IO/Dy SP Kailash Sahu is directed to file an affidavit specifically mentioning as to how and why and under what circumstances the name of the aforesaid person has not been included in the array of the accused, even though there is categoric mention in the challan about his role in the alleged criminal conspiracy and offences.”Besides Redhu, former Assistant Town Planner Satish Kumar Arora and former Deputy Superintendent Rajbir Singh, both from Town and Country Planning (TCP) Department, are named as accused in the challan along with the firm for cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act.According to the CBI FIR, which also mentioned the names of former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and ACS TC Gupta, many pockets sandwiched between land on which licences were applied, falling under revenue ‘rasta’, ‘nullah’ were proposed for acquisition in Gurugram. The notification under Section 4 of Land Acquisition Act was issued in 2009 for acquisition of 1,417.07 acres situated in Sectors 58 to 63 and 65 to 67 of Gurugram.It allegedly compelled the landowners to sell their land to colonisers at lower price than the price prevalent before the notification.The notification under Section 6 of the Act in 2010 comprised 850.1 acres. Finally, the award was issued for only 85.95 acres. The FIR adds that the release of land to coloniser companies was wholly mala fide, taken with a view to benefit private firms.It was the apex court which had directed the CBI to investigate the case, vide its order dated November 1, 2017.The next date of hearing in the case is March 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/why-accused-in-land-scam-not-named-in-challan-court-asks-cbi-212180
14-02-2021||---||Man held for abetting suicide||Faridabad, February 13The police have nabbed a 46-year-old man in connection with a suicide incident that took place two years ago.Identified as Anil Kumar from Bihar but residing in Dabua colony here was arrested by the police on Friday evening after a tip-off.According to the police complaint, Anil allegedly demanded Rs 5 lakh from the victim, Haridutt, alias Bholu (23), for the marriage of his daughter and provoked him to take the extreme step in 2019. It is alleged that Anil also threatened Haridutt of registering a false case if he did not pay the money. Following this, the victim ended his life.A suicide note written by the victim blaming Anil and his daughter was recovered by the police.“We have arrested the accused, who was on the run for the past two years,’’ said a police officer, who added that the hunt for the accused daughter was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-abetting-suicide-212181
14-02-2021||---||Pehowa man duped of Rs 2.84 lakh||Kurukshetra, February 13A man from Pehowa has allegedly been duped of Rs 2.84 lakh on the pretext of sending him to Italy.The accused has been identified as Gurvinder Singh, a resident of Pehowa. He was arrested and produced in court which sent him to one-day police remand.Suraj, a resident of Pehowa, in his complaint said that he works as a barber. The accused told him that he would send him to Italy and sought Rs 13 lakh for it.“He told me that he and his two brothers run a barber shop in Italy. He took Rs 2.84 lakh from me in instalments. He also gave me a fake visa, but didn’t send me abroad. Later, I came to know that he has been cheating me,” said Suraj.A case was registered under Section 406 and 420 against Gurvinder at Pehowa police station on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pehowa-man-duped-of-rs-2-84-lakh-212243
14-02-2021||---||CMO comes to aid of Faridabad bride-to-be||Chandigarh, February 13The official Twitter handle of Chief Minister’s Office, @cmohry, has come to the rescue of a bride-to-be and rendered help in ensuring appropriate wedding arrangements.The bride to-be, who is to get married on February 16, was upset with waterlogging in her residential complex in Faridabad. She especially created an account on the social networking site to tweet in this regard.Dhruv Majumdar, IT Consultant to Chief Minister, said Kamini, a resident of Parvatiya Colony in Faridabad, had raised a ticket on the Twitter handle on February 10 stating that the surroundings of her residential area had the problem of waterlogging.She added that her wedding is scheduled to take place on February 16 and in such a situation, it would be difficult to entertain the ‘baraat’ and guests. The Social Media Grievance Tracker (SMGT) team of CM’s Office swung into action and did the needful.The bride’s mother, while speaking to mediapersons, expressed gratitude to the CM for the quick action and said she was satisfied with the work done. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cmo-comes-to-aid-of-faridabad-bride-to-be-212242
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Rise in power theft after March||The Covid period in 2020-21 (till December 2020) has witnessed detection of over 59,000 power theft cases in Haryana which is 35.5 per cent more than the figure for the entire 2019-20 when close to 44,000 cases had come to light.A total of 37,346 cases of power thefts till December 2020 have been detected under Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) which is 50 per cent more than the figure for the entire 2019-20 when 24,904 theft cases were detected. Even in 2018-19, there were 16,273 cases.The DHBVN distributes power in 12 districts of the state. Under ‘Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam’ which covers 10 districts, a total of 22,197 cases were detected till December 2020 which is 16.7 per cent more than the figure for the entire 2019-20 when 19,025 cases were recorded. In 2018-19, there were 22,746 cases.“Any unauthorised withdrawal of power is considered as power theft. More detection of theft cases reflects efficient enforcement by UHBVN and DHBVN,” said Additional Chief Secretary Power PK Das.However, the recovery has been dismal under both power distribution companies.The DHBVN has imposed a penalty of Rs 126.5 crore in 2020-21, but only Rs 59.65 crore (47.2 per cent) has been recovered. Even in 2019-20, it had imposed a penalty of Rs 85.34 crore but only Rs 39.16 crore (45.9 per cent) was recovered.Under UHBVN, against a penalty of Rs 74.26 crore till December 2020 of 2020-21, Rs 36.75 crore (49.5 per cent) has been recovered. In 2019-20, against penalty of Rs 56.51 crore, Rs 38.90 crore (68.8 per cent) was recovered.“If the fine is paid, the offence is compounded. Otherwise, the FIRs are registered and courts decide the cases. During the Covid period, the enforcement by DHBVN has been quite active which led to more detection of theft cases,” said Dr Balkar Singh, MD, DHBVN. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rise-in-power-theft-after-march-212241
14-02-2021||---||Sanyukt Kisan Morcha: We want court to probe Republic Day violence||Ghazipur, February 13The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has called for a judicial probe by a high court or a Supreme Court judge into the January 26 violence and the arrest of farmers.Delhi cops take Deep, Iqbal to Red FortPrem Singh Bhangu, Morcha’s legal cell convener, said: “A high-level judicial inquiry is a must to unravel the conspiracy behind the events.” After Deep Sidhu and Iqbal Singh, the Delhi Police arrested three more persons, Sukhmeet Singh, Gundeep Singh and Harvinder Singh, for the violence at Burari on January 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sanyukt-kisan-morcha-we-want-court-to-probe-republic-day-violence-212038
14-02-2021||---||Key accused in akhara shooting held, was sacked by coach: Cops||Rohtak, February 13Sukhwinder, prime suspect in the killing of wrestling coach Manoj Malik, his wife and three others, was arrested in a joint operation by the Delhi and Rohtak police from the Samaypur Badli area of Delhi today.Sukhwinder, also a wrestling coach, is being interrogated by members of the special investigation team (SIT) constituted by the Rohtak police to probe the case.Rahul Sharma, SP, said preliminary investigation revealed that Manoj had recently terminated the services of Sukhwinder following a complaint by a woman wrestler. Sukhwinder, who had been nursing a grudge against Manoj, allegedly opened fire at him, his wife Sakshi Malik and several others at an akhara here late Friday evening, killing five of them and injuring many others.Earlier, the Rohtak police had announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh for information leading to the arrest of Sukhwinder, who is a native of Baroda village in Sonepat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/key-accused-in-akhara-shooting-held-was-sacked-by-coach-cops-212041
14-02-2021||Hisar||Farmer deaths: They would have died anywhere, says Haryana Agriculture Minister in controversial remarks||Haryana Agriculture Minister Jai Prakash Dalal said 200 farmers who died during the ongoing protests would have died anywhere—remarks that could be seen as insensitive.Dalal, who was addressing a press conference in Bhiwani, said the farmers who died during the protests would have “died even if they were home (ye ghar par hote toh bhi marte)”.He followed up this remark by saying that one only had to look at the data on deaths to know this. “They have died in the same ratio of deaths. Would 200 people have not died in a lakh or two in the last few months,” he said, adding heart failures and illnesses usually caused deaths.He then accused the protesters of having been spurred on “Left activists who dance on China’s tunes to create a hostile environment" to drive out investment.He also called Bharatiya Kisan Union’s national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait a ‘sadak chhap’ (vagabond) leader with vested interests.He claimed another leader from Western Uttar Pradesh was brewing trouble in Haryana. Although he did not name anybody, he seems to be hinting at Yashpal Malik.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-deaths-they-would-have-died-anywhere-says-haryana-agriculture-minister-in-controversial-remarks-211974
14-02-2021||New Delhi||Farmer unions demand high-level judicial inquiry into January 26 violence||Protesting farmer unions on Saturday demanded a high-level judicial inquiry into the violence that took place during the tractor parade in Delhi on January 26 and the alleged ‘false” cases slapped on the farmers.Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border, Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders asked farmers who are getting police notices not to appear before the force directly and, instead, approach the legal cell constituted by the unions for any assistance.Kuldeep Singh, a member of SKM’s legal cell, alleged that a retired judge of the Supreme Court or high court should probe the incidents to unravel the “conspiracy” behind the January 26 violence and the alleged “false cases” against the farmers.According to SKM leaders, 16 farmers who had participated in the tractor parade are still untraceable.Another leader Ravinder Singh said that 122 farmers had been arrested by Delhi Police in connection with 14 of the 44 FIRs, adding that SKM will provide legal and financial aid to all the arrested farmers.The Morcha leaders claimed that “false” cases were being slapped on farmers charging them with serious offences like dacoity and attempt to murder to “harass” them.Singh said that the Morcha will provide Rs 2,000 to every arrested farmer for spending in prison canteen.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points, demanding a repeal of the three agri laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP). — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-unions-demand-high-level-judicial-inquiry-into-january-26-violence-211940
