16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Rohtak firing incident: Toll rises to six as 4-year-old boy succumbs to injuries||A four-year-old boy succumbed to bullet injuries on Tuesday which he sustained in last week’s wrestling arena shootout in Haryana’s Rohtak district, taking the death toll in the massacre to six.The boy was undergoing treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak. His parents, Manoj and Sakshi Malik, were among five people killed on the spot in Friday’s (February 12) shooting at the wrestling venue.“The boy died today,” a Rohtak police official said over the phone on Tuesday.He had sustained a bullet wound to the head, the official added.A wrestling coach, Sukhvinder, was arrested in Delhi on February 13 for allegedly committing the crime.The coach was recently fired from his job following some complaints against him, the police had said earlier.A wrestling coach, identified as Satish, and a woman player were also among those killed. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-firing-incident-toll-rises-to-six-as-4-year-old-boy-succumbs-to-injuries-213250
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Not afraid of FIRs, will give reply: Haryana Minister Vij on reports of police complaints on his tweet||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said he was not afraid of police complaints being filed against him over his tweet on the ‘toolkit’ case.His remark came after reports that a Karnataka-based group of activists had filed a complaint over his Monday Twitter post on arrested 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi that appeared to urge “exterminating” those who harbour the “seed of anti-nationalism”.Challenging the interpretation of his tweet, the minister told reporters: “I have said whoever harbours the seed of anti-nationalism in their mind, that has to be destroyed from the roots. Let me make it clear, it is exterminating that seed of anti-nationalism and not exterminating the person.”Ravi was arrested from Bengaluru on Saturday by the Delhi Police for allegedly creating and sharing a protest ‘toolkit’ backing the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s new agri laws.Vij’s post had also prompted an investigation by Twitter. The tweet in Hindi could also be read as exterminating that “seed of anti-nationalism”.“Even Twitter investigated the tweet, they said nothing is wrong,” said Vij who had also posted a response from Twitter that read it had received a complaint over his tweet.When asked about the police complaint reportedly filed by a Karnataka-based group of activists against his tweet, Vij said, “I am not afraid of such complaints or FIRs. Anyone can lodge a complaint, I will give a reply.”“Desh virodh ka beej jiske bhi deemag mein ho uska samool nash kar dena chahiye fir chahe veh # Disha Ravi ho yaan koi aur,” Vij had tweeted.Roughly translated it reads, “Whoever harbours the seed of anti-nationalism in their mind, that has to be destroyed from the roots, be it #Disha_Ravi or anyone else.”Twitter in its post had said, “We have investigated the reported content and have found that it is not subject to removal under the Twitter Rules or German law. Accordingly, we have not taken any action as a result of this specific report.”Replying to another question, Vij said, “Everyone has the right to protest in a democratic set up and I am not saying opposing the government’s policies is a crime, but if anyone hobnobs with foreign elements against the country, that has to be stopped.”The Delhi Police had on Monday said that Ravi along with Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk created the toolkit and shared it with others to tarnish India’s image.Ravi had sent the toolkit to teen climate activist Greta Thunberg through the Telegram app, and also “coaxed her to act on it”, police had claimed. Non-bailable warrants have been issued against Jacob and Muluk, who are absconding.Some opposition leaders had alleged that Vij’s tweet appeared pointing to “exterminating” those who harbour the “seed of anti-nationalism”.Congress leader Shashi Tharoor too had on Monday reacted sharply to Vij’s tweet. “Surely tweets like this are far more harmful to our democracy than anything in the ‘toolkit’ Disha Ravi retweeted?” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/not-afraid-of-firs-will-give-reply-haryana-minister-vij-on-reports-of-police-complaints-on-his-tweet-213242
16-02-2021||Hisar||Gold, revolver, Rs 10 lakh cash stolen from BJP leader Sonali Phogat’s house in Haryana||Jewellery, a licensed revolver, Rs 10 lakh and other valuables were stolen from BJP leader Sonali Phogat’s house here in Haryana, police said on Tuesday.In her complaint, Phogat said that the theft took place when she was in Chandigarh.       Though there were CCTV cameras in the house, but the thieves took the digital video recorder (DVR) that contained footage, police said.  HTM Station House Officer (SHO) Sukhjit said that the theft case is being probed.            Phogat in her complaint said on February 9, she went to Chandigarh after locking her house. When she returned to Hisar on February 15, the locks were broken, police said.Gold and silverware, a silver pot, Rs 10 lakh cash, jewellery, a .22 bore licensed pistol and eight cartridges were found missing from the house, they said.         Phogat had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 assembly polls from the Adampur seat against Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi, son of former Haryana chief minister, late Bhajan Lal.—PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gold-revolver-rs-10-lakh-cash-stolen-from-bjp-leader-sonali-phogats-house-in-haryana-213214
16-02-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Manika Sheokand, who won VLCC Femina Miss Grand India 2020, reaches Panchkula; story in pictures||For the first time in its history, Femina Miss India was held entirely digitally owing to the COVID pandemic.While Manasa Varanasi won the Miss India World 2020 title, Manika Sheokand won the Miss Grand India 2020 tag.The Miss India Runner-up, who resides in Panchkula, was welcomed by her family after winning the title on Tuesday.Manika, who was VLCC Femina Miss India Haryana 2020, started modelling in 2019. — With IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/manika-sheokand-who-won-vlcc-femina-miss-grand-india-2020-reaches-panchkula-story-in-pictures-213212
16-02-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  ||ED files prosecution complaint against Hooda, 20 others in industrial plot allotment case||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, February 16  The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a Prosecution Complaint (PC) against former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and 20 others, in an alleged fraudulent industrial plot allotment, under the various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, before a special PMLA court in Panchkula.  The PC is filed under Sections 3 (money laundering), 4 (punishment for money laundering), 44 (offences triable by special courts), 45 (offences to be congnizable and non-bailable) and 70 (offences by companies) of the PMLA.  Former Chief Administrator Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) DPS Nagal, former administrator HUDA Surjit Singh, former HUDA Chief Finance Controller SC Kansal, former HUDA Deputy Superintendent BB Taneja and firms M/s YPT Entertainment House Pvt Ltd and M/s Chandigarh Softech Pvt Ltd are named as accused.  The other accused are Narinder Singh Solanki, Anupam Sud, Kanwar Preet Singh Sandhu, Renu Hooda, Mona Beri, Aman Gupta, Nandita Hooda, Ashok Verma, Dr Ganesh Dutt Rattan, Dagar Katyal, Sidharth Bhardwaj, Lt Col OP Dahiya (retd), Pawan Kansal and Manjot Kaur.  As per the PC, the criminal incident pertained to 2011-12 during the Congress government in the state. Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda was the chairman of HUDA. The plots were located in Industrial Area Phase-1 of Panchkula and ranged from 496 sq mt, offered at Rs 31.74 lakh, to 1,280 sq mt, offered at Rs 64 lakh. The investigating agencies have alleged that the market price was much higher at the time of allotment.  Earlier, on Advocate General’s recommendation in 2015, the State Vigilance Bureau of Haryana had registered the case for cheating, forgery, disappearance of evidence, destruction of document to prevent its production as evidence, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy against the accused.  It came out that the last date of filing application for plots was January 6, 2012 but the criteria was allegedly changed on January 24, 2012. It is further claimed that the allotments were made to ineligible people, who were either close to officials or favourites of politicians, at lower rates than the market price.   The file related to the allotments also went missing.  Later, the case was transferred to the CBI which lodged the FIR in 2016.  The ED also started investigations, alleging that the plots were allotted to those closer to the former CM. It had attached the 14 industrial plots “worth Rs 30.34 crore” on August 29, 2019.  The next date of hearing is February 18. “The matter is sub judice. I have full faith in judiciary. Nothing wrong was done. The truth will come out,” said former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ed-files-prosecution-complaint-against-hooda-20-others-in-industrial-plot-allotment-case-213200
16-02-2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka-based group files complaint against Anil Vij for ‘hateful’ tweet against Disha Ravi||A Karnataka-based group of activists called the Campaign Against Hate Speech on Monday filed a complaint against Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij for his alleged “hateful” tweet against Disha Ravi, a 21-year-old climate activist who was arrested in the ‘Toolkit’ document case related to the farmers’ protest.“We are filing this complaint against Anil Vij, Haryana Home and Health Minister for openly calling for the killing of Disha Ravi, a 21-year-old climate activist and co-founder of Fridays for Future and other so-called “anti-national”. This tweet was widely covered by media houses across the country,” said the complaint.Also read: Delhi Police write to Zoom, seek details of those who attended toolkit meeting ahead of R-Dayदेश विरोध का बीज जिसके भी दिमाग में हो उसका समूल नाश कर देना चाहिए फिर चाहे वह #दिशा_रवि हो यां कोई और ।  Campaign Against Hate Speech said Vij’s tweet, which literally translates to “Whosoever has the seed of anti-nationalism in their minds should be completely exterminated, whether it’s Disha Ravi or someone else”, is an “open call for extermination and encounter of all people who he thinks are “anti-national” and especially Disha Ravi who is an accused in an ongoing investigation.”Also read: Disha Ravi’s arrest made in accordance with law, says Delhi Police chiefThe complaint said that by asking for such extermination of people who Vij thinks have “seeds of anti-nationalism in their minds”, the Minister is directly attacking the constitutional provisions of Right to life and dignity under Article 21 and Right to liberty under Article 19 of the Constitution.“By calling for the extermination of the so-called “anti-nationals”, he is inciting violence against individuals that could lead to bodily harm or even loss of life. He is promoting enmity and inciting actions prejudicial to the peace and harmony of the nation. His open call for the extermination of people is intended to provoke breach of peace and intentionally insult Disha Ravi,” it added.The complaint added that the Minister is duty-bound to respect and abide by the Constitution which he has “conveniently forgotten” in his criminal intimidation of a 22-year-old activist and others.“The minister has wilfully ignored the concept of due process of law by calling for the extermination of an “accused” who is yet to undergo a trial. The tweet has been widely shared and continues to be shared even as this complaint is being drafted. In this regard, we seek that FIR under Section 153A, 503, 504, 505, and 506 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 be registered against Anil Vij for unconstitutional, criminally intimidating, hateful statements calling for open encounters on the social media platform Twitter,” it added. —ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnataka-based-group-files-complaint-against-anil-vij-for-hateful-tweet-against-disha-ravi-213159
16-02-2021||Ambala||ABVP activists lock college gate in Ambala||A group of students under the banner of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) held a demonstration and locked the main gate of Government Polytechnic College in Ambala City. They demanded that the option of online examination along with offline exams on the pattern of Kurukshetra University be provided to the students.The exams are scheduled to begin from February 19. The students raised slogans in support of their demand and staged a protest on road. They also threatened to launch a massive stir on February 18 if their demand is not met. The students said they also met Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij to apprise the minister about the situation, who assured that their demand would be considered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/abvp-activists-lock-college-gate-in-ambala-213031
16-02-2021||---||Forest corporation’s Yamunanagar unit gets ISO certification||Chandigarh, February 15The Haryana Forest Development Corporation (HFDC) has successfully implemented quality management systems at its Yamunanagar manufacturing unit in line with ISO 9001:2015 standards.Deepak Alwadhi, general manager at the Yamunanagar unit, said the decision to become ISO 9001:2015 certified was a proactive one that not only anticipated the demands of customers, but also demonstrated a commitment to provide quality products and services.“We will always strive to exceed expectations. With our goals focused on the emphasis of quality assurance and innovative production, we look forward to bringing business to new heights,” he said.“The HFDC has been undertaking tree felling and wood extraction from earmarked government forests. Development of forests and raising of plantations are major activities of the HFDC, which has diversified its activities,” said Vinod Kumar Bhatia, chief general manager.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/forest-corporations-yamunanagar-unit-gets-iso-certification-213028
16-02-2021||---||Eight more vandals held in Karnal||Karnal, February 15With the help of CCTV cameras installed at Phoogarh Colony, where some of the youth of an upper caste allegedly created ruckus on Thursday and vandalised houses of Dalits, the police have arrested eight more accused, taking the total to 26.SP Ganga Ram Punia said three of the accused were juvenile. He said CCTVs installed there had helped them in establishing the identity of the accused. “We have gathered some vital evidences, which will help the police to prove them guilty,” the SP said, adding that cops were keeping close vigil in the colony.“The safety and security of the people in the colony is our utmost priority, for which we have deployed the police there.” The SP said six teams had been employed to arrest the remaining accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eight-more-vandals-held-in-karnal-213040
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||4,097 get 2nd vaccine dose||AmbalaCar falls into drain, 1 deadA 28-year-old advocate, Pulkit of Ambala Cantt, died after his car fell into Gudgudiya drain here on Sunday night. Fog is suspected to be the reason behind the incident. The matter came to light early on Monday morning. The police reached the spot and fished out his car. Meanwhile, the bar association kept the work suspended on Monday. TNSGurugramBoy dies while playingA 10-year-old boy, Vishal of Shivaji Nagar, strangled himself to death while playing with a scarf at home. The incident took place around 11 am on Sunday. The family rushed the boy to a nearby hospital, but doctors declared him brought dead. The police said the family didn’t blame anybody. OCFaridabad2 held with 52-kg ‘ganja’The police have arrested two persons — Nishant and Vikas, alias Vicky, both of Krishna Colony — and recovered over 52 kg of ‘ganja’ in two separate incidents. The 'ganja' was worth around Rs5.2 lakh. The accused were remanded in judicial custody on Monday. A hunt has been launched to nab those involved in the racket. TNSPanipatCar catches fire, none hurtA Swift Dzire caught fire on the NH-44 near Sewah bypass on Monday noon. Mohit of Manana village escaped unhurt. Mohit was on his way to bank when he noticed smoke coming out of the engine. He immediately parked the vehicle on the roadside and came out of it. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-097-get-2nd-vaccine-dose-213058
16-02-2021||The building of the main telephone exchange in Kaithal is in bad shape. The building was built in the late eighties. The choked toilets remain unused and stink emanates from the area. A simple look at the building having modern telephone exchange and offices of the DET and SDO reveals that the department has forgotten to maintain its infrastructure after constructing it years ago. This exposes the callous and indifferent attitude of the officials concerned at the helm of affairs who need a dressing down by senior officers of the Telecommunication Department||Kaithal telephone exchange building in bad shape||Satish Seth, KaithalMC should hand over unproductive cows to gaushalasThe efforts of the Hisar Nagar Nigam to make the city free of stray cattle menace have proved to be infructuous. To overcome the problem, the Nagar Nigam should capture and handover the destitute and unproductive animals to gaushalas. As for the productive category of cattle, the Nagar Nigam should maintain the record of the owners with identification marks/tags of their cattle. Further the owners of these animals who leave them unattended in the open should be tried under the "Cruelty of Animal Act". Then only the administration will be able to curb the menaceBaljeet Singh Deep, HisarEncroachment on parking land in K’shetra marketRecently, a mobile restaurant has come up in the parking area in the market of Sector 3, Kurukshetra. Now, the restaurant has made a boundary with decorated bamboo sticks. The land cannot be encroached upon without the connivance of the officials concerned. The public is inconvenienced. The concerned authorities should remove the encroachment and encroacher be warned and fined.NK Rana, KurukshetraIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-telephone-exchange-building-in-bad-shape-213060
16-02-2021||Karnal||NCC cadets excel at ATC camp||Webinar on yoga for Covid survivorsSonepat: Bhagat Phool Singh Mahila Vishwavidyalaya in collaboration with the Yog Bharti Foundation organised an international webinar on “Yogic interventions in post-Covid complications”. Keynote speaker Srinivas Murti, founder of Yog Bharti, said healthy lifestyle and eating habits facilitates happy and good life. He said by practising asanas, pranayama, ‘hast mudra’ and ‘panch kosh’ theory one could channel internal energy towards better actions and thoughts. Rambhakat from South California shared his views on Covid and its after-effects.NCC Group Commander visits campYamunanagar: NCC Group Commander Brig AS Brar visited the camp at Guru Nanak Khalsa College and Mukand Lal National College for the C-examination of 14 Haryana Battalion NCC. The camp is being run under the supervision of Command Officer Col Ajaypal Kaushish and administrative officer AJS Sandhu. Principal (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said about 250 cadets of educational institutions were participating in the camp.Essay writing contest at collegeYamunanagar: A national-level essay writing contest was organised by the department of English of Mukand Lal National, College. The theme was “Humanities in 21st century”. As many as 75 students from various states, including Punjab, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Kolkata, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Haryana, took part in the contest. Suvechcha Goswami of Women’s Christian College, Kolkata, won the first prize, while Monika Chauhan of Government E Raghvendra Rao PG College, Bilaspur, and Tanisha Rawat of MLN College, Yamunanagar, bagged the second and third spots, respectively.110 units of blood donatedFaridabad: As many as 110 units of blood were collected at a blood donation camp that was organised at DAV Centenary College recently. It was organised jointly by the Swami Vivekanand Youth Cell, Youth Red Cross, NSS and NCC units along with Lions Club, Faridabad (Central). Principal Savita Bhagat said it was a pleasure to see participation by a large number of students and staff members for the move that aims to benefit the society on the whole.Interaction on quality researchKurukshetra: A five-day interaction programme on research is being jointly organised by the department of commerce and human resource development centre. Inaugurating the event, Prof Manjula Chaudhary, Dean, Academic Affairs, Kurukshetra University, said future belongs to quality research and scholars need to keep themselves updated on the methods. “Curiosity and creativity should be the driving force behind research in addition to being proficient in its tools and techniques.” Prof Tejinder Sharma, chairman, department of commerce, said the event aims at developing an ecosystem to foster quality research.Annual sports meet in collegeKurukshetra: A two-day annual sports meet was organised at Indira Gandhi National College, Ladwa (Kurukshetra). The 46th sports meet was inaugurated by Ladwa MLA Mewa Singh along with Pawan Garg, president of governing body. Students, participated in various events such as sack race, chati race and tug of war. Sagar and Preeti from BA-I were declared the best athletes of the sports meet.Workshop on plant diversityKarnal: A daylong national-level virtual workshop on topic “Growing relevance of plant diversity in modern terms” was organised by the department of botany of KVA DAV College for Women. Prof Daizy R Batish, chairperson, botany department, Chandigarh University; Anil Kumar Thakur, associate professor, Rajkiya Kanya Mahavidyalya, Shimla; and Ashima Gakhar, head, department of botany and environmental studies of the college, were the resource persons of the event. Prof Batish discussed the importance of biodiversity, its loss in recent years, possible ways to conserve it, especially in urban areas, and health implications of loss of plant diversity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ncc-cadets-excel-at-atc-camp-213061
16-02-2021||Gurugram||Finally, Central nod to Delhi-Nuh rail line||After prolonged wait of decades, Mewat will finally be getting rail connectivity. A 104-km railway line between Delhi-Alwar via Nuh has been approved by the Centre.Union Minister Rao Inderjit Singh congratulated the residents while he inaugurated and laid the stone of projects worth Rs 14 crore at Gurugram railway station today.Rao inaugurated a foot overbridge and escalator jointly built by the Ministry of Railways and the Gurugram MC at the station. He also laid virtually the stone of an underpass to be built at Jatauli Gate No. 46 near Pataudi.“The budget for laying the railway line from Delhi to Nuh and Ferozepur Jhirka to Alwar has been opened in the Railway Budget, kept with the general Budget. Due to this new line, Mewat will soon have trains chugging across the district,” added Rao.Divisional Railway Manager SC Jain said in one year, eight underpasses would be built on the Delhi-Rewari line. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/finally-central-nod-to-delhi-nuh-rail-line-213041
16-02-2021||---||Physical verification to check stock in rice mills under way||Karnal, February 15After observing that 66 rice mills have failed to deliver even 50 per cent of the custom milled rice (CMR), the district administration has constituted nine teams for the physical verification of the mills to check the stock and quality.The teams have started the physical verification. Most of the 66 mills have not even delivered 40 per cent of the CMR. As per officials, the millers have to deliver 70 per cent of the CMR by the end of February.“We have constituted nine teams to check the stock and quality of rice in the rice mills. These teams have started the verification,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.He maintained that these teams would have to submit their reports by February 17. Yadav said, “If any kind of discrepancy is found, action will be initiated.”The DC said as per norms, the millers have to deliver 30 per cent CMR by the end of December, further 20 per cent by the end of January, 20 per cent by the end of February, 10 per cent in March and remaining 20 per cent by the end of April.He said it could not be ruled out that some of the millers could deliver low quality of rice to the government. “We are keeping a tab on the quality of rice, which is delivered to the government,” said Yadav, adding that action will also be initiated if millers do not cooperate in verification. A complete videography of the physical verification will be done, he said.As many as 288 rice mills were given 1300155MT paddy by three government agencies, including Food and Civil Supplies, Haryana Warehouse and Hafed, but still around 62 per cent CMR has been delivered comprising 59 per cent of Food and Civil Supplies, 69 per cent of Haryana Warehouse and 67 per cent of Hafed. Around 334103MT CMR is pending, the DC said.Ayush Sinha, SDM, Karnal, who is heading one team, said so far, he had conducted physical verification in four mills and he would submit his report before the deadline fixed by the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/physical-verification-to-check-stock-in-rice-mills-under-way-213029
16-02-2021||---||Haryana’s first wildlife census to start soon||Chandigarh, February 15Haryana’s first wildlife census will soon start as preparations by the state’s Forests and Wildlife Department and the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, have largely been completed.“This will cover both protected and outside protected areas of the state,” said Chief Conservator of Forests ML Rajvanshi. He added that in protected areas, cameras and other surveillance systems would be used while for outside protected areas, a general estimate would be made.To cover buffer zones, sanctuaries“The main objective of the census is to know about the population of both herbivores and carnivores animals,” he said.An amount of Rs 39 lakh will be spent on the project. “The scientific methodology will be spearheaded by the WWI experts while our employees will also be present during the field visits,” said Rajvanshi.Besides the population of leopards, we will also get to know about the number of monkeys.“It will help in designing a strategy to reduce the population of monkeys,” he said.Earlier, the state’s Forest and Wildlife Department had carried out a similar census in Yamunanagar’s Kalesar National Park in 2013 and 2016 and in the Aravalli hills in 2017. “This is the first time the census is being conducted across the state,” said Rajvanshi.According to Rajvanshi, the census will cover wildlife sanctuaries in Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Jhajjar, Sirsa and Rewari, and Sultanpur National Park in Gurugram and Kalesar National Park in Yamunanagar. It will also include open fields and buffer zones along with protected forests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-first-wildlife-census-to-start-soon-213030
16-02-2021||Sushil Manav||No guidelines on ENA sale by distilleries||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 15The Haryana Excise and Taxation Department is yet to issue guidelines or standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the sale and supply of extra neutral alcohol (ENA) by its distilleries, whereas the same is regulated under the provisions of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914.In its report, the Special Investigation Team (SIT), led by ADGP Shrikant Jadhav, which was set up to probe the death of 47 persons due to the consumption of spurious liquor in November last year, has pointed towards the lack of ENA monitoring. It has also found its diversion for other purposes.What the SIT report saysMentioning some instances, the report says the name of a buyer was mentioned as Life Care Homeo, Faridabad, but upon verification by the local police, the “destination was not found”.Another purported buyer, Sakalpp Nutravedic Pvt Ltd, 2nd Floor, Vardhman Mall, Sector 19, Faridabad, was not found on the location mentioned when the local police went there.The SIT has not ruled out a nexus among liquor mafia, distilleries and excise officials. It said that the Punjab Excise Department had imposed a fine of Rs 748 crore during the inspection of distilleries on December 23 last year, where an unaccounted stock of 22,936 cartons was found. However, in Haryana, action in 50 such cases is still pending, wherein Rs 100 crore can be recovered as penalty and the licence of some distilleries can be cancelled.The report also mentions the name of an assistant excise and taxation officer, who “seems to be involved in quid pro quo with the help of influential people” and of another person whose role needs a deeper investigation.The State Home Department will be studying the report, which was submitted to it earlier this month.“The department has failed to share any guidelines/ SOPs regarding the monitoring and use of ENA in the state. Further, the Excise and Taxation Commissioner has tried to pass on the responsibility to the Health and Ayush Departments, which is unfortunate,” says the report.Quoting a Supreme Court judgment in the matter of Bihar Distillery and another verses Union of India and others delivered on January 20, 1997, the report says that “so far as rectified spirit meant for being supplied to or utilised for potable purposes is concerned, it shall be under the exclusive control of the state from the moment it is cleared/ removed for that purpose from the distillery.”Mentioning some instances of the diversion of the ENA, the SIT report says that in one such case, the name of a buyer was mentioned as Life Care Homeo, Faridabad, but upon verification by the local police, the “destination was not found”.Another purported buyer, Sakalpp Nutravedic Pvt Ltd, 2nd Floor, Vardhman Mall, Sector 19, Faridabad, was not found on the location mentioned when the local police went there.Chemistry World, another buyer of ENA, mentioned its address as Shop No 2H/13, Gurugram – Faridabad road, NIT Faridabad, but a person named Satish Kumar was found residing there and no company was found there.To check the diversion of ENA, the SIT has recommended real-time monitoring of tamper-proof flow meters in all distilleries, bottling plants and breweries, GPS monitoring of the transportation of ENA, implementation of ENA production module already designed by Wipro system and use of excise adhesive labels having high-end tamper-proof security feature, which cannot be cloned for liquor bottles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-guidelines-on-ena-sale-by-distilleries-213027
16-02-2021||---||Farmers gear up for nationwide ‘rail roko’||Jhajjar, February 15  Farmers protesting against the three farm laws at Tikri border for the past over two month are gearing up to make ‘rail roko’ protest on February 18 a success by mobilising residents of villages in support of their demand. While, the Railway authorities at Bahadurgarh town claimed that the trains would run as usual on the Rohtak-Delhi rail track on that day.  “Residents of nearby villages are being contacted by office-bearers of farm organisations to ensure their massive participation in the ‘rail roko’ protest from 12 pm to 4 pm on Thursday. Those staging a dharna at toll plazas and other points on various state and national highways have also been asked to mobilise people in a large number for the protest,” said Virender Hooda, a farmer leader, at Tikri border. Virender maintained a joint committee of various Haryana and Punjab farmer outfits had also been formed to contact social and other organisations to garner their support.  On the other hand, an officer posted at Bahadurgarh railway station, on the condition of anonymity, claimed that they had not received any communication from the head office about cancellation of trains on Thursday hence the trains would run as usual on the Rohtak-Delhi track. “Two trains run daily on the Rohtak-Delhi track between 12 pm to 4 pm,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-gear-up-for-nationwide-rail-roko-213032
16-02-2021||Karnal||Farmers' stir a mass movement: Ex-CM OP Chautala||Former Chief Minister OP Chautala on Monday said people from all walks of life had extended support to the farmers’ agitation and it had become a mass movement.Chautala was here on a visit to his sister’s residence in Ashoka Colony. He hailed INLD leader Abhay Chautala for resigning from the state Assembly in support of the farmers.He said most villages had banned the entry of BJP-JJP leaders. He also objected to Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal’s remark on the deaths of agitating farmers.Chautala said that the farmers’ agitation would “damage” the BJP and there could be mid-term elections in the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-stir-a-mass-movement-ex-cm-op-chautala-213033
16-02-2021||---||Activist Nodeep Kaur gets bail in extortion case; to stay in jail||Sonepat/Chandigarh, Feb 15Labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur was today granted bail in an extortion case, which was registered against her at the Kundli police station on January 12.Advocate Jitender Kumar, counsel for Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan activist Nodeep Kaur, said after hearing the arguments, the court of Judicial Magistrate First Class Ashok Kumar allowed her bail petition and ordered to furnish a bond of Rs 50,000.However, she would still have to stay in jail as her bail petition in another case was pending in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, he said.Earlier, she was granted bail in an extortion case registered against her on December 28.Meanwhile, Punjab State Women’s Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati was today denied permission by the Jail Superintendent, Karnal, to meet Nodeep Kaur, who has been in custody for over a month.“This morning, the Jail Superintendent of Karnal called up the office of the Punjab State Women’s Commission and said Manisha Gulati would have to get the approval of the Haryana Government to meet Nodeep,” a commission spokesperson said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/activist-nodeep-kaur-gets-bail-in-extortion-case-to-stay-in-jail-213034
16-02-2021||Yamunanagar||Farm community in danger due to ‘black’ laws: Selja||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja on Monday said farmers and labourers were in danger today and the situation had been created by the government by bringing the anti-agriculture ‘black’ laws.Addressing a kisan sammelan in Radaur here, Selja said: “These ‘black’ laws will ruin the agricultural sector. Under the guise of Covid, these laws were imposed by the Centre on farmers and labourers. Today, the entire world is seeing that the farmers of the country are sitting on roads for three months, but still unheard by their own government.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-community-in-danger-due-to-black-laws-selja-213035
16-02-2021||New Delhi||Twitter removes Anil Vij’s tweet on Disha, rescinds||Twitter today removed a post by Home Minister Anil Vij, but rescinded the move hours later. The post by Vij read, “Seeds of anti-nationalism must be destroyed, no matter in whose mind they germinate — Disha Ravi or whosoever.”Earlier in the day, Twitter sent a message to Vij about the said post and cited Germany’s Network Enforcement Act, which required the micro-blogging site managers to respond within a stipulated time.Anti-nationalism has to be destroyedWhoever harbours the seeds of anti-nationalism in the mind has to be destroyed from the roots, be it #Disha_Ravi or anyone else. — Anil Vij, Home Minister“Twitter is required by German law to provide notice to users who are reported by people from Germany via Network Enforcement Act,” said the earlier Twitter post which Vij shared as the social media firm said it was acting on a complaint by a German user.Later in the evening, Twitter sent another message to Vij, saying, “We have investigated the reported content and found that it is not subject to removal under Twitter rules.”Twitter had been in the eye of a storm, with the government asking it to delete around 1,300 objectionable accounts spreading “fake news and attempting to cause disaffection”.Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had warned Twitter and Facebook last week against violating Indian laws if they wished to do business here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/twitter-removes-anil-vijs-tweet-on-disha-rescinds-213036
16-02-2021||---||Continue protest in peaceful, disciplined manner: Deepender Hooda||Karnal, February 15Congress Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda said rising above the divisions of caste, religion, region and language, the farmers’ movement against the three laws had united them from across the country.Addressing a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ at the Kalayat grain market in Kaithal district on Monday, he said the movement was a fight for the survival of farmers and the agriculture sector. He called on the farmers to fight together in a peaceful and disciplined manner. “Only then farmers and agriculture will survive, else future of coming generations seems to be bleak.”Earlier, he visited the homes of farmers, who died during the agitation. In the mahapanchayat, three resolutions were passed, including withdrawal of all three laws, financial aid and jobs to the families of over 200 farmers, who lost their lives during the protest. The third resolution condemned the Agriculture Minister’s statement and demanded his dismissal.Deepender referred it to be the biggest farm movement in the history of Independent India and that it would be remembered for its discipline. “Till the state government is not put under pressure, the Centre will not accept the demand of the farmers,” he added.Meanwhile, ex-minister Jayaprakash also called upon the farmers and said this was going to be a long movement because the Centre’s intentions were not right.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/continue-protest-in-peaceful-disciplined-manner-deepender-hooda-213037
16-02-2021||---||Samyukt Kisan Morcha condemns arrest of environmentalist Disha Ravi||Sonepat, February 15The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) today condemned the arrest of young environment activist Disha Ravi and demanded her release. The SKM also showed anger over the ‘misuse’ of police power by the government in its efforts to weaken the farmers’ agitation.Farmer leaders held formal discussions at the ‘kisan andolan office’ in Kundli to intensify the farmers’ protest and mobilise more people in their support.The SKM said India’s young environmentalists understood and appreciated that unviable farming led to unsustainable farming.It was not surprising that farmers ended up adopting desperate and unsustainable practices to make ends meet when farming got riskier due to increasingly adverse markets, which was compounded by climate change, said farmer leader Darshan Pal.He said legal guarantee of MSP for all crops would help farmers diversify and pave the way for a lasting solution to straw burning, which was linked to soil degradation, air pollution and health risks.Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana protested against the three farm laws. Some farmer leaders went from trolley to trolley for the second consecutive day to mobilise the protesting farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-condemns-arrest-of-environmentalist-disha-ravi-213038
16-02-2021||---||Hansi cops book cricketer Yuvraj Singh over ‘casteist’ remark||Hisar, February 15Former cricketer Yuvraj Singh has been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the SC/ST Act for making a ‘casteist’ remark during a conversation on social media with fellow cricketer Rohit Sharma in June last year.Hansi-based lawyer and activist Rajat Kalsan had filed a complaint with the police on June 2 last year. The police kept the matter pending for nearly eight months before proceeding with the FIR.The police said a case had been registered under Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riots), 153(a) (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence and language and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 505 (statements conducing public mischief) and 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult religion of any class) of the IPC and relevant sections of the SC/ST Act.An administrative inquiry had been initiated against police officials concerned for keeping the complaint pending, said a police spokesperson. The spokespersonsaid they had taken action on the complaint following preliminary inquiry.A controversy had erupted when Yuvraj (37), who had retired from cricket, made some ‘casteist’ comment during a live video chat with cricketer Rohit Sharma while referring to cricketer Yuzvendra Chahal.Yuvraj was quick to apologise in an attempt to end the controversy and had issued a statement to express regret if he had unintentionally hurt anybody’s sentiments or feelings.“This is to clarify that I have never believed in any kind of disparity, be it on the basis of caste, colour, creed or gender. I have given and continue to spend my life for the welfare of people. I believe in dignity of life and respect each individual without exception,” read his statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hansi-cops-book-cricketer-yuvraj-singh-over-casteist-remark-213039
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Disha Ravi’s arrest: Seed of anti-nationalism has to be destroyed, says Anil Vij||Haryana’s Home Minister Anil Vij on Monday said whoever harbours the seed of anti-nationalism in their mind, that has to be completely destroyed, two days after climate activist Disha Ravi was arrested for being allegedly involved in sharing the “toolkit” related to the farmer’s protest on social media.Delhi Police had claimed that 21-year-old activist, who was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the force on Saturday, was an editor of the “toolkit Google doc” and “key conspirator” in the document’s formulation and dissemination.Also read: Politicians, actors, influencers across the globe condemn arrest of activist Disha RaviTwitter notifies Haryana minister Vij for tweet on Disha Ravi, but finds contents not subject to removal“Whoever harbours the seed of anti-nationalism in their mind, that has to be completely destroyed, be it #Disha_Ravi or anyone else,” the senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader said in a tweet in Hindi.Greta Thunberg, a teen climate activist, had shared the “toolkit” to lend her support to the farmers’ agitation against the three farm reform laws.Also read: Non-bailable warrants issued against 2 in toolkit document caseIn the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers’ protest. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/disha-ravis-arrest-seed-of-anti-nationalism-has-to-be-destroyed-says-anil-vij-212757
16-02-2021||Hisar||Cricketer Yuvraj Singh booked in Haryana for making ‘casteist remarks’||Veteran cricketer Yuvraj Singh has been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the SC/ST Act for making ‘casteist remarks’ during an online conversation on social media with fellow cricketer Rohit Sharma in June last year.A Hansi based lawyer and activist, Rajat Kalsan, had filed a complaint with the police on June 2 last year. However, the police kept the matter pending for nearly eight months before proceeding with the FIR.The police said a case, under sections 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with the intent to cause riots), 153(a) (Promoting and enmity between different groups on grounds of religion race, place of birth, residence, language and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 505 (Statements conducing public mischief), 295 (Injuring or defiling place of worship, with intent to insult the religion of any class) of the IPC and also relevant sections of the SC/ST Act has been registered.Besides, an administrative inquiry has also been initiated against the police officials concerned for keeping the complaint pending for long, a police spokesperson said.The controversy erupted when Yuvraj, 37, who retired from professional cricket nearly two years ago, made a casteist slur during an Instagram live video chat with cricketer Rohit Sharma in reference to cricketer Yuzvendra Chahal.Yuvraj, however, was quick to apologise in an attempt to put an end to the controversy and issued a statement to express regret if he had unintentionally hurt anybody’s sentiments or feelings. The statement read, “This is to clarify that I have never believed in any kind of disparity, be it on the basis of caste, colour, creed or gender. I have given and continue to spend my life for the welfare of people. I believe in the dignity of life and respect each individual without exception”.The Hansi police spokesperson said that they have taken action on the complaint following a preliminary inquiry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cricketer-yuvraj-singh-booked-in-haryana-for-making-casteist-remarks-212747
