17-02-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Khaps call for social boycott of Haryana agriculture minister Dalal for his ‘anti-farmer’ stance||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, February 17A joint panchayat of different khaps of Haryana organised here on Wednesday resolved to support the farmers’ agitation. Ahlawat Khap-84 head Hardeep Ahlawat presided over the panchayat.The khaps’ representatives asserted that Haryana Agriculture Minister J.P. Dalal would be subjected to social boycott for his alleged anti-farmer stance. A committee was constituted to provide aid to the agitators facing legal action.The plan to form a committee to mediate between the government and the agitating farmers was dropped, though it was decided to set up a coordination centre of the khaps and Samyukta Kisan Morcha at the Jat Bhawan in Rohtak.It was also decided that the ruling party’s ploy of reaching out to villagers in the name of collecting donations for Ram Temple or on any other pretext would be foiled.Sangwan khap head and MLA Sombir Sangwan suggested that the farmers’ agitation should be intensified and village-wise duties be assigned to garner support for the stir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khaps-call-for-social-boycott-of-haryana-agriculture-minister-dalal-for-his-anti-farmer-stance-213790
17-02-2021||New Delhi||Farmers at Singhu gear up to beat summer heat and continue protest||Farmers sitting on protest against the Government’s new farms laws have started preparing to face the scorching summer heat at Singhu village.They are planning to install fans, coolers, generators at the protest site.There are two stages set up at the Singhu protest site—one stage facing toward Delhi where the protesting farmers can be seen sitting at an open space, while the second stage is near Kundli village (border area of Delhi and Haryana), which is fully covered with tarpaulin.The farmers leaders told IANS that various social organisations have come forward to provide fans and coolers to the protesting farmers.“We are preparing to replace these tarpaulin-made tents under which farmers have been sitting for over 80 days braving chilly winds so far. With the summer having started and with every passing day becoming hotter, we are planning to install fans and coolers and if need be, air conditioners will also be provided. The changes would happen in the next couple of days,” said Kulveer Singh, a resident of Hoshiarpur district in Punjab, who is also a member of the Krantikari Kisan Union.He said that volunteers have started preparing for initiating the changes at the protest sites.“Two such setups have already come up behind both the stages. We are not only planning to beat the summer heat, but we will also ensure that farmers get chilled potable water in the coming days.”Apart from tarpaulin shades or plastic tents, most of the farmers stay in their tractor-trolleys they have brought from their villages. All the tractor-trolleys parked across the road or outside (Delhi-Chandigarh highway) could be seen covered with tarpaulin.Many tractor-trolleys that have carried farmers from different villages and districts from Haryana and Punjab are fitted with fans to provide cool air to the farmers. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-at-singhu-gear-up-to-beat-summer-heat-and-continue-protest-213771
17-02-2021|| Chandigarh||NHRC close case of death of 32 people during 2017 Dera violence in Panchkula||The National Human Rights Commission closed the case pertaining to the death of 32 people during the Panchkula violence following the conviction of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in August 2017. In the orders issued on Tuesday, the NHRC said that no further interference was required since the case already sub judice before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.  The order said that the NHRC had received communication from the Panchkula DC regarding the death of 32 civilian people during the police action on August 25, 2017, in order to maintain law and order, and to control violence which took place after the verdict of Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh rape case by the CBI Court.  It was submitted by the DC that, supporters of Dera Sacha Sauda chief had started torching government and public property.  To maintain law and order, authorities tried to disperse the mob by lathi-charge, shelling tear gas and lastly were forced to open fire to control the situation.  It was further submitted that the matter was under investigation.  The Commission, vide its proceeding of September 6, 2017, the Haryana DGP, DC and Commissioner, Police, Panchkula were directed to take appropriate action with regard to the investigation of the case as per guidelines laid down by the NHRC.  Further, Magisterial Enquiry Report, Post-Mortem Examination Report, along with the report of the independent investigation was required to be submitted to the Commission.  “Now, Panchkula DC has informed the Commission that in this matter only single Magisterial Enquiry was conducted in case of death of Kapoor , a resident of Kaithal, and the same was already submitted to the complainant. It is also submitted that independent investigation of the case is being carried out by SIT, headed by the DGP (Crime), in compliance of order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, and case is being monitored and supervised by the full bench of the court,” said the order passed by the NHRC. It can be appreciated that the High Court is seized of the matter, primarily in regard to ascertaining whether the expenses for the loss and damages that have been caused are liable to be recovered from the defaulter and if so, whether it would include expenses incurred in damage to public and private properties, harassment, costs, and the arrangements for mobilisation of security forces and the actual security operations?  It can also be observed that in this matter the High Court is also considering the question as in what situations should the police and law enforcing agencies use it full force, and when should minimum force with rubber bullets, water cannons etc. should be used?  In view of the above report, the matter is sub judice before Punjab and Haryana high Court, no further interference is needed. Therefore, the case is closed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nhrc-close-case-of-death-of-32-people-during-2017-dera-violence-in-panchkula-213756
17-02-2021||New Delhi||'Rail roko': Railways deploys 20 additional RPSF companies, focus on Punjab, Haryana, UP||The railways has deployed 20 additional companies of the RPSF across the country, with focus on Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, in the wake of the “rail roko” called on Thursday by farmer groups protesting against the Centre’s new agri laws.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of protesting farmer unions which is spearheading the protest, last week had announced the rail blockade to press for its demand to repeal the legislations.Director General, Railway Protection Force, Arun Kumar on Wednesday said, “I appeal to everyone to maintain peace. We will be liaisoning with district administrations and will have a control room in place.”“We will gather intelligence. States such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, and some other areas will be our focus. We have deployed 20 companies (around 20,000 personnel) of the Railway Protection Special Force (RPSF) in these areas,” he said.“We want to persuade them to not cause inconvenience for passengers. We have a four-hour window and we want it (rail roko) to get over peacefully,” Kumar said.The SKM had said the rail blockade will held across the country from 12 pm to 4 pm.The announcement came amid the ongoing protests against the laws at Delhi’s borders by farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and ‘mahapanchayats’ that are being organised in these states to garner support for the movement.On Tuesday, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni had said farmer unions will hold meetings in poll-bound West Bengal as well and indicated that they will ask people there not to vote for those who are “snatching our livelihood”.Farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rail-roko-railways-deploys-20-additional-rpsf-companies-focus-on-punjab-haryana-up-213754
17-02-2021||Sambhal||Farmers will not return home till they win: BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni||The Bharatiya Kisan Union is fighting for farmers’ rights, and they will not return home from Delhi’s borders till the new agri laws are repealed, the farm organisation’s Haryana president Gurnam Singh Chaduni said on Wednesday.He also said the union will hold programmes, such as panchayats and mahapanchayats, to make the country aware that the government at the Centre is “not for the people but of corporates”.Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi’s borders against the legislations since November 28 last year and demanding these be repealed.“We are fighting for the rights of farmers, and they will not return home till they win, and time does not matter in this struggle,” Chaduni, who was on his way to Moradabad for a mahapanchayat, told reporters in Uttar Pradesh’s Gelua village.“This government is not for the people but of corporates and only people can fight with it. We will hold panchayats in the entire country and make people aware and associate them with us,” he said, a day ahead of a “rail roko” announced by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions which is spearheading the protest.Chaduni alleged that the entire agri business was being given to corporates and said the farmers’ movement was for their “survival”.“Agriculture is our livelihood and not our business. The food grains of the country will go into godowns of corporates and they will indulge in black marketing. This is an ‘andolan’ (movement) not only of farmers but of all,” he said.Farmers are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The three farm laws, enacted in September last year, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-will-not-return-home-till-they-win-bku-leader-gurnam-singh-chaduni-213750
17-02-2021||Vijay C Roy||Export credit way behind target in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16Though timely availability of export credit is critical for exports, banks in Haryana are way behind the target. As far as export credit is concerned, the banks in the state achieved only 0.03% of the target (2% of total advances) from December 2019 to December 2020.According to exporters, the share of export credit in the state has fallen over past couple of years. This is a cause for concern especially for the MSME sector. “In the past few years, the share of export credit has come down and this is a cause for concern,” said a banker requesting anonymity.The total disbursement of export credit was 0.10% in December 2018 and 0.04% in December 2019 against the designated target of 2% of total advances.Concerned over the low disbursement, Haryana Additional Chief Secretary (Finance & Planning) TVSN Prasad has called a meeting of bankers operating in major export clusters such as Gurugram, Faridabad and Panipat to discuss impediments behind the low credit growth. “We need to find out reasons behind the slow growth in export credit. I will suggest lead district mangers to convene a meeting soon to discuss the reasons and remove stumbling blocks,” he said at the recently held State Level Bankers Committee meet.Export finance plays a crucial role in enabling exporters to execute their orders efficiently. Export credit is required for short period both before and after the shipment of order. While the pre-shipment export finance is required as working capital for accomplishing timely production, packing and shipment of the orders, the post-shipment finance facilitates in sustaining exporters’ business operations while still waiting to receive payments due from foreign buyers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/export-credit-way-behind-target-in-haryana-213282
17-02-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Waste being dumped outside gram sachivalaya||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Waste being dumped outside gram sachivalayaThe area outside the gram sachivalaya and anganwadi in Kambasi village has turned into a garbage dump. The stink emanating from the garbage has made the lives of residents' hell. It's unfortunate that despite of several complaints, the authorities concerned have failed to address the issue. Is this really Swachh Bharat? Sameer Bakshi, Kambasi, AmbalaTransformer installed in middle of roadA transformer has been fixed on four poles in the middle of the main busy road, occupying a lot of prime space, which is causing a lot of inconvenience to both shopkeepers and commuters. There is a 'tussle' going on between the UHBVN and Nagar Parishad, as to who will bear the cost of its dislocation. Both departments are engaged in irrelevant correspondence which has already taken a long time. In wider public interest, the transformer must be relocated elsewhere at the earliest. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaSC should prohibit farmers' 'rail roko' plan on Feb 18This refers to 'Farmers gear up for nationwide 'rail roko' (The Tribune, February 16). It goes without saying that the farmers are gearing up to make their four hourly 'rail roko' protest on February 18 a success by mobilising residents of villages in support of their demand, obviously raises several eyebrows more so when BKU leader Rakesh Tikait has already declared it to be a 'nationwide' phenomenon. Rail commuters are likely to be hit the most Industrial and farming activities in the adjoining areas of the three Delhi borders, have been suffering due to the continued protest since November 26 last year? So, one genuinely wishes that the Supreme Court urgently takes some holistic view of their endless protests while 'prohibiting' the proposed 'rail roko' plan in the larger national interest. SK Gupta, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waste-being-dumped-outside-gram-sachivalaya-213324
17-02-2021||Karnal||6 more vandals arrested||The police on Tuesday arrested six more persons for allegedly vandalising the houses and bikes of Dalits at Phoosgarh. Total 32 persons have been arrested so far. SP Ganga Ram Punia said the remaining accused would soon be nabbed as the teams were raiding their possible hideouts. TNSMahendragarh3 of family killed in mishapOm Prakash (41), his son Kapil (19) and daughter Manju (16) of Chindaliya village were killed when their bike was hit by a car on the Delhi-Jhunjhunu highway on Monday night. Villagers disrupted the highway traffic for an hour, seeking action against the car driver and relief for the deceased family. TNSGurugramMan beats wife to deathA man, Satish Kumar of UP’s Mainpuri district, beat his wife Ruby (23) to death in Sirhaul village here. Satish is a security guard with a private firm. “A murder case has been registered against Satish and we are conducting raids to nab him," said Inspector Sudhir Kumar, Sector 18 SHO. OCAmbalaTwo held for murderThe Yamunanagar police have arrested a woman, Palo Devi, and her lover, Sohail Khan, for murdering the former’s husband, Tilak Raj, and burying his body in their Khizrabad house here on Tuesday. The police said, “During probe, the duo confessed to the crime.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-more-vandals-arrested-213322
17-02-2021||Karnal||Lecture on mental health||Webinar on rethinking pastFaridabad: A webinar titled “Rethinking the past in the context of the Qutub Complex, Mehrauli Iron Pillar and the Tomars” was organised by DAV Centenary College in collaboration with Panchnad Research Institute. Chief Guest Prof Ashwini Aggarwal laid emphasis on the historical background and the architecture of the age-old monument. Qutub Minar in red and buff sandstone has been declared the highest stone tower in India and a world heritage. Prof BK Kuthiala, director, Panchnad Research Institute, discussed the perspectives towards historical events.7 students get job in Swiss firmHisar: Seven BTech students of the department of computer science and engineering, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, have been selected by a Switzerland-based Trapeze Group through an online campus placement drive. Pratap Singh, director, placement, said Trapeze was a public transport domain having 50 years of experience and more than 2,500 customers worldwide. He said 34 BTech final year students participated in this drive, which started from January 5. After several rounds, seven students -- Bhanupriya, Himani, Vanshika, Aman, Devanshi and Dhiraj and Mohit got placed.Murthal varsity project bags awardSonepat: Prof Chitrekha Kabre of Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and Technology, Murthal, presented a design tool ‘eco-house’, which was awarded $2,000 in a national contest. This tool will be provided as a free website with the support and promotion of government projects. Vice Chancellor Prof Rajendra Kumar Anayat said, “Without energy we can’t even imagine human life. We can reduce the consumption of energy by 39% by creating eco-houses under the PMAY-U.” Prof Kabre said the applications were invited for a building policy competition, ‘Pitch to Policy’. Of 31 submissions received from 12 states, only 15 finalists from 9 states made presentations before five judges. The team led by Prof Kabre, senior professor of the department of architecture, and alumnae Kalpana Tyagi and Sakshi Singhal, gave their online presentation.Basant Panchami celebratedSonepat: A 40-minute walk and run was organised on the occasion of Basant Panchami at Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram Science and Technology University, Murthal. Vice Chancellor Prof Rajendrakumar Anayat, first woman engineer Rajni Anayat and former Registrar D Kaushik flagged off the run and walk. Students, professors, officers and employees of the university took part in the event. The VC said Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram had contributed significantly in awakening education in rural areas. “He used to promote the ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ campaign and explained the importance of education to labourers and farmers from time to time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lecture-on-mental-health-213325
17-02-2021||---||Covid-19: 887 more vaccinated||Chandigarh, February 16A total of 91 persons took the first dose and 796 the second dose on Tuesday as the total number of persons vaccinated in the state reached 2.11 lakh.A total of 86 fresh cases were recorded, with one death reported in Panipat. The cumulative Covid figure in the state went up to 2.69 lakh. At present, the state had 819 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-887-more-vaccinated-213326
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 2,250 monthly pension for HIV, kidney patients||Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Om Prakash Yadav said the cancer, kidney and HIV patients would be given a pension of Rs 2,250 per month.Meanwhile, the state will soon hike the old age pension.He said about 25,000 beneficiaries of the three categories suffering from cancer, kidney and HIV would get its benefit. A status report has been sought from the CMOs of all districts in this regard. It will be implemented as soon as the report is submitted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-2-250-monthly-pension-for-hiv-kidney-patients-213323
17-02-2021||---||Report: 70% fake property IDs generated from 1 phone||Karnal, February 16With the detection of 209 ‘illegal temporary IDs’ on the no-dues certificate portal of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (MC) between November 21, 2020 and January 31, 2021, the registration of properties of unauthorised colonies has come under the scanner of the district administration.The economic wing of the Karnal police has also started investigation and sought the record of the Karnal Municipal Corporation to crack the case. “We have started the inquiry and the record of the MC is being collected. We will ensure speedy inquiry in this case,” said Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia.The unearthing of illegal property IDs has exposed flaws in the software of the NDC portal as around 70 per cent of the IDs were generated with the help of one mobile number (9999999990), which does not belong to any employee of the MC. The remaining illegal IDs were generated with the help of private numbers.As per the report, this mobile number was entered in the system by someone, raising questions that the system is easily accessible to anyone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/report-70-fake-property-ids-generated-from-1-phone-213289
17-02-2021||Faridabad||Live-in couple ends life in Faridabad||A 24-year-old youth and a girl, who were reportedly in a live-in relationship, allegedly died by suicide by shooting themselves with a country-made revolver at their rented accommodation here last evening.The bodies were recovered this morning. Manish Kumar, landlord of the house, said Rahul, a resident of Mathura, had taken their one-room accommodation on rent six months ago. A girl had also been residing with him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/live-in-couple-ends-life-in-faridabad-213292
17-02-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra seeks package for PGIMS||Congress MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra has sought a financial package for Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences and the PGIMS. In a letter to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Batra has demanded a paid private ward at the PGIMS.“The PGIMS is facing a financial crunch. A super-specialty paid private ward is required to be set up. I have suggested a special package in the 2021-22 Budget in response to a letter of the Chief Minister inviting suggestions from MLAs,” Batra said.“The PGIMS has an additional requirement of Rs 75 crore to meet pending liabilities and salaries for February. An amount of Rs 25 crore was sanctioned for the Mukhyamantri Muft Ilaj Yojana for 2020-21, but only Rs 2.5 crore was released. The pending amount should be released immediately,” he wrote. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-mla-bharat-bhushan-batra-seeks-package-for-pgims-213290
17-02-2021||---||Sugarcane farmers await dues||Ambala, February 16Irked over the delay in the settlement of dues by Naraingarh Sugarmills Limited, sugarcane farmers on Monday staged a protest and organised a panchayat. They announced to intensify the agitation if the issue is not resolved within 15 days.The farmers have decided to invite BKU leader Rakesh Tikait to their protest.The protesters, under the banner of the BKU, gathered outside the sugarmill and raised slogans in support of their demand. Tehsildar, Naraingarh, Dinesh Dhillon and CEO, Naraingarh sugarmills, Narender Malik reached the spot and pacified the protesters.Baldev Singh, mandal president of the BKU, said “At a meeting on February 5, farmers were told that their dues for the month of December will be cleared soon. However, they have been paid till December 7 so far. The mill has crushed sugarcane worth Rs 109 crore, but the payment of Rs 100 crore is yet to be cleared. As per norms, the dues are to be cleared within 14 days of the purchase of sugarcane.CEO Malik said, “We have apprised the farmers about the current situation. Efforts are being made to clear their payment at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sugarcane-farmers-await-dues-213294
17-02-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Land allotment for fuel station on forestland illegal: National Green tribunal||Gurugram, February 16Taking a stern stand on the allocation of land for a petrol pump in the Chakkarpur forest area, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has declared the development illegal.It has directed the Gurugram Deputy Commissioner and Divisional Forest Officer to take action as per the law and submit an action taken report within two months.“The site is part of a forest and in terms of a decision of the Supreme Court, it cannot be used for non-forest purposes. The retail outlet of Indian Oil Corporation Limited cannot be set up on the said site,” said the NGT in its order dated February 9 after a complaint by Manav Awaaj, an NGO.The MC had in 2019 allotted 1,500 square metres in Chakkarpur village of Phase 1 in DLF, which was part of the protected forest area, for a petrol pump, said Abhay Jain, convener of the NGO. Despite objections, the Haryana Government did not cancel the allotment, after which the NGO approached the NGT.“In spite of the stand of the Forest Department, the MC has failed to take remedial action to enforce the law. Use of forest land for non-forest purposes is in violation of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change notification with regard to the Aravalli range,” observed the three-member principal bench in Delhi headed by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, chairperson of the NGT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/land-allotment-for-fuel-station-on-forestland-illegal-national-green-tribunal-213293
17-02-2021||Kurukshetra||Saraswati Mahotsav ends in Pehowa||Dhuman Singh Kirmach, Deputy Chairman, Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board, on Tuesday informed that daily evening ‘aarti’ would be performed at Saraswati tirtha in Pehowa for which all the arrangements have been made by the board.Sharing the information on the occasion of the concluding ceremony of the fifth International Saraswati Mahotsav at Saraswati tirtha in Pehowa, Dhuman Singh said, “Soon, we will start the live streaming of the ‘aarti’ and people will also be able to get themselves registered if they want to perform the ‘aarti’. For that, a link will soon be updated on the website of the board. The ‘aarti’ will help in attracting more pilgrims and tourists to Saraswati tirtha.“Similar arrangements are being made at Adi Badri too. In three to four months, a ‘maha aarti’ will be started at Pipli too. For the first time, a 21 ‘kundiya yagya’ and a ‘parikrama’ were organised on the occasion of the concluding ceremony. The three-day mahotsav was organised with the help of different social and religious organisations.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/saraswati-mahotsav-ends-in-pehowa-213327
17-02-2021||Ambala||Anticipatory bail granted to DIG||Anticipatory bail was granted to DIG Ashok Kumar by the court of Additional Sessions Judge Sundeep Singh on Tuesday.He has been booked in a case of voluntarily causing hurt, obscene act and criminal intimidation, on the complaint of Home Minister Anil Vij’s brother Kapil Vij.Public prosecutor for the state and counsel for the complainant claimed that the petitioner didn’t cooperate in the probe and was accompanied by his lawyer at the time of interrogation. Hence, the bail should be dismissed.Meanwhile, the counsel for the petitioner replied that he had not only cooperated in the probe but also gave his blood sample. DIG’s advocate Satinder Singh Garg said: “The anticipatory bail of Ashok Kumar has been approved by the court.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anticipatory-bail-granted-to-dig-213300
17-02-2021||Ambala||Exterminate anti-national thinking: Anil Vij||Reacting to a complaint filed against him, Home Minister Anil Vij said one must exterminate anti-national thinking, and not people.Replying to the media, he said, “These are people educated in English schools, and they don’t understand Hindi. I said to exterminate the anti-national thinking, and not people. To persons, we want to purify them. It (tweet) was about to destroy the seed of anti-nationalism from one’s mind. If anyone wants to get an FIR done, we’ll reply.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/exterminate-anti-national-thinking-anil-vij-213302
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||‘Covid parole’ ends, convicts to return||The convicts released due to Covid on the orders of the high-powered committee will be sent back to jail. The jail authorities have been directed to ensure readmission of convicts according to criteria and ensure that readmission is based on duration of imprisonment from February 23.An official spokesman said 2,580 convicts had been released under the orders of the committee constituted under the chairmanship of Justice Rajan Gupta, Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and executive chairman of the Haryana State Legal Services Authority.He stated that a meeting of the committee was held in Narnaul on Tuesday. He said the jail authorities and health officials had been directed to coordinate and follow all protocols during the entry of convicts into jails. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-parole-ends-convicts-to-return-213303
17-02-2021||Karnal||Govt has failed to check fuel price hike: Kumari Selja||State Congress chief Kumari Selja on Tuesday hit out at the Centre for increasing fuel prices and said it had failed to control inflation, which had broken the backbone of the common man in the country.She also demanded the government issue white paper on the Ujjawala scheme and LPG subsidy.“The prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders are increasing day by day, but the government is doing nothing. The increasing rates are like rubbing salt on the wounds of the common man, who have already suffered losses during the Covid-induced lockdown,” said Selja while interacting with the media at the residence of Congress worker Joginder Nali at the Ashoka Nursery in the city.She also accused the Centre for not repealing the farm laws and said these were against farmers, but the government was not listening to their genuine issues. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-has-failed-to-check-fuel-price-hike-kumari-selja-213297
17-02-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana Govt bonanza for builders defaulting on EDC payment||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16The BJP-JJP Government has unveiled a bonanza for recession-hit realty sector. In a reprieve to the builders, who have been defaulting on the payment of external development charges (EDC) for several years, the state government has extended the one-time settlement scheme “Samadhan se vikas” till April 15.BenefitsSources said the special extension of the scheme had been done keeping in view adverse economic effect of Covid on the real estate sector and giving a boost to property transactions.The defaulters paying 100% outstanding principal EDC amount and 25% of the accumulated interest and penal interest within six months will now get waiver on rest of the 75% interest.AK Singh, Principal Secretary, Town and Country Planning, said the colonisers paying 50% of the outstanding principal amount and 50% interest and penal interest would get a waiver on 50% interest. However, they’ll have to deposit the rest of the outstanding principal amount (50%) by four six-monthly instalments with 8% interest.A close look at the scheme showed that the builders would be benefitted as they would not have to pay any penalty in case of default of instalments within the prescribed period of two years for deposit of instalments.However, if any amount of the balance 50% principal amount and interest is not deposited within two years, the coloniser would lose all benefits under the policy and the original schedule of the EDC payment would be restored, a notification said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-bonanza-for-builders-defaulting-on-edc-payment-213298
17-02-2021||Karnal||Kidnappers attack police party in Kaithal, 2 held||A Siwan police party was attacked near Kithana village on the Jind-Kaithal road last evening, where it had gone along with the family of a construction contractor, who has been kidnapped, to zero in on the accused while accepting ransom.The team members, including SHO Rajesh Kumar, sustained minor injuries.The police, however, arrested two of the accused while the third managed to flee. They have been identified as Dheeraj and Jai, both residents of Rohtak district.The police impounded their vehicle and recovered the bag containing ransom.Kaithal SP Lokender Singh said the accused had been sent to three-day remand. He said the contractor, identified as Rahul, was safe and teams had been dispatched to bring him back to Kaithal from Delhi. He said the third accused would be arrested soon.Sharing details, the police said Gyan Singh, a resident of Bhuna, had filed a complaint that his nephew Rahul had gone for some work on February 14, but did not return. The Siwan police registered a case and started investigations.Later, the police were informed that the contractor’s family was being asked to pay a ransom of Rs 10 lakh to secure his release. The accused were threatening to implicate Rahul in a false case, the SP added.As per the plan, the family reached near Kithana village with the ransom. The police had already installed barricades near the petrol station. After receiving the ransom, the accused headed towards Jind. However, when they were intercepted on the Jind-Kaithal road, they allegedly tried to ram their car into the police vehicle. Two of the accused were arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kidnappers-attack-police-party-in-kaithal-2-held-213299
17-02-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Ghaggar catchment area groundwater fails test||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16Groundwater samples from Ghaggar catchment areas in six districts of Haryana have been found non-compliant. This was revealed by the Executive Committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in its consolidated report on Ghaggar pollution.The NGT had formed the Executive Committee under Justice Pritam Pal (retd) vide its order dated August 7, 2018.As per the report, in Ambala, six out of seven groundwater samples were found non-compliant while in Jind, one out of the two samples failed.In Karnal district, 14 out of 15 groundwater samples were found non-compliant while the figure for Hisar district is three out of five.In Sirsa area, 23 groundwater samples were analysed and 13 were found non-compliant while in Fatehabad, 14 out of 18 samples failed.However, none of the samples failed in Panchkula and Kurukshetra.The Executive Committee, in its report dated February 15, recommended to the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) to seal non-compliant groundwater sources by erecting boards mentioning “water is not fit for drinking” at the sites.“We have erected boards. We have informed the public health and irrigation department to take necessary action. Regarding other recommendations, we are on track and the Chief Secretary is monitoring the situation every fortnight,” said S Narayanan, Member Secretary, HSPCB.The water quality of Ghaggar, monitored by HSPCB during the period July 2020 to January 2021 indicated that the values of F.Coli parameter were “quite high”—35110-352500 MPN/100 ml. Also, the value of BOD -4.7 Mg/I- 7.2 Mg/I was observed from June 2020 to January 2021.“The data indicates that the water quality of Ghaggar is Class D as per the water quality criteria prescribed by the CPCB (Central Pollution Control Board),” said the report.As many as 255 points have been identified as pollution sources, which are entering into main drains and ultimately into the Ghaggar. Out of these, 153 points relate to Panchayat Department, 78 to Urban Local Bodies and the rest to other departments.Untreated sewage at the rate of 107.53 million litres per day (MLD) through 70 locations is being discharged into the Ghaggar.For improving the water quality, the committee has recommended completing all the sewage treatment plants (STP) under construction by March 31, sewerage network in six towns and implementation of irrigation scheme for using treated sewage of towns by June 30.Out of 59 STPs, 16 (27.1 per cent) are not complying with prescribed norms and only seven comply with F.Coli parameter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ghaggar-catchment-area-groundwater-fails-test-213301
17-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Chaos at Kherki Daula toll plaza over FASTag||Gurugram, February 16As FASTags were mandated at the Kherki Daula toll plaza, a major daylong traffic jam was reported there.With many people buying tags on the spot, others recharging it at gates and eventual technical snags, there was chaos since early morning. Though the police were deployed to deal with the congestion, commuters remained a harried lot.Shashi Bhushan, Project Director, NHAITechnical snagsSince it was the first day, traffic marshals were managing the vehicular movement. There were some technical snags but we are taking cognisance and reporting it to the higher authorities.“It took me 30 minutes in the morning to cross the only toll plaza on way to Manesar though I have FASTag on my car. What is the use of FASTag if traffic chaos reigns?” said Mukesh Gupta, a commuter.Meanwhile, NHAI project director Shashi Bhushan said since it was the first day, there were bound to be teething issues. The NHAI had mandated FASTags from Monday midnight.The scanner of the toll authorities was not able to scan FASTags quickly so the employees were using manual machine to scan it, which was causing traffic congestion at the plaza. Many FASTags were found to be blacklisted or with insufficient balance, which led to further delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chaos-at-kherki-daula-toll-plaza-over-fastag-213304
17-02-2021||---||Enforcement Directorate frames charges against Bhupinder Singh Hooda in land allotment scam||Chandigarh, February 16The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a prosecution complaint (PC) against former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, four retired IAS officers and 16 others in a money laundering case linked to the allocation of over a dozen industrial plots worth more than Rs 30 crore in Panchkula in 2013.Bhupinder Hooda, former Chief MinisterDid nothing wrongThe matter is sub judice. I have full faith in judiciary. Nothing wrong was done. The truth will come out. The PC has been filed before a special PMLA court in Panchkula under Sections 3 (money laundering), 4 (punishment for money laundering), 44 (offences to be tried by special courts), 45 (offences to be congnisable and non-bailable) and 70 (offences by companies) of the PMLA.The case dates back to 2011-12 when Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda was the Chief Minister and Chairman of HUDA.The plots, located at Industrial Area, Phase-1, Panchkula, were offered between Rs 31.74 lakh and Rs 64 lakh. The ED said the plots were allotted to “acquaintances of the then CM”. The Haryana Vigilance Bureau filed a case in 2015 and subsequently, the CBI and the ED filed their respective cases.Four former HUDA officials — chief administrator DPS Nagal, administrator Surjit Singh, chief finance controller SC Kansal and deputy superintendent BB Taneja — and two firms — YPT Entertainment House Pvt Ltd and Chandigarh Softech Pvt Ltd — are named as accused.Other accused are Narinder Singh Solanki, Anupam Sud, Kanwar Preet Singh Sandhu, Renu Hooda, Mona Beri, Aman Gupta, Nandita Hooda, Ashok Verma, Dr Ganesh Dutt Rattan, Dagar Katyal, Sidharth Bhardwaj, Lt Col OP Dahiya (retd), Pawan Kansal and Manjot Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/enforcement-directorate-frames-charges-against-bhupinder-singh-hooda-in-land-allotment-scam-213315
17-02-2021||Rohtak||Child succumbs in Rohtak akhara shooting case||The death toll in the multiple murder which took place at a Rohtak ‘akhara’ on Friday evening rose to six on Tuesday with Sartaj, a four-year-old boy who was among those shot at allegedly by a wrestling coach, succumbing to his injuries at the local PGIMS.The boy, who had been shot in the head, was kept on ventilator support at PICU for three days, but his life could not be saved. Sartaj’s parents -– wrestling coach Manoj Malik and Railways official Sakshi -– were gunned down in the multiple murder.Wrestling coach Satish and wrestlers Pooja and Pradeep were also killed while another coach Amarjit was injured in the incident. The prime accused in the case, wrestling coach Sukhwinder, was arrested in a joint operation by the Delhi Police and Rohtak police in Delhi on Saturday.“He has been brought to Rohtak on production warrant. He was produced before a local court, which remanded him in police custody for four days,” said DSP (Sampla) Narender Kadyan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/child-succumbs-in-rohtak-akhara-shooting-case-213319
17-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice to Centre over blocking of National Highways||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued notice of motion to the Union of India and other respondents on a petition seeking action against persons who had dug up NHs and other roads following the farmers’ agitation.The petitioner submitted that the persons had intentionally blocked highways and the roads by putting nails, barricades and other “iron and allied items”. Directions were sought to the Delhi DGP to remove obstacles created by its force. A judicial inquiry in the matter was prayed for.The matter was brought to the court’s notice by Ravinder Singh Bassi for issuance of directions for “opening” NHs blocked and obstructed by the Delhi Police. Among other things, the petitioner contended that NHs could not be blocked. Appearing before the Bench, the petitioner referred to provisions of the National Highways Act, 1956, in support of his contentions. Taking up the matter, Justice GS Sandhawalia fixed March 15 as the next date of hearing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-notice-to-centre-over-blocking-of-national-highways-213321
17-02-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Rakesh Tikait pushes for ‘farm cabinet’||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, February 16Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Tuesday demanded the creation of an ‘agriculture cabinet’ for addressing the concerns of farmers effectively.Addressing the gathering at a farmers’ mahapanchayat on Sir Chhotu Ram’s birth anniversary at his memorial in Sampla, Tikait said several ministries and departments were looking after the farm sector.“There is no agriculture ministry or minister in the country. The minister we are talking to has only 18 per cent charge of agriculture while the rest is being taken care of by other ministries,” he stated.Pointing to dismantling of the mandi regime, Tikait remarked that agriculture-related laws enacted during the tenure of Sir Chhotu Ram were now being “broken” in his state.“The MSP regime brought prosperity to farmers in Punjab and Haryana. Farmers in Uttar Pradesh come to Haryana to sell their produce, but this practice has been stopped by the government,” he maintained. He exhorted farmers to stay united and appreciated the contribution of members of the Sikh community to the agitation. He said farmers’ panchayats would also be organised in West Bengal, Maharashtra, Gujarat and other states.Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Inderjit Singh and other farmer leaders reiterated their resolve to strengthen the agitation.Mahapanchayat calls for complete ‘rail roko’Tributes to Chhotu RamFarmers paid floral tributes to Sir Chhotu Ram in Karnal on Tuesday. They garlanded his statue. Later, they proceeded to the Bastara toll plaza and chalked out their strategy for the ‘rail roko’. Farmer leaders visited villages to garner support for the protest on February 18. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rakesh-tikait-pushes-for-farm-cabinet-213295
17-02-2021||Ravinder Saini||Mahapanchayats cancelled in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, February 16The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Tuesday decided to cancel all conferences and mahapanchayats announced by various farm organisations in Punjab in the days to come. Its leaders asserted that ensuring the success of their ‘rail roko’ on Thursday was their priority.The decision to cancel conferences and mahapanchayats was taken at a meeting of 32 farm organisations at the Singhu border to chalk out their strategy for further strengthening the agitation. The decision was announced by SKM leaders during a press conference on Tuesday evening.“There is no need for conferences and mahapanchayats in Punjab at this stage. All 32 organisations from Punjab have unanimously decided to cancel all conferences and mahapanchayats. We have decided to concentrate on making the ‘rail roko’ successful and raising numbers at the Delhi borders,” said Buta Singh, a leader of the SKM.He said they had appealed to all panchayats and farm outfits to cancel their scheduled conferences. He pointed out that preparations for the ‘rail roko’ were under way. All farm organisations were set to show the strength of famers by stopping trains with the help of locals for four hours on Thursday, he asserted.“Since the struggle is likely to go on for long and the weather is changing, the SKM is making arrangements for fans, coolers, water, electricity and tents for protesting farmers,” he said. Rubbishing reports that the number of protesters was going down at the Delhi borders, farmer leaders said the number was swelling every day as farmers were fighting a decisive battle and had vowed to win.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mahapanchayats-cancelled-in-punjab-213296
17-02-2021||Sushil Manav||43% illicit liquor seized in Bihar went from Haryana: SIT||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 16Over 1.04 lakh cartons of illicit Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) smuggled from Haryana were seized by the police in Bihar from January to November last year — a whopping 43.52 per cent of the total recovery of illicit IMFL in that state.Liquor smuggled from Haryana was also seized in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat in huge quantities, as per the report of SIT headed by ADGP (Narcotics) Shrikant Jadav set up to look into hooch deaths in the state. It was submitted to the Home Department earlier this month.The SIT had sought information on illicit liquor smuggled from Haryana from several states and Union Territories of the country for its probe.It got replies from Bihar, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat till the compilation of its report.The information furnished by the Inspector General of Police (Prohibition) from the police headquarters, Bihar, said that of the 21,59,901 litres (2,39,987 cartons) of IMFL seized in the state from January to November 2020, 9,40,057 litres (1,04,450 cartons) were smuggled out of Haryana, which comes out to be 43.52 per cent of the total recovery of illicit IMFL in that state.The estimated revenue loss due to these 1.04 lakh cartons was estimated as Rs 10.78 crore by the SIT.The report, however, added that it was an established fact based on the general trends of confiscation in illicit trade of liquor that the seized qualities of liquor were only 5 to 10 per cent of the total quantities smuggled.“Assuming the confiscations to be 10 per cent of the total smuggled liquor, if one extrapolates the data of Bihar alone, the revenue loss comes out to be Rs 107.8 crore,” the report says.Information received from the Delhi Police said 7,10,150 bottles (59,179 cartons) of liquor smuggled from Haryana were seized there from January 2020 to November 2020 in 216 incidents.The UP Police informed the SIT that 1,14,670 litres of illicit liquor (79,650 cartons) smuggled from Haryana were seized there during this period.“The number of FIRs/cases registered regarding confiscation of Haryana-origin liquor in Uttar Pradesh in the past three years on an average comes out to be 147 cases per month and at least four cases per day,” the SIT report says.The Jharkhand Police reported seizure of 27,824 litres and Chhattisgarh Police supplied information about the seizure of 10,537 litres of liquor smuggled from Haryana.The response received from the Gujarat Police said that the investigation of the cases there had revealed that Haryana-based distilleries are involved in the supply of illicit liquor and transporters used fake GST bills and fake RTO number plates during transportation of illegal IMFL.“On computing the quantity mentioned in the letter, it comes to be 73,131 bottles of IMFL. It is pertinent to mention that the data represented in the letter is merely the tip of the iceberg as it relates to only cases whose details are present at the State Monitoring Cell of the Gujarat Police. The entire data collected from the all districts of Gujarat will be received soon,” the SIT report adds.Distilleries involved in supply: Gujarat copsThe response received from the Gujarat Police said that the investigation of the cases there had revealed that Haryana-based distilleries are involved in the supply of illicit liquor and transporters used fake GST bills and fake RTO number plates during transportation of illegal IMFL.Seized 27,824 litres, say UP police||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/43-illicit-liquor-seized-in-bihar-went-from-haryana-sit-213287
17-02-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Fastags cause confusion, traffic snarls at Kherki Toll Plaza||Traffic snarls were reported for most of the day at the Khreki Toll Plaza in Gurugram on Tuesday as the mandatory Fastags came into effect.Confusion and traffic snarls were caused primarily by people either buying Fastags on the spot or those recharging it, with technical glitches compounding the problem.  Traffic congestion continued despite police deployment in the area.Many commuters found the sudden transition from cash to Fastag confusing, and personnel at the toll plaza found themselves stepping in and providing assistance several times in the day.  The traffic snarls got worst as peak hour approached. Adding to the confusion were technical glitches, such as when a scanner for the Fastags wouldn’t work, making personnel at the plaza use a manual scanner, thus causing delays. Another problem frequently faced was Fastags with insufficient balance, or ones that were blacklisted.Shashi Bhushan, the project director of National Highways Authority of India, put the problems down to teething issues. “There wasn’t a huge line of vehicles. The queue was only 300-400 meters and traffic marshal managed the traffic. Yes, some technical issues are there, such as Fastags with insufficient balance, black-listed Fastags, etc. and we are taking cognizance and taking it to higher authorities,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fastags-cause-confusion-traffic-snarls-at-kherki-toll-plaza-213256
17-02-2021||---||CBI nabs two FCI officials for graft||Chandigarh, February 12The Central Bureau of Investigation(CBI) has arrested two officials of the FCI, Hisar, for seeking a bribe of Rs 7,000, for releasing remaining arrears of an employee (Labour) who had taken VRS.A case was registered on a complaint against the accused, AG-II (Accounts)/ Clerk, FCI Divisional Office, Sirsa Road, Hisar, and an employee of the FCI godown, Sirsa Road, Hisar, said a spokesperson of the CBI.It was alleged that the AG-II (Accounts) Clerk had demanded a bribe of Rs 8,000 from the complainant in lieu of depositing the remaining amount of arrears and other retirement benefits in the account of the complainant. On negotiation, the bribewas reduced to Rs 7,000.The CBI laid a trap and caught both accused in the said bribery case.Both the accused were produced before the court and were sent to judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cbi-nabs-two-fci-officials-for-graft-211615
