21-02-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Pataudi lad makes it to IPL team, villagers celebrate||Celebrations gripped Mokalwas village in Pataudi after local lad Kuldeep Yadav made it to Indian Premier League (IPL). He was bought for Rs 20 lakh, and now will make his debut with Rajasthan Royals.The relatives and villagers thronged to his paternal home to congratulate them. The villagers claimed that Yadav started his journey from the narrow streets of their village, and now has reached IPL.Yadav said that he hopes and dreams to play with the Indian cricket team.“I worship MS Dhoni and Zahir Khan. I will strive for Rajasthan Royals victory in IPL. I could not afford training, but my coach Amit Kumar, family, friends are very important, and they helped me in every possible way and got me through. My hard work has started paying off”, said the young cricketer.“We are proud of Kuldeep Yadav. He has achieved this milestone by hard work and dedication. Not only the family, but the people of the village and the region are happy, and are proud on this achievement”, said Zila Parhsand Vijay Pal Yadav alias Shanty.Village sarpanch Manoj Yadav said that Yadav has made them proud.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pataudi-lad-makes-it-to-ipl-team-villagers-celebrate-215665
21-02-2021||Ravinder Saini||Long haul: Mist fans, freezers arrive at farmers’ protest site||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, February 20Having braved severe cold for over two months, farmers from Punjab camping at Tikri border since November 27 are now gearing up for the summer season. They have made arrangement for mist fans and deep freezers. A submersible pump is also being installed to meet water requirements. They say they are ready to face every situation to get the three farm laws repealed.Kewal Singh, a farmer from Moga district, said: “We have also placed orders for two air conditioners. We are ready for a long haul. Earlier, we braved bone-chilling cold and now we are ready to face severe heat with same enthusiasm.”Labhpreet Singh, another farmer, said: “We have also begun replacing our sheds. For potable water, an RO system is being installed.” Jasvinder of Ludhiana said farmers of various villages had pooled money to buy two deep freezers and five mist fans. “The freezers are required to keep eatables fresh during summer,” he said.VILLAGES POOL MONEYArrangements afoot for ceiling fans, fridges, ACs, submersible pumps and water purifiers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/long-haul-mist-fans-freezers-arrive-at-farmers-protest-site-215273
21-02-2021||---||HKU seeks probe into Red Fort violence by independent agency||Chandigarh, February 20 The Haryana Kisan Union (HKU) on Saturday demanded a probe by an independent agency into the Red Fort violence on January 26 and the release of innocent farmers arrested in this connection without any delay.  Addressing the media, union president Randhir Singh Redhu, economist Raghbir Chand Goyal and Baljit Singh Igarah alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had never participated in any non-violent democratic movement till date, so he did not understand the mindset of the agrarian society.  He said it was totally unacceptable to describe peacefully protesting farmers as traitors and Khalistanis. Redhu demanded immediate withdrawal of the three agricultural laws, release of the arrested farmers and compensation to those who died during the agitation. Describing Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal’s remark on the deaths of farmers as irresponsible and insensitive, Redhu said he should be dismissed without any delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hku-seeks-probe-into-red-fort-violence-by-independent-agency-215321
21-02-2021||---||Activist denied sexual assault charge: HSCW||Chandigarh, February 20  Haryana State Commission for Women (HSCW), Panchkula, has issued a statement that labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur has denied the allegations of sexual assault on her in police custody or prison after her arrest.  According to Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal, officiating president of HSCW, the injury to her on January 12 at Kundli was on her leg. SP Sonepat’s report has also clarified the same.  “The presence of mahila police constable/s has been reported throughout — during rioting, during arrest, in police station Kundli, waiting room of police station and escort to Karnal district jail. Also, a woman Jail Deputy Superintendent is deputed at Karnal prison,” said Dalal in her statement issued on February 19. “The victim herself refused to first undergo mandatory tests. However, not only routine medical tests, but also special medical tests were conducted on the victim by a woman doctor of Government Hospital, Sonepat,” she claimed. She added that the allegation of the victim being denied legal aid was also not correct as alleged by the Punjab Government. “Her case is being contested by renowned advocates,” she said.  “Nodeep had categorically denied any aid from the government in the state and had shown her capability and competence in handling her concerns,” she added.  Nodeep belongs to Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan. She was arrested on January 12 from Singhu border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/activist-denied-sexual-assault-charge-hscw-215322
21-02-2021||---||Unions revoke Phul’s suspension||Sonepat, February 20 Firm on their demand for the repeal of the three agricultural laws and a legal guarantee for MSP, 32 farmer unions from Punjab on Saturday decided to intensify the movement in the coming days.  Besides, the unions also revoked the suspension of the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Krantikari, led by Surjeet Singh Phul. Two Punjab-based unions — BKU-Krantikari, led by Surjit Singh Phul, and the Azaad Kisan Committee, Doaba, led by Harpal Singh Sangha — were suspended for straying from the route during the tractor parade on January 26. While the suspension of Sangha’s union was revoked on February 10, decision on Phul was kept pending. During a meeting at the Kisan andolan office at Kundli on Saturday, Kuldeep Vazirpur said, “We have chalked out programmes to intensify the agitation. However, the events will be announced only after getting approval at a meeting of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha scheduled for Sunday.” President of the BKU (Lakhowal) Harender Singh Lakhowal said of 122 farmers, who were arrested by the Delhi Police on January 26, 45 had got bail.  He said some farmers, who were arrested for attempt to murder, were also granted bail today due to the efforts of the SKM’s legal team.  Meanwhile, youths organised a protest march from the TDI to the Singhu central stage and raised slogans seeking the release of farmers lodged in jail. They also sought justice for deceased youth farmer Lovepreet Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unions-revoke-phuls-suspension-215323
21-02-2021||---||MDU students change stance, now protest for online exams||Rohtak, February 20 Students of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) in Rohtak, who initially opposed the conduct of online studies and exams by the university administration, are now demanding that their exams be conducted online. A group of students has been staging a dharna in front of MDU gate for three days to press for the conduct of online exams, grant of mercy chance to the old students to appear in exams and reduction in the examination fee for mercy chance. The protesting students maintain that they are demanding that the exams should be conducted online as well as offline as is being done at the other universities across Haryana as well as the neighbouring states in view of the Covid-related constraints. On the other hand, sources in the teaching fraternity state that certain groups of students have been demanding online exams so that they can use unfair means as they take the exams from their homes. “The university authorities have allowed the students having genuine problems/difficulties to take the exams online, but even those students who can appear in the exams without any difficulty are demanding online exams,” points out a senior faculty member at the university. Meanwhile, the Indian National Students Organisation (INSO) has given a 48-hour ultimatum to the university authorities to accede to their demands, including the conduct of online as well as offline exams, opening of hostels and increasing the number of seats in certain courses. The students’ body has threatened to gherao the university Vice-Chancellor and lock his office on Monday if their demands are not met by then.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mdu-students-change-stance-now-protest-for-online-exams-215324
21-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Paramour ‘poisons’ pregnant woman||Gurugram, February 20 A 29-year-old pregnant woman was allegedly poisoned to death by her lover. She was living with him for the past year but had recently returned to her husband’s house in Gurugram. The accused fled after her death and a murder case has been registered at Sector 50 police station. According to the complaint filed by Satish Kumar, a native of Hathras in UP, he married Priti four years ago. He came to Gurugram a year ago with Priti. She stayed with him for only three days in Gurugram and eloped with her lover Subhash, also a native of Hathras. For the past two months, she was staying with Subhash in Faridabad but returned to Satish. “On February 17, Priti called me to Faridabad where I had a fight with Subhash but we reconciled. The next day, we decided to stay in Gurugram. On Friday, I had to go to work and asked her to stay at a friend’s room. When I returned in the evening, I found the room locked. When I opened it, Priti was lying on the floor and had foam in her mouth. Subhash was not there. He is the one who poisoned my wife, who was four months pregnant,” Satish alleged. An FIR has been registered against Subhash under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC at Sector 50 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paramour-poisons-pregnant-woman-215325
21-02-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Entire Haryana knows me, Hooda tells ED on link with allottees||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 20With the Enforcement Directorate (ED) claiming that most allottees in the industrial plot allotment case are known to former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and he favoured them, the latter, in his statement to the investigating agency, recorded that “entire Haryana knows him”.“I belong to one of the oldest political families of Haryana and know so many people, of which some happened to figure in the final list of the allottees. It does not mean favouritism was done in the interview,” he added in his statement to the ED.Hooda had recorded his statement on July 25 and 26, 2019, and it is a part of the ED’s prosecution complaint (PC) filed before the Special Court for the Prevention of Money Laundering Act on February 15.As per the prosecution complaint filed on February 15, he had admitted that two allottees were from his village, one was son of his schoolmate, one was daughter-in-law of his OSD, one used to play tennis with him, one was family member of an MLA of his party, three allottees were family members of active party members and one allottee was son of his old acquaintance.During the questioning, he was shown the list of 16 “worthier non-allottees” and asked if he knew any of those.Hooda denied knowing any of them, but said it was only a coincidence that some of the allottees were known to him.On being questioned further, he stated that he did not ask any HUDA official about how the applicants were shortlisted in such a way that most of them were his acquaintances.When questioned on why plots were offered at lower price than the circle rates, he replied that the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) was not an organisation for profit.On changing criteria and dropping experience parameter, Hooda replied that it was done in order to give preference to new entrepreneurs or new start-ups and to effectively evaluate personal attributes, entrepreneur skills, experience and aptitude of the applicants, and thus the marks of the viva-voce were increased from 15 to 25.He told the ED that at no stage after the interview, agenda sheets or a comparative list of marks were put up before him and he did not know about the initial scrutiny of the applications received.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/entire-haryana-knows-me-hooda-tells-ed-on-link-with-allottees-215326
21-02-2021||Ravinder Saini||Protesters camp at under-construction bus stand||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, February 20A bus stand under construction on the Sector 9 bypass at Bahadurgarh in the district has turned into a Punjab village. Protesting farmers have been staying in the building and the premises, spread over 7.5 acres, is dotted with tractor-trailers.Basic facilities such as night shelter, clinic, dispensary, library, langar, RO water purifier and gym and sports equipment are available in the makeshift village. US-based cardiologist Dr Swaiman Singh and his team have been providing aid to the protesters.Only 5 per cent of the work was left and the district administration was planning inauguration of the bus stand when farmers from Punjab reached the Tikri border over two and a half months ago.“The death of a farmer due to the severe cold made us think about providing essential facilities to the protesting farmers. We provided night shelters for over 5,000 persons in the bus stand building by arranging mats and blankets,” said Dr Singh, heading the 5 Rivers Heart Association.“A health check-up centre, with a super-specialist-controlled clinic and dispensary, has been set up to treat ailing farmers and provide medicines. Facilities of EKG, ECG, dental treatment and blood tests are available,” he said.“Hundreds of books on various subjects are available in the library. A volleyball competition is organised every Sunday and youth are given gym equipment for exercise. Religious preachers conduct classes on Hinduism and Sikhism. A team of volunteers ensures cleanliness of the campus,” he added.KS Pathania, Executive Engineer, PWD, said finishing work was pending and it would take around 10 days to complete it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesters-camp-at-under-construction-bus-stand-215327
21-02-2021||---||Khattar pushes for SYL canal at Niti Aayog meet||Chandigarh, February 20  Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday sought the Centre’s intervention in resolving the long-pending issue of Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) and Hansi-Butana Link canals so that the state could get its “legitimate share of river water”. “To overcome the water shortage in the state, the government will soon be signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for Kishau dam. Besides, MoUs have already been signed with the Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh Governments for Lakhwar and Renuka dams,” said Khattar. He made the comments while speaking during the sixth Governing Council meeting of the NITI Aayog held under the chairmanship of PM Narendra Modi through video conferencing held on Saturday. Highlighting the fact that though Haryana is at the forefront in GST collection, the CM said that despite that, the state gets only 20 per cent GST due to Input Tax Credit. He urged PM Modi to formulate a plan for incentivising the states having the maximum GST collection. He apprised PM Modi that for reducing compliance burden at the state level and for ‘Ease of Doing Business’, Haryana Enterprise and Employment Policy 2020 has been launched.  For thrust on the creation of jobs, the CM said that the state has recently passed Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill and that digitalisation of workforce database has been done. He said that in the past five years as many as five lakh youth have been given employment opportunities.  The CM also talked about ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ scheme which has helped in replacing paddy from 97,000 acres with alternative crops like maize, cotton, bajra, pulses, vegetables and fruits. He informed that at present, Haryana is giving the highest price of Rs 350 per quintal to sugarcane farmers. Apart from this, various crops such as gram, mustard, sunflower, bajra and maize are being procured on MSP by the state government. The CM said the state has planned to convert paddy straw into compressed biogas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-pushes-for-syl-canal-at-niti-aayog-meet-215328
21-02-2021||---||150 booked for obstructing trains||Ambala, February 20About 150 farmers have been booked for allegedly obstructing the movement of trains and trespassing during the ‘rail roko’ agitation on the Delhi-Ambala railway track near Shahpur village on February 18.The FIR has been registered under Sections 147 (trespass) and 174 (obstructing movement of trains) of the Railways Act at the Railway Protection Force (RPF) post at the Ambala Cantt railway station.Shyam Sundar, RPF post in-charge, has confirmed this.In protest against the three new farm laws, farmers had blocked railway tracks from noon to 4 pm on February 18. Under the Ambala division, trains were stopped at railway stations of Ambala Cantt, Saharanpur and Sirhind, causing inconvenience to passengers.Gulab Singh, district Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) vice-president, said: “Farmers will not be silenced. The state government has already got several FIRs registered against farmers under several sections, including attempt to murder. We will continue our struggle until the farm laws are revoked.”Farm laws will raise food prices: CharuniChandigarh: BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni on Saturday said food prices would increase like that of fuel if the Centre’s farm laws are implemented. Describing the farmers’ agitation against the laws as a “dharma yudh”, the BKU leader exhorted all sections of society to be part of the movement. “If agri-business laws are implemented, the country's foodgrain will go into the godowns of a few people,” said Charuni, seeking to assert the “adverse” impact of the legislations. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/150-booked-for-obstructing-trains-215329
21-02-2021||---||2.37 lakh vaccinated in state so far||Chandigarh, February 20 With 2,703 persons taking the first dose and 2,894 the second, the cumulative coverage of Covid vaccine in Haryana has reached 2.37 lakh.  Meanwhile, 111 fresh cases were reported on Saturday. No death has been witnessed for the second consecutive day. There are a total of 816 active cases at present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-37-lakh-vaccinated-in-state-so-far-215330
21-02-2021||New Delhi||‘Mobile Hut’ at Ghazipur||Amid the ongoing farmers’ protest that will soon complete three months at the Delhi borders, a farmer from Rohtak district has reached the Ghazipur border with his unique “mobile hut” to extend support to the protesters.Mounted on an autorickshaw, this “mobile hut” is equipped with solar system which provides power for the fan, lights and music system installed in the structure. It peaked the protesters interest especially with summer months approaching.Rohtak resident Sonu said, “We have arrived here to support farmers. This hut has all facilities, a solar system is installed in it for the electricity so that lights and music system can be used.”“A bulb is fixed in it for lighting along with fan. We have also visited the Singhu, Tikri and other borders of Delhi where farmers are protesting,” he said.However, when asked that do police stop it? The owner of the hut answered, “No, no one stops it, but people seemed enthusiastic to take a peek inside as we travelled along the roads.” — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mobile-hut-at-ghazipur-215331
21-02-2021||---||Nod to expansion of Karnal Aviation Club||Karnal, February 20With consent from the majority of farmers for expansion, the high-powered purchase committee headed by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has given the go-ahead for the expansion and renovation of Karnal Aviation Club.With it, the airstrip will be expanded to 5,000 feet from the existing 3,000 feet, enabling the majority of small and medium aircraft to land at the aviation club.DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said a meeting of the stakeholders and owners of the lands was held through video conferencing. As much as 172 acres, 3 kanals, 16 marlas are required for the project. Of that, 106 acres, 6 kanal, 14 marla belong to the state government. The 24 landowners of Kulvehri village, after interacting with the CM through video conferencing, have agreed to voluntarily provide their land –- 38 acres, 5 marla — by uploading their consent on e-Bhoomi portal of the state government.“Now, a detailed project report (DPR) will be prepared by the Department of Civil Aviation,” the DC added.Inderpreet Ahuja, one of the farmers who didn’t give permission to give up his land, said that they had already raised questions over the direct purchase policy. He said that instead, the government should acquire land as per the land acquisition Act 2013.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nod-to-expansion-of-karnal-aviation-club-215332
21-02-2021||Ambala||MP man held with opium||The police have arrested a person and recovered 3.6 kg opium from his possession in Shahzadpur area of Ambala.The suspect has been identified a Mangilal, a resident of Madhya Pradesh. He was produced before a court which sent him to five-day police remand.CIA Naraingarh got information that Mangilal is involved in smuggling and he is currently standing near Satoli curve. Acting on the information, Mangilal was arrested. A case has been registered under the NDPS Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mp-man-held-with-opium-215334
21-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Fake call centre busted in Gurugram||Gurugram, February 20Acting on a tip-off, a team of the CM flying squad on Saturday busted a fake call centre being run in the name of Ganeshan Infotech and arrested three persons, including its owner. As many as 35 workers were detained.The centre was involved in duping US nationals on the pretext of providing loans. Two laptops, one hard disk, two pen drives, one colour printer and five cellphones were recovered.Those arrested have been identified as centre owner Sarjeet Kumar (21) from Jhunjhunu in Rajasthan and his accomplices Kapil Dev Patel (32) of Ahmedabad and Bhudev Lohar (27) of Dungarpur in Rajasthan.During the investigation, the team found that the workers did not possess any valid OSP licence of the Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement/MoU related to their work. The accused revealed that the centre was being run for the last five months.“The accused first collected the data of foreigners such as their names, cellphone numbers, e-mails and addresses, and then sent them voice mails. Later, the victims would be informed that their loan has been sanctioned and were told to pay them only through e-cheque, debit and credit cards,” said DSP Inderjeet Yadav, DSP, who led the team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-call-centre-busted-in-gurugram-215335
21-02-2021||New Delhi||Union minister helps Haryana shooter Manu Bhaker board flight after being stopped at IGI Airport||Olympic quota place winner pistol ace Manu Bhaker on Friday evening alleged that she was harassed by Air India officials at the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGI) while she was trying to board a flight from Delhi to Bhopal.The 19-year-old Haryana shooter, who was carrying two weapons and ammunition on her way to Bhopal Shooting Academy, was later allowed to board the flight.After being stopped at the Indira Gandhi Airport, 19-year-old Manu tweeted her 'problem', tagging sports minister Kiren Rijiju and civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, besides others.Thank you every one and all who help me.Especially Who made my boarding possible. Few also think May be one sided and I got undue advantage. Sport ministry bears all my expense spent by me in any form Very clear if I had to pay for any wrong or right reason it’s Govt money.👇 pic.twitter.com/ztU7KH1BwX  Apparently after Rijiju's intervention she eventually board the AI 437 flight.Manu tweeted fives times on Friday, starting at 8.17 pm, and the last one was posted at 8.57 pm, after she was cleared to board the flight. She thanked the sports minister in her last tweet: "Thank you @KirenRijiju sir. Got boarded after strong support from all of you. Thank you India. [Flag of India] [Folded hands] jai hind." Rijiju responed by tweeting: "You are India's pride." Soon after that, Air India replied to Manu tweet by tweet."IGI Delhi .Going to Bhopal (MP Shooting Acadmy For my training i need to carry weapons and ammunition, Request @airindiain Officials to give little respect or at least don't Insult players every time &please don't ask money. I Have @DGCAIndia permit," was Manu's first of the tweets, and she tagged @HardeepSPuri and @VasundharaBJP Air India responed: "Ma'am we are really sorry that you have faced inconvenience while traveling with us. We request you to kindly share details of the issue alongwith your contact details over DM for us to assist you." In her second tweet, Manu sensationally hinted that officials asked her for "bribes"."Not allowing me to board flight AI 437 at IGI Delhi and asking now 10200rs Despite all valid Documentation and DGCA permit (sic). Top of that Manoj Gupta Air india incharge doesn't recognise DGCA," she wrote, and tagged @narendramodi @HardeepSPuri @AmitShah @VasundharaBJP "shall I pay this Bribes or!!!!" Air India replied: "Ma'am we have noted details, please allow us few mins to inform our Delhi Airport team." Manu's next tweet read: "Think this type behaviour is not acceptable (sic).Manoj Gupta is not even human. He is treating me like I am a criminal. Also his security incharge Such people need basic training of behaviour hopefully Aviation ministry will find out &will send him to right place."  Air India's response, apparently after checking with its officials at the IGI, was: "Dear Ms Bhaker Our Delhi Airport team has confirmed that the official at our counter had only sought for valid documents as per rules for carriage of your weapon on board. (1/3)." Its next tweeted read: "(2/3)In absence of the same, legitimate specified charges for the arms were conveyed to you. No one sought a 'bribe' as has been alleged. You were issued boarding pass on your assurance of furnishing valid documents before boarding."Air India further tweeted: "(3/3) Immediately after the official valid documents were shown by you at the boarding point, u were allowed to board. It may please be noted that Air India has always encouraged and respected Sportspersons and have many an eminent sports legends working with us." Manu is one of the top shooters selected for the ISSF World Cup, to be held from March 18 to 29 at Dr Karni Singh Shooting Ranges in New Delhi.The 2018 Youth Olympic champion competed in the 10m air pistol and the 25m sports pistol in the second round of national selection trials held in New Delhi from February 8 to 14.  IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/union-minister-helps-haryana-shooter-manu-bhaker-board-flight-after-being-stopped-at-igi-airport-215120
