22-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt refuses to sanction prosecution of DSP, 3 others||The Haryana government has refused prosecution sanction against four policemen, including a DSP, an inspector, a retired inspector and an Exemptee Sub Inspector (ESI), in a CBI case related to the false implication of a bus conductor for the murder of a 7-year-old boy of a Gurugram school. During a resumed hearing before CBI Special Magistrate, Haryana, Panchkula, a letter from Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) Home Rajeev Arora to the CBI, dated February 19, refusing sanction, was placed on record.   In the last court hearing on February 2, CBI Special Magistrate, Haryana, Dr Aman Inder Singh, had passed strictures against Principal Secretary Home, DGP Haryana and Commissioner of Police Gurugram for “sleeping” over the request of the CBI for prosecution sanction for five months like a “Kumbhakarna” instead of discharging their duties.   The CBI has been alleging that then Assistant Commissioner of Police, Sohna (Gurugram) Birem Singh along with then SHO Bhondsi police station (Gurugram) Inspector Narinder Khatana, then Sub Inspector Shamsher Singh of Bhondsi and Exemptee Sub Inspector (ESI) Subhash Chand of Bhondsi manipulated documents against school bus conductor Ashok Kumar and voluntarily caused hurt to extort his confession for the murder of the 7-year-old boy. While intimating refusal of sanction under section 197 of CrPC, Arora told CBI, “...it is observed that merely oral statements have been relied upon and no medical documents have been placed on record regarding voluntarily causing hurt to Ashok Kumar to extort confession. The said Ashok Kumar was subjected to regular medical examination during the police custody and such medical documents are required to be relied upon and to be cited in the investigation report."The other charges related to inaccurate documentation. Some amount of inaccuracy and discrepancy, minor in nature, is found in police documentation, which cannot per-se punishable by criminal prosecution unless there is criminal intent and mens-rea proving such intent to falsely implicate any person.” He added, “The charges sought to be made against the police officials are distinct and severable from the main case entrusted to the CBI. An act or omission or lack of efficiency or failure to attain highest standard of investigating ability may not, by itself, amount to or constitute an offence.“Error of judgment in evaluating the situation, may be some sort of negligence but would not constitute an offence in the absence of the intent and mens-rea.”   He pointed out that under Section 197 of CrPC, the government acts in an executive capacity and while doing so the objective of the protection given under section 197 “to protect public servants against the institution of possible vexatious criminal proceedings is to be considered”.  In case of then ACP Birem Singh, he further said that after carefully examining the material placed before him, Governor of Haryana is satisfied that “there is no sufficient material to prosecute him”.    While CBI counsel told the court that he wanted to seek instructions from his department for further proceedings in the case, counsel Sushil K Tekriwal, representing victim’s father, stated that he would challenge the order of ACS Home by the way of writ.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-refuses-to-sanction-prosecution-of-dsp-3-others-216107
22-02-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Ex-coach held for murder of woman weightlifter||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, February 22The police have arrested Bhagat Singh, a former weightlifting coach at Rjiv Gandhi sports complex in Rohtak, for the murder of a woman weightlifter of Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh.DSP Sajjan Singh said the accused had been nabbed by a team led by CIA-2 wing in-charge Naresh Kumar and SHO (Sadar) Inspector Shamsher Singh from Haridwar yesterday. He was produced before a local court today, which remanded him in police custody for two days.The body of the woman weightlifter was found lying along a canal near Dhamar village in Rohtak district on February 18. The woman was nearly 35 years old and her throat had been slit with some sharp-edged weapon.As per the police investigation, the woman, who had divorced her husband, came in contact with weightlifting coach Bhagat Singh of Mahra village in Sonepat district during a sports event in Bhopal in 2016.In June 2018, the woman lodged a complaint at Urban Estate police station in Rohtak, alleging that Bhagat Singh had raped her. Bhagat Singh was arrested and later released on bail in the case, which is pending at a Rohtak court.In September 2018, the woman lodged another complaint with the police at Bhopal, accusing Bhagat Singh of threatening her. Bhagat Singh was again arrested and released on bail.The investigation revealed that Bhagat Singh went to Bhopal on February 16 to appear before a court in connection with the case against him. He convinced the woman to accompany her to Rohtak, probably on the pretext of marrying her.However, he took her to a secluded spot along a canal on his motorcycle, where he allegedly killed her with a knife and fled the scene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-coach-held-for-murder-of-woman-weightlifter-216106
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||High Court to hear bail plea of labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur on Wednesday||The Punjab and Haryana High Court will on Wednesday hear a bail plea of labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur, arrested on charges of extortion and attempt to murder.The bail application of the 23-year-old labour rights activist had come up for hearing on Monday but on the request of the Haryana counsel, Justice Avneesh Jhingan adjourned the matter for February 24, said Kaur’s counsel Arshdeep Cheema.The court will now hear Kaur’s bail plea along with the matter pertaining to her illegal confinement on Wednesday, said Cheema.Kaur is facing three cases that include charges of attempt to murder and extortion.A member of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan and a resident of Giadarh village in Punjab’s Muktsar, Kaur is lodged in a Karnal jail after she was arrested for allegedly gheraoing an industrial unit and demanding money from the company in Haryana’s Sonepat on January 12. She was “falsely implicated” in the cases registered under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and other provisions by the Sonipat police, claimed her counsel.Earlier, Nodeep Kaur was granted bail in two of the cases, mainly related to extortion charges.The High Court on February 13 had taken a suo motu cognisance of the matter pertaining to Kaur’s alleged illegal confinement and had issued a notice of motion to the Haryana government for its reply by February 24. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-to-hear-bail-plea-of-labour-rights-activist-nodeep-kaur-on-wednesday-216105
22-02-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Now, car won’t start if driver is drunk!||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, February 22With a view to preventing road accidents and casualties caused therein, an engineering student of Haryana has developed a software based on artificial intelligence which would not allow a car to start if the driver has consumed excessive alcohol or does not put on the seat-belt. The software also has a mechanism to assist the driver in detecting objects around the car in fog.“As soon as the driver touches the steering wheel after consuming excessive alcohol, moisture on his hands will alert the sensors installed therein and he/she won’t be able to start the car. Besides, the driver’s breath will trigger the sensors if he/she has consumed excessive alcohol,” says Mohit, a second-year student of B.Tech course at Chandigarh University, who has developed Road Pulse software.The software would also not allow the car engine to start if the driver does not put on the seatbelt. There are three sensors on the seatbelt and a person would be able to drive the car only after buckling up the seatbelt.“The software will also prevent accidents due to the reckless overtaking of vehicles without using indicators as it will automatically turn on indicators as soon as the driver is about to switch a lane. This happens with the pre-installed Google maps in the software,” maintains Mohit.He points out that poor another major reason behind road accidents is fog, which reduces visibility. There is an inbuilt ultrasonic radar system in the software which lets the driver know if there is anything blocking his/her way within a radius of 50 metres.Twenty-year-old Mohit already owns six start-ups and has got 24 patents, including one for the said software. He has been selected by Google for a paid internship and was among three students from India shortlisted by National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) for job as a scientist.Mohit has been felicitated as a young entrepreneur by the Government of India and is also the founder of Sky Messenger, a web-based communication platform like WhatsApp, which is being used by lakhs of people across the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-car-wont-start-if-driver-is-drunk-216096
22-02-2021||Sushil Manav||Haryana’s weekly Covid cases jump by 28 pc, trigger fear of fresh wave||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 22Haryana’s weekly number of fresh Covid-19 cases has jumped by 28 per cent in two weeks in February giving rise to the worries of a fresh wave in the state after 12 weeks of downward trend in infections.The state saw 684 new cases of Covid-19 infection in the week from February 15-21 against 534 in the first week of the month (February 1-7), registering an increase of 28 per cent in a fortnight.The increase is 11 per cent from 615 new cases recorded in the second week of the month from February 8-14.Ever since the number of new cases started falling in November 2020 after hitting a weekly high of 17,426 between November 16 and 22, it is for the first time that the cases have started increasing again.With new cases showing an upward trend in neighbouring Punjab with warnings of mutant strains, the surge has given rise to fears that Haryana could witness a fresh wave of the virus in the coming days. The state has 861 active cases of which 94 per cent (771) are concentrated in seven out of the total 22 districts – Ambala (45), Faridabad (57), Gurugram (235), Karnal (107), Kurukshetra (81), Panchkula (111) and Panipat (77) cases.Meanwhile, Haryana tested 1,00,634 samples (both through RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen methods) from February 15-21, at an average 14,376 tests daily.Against this, the state tested 1,25,648 during February 8 to 15 at an average of 17,950 samples daily.During the peak of Covid-19 in November last year, Haryana was, on an average, conducting 35,000 tests per day.As per the ‘Weekly Status Report’ issued by the Haryana Health Department for the week ending on Sunday, the state has a capacity of testing 24,350 samples in the labs set up in government medical colleges and hospitals, while 65,900 samples can be tested daily in various private laboratories in the state.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, Haryana, however, said it would be too early to conclude that a new wave of the infection has arrived, but at the same time, he cautioned people not to lower their guard.“Virus does not know geographical boundaries of the states. Since our neighbouring state Punjab is witnessing a surge and another wave, people need to take all precautions and follow all the protocols prescribed by the government to stop the spread of the infection,” said Arora.Rebutting suggestions that testing has been reduced in the state, Arora said that a proper methodology was followed in collecting samples for Covid-19 and the department could not forcibly conduct tests on people.“When we had a sample positivity rate of 10 or more, people were coming forward for getting themselves tested in large numbers. Now, when the positivity rate is 0.6 or even lesser, it is natural that fewer people will feel the necessity of getting them tested for Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-weekly-covid-cases-jump-by-28-pc-trigger-fear-of-fresh-wave-216094
22-02-2021||Deepender Deswal||12 get life imprisonment in 2010 Hisar double murder case||Tribune News ServiceHisar, February 22Hisar district court on Monday sentenced 12 persons to life imprisonment in a double murder case that occurred in Barchhapar village of the district 10 years ago.Additional District and Session Judge Gurvinder Singh Wadhwa had held the accused guilty in the case on February 11.The court pronounced the quantum of punishment awarding life term to all convicted persons today.The convicts were involved in a double murder case during a dispute on the encroachment on panchayat land in the village. The incident occurred on February 28, 2010, after which complainant Ram Kesh lodged a complaint with the police that two persons were killed during a dispute in the village.The convicts have been identified as Bholu, Surender, Devi Ram, Mohan, Vijender, Ganga Datt, Kamal Singh, Mala, Krishan and Paras Ram — all residents of Barchhapar village — and Sonu of Gangoli village and Jeevan of Nindana village in Jind district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-get-life-imprisonment-in-2010-hisar-double-murder-case-216064
22-02-2021||---||Nod to redevelopment of Karan Lake as tourist hub||Karnal, February 21Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday gave consent to the master plan for the redevelopment of Karan Lake as a tourist hub under the Smart City project.The redevelopment project, costing around Rs 7 crore, is expected to be completed in a year. It was stated by the Chief Minister after reviewing the project with officials at Karan Lake. The Chief Minister was given the power-point presentation of the project by the Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO, Smart City project, Nishant Kumar Yadav.Tax on fuel less in Haryana: CMAfter the consent, the DC informed that tenders would be floated in a couple of days.At present, Karan Lake is being used as a stopover, where people do boating, eat food and shop, but after the implementation of the project, Karan Lake will be connected with Oasis Tourist Resort. The Western Yamuna Canal divides the two.The periphery of the lake will also be developed and jogging and cycling tracks will be made. Besides, the island in the lake will also be developed and sculptures on Mahabharata theme will be erected there. It will have view decks to attract tourists.Craftsmen from Haryana and other places will get an opportunity to sell their products there. Fountains with light and music will also be installed in the lake. Anchor cafe with reading facility and other facilities is also planned. Signage will also be erected from the National Highway-44 to Karan Lake.“The redevelopment of Karan Lake is a pending project and today I reviewed its master plan. The redevelopment will give a boost to the tourism industry. I have asked the authorities to connect both Karna Lake and Oasis Tourist Resort,” said the CM, adding that presently the lake gets water from the Western Yamuna Canal, which is a seasonal canal. For the water supply throughout the year, the authorities have been directed to ensure water supply from augmentation canal.The CM also directed to make two entry points to lake with ticket counters. After the meeting, the CM reached the PWD Rest House, where he listened to the grievances of people and directed the officials concerned for speedy redress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nod-to-redevelopment-of-karan-lake-as-tourist-hub-215828
22-02-2021||---||Over 2K street vendors likely to be denied licence||Rohtak, February 21The Rohtak Municipal Corporation has recommended the cancellation of registration of 2,775 street vendors for failing to submit documents such as Aadhaar card and bank account details etc, mandatory for obtaining licence under the Haryana Street Vendor Policy.Failed to submit documentsRohtak Municipal Corporation has recommended cancellation of registration of 2,775 street vendors for failing to submit mandatory documents for obtaining licence under the Haryana Street Vendor Policy.A total 3,755 street vendors had got them registered for the licence in the past two years and they were asked to submit the documents, but merely 980 of them submitted the same with the civic body.The authorities later contacted the remaining 2,775 street vendors and requested them to submit their documents but they failed to do so.“Many vendors had got registered the names of their family members and relatives with an intention to avail the benefit of the government scheme which ensures space to every vendor in the city and provides loan facility to the vendors,” said sources.Zonal Taxation Officer (ZTO) Jagdish Chander told The Tribune that registration of 2,775 would be cancelled soon and thereafter; none of them would be able to obtain the licence. However, they had started the registration for the licence again.“A loan of Rs 10,000 is given to street vendors registered with the corporation hence, 861 such vendors have so far availed the facility,” said the ZTO, adding that permanent licence would be issued to all 980 vendors as soon as the government approved the vending zones.He said the corporation had earmarked 10 vending zones in Rohtak city and sent a proposal to the state government for its approval so that vendors could be given a space there. These zones have been established at the old bus stand, Bapu Park, market of Sector 1, 2 and 3, new bus stand, Gohana Adda, Shivaji Colony, Delhi Bypass and Old ITI, he added.“A town vending committee has also been constituted under the chairmanship of Commissioner for effective implementation of the policy. The committee comprises an officer each from various departments such as police, fire, bank, Red Cross and representatives of street vendors,” the ZTO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-2k-street-vendors-likely-to-be-denied-licence-215829
22-02-2021||---||2.37L vaccinated in Haryana till now||Chandigarh, February 21A total of 2,37,334 health workers have been vaccinated in the state till now.Meanwhile, with 121 fresh cases, the Covid tally was pegged at 2,69,730 in the state today. Gurugram reported a maximum of 30 cases followed by Kurukshetra (20) and Karnal (14). The death toll remained at 3,042 with no fresh death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-37l-vaccinated-in-haryana-till-now-215830
22-02-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat---||Units in non-conforming zones await regularisation||Tribune News Service Faridabad, February 21 Industrial units operating in non-conforming zones (residential) have been awaiting regularisation for more than 15 years. Ramneek Prabhakar, general secretary of the Manufacturers’ Association Faridabad (MAF), said several units were functioning from such zones, where the basic amenities were absent despite the collection of  taxes and other charges. “Even regularised industrial sectors such as 24 and 25 lack proper roads and drainage system,’’ he added.  Rajiv Chawla, president of Integrated Association of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises of India, said industrial units and residents were suffering in the absence of the basic amenities.  Sources said as per a survey conducted by the Industries Department last year, there were 23 clusters with 16,800 industrial units in residential zones. Though the Municipal Corporation had adopted a resolution to regularise clusters having 80 per cent or more industrial units in 2008, nothing had been done so far. The number of such zones had now increased to 23 from eight at that time.  Sarurpur, Mujheri, Gazipur, Mujesar, Bajri, New DLF, SGM Nagar, Jawahar Colony, Indira Colony, Ajronda and Dabua-Pali road are among prominent non-conforming zones.                              Deputy Commissioner Yashpal Yadav, however, said the authorities were working to resolve the issue on priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/units-in-non-conforming-zones-await-regularisation-215831
22-02-2021||---||3 booked for carving out illegal colony||Yamunanagar, February 21 The police have booked three men for allegedly carving out an unauthorised colony on agricultural land in the district’s Alahar village. On the complaint of District Town Planner (DTP) Amit Madholia, a case was registered against Chander Bhan, Lalit Kumar and Tarun, all residents of Alahar village, under Sections 3, 7 (i) and 7 (ii) of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Act, 1975, at the Jathlana police station on February 18. In his complaint, Madholia said the revenue estate of Alahar village was notified as the Yamunanagar-Jagadhri urban area under Section 7-A of the Act number 8 of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Act, 1975. He said that as per provisions of the Act, no person could carve out a colony without obtaining a licence from the director of the Town and Country Planning Department. “Three persons have carved out an illegal colony and promoted unauthorised construction on agriculture land. They also constructed roads and carved out plots for residential or commercial purpose without obtaining the licence from the competent authority. They violated the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Act, 1975,” Madholia said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-booked-for-carving-out-illegal-colony-215832
22-02-2021||Mukesh Tandon---||Lifer murdered in jail||Tribune News Service Sonepat, February 21 A 42-year-old life-term convict was murdered by inmates in the district jail on Sunday morning. The police suspect gang war behind the incident. The deceased has been identified as Jagbeer of Kasandi village of Gohana, who was sentenced to life term for murdering a dreaded gangster, Sanjay Butania, in 2008 in Sonepat courts. The incident occurred at around 9 am when the jail authorities brought the inmates out from the barracks for breakfast. Ankit Malik, Deputy Jail Superintendent, in his complaint to the police said food was distributed among the inmates of ward B-D and block number 8 in the supervision of Head Warder Kadam Singh. Meanwhile, inmates Dinesh and Rohit of block 8 pulled security man Naveen in their block, while four inmates Rajneesh, alias Palu, Pawan, Deepak and Anil attacked Kadam Singh. Other inmates Amit, alias Mota, Mahipal, Ravinder, alias Thekedar, Praveen, Ravinder, alias Raghubeer, Rohit, alias Nitu, Deepak and Gitu, alias Parinda entered the chakki number 20 and attacked Jagbeer with some sharp-edged weapons and strangled him with a “parna” (a piece of cloth), he said. The jail staff, however, controlled the situation and shifted the injured to hospital in the jail, where the doctor declared him dead. The police sent the body to the mortuary in General Hospital for post-mortem examination. The SP, Sonepat, Jashandeep Singh Randhawa, said gang war was suspected to be behind the murder in the district jail on Sunday. Primarily, it came to fore that some inmates, associated with the Sanjay Butania gang, had murdered Jagbeer with some sharp-edged weapons and also strangled him, he said. Jagbeer had murdered dreaded gangster Sanjay Butania of Butana village in police custody in the district courts on December 13, 2008, due to old enmity. He was arrested by the police on the spot. The court had sentenced him to life imprisonment for murdering Sanjay Butania. He was lodged in the Faridabad jail. He was on parole and a CIA team nabbed him allegedly with illegal weapons four days ago. It was revealed during investigation that Jagbeer had taken “supari” for killing Sudhir of Khanpur, maintained SP Randhawa. A case was registered against 14 inmates under Sections 148, 149,186, 332, 353 and 302 of the IPC and Section 45 of the Prison Act, he said. Sanjay Butania and his gang members had killed two brothers and the father of Jagbeer. Following the killings, Jagbir and his family, who were the natives of Butana village, had left the village and shifted to Kasandi village. Jagbir had gunned down Sanjay Butania in 2008 to avenge the killing of family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lifer-murdered-in-jail-215833
22-02-2021||njay Yadav---||Pataudi lad makes it to IPL||Gurugram, February 21 Celebrations erupted at Mokalwas village in Pataudi as a local lad, Kuldeep Yadav, makes it to the IPL. Bought for Rs 20 lakh, Yadav will debut in series with Rajasthan Royals. Relatives and villagers thronged his paternal home to congratulate him. Villagers claimed that Yadav started his journey from the narrow streets of the village and reached the IPL. Kuldeep Yadav said he dreamt of playing for India and now he got a big hope after selection in Rajasthan Royals. “I worshipped MS Dhoni and Zahir Khan. I will strive for the victory of Rajasthan Royals in the IPL. I could not afford training but my coach Amit Kumar, family and friends helped me in every possible way and got me through. My hard work has started paying,” cricketer Kuldeep Yadav said. “We are proud of Kuldeep Yadav. He has achieved the milestone by his hard work and dedication. Not only the family, but also the people of the village and the region are happy and feel proud of his achievement,” said Zila Paarshad Vijay Pal Yadav, alias Shanty. Village sarpanch Manoj Yadav said Kuldeep made them proud.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pataudi-lad-makes-it-to-ipl-215834
22-02-2021||---||Four arrested for gender test in Palwal||Palwal, February 21 Four men were arrested in connection with an illegal sex determination racket during a raid by the police and the Health Department in the district yesterday. The accused — Ombir, Kartar, Parveen and Ravi, all residents of the district — have been booked under the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PC-PNDT) Act. A spokesperson for the department said the accused were arrested they were preparing to take the decoy customer for the sex-determination test to Dadri district in Uttar Pradesh. He said Rs 40,000 taken by the accused for the deal was also recovered. The accused have been remanded to three days’ police custody, said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-arrested-for-gender-test-in-palwal-215835
22-02-2021||---||Revival of Pinjore HMT unit sought||Chandigarh, February 21 People of the Pinjore area of Panchkula district, under the aegis of the Shivalik Vikas Manch, has again sent a representation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding the revival of the tractor unit of the HMT, Pinjore. In his representation, manch president Vijay Bansal said there were about 550 machines worth crores of rupees which were lying idle since the closure of the unit in 2016.  “Besides, spare parts of the tractors, manufactured by the Pinjore unit worth Rs 15 crore are also lying unutilised,” he said. He said the sophisticated machines could be utilised to provide spare parts and ancillary inputs to other manufacturing units, especially neighbouring industrial Baddi-Nalagarh belt. The representation said the Shivalik area was a backward industrial area, which needed large-scale industry like the HMT. The huge infrastructure there can be utilised for providing jobs to youths under the government’s “Skill India” initiative, he said. Meanwhile, the manch demanded utilisation of about Rs 230 crore funds from the sale of vacant land at the HMT Complex. The HMT Headquarters can utilise these fund for the pending dues of workers, who took VRS, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/revival-of-pinjore-hmt-unit-sought-215836
22-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||Dumping of debris resumes in Aravallis||Gurugram, February 21 Five months after it was cleared of construction and demolition (C&D) waste, the Aravallis has become a dump yard again. The dumping mafia has broken the boundary wall of the patch which was cleared by the Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon’s agency and dumping debris there. “The entire effort of the MCG to utilise the lockdown to clear several acres of land covered by debris since decades has been defeated. The MCG has stepped down its enforcement and illegal dumpers which had virtually disappeared a few months ago are back,” said noted environmentalist Jatinder Bhadana. Local villagers have made a complaint to the MCG submitting visuals and seeking immediate action. “We want better enforcement. It took a lot of effort to get this cleared. It’s killing forest and contaminating our water and soil,” said Pawan Singh, a local villager. “We have got the visuals and will get the site inspected. We have no tolerance to such illegal dumping and will take stringent action against the culprit,” said a senior MCG official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dumping-of-debris-resumes-in-aravallis-215837
22-02-2021||---||Demand of farmers valid, says Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Yamunanagar, February 21 Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda has that said the farmers’ demand of revoking the three farm laws was valid and that the Centre should accept it without delay. “If the Modi government wants to develop the country, it should frame laws after having taken into account farmers’ interests,” he said at the martyrdom day function at Patshahi Guru Teg Bahadur Thada Sahib Gurdwara in the district’s Jhivraheri village today. Karnal: Hooda has asked the state government to reduce VAT on petrol and diesel. “The state government can reduce VAT on fuel. The rising prices are affecting farmers and the common people,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/demand-of-farmers-valid-says-bhupinder-singh-hooda-215838
22-02-2021||---||SKM to intensify stir, plan for phase 3 on Feb 28||Sonepat, February 21The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday announced its decision to intensify the protest in days to come. Farmer leaders Inderjeet Singh, Yogendra Yadav, Prem Singh Bhangu, Ashok Dhavle, Harender Singh Lakhowal and Ramzan Chaudhary said they would observe ‘Pagdi Sambhal Diwas’ on February 23 in memory of Swami Sehjanand Saraswati, a farmer leader, and Ajit Singh, uncle of Shaheed Bhagat Singh and founder of ‘Pagdi Sambhal’ movement.Protest calendarThe farmer leaders gave a call to mark the day by placing banners of Ajit Singh on tractors and other vehicles and by wearing turbans at the morchas. The farmers’ movement would enter the third phase and its plan would be announced on February 28, they added. Yadav said they were always ready for talks and had never rejected any invitation by the government , but the government should invite farmers to talks.The SKM would observe February 24 as ‘Daman Virodhi Diwas’ (anti-repression day) against the tactics of the Union government to suppress the farmers’ movement. Bhangu said the day would be observed to raise four demands — release of arrested farmers, withdrawal of cases registered, withdrawal of notices issued by the Delhi Police and removal of barricades on state borders.Lakhowal said they had decided to observe February 26 as ‘Yuva Kisan Diwas’ (youth farmers’ day). He said they had given a call to the youth to reach the Delhi borders as they would manage the stage at SKM protest sites that day. February 27 would be observed as ‘Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Diwas’ to mark the birth anniversary of Guru Ravi Das and martyrdom anniversary of Chandra Shekhar Azad, said a farmer leader. Farmer leaders paid tributes to Datar Singh, president of the Kirti Kisan Union, who died this evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/skm-to-intensify-stir-plan-for-phase-3-on-feb-28-215839
22-02-2021||---||Next, ‘toll-free India’ drive, says samiti||Jhajjar, February 21 The Toll Hatao Sangharsh Samiti, which has been participating in the farmers’ agitation, has announced a ‘Toll-free India’ movement to mount pressure on the Centre to repeal the three controversial farm laws. At present, farmers have occupied toll plazas in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan, giving a free passage to commuters. Samiti president Virendra Hooda made the announcement after a meeting at the Tikri border today. The meeting also decided to form committees in every state to make the ‘Toll-free India’ movement successful. “As the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has decided to spread the farmers’ protest to other states, the samiti has chalked out a plan to picket toll plazas across the country. It is necessary to give an impetus to the movement. Initially, the ‘Toll-free India’ movement will be launched in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat and Maharashtra,” he said. Hooda further said it was illogical to charge toll from commuters as road tax for 15 years was charged at the time of buying a four-wheeler. “Even, one per cent extra tax is also included in petrol and diesel prices.” The samiti has also urged private transporters to not pay tax in protest against the farm laws. Farmers, meanwhile, pitched a tent at the main protest site at the Tikri border today to beat the approaching summer heat. Earlier, only the dais was covered while farmers sat in the open. “Rising temperature forced us to cover the dharna spot with a tent. Like winters, we have made arrangements for braving the hot conditions. Mist fans and coolers will be installed,” a farmer leader said, adding they would not return home until the three farm laws were repealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/next-toll-free-india-drive-says-samiti-215840
22-02-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Kin run from pillar to post for release of Nodeep Kaur, Shiv Kumar||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, February 21It has been over 40 days since activist Nodeep Kaur was arrested on charges of attempt to murder, extortion and snatching, but her elder sister, who studies in Delhi University, has been still running from pillar to post for justice.The family members of Shiv Kumar, an associate of Nodeep, are waiting to meet him even a month after his arrest. The Kundli police had arrested Nodeep, a member of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan, on January 12 in connection with three criminal cases for extortion, snatching, rioting and attempt to murder and she was lodged in Karnal jail since then.Her elder sister Rajveer Kaur, working with Bhagat Singh Chhatra Ekta Manch, a student organisation, said they had learnt to fight social evils from their mother Swaranjit Kaur. “My mother always raised her voice against caste oppression and exploitation of women,” she said.“We have written to the Prime Minister’s Office, Chief Ministers of Haryana and Punjab, National Human Rights Commission, National SC/ST Commission and National Women Commission,” she said. Nodeep had got bail in two cases and her bail application in the third case would be taken up on Monday. Shiv had not got bail in any case.Rajbeer said his son Shiv was picked by the Kundli police on January 16, but they came to know about his arrest on January 31. “The police produced him in court on January 23 and took him on 10-day police remand, but did not inform us. We met the Sonepat SP on January 31 and he confirmed the arrest,” he said, adding that Shiv was sent to judicial custody on February 2.“I tried to meet him in jail three or four times, but the jail administration did not allow us citing Covid protocol,” Rajbeer said. He said cops picked his son on January 16 and kept him in illegal detention before taking him on 10-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kin-run-from-pillar-to-post-for-release-of-nodeep-kaur-shiv-kumar-215841
22-02-2021||Kurukshetra||Cash-starved KU seeks Rs 350 crore||Kurukshetra University (KU), which has been facing financial crunch, has urged the state government to approve a budget of Rs 350 crore for the next financial year to clear pension and old liabilities, including arrears. The university has 360 regular teachers, 172 contractual staff, 1,400 non-teaching staff and nearly 1,800 pensioners. It requires a monthly budget of Rs 21.5 crore to pay salaries and pension. Besides, there is an old liability of Rs 90 crore.  According to information, the university has an annual budget of Rs 480 crore, out of which the government gives a grant of Rs 125 crore for recurring and non-recurring expenditures while the rest of the funds are generated by the university itself. The government has already released Rs 85 crore in two instalments. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cash-starved-ku-seeks-rs-350-crore-215842
22-02-2021||---||Deadline of works under AMRUT extended, again||Karnal, February 21 The state government has again extended the deadline for the construction of two sewage treatment plants (STPs) and laying of sewerage pipelines under the Centre’s Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. Now, the work is to be completed by May. The contractor has already missed two deadlines — the first was October 23, 2019, and the second December 31, 2020. The construction of two STPs — one in Phoosgarh with the capacity of 20 million liters per day (MLD) and the other in Shiv Colony of 8 MLD — and the laying of 151-km-long sewage pipelines were started on November 15, 2017. The project’s estimated cost was Rs 178 crore.  Officials say the 14-km stretch of the pipeline work is pending. As for the STPs, around 30 per cent of construction work is pending. The pace of work has been slow, sources say.  Vikram Singh, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said: “I reviewed the progress of development works under the scheme recently. No doubt, the work is running behind schedule. I have pulled up the construction company for the delay.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deadline-of-works-under-amrut-extended-again-215843
22-02-2021||Karnal||Annual training camp||Executive Council meetingHisar: A meeting of the executive council of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology Alumni Association (GJUSTAA) was held under the chairmanship of Vice-Chancellor Tankeshwar Kumar at the committee hall. The meeting was organised in a blended mode. The meeting was attended online by Sumedha Kataria, IAS (retd), Dr SD Attri, Additional Director General, IMD, Delhi, and Aditaya Ranoliya, Bollywood set designer, founder, and CEO Admake India Pvt Ltd. While, the meeting was physically attended by Registrar Avnesh Verma, Prof Rajesh Kumar Lohchab and others. Prof Rajesh Lohchab said a decision of holding an online global alumni meeting on March 21, with maximum participation of alumni especially those residing abroad, was taken during the meeting.MoU with Jindal Stainless LtdHisar: A memorandum of understanding (MoU) has been signed between Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology and Jindal Stainless Limited here. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar said the objective of the MoU was to work together in relation to skill development, training based outcomes, placements, other research and development related services. Both the institutions can use their resources to bring effective results. Jindal Stainless Limited, Hisar, has expertise in stainless steel business, products and skill development etc. while the university can offer its expertise in education and research in these areas. The MoU was signed by VC Kumar, Prof Vinod Chhokar and Dr Pankaj Khatak on the behalf of the university and Vijay Kumar Bindlish, head manufacturing, Praneet Kumar, associate vice-president (HR) and Vijay Singh, senior manager (EHS), on the behalf of Jindal Stainless (Hisar) Limited, Hisar.Awareness rally on road safetyYamunanagar: Cadets and students of Guru Nanak Khalsa College took out an awareness rally on road safety to make the citizens aware here. The rally was flagged off by college Principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang. The rally was organised by the NCC, NSS and Youth Red Cross units of the college, in which the students participated extensively. Bhupinder Singh Jauhar and president of the College Management Committee Randeep Singh Jauhar congratulated the college students and staff for the success of the rally.Talk on personality developmentYamunanagar: A personality development programme was organised at Mukand Lal National College, Radaur. Principal Dr Ujjwal Sharma and Prof Sonia Sharma, assistant professor, Computer Science of Hindu Girls College, Jagadhri, were the key speakers. Dr Ujjwal Sharma in her inspirational lecture elucidated that personality was a curious blend of outer and inner qualities, out of which inner qualities invariably played a dominant role.7-day NSS camp at KVA DAVKarnal: A seven-day NSS camp has been started at KVA DAV College for Women here. Principal Renu Mehta encouraged the volunteers to imbibe and practice the NSS motto “Not me, but you” and thereby make an impact towards serving the nation. She welcomed ‘Yoga Guru Maa’ from Divya Yoga Mandir, by presenting a plant. Damyanti shared the ancient wisdom of yoga with students by performing various asanas. Students benefited a lot from the interactive workshop conducted by Alka Jain, Pidilite Industries, another session on first aid and home nursing training by Red Cross Society. Dr Anju Narwal delivered an interactive talk on “Women empowerment”.Online interaction programmeKurukshetra: On the sixth day of the week-long online interaction programme held by the HRDC in collaboration with the Department of Commerce, Kurukshetra University here initiated by research scholar Meenakshi Ahlawat, the participants were introduced to Prof Rishi Raj Sharma, professor and associate Dean, Guru Nanak Dev University, Gurdaspur. She said perceptual mapping was often used by companies to identify their positioning strategy in competitive and technology driven era. In the second session, Prof Sharma threw light on methodology to collect information on consumer perception.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/annual-training-camp-215897
22-02-2021||Defence Colony roads||Defence Colony road at ambala cantt caves in||Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttUploading difficult on crop registration portalThe Haryana Government has made it mandatory for farmers in the state to register their land details online on the "Meri Fasal Mera Bayora" portal to sell their crops at government mandis. Due to non-uploading of cultivable land of Karnal town on the portal by the Patwaris concerned, the farmers here are not able to register themselves, due to which they have to face a lot of trouble. Due to the non-consolidation of land in the city, land in revenue records is recorded in "bigha" and "biswa", but online registration of land on the portal is accepted only in "kanal" and "marla", which is also a major problem for the farmers. The district administration should solve these issues at the earliest.Shakti Singh, karnalCentral govt must resolve farmers' issue at the earliestThree days ago, agitating farmers observed "rail rook" day in support of their demands. The farmers were sure that no law applied to them so they blocked railway tracks wherever they wanted. The young were playing cards and singing songs, women were providing food and lassi and older people were playing with their grandchildren and smoking hukkas. Is this democracy? Who will bear the loss running in crores. The government must resolve the issue immediately so that people in general can heave a sigh of relief.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaProlonged farmers' agitation must end before it gets too lateThis refers to 'Ambala farmers apologise to passengers' (The Tribune, Feb 19). Notwithstanding the agitating farmers having reportedly 'apologised' to the affected train passengers owing to their (farmers') four-hourly blockade of the railway tracks near Shahapur village in Ambala and at the Kurukshetra station, the fact still remains that they were literally made to bear the brunt of such an 'ill-conceived' move, for no fault of theirs. But,what about the law of the land? How come that the unrelenting farming community was allowed to hold the entire nation to ransom, even for few hours?The government should amicably resolve this unduly prolonged matter before it gets too late.Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/defence-colony-road-at-ambala-cantt-caves-in-215898
22-02-2021||New Delhi||Farmers announce series of events to further escalate protest||Protesting farmers on Sunday announced a series of events from February 23-27 to further intensify their agitation against the three new agricultural laws as they accused the government of adopting “repressive” measures against them.They also said they will soon devise a strategy to keep the protest going for long.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the protests, told a press conference here that under their proposed escalation programme, February 23 will be observed as ‘Pagadi Sambhal Diwas’ and February 24 as ‘Daman Virodhi Diwas’, essentially to underline that farmers must be respected and no “repressive measures” should be taken against them.Read also: Security beefed up at Singhu borderBKU’s Ugrahan dares Delhi Police to enter Punjab to arrest accusedThe Morcha said February 26 will be observed as ‘Yuva Kisan Diwas’ (youth farmers day) and February 27 as ‘Mazdoor Kisan Ekta Diwas’ (farmer-labourer unity day).“The government is adopting all the repressive measures, mischief and manipulations including arrests, detentions and registration of cases against the protesters. The Singhu border has been fortified and appears to be an international border,” farmer leader Yogendra Yadav said.A long-term plan for movement will be discussed in view of the Parliament session from March 8, and the strategy will be shared in the next meeting of SKM, he said.Another Morcha leader, Darshan Pal, also alleged “repression” by the government.He said around 32 people have got bail out of 122 arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the violence and vandalism in the national capital during a farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-announce-series-of-events-to-further-escalate-protest-215683
22-02-2021||New Delhi||Security beefed up at Singhu border||In order to avoid any untoward incident at the protest site where farmers are protesting against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre, the police have beefed up the security at Singhu border and adjoining areas.Around 100 CCTV cameras at both the stages and many locations including the areas outside restrooms earmarked for women protesters have been installed along with heavy deployment of police personnel near the barricades close to the protest site. Two control rooms for monitoring of CCTV cameras have also been set up behind both the stages.The number of volunteers for security check at every entry and exit gates along the way from Singhu village to Kundli village has also been increased.“Activities of people moving around are being monitored and volunteers are keeping a close watch on people coming from outside and farmers staying on tractor trollies. Since there are many cuts for entry and exit towards the villages so the volunteers have been deployed at every possible spot. Volunteers are also patrolling on tractors especially after the sun set,” said Maninder Singh, a member of Krantikari Kisan Union in Punjab who is also part of security management at Singhu.Height of concrete barricades that were setup earlier by Delhi Police close to the protest site (towards Delhi) have been increased by putting barbed wire on them. Whereas barricades put at four spots along the way from Singhu to Singhola village (Delhi-Chandigarh) highway were added with barbed wire after stone-pelting incidents.Drone cameras are been used by the security forces to monitor the situation. However, Delhi Police personnel along with the paramilitary forces deployed at the protest site have been decreased while the entry of visitors and mediapersons from the main gate is still banned. —IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/security-beefed-up-at-singhu-border-215677
