23-02-2021||Karnal||Two blasts in cracker factory in Karnal; three seriously injured||Three persons sustained serious injuries following two blasts that took place in a cracker factory on the outskirts of the city on Ghoghripur road on Tuesday late evening.The blast was so furious that it damaged the factory badly. A large portion of the factory turned into ash. The reasons behind the blasts are yet to be determined.Police and forensic experts were on the job to determine the reasons till the filing of the news.The injured persons are identified as Vijay Kumar (25), Vijay (22) and Pandi Shivam (28).As per the residents, they were labourers and were working inside the factory when the blasts took place.Dr Rakesh Jindal of Balaji Hospital, said that the trio were serious and efforts were being made to save their lives.“The trio came here with 100 per cent burn injuries and they are serious. We are making efforts to save them,” said Dr Jindal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-blasts-in-cracker-factory-in-karnal-three-seriously-injured-216564
23-02-2021||Sushil Manav ||Despite govt order extending Yadava’s tenure, Vij tells Home Secy to initiate process for new Haryana DGP||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, February 23 Even as the state government recently extended DGP Manoj Yadava’s tenure till further orders, Home Minister Anil Vij has directed the Home secretary to send a panel of names to the UPSC to initiate process of selection of the new incumbent. In his letter written to the Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, Vij has said the date of vacancy for the post of the DGP may be considered as March 2. Confirming the development, Vij told The Tribune that he has told the ACS (Home) to send a panel of seven officers to the UPSC so that the process for selection of the new DGP could be initiated, as “Yadava has already completed his two year-tenure”. The state government, vide order dated February 18, 2019 had appointed Manoj Yadava as new DGP. It was mentioned in the order that his term will be for a period of two years from the date of assumption of office. As he assumed office on February 21, 2019, his term was to end on February 20, 2021.  However, the government issued another order on January 7 this year extending Yadava’s tenure as DGP beyond February 20, till further orders. Section 6 (2) of the Haryana Police Act, 3007, which deals with the term of the DGP in the state says that the Director General of Police shall have a tenure of not less than one year extendable up to one more year irrespective of his date of superannuation. However, the Supreme Court order in Parkash Singh verses Union of India that laid out procedure for selection of the head of a state’s police force prescribed the tenure of a DGP as minimum two years. “As per the orders of the Supreme Court of India, it was directed that all states shall send their proposals in anticipation of the vacancies to the UPSC well in time, at least three months prior to the date of retirement of the incumbent of the post of the DGP. In compliance of the SC directions in this regard, and the fact that Yadava has completed his two years tenure as DGP, a panel of officers who have completed 30 years of service and have a minimum of six month tenure left in service be sent immediately to the UPSC to be considered for the next DGP of Haryana. The date of vacancy for the post may be considered as March 2, 2021,” said the Vij’s letter to the Home Secretary telling him to send a panel of seven names of IPS based on the gradation list. Written in a stern tone, the letter warns the ACS (Home) to be held personally responsible for any future legal or any kind of complication in the matter.When Vij’s attention was drawn to the fact that the SC order fixes two year tenure as minimum for the DGP and there is no mention of the maximum tenure, the minister said Yadava was selected for two years tenure by following a due procedure prescribed by the SC and hence the tenure could not be extended endlessly by a simple order. “We are already very late in initiating the process and hence I have told the Home Secretary to send the panel to the UPSC without any further delay,” he said.  The ACS (Home), Rajeev Arora could not be contacted for his comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/despite-govt-order-extending-yadavas-tenure-vij-tells-home-secy-to-initiate-process-for-new-haryana-dgp-216534
23-02-2021||New Delhi||Agitating farmer unions object to Delhi Police posters at Tikri protest site||Agitating farmer union on Tuesday objected to Delhi Police putting posters that allegedly warned off protesters at the Tikri border site, even as the force claimed these were not new and only informed the protesters that they would not be allowed to enter the national capital.In a statement, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions that is spearheading the ongoing agitation against the three agri laws, said it is opposed to the police’s move as the protesters were exercising their constitutional right and appealed to the farmers to continue their sit-in peacefully.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for nearly 90 days, demanding a complete repeal of the three agri laws and a legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price for crops.“The Delhi Police has placed some posters at the Tikri border protest site where farmers have been warned that they will have to vacate the area. Such posters are irrelevant as farmers have been staging a peaceful protest by exercising their constitutional rights....“We will oppose the conspiracy to end the protest with these kinds of threats and warnings,” the SKM said in the statement.In the posters, the police have not given any deadline to the protesting farmers to vacate the area.On its part, the Delhi Police said it is a “routine” process.“The posters were pasted at the border area after the protest started. It is a routine exercise. Police have conveyed to them through posters that they are sitting in the jurisdiction of Haryana and they are not allowed to enter the national capital unlawfully,” a senior police officer said.Thousands of protesters had clashed with the police during a tractor parade called by the agitating farmer unions on January 26.After police permitted the rally, many protesters deviated from the agreed route and reached the Red Fort on tractors. They entered the monument and some of them even hoisted religious flags at the ramparts.The government has projected the three farm laws as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehensions that these laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and scrap the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The Centre has maintained that the MSP and mandi systems will continue and will also be strengthened. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/agitating-farmer-unions-object-to-delhi-police-posters-at-tikri-protest-site-216532
23-02-2021||Hisar||Lifer for 12 in Hisar double murder case||The district court on Monday sentenced 12 persons to life imprisonment for a double murder that took place in Barchhapar village of the district 11 years ago. Two of the convicts are visually impaired.Additional District and Session Judge Gurvinder Singh Wadhwa had held the accused guilty on February 11. The court pronounced the quantum of punishment today.The convicts were identified as Kalam Singh (71, visually impaired since 2008), Devi Ram (75), Paras Ram (79), Krishan (43), Gagan Datt (50), Surender (42) and four brothers — Bholu (36, visually impaired since birth), Mohan (40), Bijender (45) and Mala Ram (47) — all residents of Barchhapar village, Jeevan (70) of Nidana village in Rohtak and Sonu (29) of Gangoli village in Jind.The convicts were involved in a double murder during a dispute over encroachment on panchayat land in the village. The incident occurred on February 28, 2010, after which Ram Kesh lodged a complaint that two persons were killed during the dispute.The police said there were 15 accused, one of whom was a minor and two who died during trial. The court imposed a fine of Rs 15,000 each on the convicts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lifer-for-12-in-hisar-double-murder-case-216216
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Classes III-V to resume from tomorrow||The Education Department has decided to re-open schools for Classes III to V from February 24. According to an order issued by the Directorate of Schools Education, the classes would be conducted in both the private and government schools for three hours from 10 am daily. The prior consent of the parents would be must for attending the classes.However, the online classes would continue as before and students not attending physical classes would not be penalised. All standard operating procedures (SOPs) would have to be followed by all concerned, including teacher and students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/classes-iii-v-to-resume-from-tomorrow-216217
23-02-2021||ON January 12||Rehri vendors removed from bridge in Tohana||Water bills not delivered in Panchkula sectorI want to draw the attention of the authorities concerned to the non-delivery of monthly water bills to residents of Sector 6, Panchkula. It's been four months now that the regular bills have not been issued. The officials concerned say that earlier the bill-issuing activity was outsourced, which has been discontinued and now the regular staff will handle the work. Due to the paucity of staff and there is every likelihood of receipt of incorrect water bills issued in haste by it. Earlier also, The Tribune had highlighted the issue of exorbitant and incorrect water supply bills. The department needs to set its house in order to resolve the lingering problem of water bills. — Rakesh Jolly, PanchkulaKarnal’s centrally located market in state of neglectThE Mahila Ashram Complex is a centrally located market behind the old bus stand in Karnal. Despite its location, it happens to be a neglected area over the years. Waste is seen thrown openly in the vacant land, especially near Indian Bank. Bank customers and officials often rue about the stink generated. Also, they are usually concerned about the safety of their cash and belongings because of the nuisance created by illegal private vehicles plying as taxis parked in this area. It is high time the district administration pays attention to the development of this market. — Sandeep Chaudhri, KarnalProvide funds to Kurukshetra varsityAfter the formation of Haryana in 1966, Kurukshetra University(KU) became the sole university in Haryana to cater to the needs of college-level education. With the passing of time, this university became a pioneer university all over the world and its alumni have achieved excellence in different spheres of life, which is a matter of great pride. But the old and established university has not been provided necessary funds by government due to which during the last two years, salary of staff and pensions of retired employees are seldom paid on time. The Haryana Government should provide funds to this old university regularly so that its employees and pensioners are not inconvenienced. — RL Bansal, KurukshetraIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rehri-vendors-removed-from-bridge-in-tohana-216218
23-02-2021||Sonepat||Won’t go back till laws repealed: Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Monday said farmers at the Delhi borders would not go back home till the three farm laws were repealed.Two booked for firing at leaderTikait was addressing a “kisan mahapanchayat” at Kharkhoda. He said all khaps and farmers trusted 40 farmer leaders, who would move across the country over the three farm laws.Taking a dig at Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar over his remarks, he said, “The minister says mere gathering of crowds does not lead to repeal of the three farm laws. When crowds gather, the government gets changed.”Appealing to farmers not to destroy their produce, Tikait said the time had not come yet. The stir would go on and farmers would work in their fields simultaneously, he asserted. “This agitation is not of farmers alone, but of the poor, daily wagers and other sections of society as well,” he added.Gurnam Singh Charuni said lakhs of farmers had died by suicide due to debt, but they had never heard of a capitalist going to jail or killing himself for failing to pay debt.“The time has come to demand a change in policies,” he said, adding they were ready to continue the movement till 2024 if need be. Farmer leaders Baldev Singh Sirsa, Jagjeet Singh Dallewal, Yudhvir Singh and Abhimanyu Kohar addressed the gathering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-go-back-till-laws-repealed-rakesh-tikait-216219
23-02-2021||Karnal||Karnal farmer destroys five-acre wheat in protest against farm laws||A farmer destroyed his wheat crop spread over five acres in the district’s Mundigarhi village today in protest against the three controversial farm laws.The farmer, Sajid Khan, said he did not regret his decision.Villagers tried to stop him when he was driving a tractor over his crop, but he ignored their pleas.“I am pained at the plight of my brethren. More than 200 farmers have lost their lives during the ongoing protest. In solidarity with them, I have destroyed my crop. I have no regrets,” Khan said.During last week’s kisan mahapanchayat here, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait had urged farmers to focus on protest and destroy their crops, if required. However, after a farmer in Uttar Pradesh destroyed his crop, Tikait took back his words. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-farmer-destroys-five-acre-wheat-in-protest-against-farm-laws-216220
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana gets notice on Nodeep Kaur’s bail application||The High Court today put Haryana on notice over labour activist Nodeep Kaur’s regular bail plea. Justice Avneesh Jhingan fixed the case for further hearing on February 24 — the date already given by the High Court for hearing related petitions, including suo motu case on her detention.Nodeep had moved the HC through senior advocate RS Cheema, Arshdeep Singh Cheema and Harinder Deep Singh Bains, alleging false implication in an FIR registered for attempt to murder, assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty and other offences.Taking suo motu cognisance of e-mails alleging her illegal confinement, the HC had ordered treating the matter as criminal writ petition. The activist was allegedly arrested from the Singhu border. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-gets-notice-on-nodeep-kaurs-bail-application-216221
23-02-2021||Ambala||Man, mother booked for dowry death||The police have booked two persons in connection with the death of 23-year-old woman Harjit Kaur, who allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her residence on Sunday.The accused have been identified as Harjit’s husband Gurcharan Singh and mother-in-law Kirandeep Kaur.In his complaint to the police, Dalmit Singh, a resident of Punjab, alleged his daughter Harjit got married to Gurcharan Singh in November last year. A few days after the marriage Gurcharan Singh and Kirandeep started harassing her daughter for not bringing adequate dowry.“My daughter apprised me of the situation but we kept telling her that everything would be fine soon. They were demanding a car and we had sought some time to fulfil their demand. On Sunday, my daughter informed my wife over phone that her husband and mother-in-law were harassing her again. Around 2.20 pm, Guracharan called us up and when we reached their house we saw that my daughter is lying dead in her bedroom,” he said.A case has been registered under Sections 304-B and 34 of the IPC at the Baldev Nagar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-mother-booked-for-dowry-death-216222
23-02-2021||Gurugram||Dairy owner shot dead in Gurugram||A 28-year-old man was killed in Feroz Gandhi colony here today. More than 20 shots were fired by unidentified assailants. The deceased has been identified as Manish, resident of the district’s Basai village. He was a milk dairy operator.A case against unidentified accused has been registered at the New Colony police station.Manish visited his friend in Feroz Gandhi colony to take his XUV. He was in the vehicle when two motorcycle-borne men came there and opened fired at him through the windshield.The incident, which took place at 12.15 pm, was captured in CCTV cameras installed at houses nearby. In the footage, the two assailants were seen wearing monkey caps.After the assailants fled, residents took Manish to hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead.The police have said Manish sustained more than seven bullet injuries in the chest, head and arms.Assistant Commissioner of Police (Crime) Preet Pal Singh Sangwan said, “The reason behind the attack is yet unclear. Manish had no criminal record. His family doesn’t suspect anyone. Six teams have been formed to investigate the matter.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dairy-owner-shot-dead-in-gurugram-216223
23-02-2021||Rohtak||Ex-coach held for murder||A former weightlifting coach has been arrested for having allegedly murdered a woman weightlifter, who had accused him of rape, the police said.DSP Sajjan Singh said the accused, Bhagat Singh, who was a coach at Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex in Rohtak, was nabbed by a team led by CIA-II wing in-charge Naresh Kumar and SHO (Sadar) Inspector Shamsher Singh from Haridwar, Uttarakhand, yesterday.He was produced before a local court today and remanded in two days’ police custody.On February 18, the body of the 35-year-old woman weightlifter was found along a canal near the district’s Dhamar village. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-coach-held-for-murder-216224
23-02-2021||Kurukshetra||Man kills wife, throws body in canal, held||A man allegedly killed his wife, burnt her body and then threw her half-burnt body in a canal.The deceased has been identified as Neha (27), whose missing complaint was lodged at the Babain police station by her husband Prashant (28), who has been arrested. The police have also arrested Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Gharaunda Karnal, for helping Prashant.The accused were remanded in 10-day police custody. The body is yet to be recovered.DSP Bharat Bhushan said, “Prashant killed Neha over suspicion on her character. They had been married for nearly eight years but the things between them were not good for the past two years. He strangled her and then burnt her body in a drum. Later, he took the half-burnt body in his car and threw it in a canal. The couple has two minor children.”The DSP said a missing complaint of Neha was registered on February 2. In his complaint, Prashant had stated there was some dispute between him and his wife, as he had seen her talking to someone over the phone. On February 1, she left their house. During investigation, Prashant kept misguiding the police and on February 7 he went underground. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-kills-wife-throws-body-in-canal-held-216225
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Make SIT report on hooch deaths public: Hooda||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today demanded making the Special Investigation Team (SIT) report on hooch deaths public.He claimed that the report was being kept under wraps as it had names which could shake up the BJP-JJP government. He addressed a press conference in this regard today.Hooda said 40-50 people had died after drinking poisonous liquor in November last year and a big liquor scam was exposed in the state. “Similarly, the report of the registry scam has also been kept under wraps,” he said.Hooda stated that the coalition government of the state was working on a policy of increasing unemployment, inflation and corruption. He said the government should cut down on scams if it wanted to bring in more revenue, instead of imposing taxes that added to inflation and making life difficult for people.“In the SDO recruitment, the government has given preference to the youth of other states, bypassing the people of Haryana. A total of the 99 people have been selected for 90 general category posts, including nine on the waiting list. But out of these 99, only 22 are from Haryana,” Hooda said.He said after the general category, the BJP-JJP government was now changing the policy with the reserved categories for Scheduled and Backward Castes.“The government has reduced the limit of 15 years of stay for Haryana domicile to five years now, and anyone can stay in Haryana for five years and get domicile here. This will directly affect the interests of Scheduled Castes and Backward communities in Haryana. Because people of other states will be able to apply for reserved category jobs by acquiring domicile here,” he said.He also pointed out the cancellation of recruitment of panchayat secretaries, PGT Sanskrit and now TGT English.The Leader of Opposition raised serious questions on the new sports policy of the government and said the coalition government had completely destroyed the “Get medals, get post” policy of the Congress government. “The new policy discriminates against Para Olympians as their appointment is restricted to Group-B posts,” Hooda pointed out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/make-sit-report-on-hooch-deaths-public-hooda-216226
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Weekly Covid cases up by 28%||Haryana’s weekly number of fresh Covid cases has jumped up by 28 per cent this month, giving rise to worries of a fresh wave.The state reported 684 new cases in the week from February 15 to 21 after 534 from February 1 to 7, registering an increase of 28 per cent in a fortnight.The increase was 11 per cent over 615 new cases recorded from February 8 to 14. Ever since the number of new cases started falling in November last year, it was for the first time that the downward trend ended.With new cases showing an upward trend in neighbouring Punjab with warnings of mutant strains, the surge had given rise to fears that Haryana could witness a fresh wave.The state has 861 active cases, with 94 per cent (771) concentrated in seven districts — Ambala (45), Faridabad (57), Gurugram (235), Karnal (107), Kurukshetra (81), Panchkula (111) and Panipat (77).Haryana tested 1,00,634 samples, both through RT-PCR and rapid antigen methods, from February 15 to 21, making it an average daily testing of 14,376 samples.The state tested 1,25,648 samples from February 8 to 15, at an average of 17,950 samples daily. During the Covid peak in November last year, Haryana was conducting 35,000 tests per day, on an average.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said it was too early to conclude that a new wave had arrived, but cautioned people not to lower their guard.Rebutting suggestions that testing had been reduced, Arora maintained that proper methodology was followed in collecting samples and the department could not conduct tests forcibly.“When we had a sample positivity rate of 10 or more, people were coming forward for testing in large numbers. Now, when the positivity rate is 0.6 or less, it is natural that fewer people feel the necessity to get tested,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/weekly-covid-cases-up-by-28-216227
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||Govt refuses prosecution sanction against 3 cops||The state government has refused prosecution sanction against four policemen, including a DSP, in the case related to false implication of a bus conductor for the murder of a seven-year-old boy at a Gurugram school.During resumed hearing before the CBI Special Magistrate, a letter refusing sanction was placed on record. Dated February 19, the letter was issued by Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary for Home. The CBI counsel told the court that he wanted to seek instructions from his department for further proceedings. The counsel representing the victim’s father stated that he would challenge the order by way of a writ. The next date of hearing in the case is March 19. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-refuses-prosecution-sanction-against-3-cops-216228
23-02-2021||Faridabad||4 held for killing gym trainer, girlfriend||Four men have been arrested in connection with the murder of a gym trainer and his girlfriend in a market here on February 16, the police said.The accused — Prakash, Lucky, Bhavya and Karan — were remanded in three days’ police custody.The ACP (HQ), Adarsh Deep Singh, said the main accused, Prakash, opened fire at gym trainer Goldy (25) and his girlfriend Mayanka (24) when the two were talking at a market in the NIT area here last week. Prakash, ex-boyfriend of Mayanka, was angry after she befriended Goldy. Earlier, Prakash and his friend Lucky had followed the girl to the spot on a two-wheeler. Bhavya and Karan had allegedly arranged the pistol, with which the crime was committed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-held-for-killing-gym-trainer-girlfriend-216229
23-02-2021||Rohtak||Now, car won’t start if driver is drunk!||With a view to preventing road accidents and casualties caused therein, an engineering student of Haryana has developed a software based on artificial intelligence which will not allow a car to start if the driver has consumed excessive alcohol or does not put on the seat belt.How it will workThe software also has a mechanism to assist the driver in detecting objects around the car in fog.“As soon as the driver touches the steering wheel after consuming excessive alcohol, moisture on his hands will alert the sensors installed therein and he/she won’t be able to start the car. Besides, the driver’s breath will trigger the sensors if he/she has consumed excessive alcohol,” says Mohit, a second-year student of B.Tech course at Chandigarh University, who has developed Road Pulse software.The software will also not allow the car engine to start if the driver does not put on the seat belt. There are three sensors on the seat belt and a person will be able to drive the car only after buckling up the seat belt.“The software will also prevent accidents due to the reckless overtaking of vehicles without using indicators as it will automatically turn on indicators as soon as the driver is about to switch a lane. This happens with the pre-installed Google maps in the software,” maintains Mohit.He points out that another major reason behind road accidents is fog, which reduces visibility. There is an inbuilt ultrasonic radar system in the software which lets the driver know if there is anything blocking his/her way within a radius of 50m.Twenty-year-old Mohit already owns six start-ups and has got 24 patents, including one for the said software. He has been selected by Google for a paid internship and was among three students from India shortlisted by National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) for job as a scientist.Mohit has been felicitated as a young entrepreneur by the Government of India and is also the founder of Sky Messenger, a web-based communication platform like WhatsApp, which is being used by lakhs of people across the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-car-wont-start-if-driver-is-drunk-216211
23-02-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra to shut meat kiosks along Saraswati||Tightening the noose against the illegal meat kiosks being run along the Saraswati river in Kurukshetra, the district administration has decided to close all such kiosks.As per the information available, the matter of illegal meat kiosks being run on Bishangarh road along Saraswati river and dumping of remains of dead animals in the river came to light during International Saraswati Mahotsav celebrated recently in Kurukshetra.Following that, the Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board had raised the issue with the district administration. The Deputy Commissioner directed the municipal council to take action in this matter.Executive Officer, Thanesar Municipal Council, Ravinder Singh, said, “We have visited the location and there are seven illegal kiosks. We have warned them and asked them to vacate the place. For that, they had sought some time. If they fail to shut their kiosks soon, action will be taken against them.”Dhuman Singh Kirmach, Deputy Chairman, Haryana Saraswati Heritage Board, said, “Saraswati is a sacred river and the matter came to our notice that some people have being running meat business along the Saraswati river and that they had been dumping the remains of dead animals in the river. They are not only polluting it, but also hurting the sentiments of the people.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-to-shut-meat-kiosks-along-saraswati-216212
23-02-2021||Chandigarh||High Court reprimands judicial officer over ‘insolence’||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped a Haryana judicial officer for being totally “insolent” to prosecution evidence and blindly holding two accused guilty in a kidnapping case.Acquitting the two more than 16 years after they were convicted by Sonepat Additional Sessions Judge-cum-Fast Track Court, Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted, “The impugned findings of the trial court are inherently wrong appreciation of the evidence and the law and need to be set aside by way of acceptance of the present appeal.”Deprecating the manner in which the police tried to “cook up a story and fabricate evidence to rope in accused and strengthen their case through dubious means”, Justice Fateh Deep Singh rapped them for highhandedness.The case has its genesis in an FIR registered against Dalbir and Bishan in March 2001 for kidnapping, criminal intimidation and other offences at the Civil Lines police station in Sonepat. The Additional Sessions Judge’s court, vide impugned judgment dated August 11, 2004, held both accused guilty on three counts.Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted that worthwhile effort was not made to explain delay in case registration. Another factor that aggravated the court’s suspicion was the victim’s acceptance that her father was working in the CBI. As a result, it put the court on guard to examine the prosecution evidence minutely.Referring to their counsel’s submissions, Justice Fateh Deep Singh noted that the girl was examined the same day at the Sonepat Civil Hospital, but not a single injury was mentioned. “It appears that the police, for obvious reasons to strengthen their case, belatedly came up with the fabricated evidence of a private doctor to show that she suffered injuries at the hands of the accused,” Justice Fateh Deep Singh observed.Justice Fateh Deep Singh noted that the prosecutrix and prosecution’s case was that the girl was not defiled. “How or in what manner from the undergarment of the girl, through forensic science laboratory report, human semen was detected further complicates the matter that all is not well with the prosecution story,” Justice Fateh Deep Singh added.Justice Fateh Deep Singh observed that the only semblance of evidence on the girl’s age was through a private school principal, though the basis of the school certificate was anybody’s guess. Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted that to the mind of this court, such a piece of evidence to prove the victim’s date of birth was against the cannons of law and could not be taken as conclusive piece of evidence worth reliance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-reprimands-judicial-officer-over-insolence-216213
23-02-2021||Karnal||NSS camp conducted||‘Farm to uniform’ projectAmbala: “Farm to Uniform”, a first-of-its-kind project, was inaugurated at The SD Vidya School. This is a novel project of the school which has been started in collaboration with Khadi Sadan Ambala. On this occasion, Director Principal of the school, Neelinderjeet Kaur Sandhu, said that the school has a dedicated piece of land which would be used for cotton cultivation. The students will learn the journey of khadi from “Farm to Uniform”. They will learn how cotton balls are cultivated and picked in farms. Then, cotton fibre will be separated by the children with their hands using a fine comb to prepare it for spinning. Four spinning and bobbing machines have been installed in the school. The students will learn about the weaving, dyeing and finishing process of the fabric. The students will be given training on how to stitch uniform from fibre under the Skill Development Programme. The training will be provided under the expertise of Khadi Sadan Ambala.Faculty development programmeKurukshetra: Department of Zoology in collaboration with Faculty Development Centre, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, started a week-long faculty development programme on “winter school in life sciences”. The inauguration of the programme was held via Google Meet. Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice-Chancellor, KUK, was the chief guest of the function. The VC said that 21st century is the era of biological sciences and a lot of advancement has been made in different branches of life sciences during the past few decades for the development of new and more efficient ways to maintain and enhance sustainable development. Professor Tejinder Sharma, coordinator of faculty development centre, welcomed all the guests and participants.Workshop organisedKurukshetra: Indira Gandhi National College, Ladwa (Dhanora), organised a one-day workshop for its faculty members on annual quality assurance report and self-study report in collaboration with SD College, Ambala Cantonment. The programme was organised under UGC Paramarsh scheme. Dr Amandeep Mehta shared her views on the requisite data and information of both criteria.3 KU professors awardedKurukshetra: Dr Maha Singh Poonia, associate professor, Dept of Hindi, IIHS, Dr Dinesh Dhadichi, retd professor, dept of English, and Dr Lal Chand Gupt Mangal , retired Dean and professor of Hindi, have been awarded under Sahitya Samman Yojna by Haryana Sahitya Academy. Vice-Chancellor of Kurukshetra University, Prof Somnath Sachdeva, congratulated them for their achievement. He said that it is a matter of pride for the university that the university teachers are included in the list of awardees. The Registrar of Kurukshetra University, Dr Sanjeev Sharma, has also congratulated the three awardees. Dr Mahasingh Poonia has been selected for the Janakavi Meher Singh Award for 2017, Professor Dinesh Dadhichi has been selected for 2017 under Babu Balamukund Gupta Samman. Professor Lal Chand Gupta Mangal has been selected for Pandit Madhav Prasad Mishra Award for 2019.CUH to hold online convocationMahendragarh: Central University of Haryana (CUH) will hold its seventh convocation online on February 27. A total of 757 students and scholars will be awarded degrees of various courses at the convocation. Among them, 14 scholars will get degree of PhD, eight students of MPhil, 573 of post-graduate and 107 students of UG courses, said Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad. He said that online convocation was being held in view of the Covid pandemic.2 selected in e-campus placementHisar: Two students of Haryana School of Business have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Delhi-based Kotak Life Insurance Company. It was conducted by training and placement cell, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, and Dr Avnesh Verma, Registrar, congratulated the selected students. Pratap Singh, Director Placement, said that Nishtha Sharma, HR Head from the company, conducted the whole drive in which 38 students of MBA participated. After pre-placement talk was given by officials, online test and personal interviews were conducted. Simran and Inderjeet from MBA 2021 batch have been selected for the position of management trainee in the company.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nss-camp-conducted-216215
23-02-2021||New Delhi||R-Day violence: Man who climbed Red Fort tomb arrested||A 29-year-old man who allegedly climbed one of the tombs of the Red Fort during the violence in Delhi on Republic day has been arrested, police said on Monday.Jaspreet Singh is one of the associates of Maninder Singh, who was arrested last Tuesday for allegedly swinging swords with the intent of “motivating” and “energising” the protesters at the historic monument.Jaspreet, a resident of Swaroop Nagar in northwest Delhi, was arrested by a Crime Branch team on Saturday.Thousands of protesters had clashed with the police during the tractor parade called by farmer unions on January 26 demanding repeal of the Centre’s contentious farm laws. Many of the protesters reached the Red Fort driving tractors and entered the monument, and some of them even hoisted religious flags on its domes and a flagstaff at the ramparts.“Jaspreet Singh is the person who was standing behind accused Maninder Singh and also climbed up one of the tombs located on both the sides of rampart at Red Fort,” an officer said. “In one of the pictures, he is also seen in offensive gesture holding steel tensile installed at Red Fort.”According to police, Maninder, 30, had “motivated” six people of the neighbourhood who had accompanied the tractor parade that headed from the Singhu border towards Mukarba Chowk.Jaspreet is one of the associates and was identified from the pictures and videos in which he was purportedly standing behind Maninder, police said.Maninder, who works as a car AC mechanic, was arrested from in Pitampura in northwest Delhi last week, police had said.According to the police, Maninder was seen in a video swinging two swords at the Red Fort “with the intent of motivating or radicalising and energising violent anti-national elements indulging in brutal assault and attacking police persons on duty”.Maninder was “radicalised” by seeing “provoking” Facebook posts of various groups, police had said, adding he would frequently visit the Singhu border and was “highly motivated” by speeches made by leaders there.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/r-day-violence-man-who-climbed-red-fort-tomb-arrested-216111
23-02-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||28-year-old man gunned down in shootout in Gurugram||Yet another shootout in broad daylight shook Gurugram on Monday as a 28-year-old man was gunned down in a gang war in Feroz Gandhi colony.Over two dozen shots were fired by unidentified assailants leaving the residents terrified.The incident happened around 12:15 pm when the victim identified as Manish (28), a resident of Basai village, was in his XUV car getting ready to leave.Two bike borne shooters came and fired at him for several minutes before fleeing.The residents then rushed out and took him to hospital but he was declared brought dead.The police were informed and it reached the spot where over a dozen bullet shells lay scattered on the road.Police said the deceased sustained more than seven bullet shots in his chest, head and arms.Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, crime, said the father of victim is a tempo driver and the reason behind the attack is not clear yet.“We are waiting for the family to file a complaint, name suspects or motive. We have already started investigating and taken all available CCTV footage and reviewing it,” added Sangwan.This is the second such incident in a year as in last May, a mobile shop owner Vikas alias Vicky was also gunned down in the same area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/28-year-old-man-gunned-down-in-shootout-in-gurugram-216091
