25-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Uncle arrested for ‘raping’ 5-year-old niece||Gurugram, February 25A Tauru resident has been nabbed for allegedly raping his five-year-old niece. The accused was produced in a city court today and sent to judicial custody.According to the police, the incident happened on Tuesday night when the uncle of the victim reached her home to meet her father. He took the girl in lap and later took her inside the room. The father and other family members did not suspect the accused and thought that their daughter was sleeping with her uncle. On Wednesday morning, the father of the girl found her crying.The family members were shocked after they found the child bleeding and her uncle missing. The police were called and on the complaint of her father an FIR was registered under POCSO act at Tauru police station.Police said the 48-year-old accused has been arrested and he has confessed to the same. He was sent to judicial custody today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/uncle-arrested-for-raping-5-year-old-niece-217442
25-02-2021||---||Haryana Police refutes Nodeep Kaur’s charge of assault as ‘baseless’||Chandigarh, February 25 The Haryana Police has refuted labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur’s charge of assault as “baseless” and accused her of extorting money from industrialists.In a status report submitted to the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday, the Haryana Police said “false” allegations are being made through a few social media platforms that Kaur was wrongly implicated and arbitrarily detained.The court is hearing a matter related to Kaur’s alleged illegal confinement. It had earlier taken suo motu cognizance of the matter.Also read: Nodeep Kaur case: Dalit activist Shiv Kumar's medical report reveals 2 fractures, broken toenail bedsKaur, who hails from Punjab’s Muktsar district, in her regular bail plea before the high court had claimed to have been severely beaten up at a police station after she was arrested by the Sonipat police last month.The 23-year-old activist had also claimed that her medical examination was not conducted in “utter violation” of the law.Kaur, who is currently lodged in a Karnal jail, was arrested for allegedly gheraoing an industrial unit and demanding money from the company in Haryana’s Sonipat on January 12.Also read: Submit Nodeep’s medical report on record, rules HCIn its reply filed through the Sonipat Deputy Superintendent of Police, the Haryana Police claimed that during interrogation, Kaur had stated that she along with her associates Shiv Kumar, Sumit, Ashish and Sahil had formed the Majdoor Adhikar Sangathan (MAS) and “they took brokerage from the labourers for providing them salary from the factory owners and also extorting money from the owners.”  Refuting any kind of assault of Kaur at a police station, the police said she was taken to the police station and kept in the women’s waiting room accompanied by two female police personnel.From the police station, she was taken to the Sonipat civil hospital for medical examination on the same day.“She underwent not just a general medical examination but also a special medical examination by a lady doctor,” the police said in the report.“She herself gave a written statement to the female doctor that she does not want to be medically examined as she has not been assaulted on January 12,” says the report.She also did not mention anything about any assault by police officials when she was presented before a chief judicial magistrate for judicial remand, the police said.“False allegations are being made through a few social media platforms that Kaur was falsely implicated and arbitrarily detained by police,” it said.The Haryana Police claimed that they had received a complaint on January 12 regarding gherao of an industrial unit at Kundli in Sonipat.The complaint referred to the illegal extortion of money from factory owners by MAS activists under the garb of workers’ unpaid salaries.Kaur made a provocative speech whereby she stated that they will attack and beat the police if they arrive on the spot, said the police.A video recording of her “provocative and threatening speech” was also submitted in the high court.The police had earlier claimed that a team of police personnel was allegedly attacked with sticks when they reached the site and seven policemen had sustained injuries in the incident.The high court on Wednesday had posted the hearing on Kaur’s bail plea for February 26. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-police-refutes-nodeep-kaurs-charge-of-assault-as-baseless-217385
25-02-2021||Deepender Deswal||I-T officials raid premises of Haryana Independent MLA Balraj Kundu||Tribune News ServiceHisar, February 25Income Tax officials on Thursday conducted raids at the residences and offices of MLA Balraj Kundu at Rohtak and Gurugram.They also conducted a raid at the house of Kundu’s relative in Hansi in Hisar district. IT officials accompanied by police reached the house of Maina Maan, mother-in-law of Kundu, at Vakil Colony in Hansi.Kundu, an independent MLA from Meham in Rohtak, has been a vocal opponent of the BJP-led government in the state. He has also been actively supporting the farmers’ agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/i-t-officials-raid-premises-of-haryana-independent-mla-balraj-kundu-217341
25-02-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Nodeep Kaur case: Dalit activist Shiv Kumar's medical report reveals 2 fractures, broken toenail beds||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 24Mazdoor Adhikaar Sangathan president Shiv Kumar — who is a co-accused in cases registered against Nodeep Kaur — has eight injuries, including fractures on the left and right foot, that are more than two weeks old, according to a report prepared by a five-doctor board of the GMCH, Sector 32.The board examined the jailed Dalit activist on February 20.Also read: Given the injuries reflected in the report, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has now sought a report of the Shiv Kumar’s medical examination, which was conducted when the Sonepat police arrested him under Section 54 of the CrPC. The court today scheduled March 16 as the next date of hearing in the case of Shiv’s alleged illegal custody and torture.The affidavit submitted by the superintendent of the Sonepat jail to the High Court included a copy of the medical board’s report.According to the report, Shiv, who was taken to the GMCH on February 20 after a High Court order, also showed signs of “post-traumatic stress disorder-like symptoms”. “All injuries are more than two weeks old and were caused by blunt object/weapon,” according to the report prepared by the GMCH board. The board comprising Dr Ashwani Soni, assistant professor of orthopaedics; Dr Mandeep Singh, assistant professor of general surgery; Dr Nidhi Chauhan, assistant professor of psychiatry; Dr Sandeep Moudgil, assistant professor of radiodiagnosis; and Dr Dasari Harish, head of department of forensic medicine and toxicology.It has been alleged that Shiv Kumar was illegally arrested on January 16 and tortured in the police custody. On record, he was booked on January 24, arrested two days later, and has been in the police custody ever since.According to the report, “there is fracture distal phalanx of the second digit of left hand, and fracture of base of metatarsal bone of right foot.” The report also points to “possibly fracture/sesmoid bone” at two other places in the left navicular bone of a foot and right ulna bone of right wrist.The psychiatric assessment read: “He appeared sad and distressed with occasional crying spells. He expressed preoccupation with his current situation, reported predominant anxiety symptoms, flashbacks of brutality meted out to him, nightmares, feelings of loneliness, uncertainty about future and sleep disturbances. Appetite is normal. He denies delusions, hallucination, ideas/plans of self-harm. Overall, evaluation is suggestive of post-traumatic stress disorder-like symptoms.”INJURIES EXAMINED BY DOCTORSAccording to the report, the injuries have been described as:INJURIES 3 & 7 ARE ‘GRIEVOUS’According to the report while injury numbers 1,2,5 and 6 are simple in nature, injury numbers 3 & 7 are grievous. The board said it could not comment on injury numbers 4 and 8, as regards their nature because of possibility of a sesamoid bone fracture||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nodeep-kaur-case-dalit-activist-shiv-kumars-medical-report-reveals-2-fractures-broken-toenail-beds-217200
25-02-2021||Kurukshetra||Minor gang-raped in Haryana, juvenile among 3 held||A 17-year-old girl of the Babain area in Kurukshetra was allegedly gang-raped by five persons, including a minor.The Kurukshetra police arrested Ajay (18), Abhishek (18) and the juvenile in connection with the case and produced them in a court on Wednesday. While the juvenile was sent to an observation home, the other two were remanded in judicial custody.Victim’s father said her daughter, a Class XII student, used to go for an English speaking course after school hours. She would usually reach home by 4.30 pm, but on Monday she got late. When her family members contacted her teacher, they came to know that she didn’t attend the class that day.Her family members were at Barara Chowk around 7 pm when they saw two youths and the minor girl on a motorcycle. They managed to rescue the girl and also caught the juvenile. Accused Nitin, however, managed to flee. The girl was allegedly in an inebriated state.Investigating officer SI Praveen Kaur said, “Ajay is the cousin of victim’s friend. On February 22, she went to the house of her friend after school, where she felt dizziness after which victim’s friend told the victim that her cousin Ajay will drop her at her house.” Ajay, however, took her to a hotel near Umri Chowk in Kurukshetra where Nitin, Abhishek, a youth who works at the hotel and the juvenile were already present. They all raped her there, the victim said.Kurukshetra SP Himanshu Garg said, “Three accused have been already arrested and the other two will be arrested soon.” A case has been registered under Sections 328 and 506 of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act.Also read: Kullu man gets 10-yr jail under POCSO||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minor-gang-raped-in-haryana-juvenile-among-3-held-217084
25-02-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Covid China’s anti-human bio-weapon, says RSS leader||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, February 24RSS national executive member Indresh Kumar on Wednesday stated that Covid was an anti-human bio-weapon launched by China to assert its supremacy. He also gave a call to bring Lahore and Karachi under India.The RSS leader was addressing a gathering at the launch of a book on the life of Haryana’s first Chief Minister, late Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma, on the premises of Maharshi Dayanand University in Rohtak.“It is quite clear that Covid was launched as a bio-weapon by China. That is why the virus, which originated in China, did not spread in Chinese towns and provinces in close vicinity, but spread widely in India, USA and European countries located thousands of kilometres away from China,” he stated.Kumar asserted that India had provided Covid vaccines “worth lakhs of crores of rupees” to 80 countries and other medicines to 130 countries free of cost during the pandemic.He claimed that Indians had been exhorted to bang ‘thalis’ and light candles during the spread of Covid with a view to pulling them out of depression associated with the pandemic.Referring to Pakistan, the RSS leader remarked that it was India’s responsibility to rid the world of its “illegitimate and violent” neighbour. He called for bringing Lahore and Karachi under India.“I ask you, residents of Rohtak. You have a house, a job or a shop in Rohtak. Won’t you like to have these in Lahore?” he stated.Veteran BJP leader and former minister Ram Bilas Sharma hinted at strict measures to end the ongoing agitation by farmers, stating that the stir would be over by Holi.“We have seen Narendra Modi’s rule in Gujarat as well as at the Centre for numerous years. No farmer will be seen near Delhi by Holi,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-chinas-anti-human-bio-weapon-says-rss-leader-217091
25-02-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana adds over 5.27L voters after’19 Assembly elections||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 24Haryana has over 5.27 lakh new voters since the last Assembly elections in October 2019. The total electorate, as on January 1, is 1,89,17,901 compared to 1,83,90,525 in 2019.The Badshahpur segment in Gurugram, with 4,03,399 voters, continues to be the largest Assembly constituency. Narnaul is the smallest Assembly segment with just 1,46,452 voters, according to latest data released by the Chief Electoral Officer.Faridabad district has the highest electorate (15,65,561) while Charkhi Dadri has the lowest electorate (3,85,888). Ambala has 8,76,799 voters, Yamunanagar 8,53,754, Kurukshetra 7,29,523, Kaithal 7,86,149, Karnal 11,25,759, Panipat 8,56,608, Sonepat 11,17,745, Jind 9,66,094, Fatehabad 6,86,149, Sirsa 9,60,800, Hisar 12,72,441, Bhiwani 8,30,570, Rohtak 8,02,636, Jhajjar 7,58,891, Mahendragarh 6,94,667, Rewari 6,88,524, Gurugram 12,32,058, Mewat 5,63,570 and Palwal 6,53,374 voters.Of the 90 Assembly segments, Hisar has seven, Faridabad and Sonepat six each, Karnal, Jind and Sirsa five each, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kuruskshetra, Kaithal, Panipat, Biwani, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Mahendragarh and Gurugram four each, Fatehabad, Mewat, Rewari and Palwal three each and Panchkula and Charkhi Dadri two segments each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-adds-over-5-27l-voters-after19-assembly-elections-217094
25-02-2021||---||HDF, Cong protest hike in fuel prices in Ambala, Kurukshetra||Ambala, February 24Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) general secretary Chitra Sarwara today accused the BJP government of spending crores of rupees on the construction of a science museum in Ambala Cantonment and paying no attention to the local science industry, which has been engaged in a battle for survival.HDF activists led by Chitra took out a protest march in Ambala Cantonment against the rising fuel and gas prices, and brunt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.On the other hand, in Kurukshetra, Congress activists led by senior Congress leader Ashok Arora and Ladwa MLA Mewa Singh held a demonstration in Kurukshetra against the rising fuel prices and farm bills.The Congress activists carrying LPG cylinders took out a protest march in the city area and ended it at the Mini-Secretariat. Mewa Singh said, “The Congress will raise the matter of rising fuel prices and farm laws in the upcoming Assembly session.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hdf-cong-protest-hike-in-fuel-prices-in-ambala-kurukshetra-217096
25-02-2021||---||106 new panchayats notified||Chandigarh, February 24 In the run-up to the elections to panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) in March-April  this year,  the state is all set to have 106 more  gram panchayats. On the recommendations of a high-powered organisation committee, headed by Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala,  the Development and Panchayat Department on Wednesday notified the new panchayats,  which have been carved out of the existing ones.  Sources said a maximum of 18 gram  panchayats would be carved out in Yamunanagar district, followed by Karnal (10), Kurukshetra (9), Nuh (8) and Bhiwani, Panchkula and Rewari (7 each). Earlier, the respective panchayats, through the DCs concerned,  had sent the cases for the re-drawing of administrative boundaries to the committee, thus paving the way for today’s notification. The sources added that several other cases for the creation of new panchayats  had been either pending or  rejected for a variety of reasons. Currently, out of 6,846 villages, there are 6,222 gram panchayats in Haryana. New panchayats  can be created till March 31, though it seems remotely possible.  The electoral exercise for the delimitation of seats for the panchayats and reservation and creation of wards would be completed in the run-up to the elections. The Election Department has already updated the electoral rolls with January 1, 2021, as the eligibility date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/106-new-panchayats-notified-217098
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||Schools to reopen for classes I, II from March 1||The state government has decided to reopen schools for classes I and II from March 1. The timing will be from 10 am to 1.30 pm.Schools have already reopened for classes III and above.An official spokesperson said the parents were supposed to submit a consent letter to the school head /class teacher before sending their wards to school. Besides, online classes would continue for those who were unwilling to join regular classes.The government has decided not to compel parents to send their wards to school. No name would be cut for absence during this duration.The spokesperson said the guidelines issued in view of the pandemic would be adhered to. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/schools-to-reopen-for-classes-i-ii-from-march-1-217100
25-02-2021||---||2 more die in cracker factory blast||Karnal, February 24With the death of two more persons who were undergoing treatment at a private hospital, the toll in the cracker factory blast that took place late Tuesday evening at Ghoghripur road on the outskirts of the city, has risen to three.The deceased have been identified as Bala Kumar, alias Vijay Kumar (25), Vijay (22) and Kumar Samay (50), all residents of Tamil Nadu, while Pandi Shivam (28) was serious and undergoing treatment, said Sanjeev Malik, SHO, Madhuban.FSL and ballistic experts led by Jai Singh, DSP, Gharaunda, also visited the factory to determine the reasons. However, the actual cause will be known after reports are out, but the police suspect that it may be due to the explosion in crackers. “The ballistic and FSL experts are yet to submit their reports, from the preliminary probe it seems there was an explosion in crackers,” the SHO maintained.After the incident, the district authorities have assigned inquiry to determine the lapses in the factory and also check the fire safety arrangements. Besides, the team members will ascertain the lapses in other cracker factories or stores. “I have constituted a team led by Assistant Commissioner to determine the lapses and also check the fire safety arrangement in the factory. The team members will check the lapses in other cracker factories as well and submit the report in seven days,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.The Superintendent of Police, Ganga Ram Punia, said the family members were yet to arrive here and after their statement, the FIR would be registered. “The factory has the licence of manufacturing crackers, but we have sought reports from various departments like fire brigade, FSL and others to ascertain the cause of explosion,” the SP maintained. It is learnt that two blasts took place in the cracker factory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-more-die-in-cracker-factory-blast-217103
25-02-2021||Yamunanagar||Illegal structures razed in Yamunanagar||A team of the District Town Planner (DTP) on Wednesday carried out a demolition drive in two unauthorised colonies in Sadhaura town and Rajpura village of the district.DTP, Yamunanagar, Amit Madholia said four damp-proof courses (DPCs) and several earthen roads were demolished. The team comprised the DTP, Assistant Town Planner Dinesh Singh and JE Ravinder. Naib Tehsildar, Sadhaura, Bharat Bhushan was appointed as the duty magistrate. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-structures-razed-in-yamunanagar-217106
25-02-2021||Chandigarh||130 Covid cases, 1 dies||The state reported 130 fresh cases of Covid on Wednesday, taking the tally of the infected to 2,70,097.With one more death from Panchkula, the death toll has mounted to 3,043.Gurugram reported 39 cases, followed by Karnal (17) and Kurukshetra(16).Meanwhile, 2,644 health workers were inoculated today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/130-covid-cases-1-dies-217108
25-02-2021||Parveen Arora||Complaints by farmers flood ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, February 24The online crop registration portal, ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’, is flooded with complaints of farmers. As many as 1,474 complaints were filed by the farmers, of them 686 have been resolved, while 788 complaints are still pending.On July 7, 2019, the state government has initiated this portal, making the registration of crops mandatory for farmers to avail themselves of the benefits of subsidy and to sell their produce to procurement agencies.The majority of the farmers complained that their land had already been registered by someone else, even though they were the original owners. Some farmers lodged compliant that their land details on the portal were not available.“Last week, when I had tried to register my crop details with land information on this portal, I was surprised that my land was already registered by someone else,” said Balbir Singh, a farmer of Baldi village who has 20 acres of land and now he is running from pillar to post to get his complaint resolved.Hardeep Singh Virk and Paramjeet Singh, farmers from Sambhi village, have the same problem and they said, “Our land is situated in Sambhi village. When we went to the common service centre (CSC), Taraori, to register the crop and land information on the portal, we got shocked that more than 50 acres of our land was already registered in the name of some unknown person fraudulently. On calling him, he told us that he is a cloth merchant in Gharaunda and he does not know how it happened. When, we said without sharing the OTP received on that number, it was impossible to register the details on the portal, he switched off his phone.” They suspect it to be a big nexus and demanded investigation.Even after around one and a half year of the starting of the portal, the farmers are still facing technical glitches. The farmers are not getting a particular land detail from the joint land record. Moreover, several farmers who are cultivating on panchayat land are not getting OTP for registration from sarpanches as several sarpanches have changed their mobile numbers.Besides, due to non-uploading of cultivable land of Karnal town on the portal so far by the patwaris concerned, the farmers are not able to register themselves, due to which they have to face a lot of trouble.“We have received 1,474 complaints on the portal, of which 686 have been resolved by the patwaris concerned. 128 complaints are in the Assandh block, 104 in Ballah, 199 in Indri, 140 in Karnal, 142 in Nilokheri and 75 in Nissing,” said Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director, Agriculture (DDA).Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, said he had reviewed the complaints and directed the officials concerned to resolve the complaints of farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/complaints-by-farmers-flood-meri-fasal-mera-byora-portal-217110
25-02-2021||---||48% complaints at HHRC against cops||Chandigarh, February 24The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) on Wednesday stated that it had been receiving the maximum complaints against the police. It said 4,012 complaints (48 per cent cases) had been instituted against the Haryana Police in the past four years.It said there were 1,213 cases against the police in 2017, 1,168 in 2018, 1,477 in 2019 and 1,054 in 2020. Addressing a press conference, Justice SK Mittal, HHRC chairperson, said, “The administration of criminal justice system is lacking. It is not as per established norms.”Discussing a case of custodial torture, he said the police secured five-day remand, but released the accused after three days, claiming that the further remand was not required, but the accused died in hospital.Citing another case, he said an accused complained that he was told to undress at “bakshikhana” (where undertrials are kept at court complexes) and someone clicked his picture. He added that the SP concerned had said it was routine practice and was done to prevent suicide. He said there were 243 complaints against the Jails Department in the past four years. “Unnatural deaths during judicial custody have been looked into. Departmental inquiries have been initiated on our orders. We have awarded compensation of between Rs 2 lakh and Rs 3 lakh,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/48-complaints-at-hhrc-against-cops-217113
25-02-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur ---||Pay Rs 50k relief to Ambala resident: Panel to govt||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, February 24 The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) on Wednesday recommended the state government to pay a compensation of Rs 50,000 to a resident of Ambala for the violation of human rights as the police conducted a biased investigation and registered an FIR against him despite the fact that earlier six inquires had concluded that it was a civil dispute.  An HHRC Bench, comprising Chairperson Justice SK Mittal (retd) and member Justice KC Puri (retd), observed that there is a serious lapse on the part of ASI Surinder Kumar as he conducted a biased investigation and hid the previous litigations between the parties in order to help the other side. The Bench added that the state government is entitled “to recover the compensation from the salary of ASI Surinder Kumar, if so desires”, and directed to forward the order to the Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Haryana, for compliance within two months. Complainant Ashish Jain had approached the commission in 2019 against an FIR for cheating and criminal breach of trust against him in 2018. He has a property dispute with Harbans Singh (now deceased). Jain had filed two civil suits for specific performance, which are pending, while Harbans Singh had filed a civil suit in 2018 for the cancellation of agreements in favour of Jain. The commission said that when nothing came on record in six inquiries on the ground that the matter was of civil nature then how the present case had been registered on the seventh complaint. The commission observed that in view of its earlier order dated August 28, 2019, the Ambala SP had constituted the SIT, but it seemed “to have not gone through the record of the case and simply stated that since the challan has been presented and as such, no further action is required”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pay-rs-50k-relief-to-ambala-resident-panel-to-govt-217114
25-02-2021||Yamunanagar||Youth murdered over old enmity||A youth was allegedly killed by a group of assailants at Potli villagehere on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Ankit (24).  On the complaint of Yashpal of Potli village, a case has been registered against Kamal Pandit of Jandhera village; Rajesh, Narendra and Simi of Potli village; Bharat Bhushan of Radaur town; Pradeep of Sangipur village and five unidentified persons under Sections 148, 149,302 and 323 of the IPC.  The complainant said Ankit had a spat with Bharat Bhushan in September last year. The accused are still at large. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-murdered-over-old-enmity-217116
25-02-2021||---||Release protesters, withdraw cases: Bhagat Singh’s nephew||Jhajjar, February 24Shaheed Bhagat Singh’s nephew Prof Jagmohan Singh today demanded release of all farmers arrested by the Delhi Police during the tractor parade on January 26 and withdrawal of cases registered against farmers during the three-month-long protest.He raised the demands at a programme organised by the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) at the Rohad toll plaza on the Rohtak-Delhi national highway. The event was organised to mark the “Daman Virodhi Diwas”.“The Modi government is pro-corporate. It becomes evident by its stance on the three contentious farm laws. The Centre is adamant on not revoking the legislations. The arrest of farmers is unjustified. They must be released immediately, while the police repression against farmers should come to an end,” said Prof Jagmohan, who is an agricultural economist.Inderjit Singh, state vice-president, AIKS, said the “Daman Virodhi Diwas” was observed with enthusiasm, giving out the message that protesters were angry.Earlier, Prof Jagmohan was welcomed with slogans of “Shaheed Bhagat Singh Zindabad” at the Rohad toll plaza. He was garlanded at the Madina toll plaza in Rohtak district.At the Tikri border, protesting farmers marked the “Daman Virodhi Diwas” by criticising the Centre for alleged repression against protesting farmers.Kaithal/Karnal: Farmers today pasted a memorandum of demands on the premises of the Kaithal DC’s office after they were informed that the DC was absent.They demanded opening of all entry points to Delhi.In Karnal, farmers handed over a memorandum of demands to the tehsildar.Panipat: Members of the BKU and other organisations led by Sunil Dutt and Bintu Malik held a protest march to mark the “Daman Virodhi Diwas”. They later submitted a memorandum to tehsildar Kuldeep Malik.Another from Punjab diesSonepat: A-65-year-old farmer from Hoshiarpur district died at the Singhu border on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Malkeet Singh. When he did not wake up in the morning, fellow protesters took him to the general hospital, where doctors declared him as brought dead. The police said the farmer might have died of a heart stroke. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/release-protesters-withdraw-cases-bhagat-singhs-nephew-217117
25-02-2021||Deepender Deswal||Three more farmers destroy wheat crop||Tribune News ServiceHisar/Jind, February 24Three farmers today destroyed their crops in protest against the controversial agricultural laws, even as BKU leaders Rakesh Tikait and Gurnam Singh Charuni have appealed to them to desist from such actions as, they have said, these would not serve any purpose.The incidents were reported from Jind, Charkhi Dadri and Kaithal districts. A farmer from Hisar district was stopped from levelling his crop.Balraj, a farmer from Jind’s Dharoli village, destroyed his wheat crop spread over one acre and donated the harvested crop to a “gaushala”.“Farmers have been protesting on the Delhi borders for three months, but the Centre has been ignoring their pleas. Its dictatorial attitude has exposed its devious design of allowing the corporate companies to grab the land of farmers,” he said.Angry that farmers’ produce have failed to fetch remunerative prices, Om Prakash of Charkhi Dadri’s Charkhi village his four-acre wheat crop.“I have kept one-acre wheat crop for my family and destroyed the rest. I am pained at the injustice being meted out to farmers by PM Modi,” he said while running a tractor on the crop.In Hisar’s Khanda Kheri village, farmers stopped their friend Shiv Kumar Sharma from destroying his crop. He said he was upset at the “dictatorial” attitude of the Centre and had no intention of selling off his produce. But the timely intervention of his friends forced him to abandon his plan.In Kaithal district, Virender Kundu destroyed wheat crop sown on 1.5 acres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-more-farmers-destroy-wheat-crop-217118
25-02-2021||Ravinder Saini---||Libraries spring up at Tikri border||Tribune News Service Jhajjar, February 24 To keep the flame of protest burning, farmers camping at the Tikri border have been drawing inspiration from books based on agitations and teachings of Sikh Gurus, and biographies of revolutionaries. Social outfits from Punjab have set up seven makeshift libraries at the border. Books in Hindi, English and Punjabi are available free of cost. Aamin, a student from Ludhiana who runs Shaheed Bhagat Singh Library, said: “Farmers at the Tikri border love reading books on Marxism, Sikhism and peasants’ movements, and biographies of Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Udham Singh, and Kartar Singh Sarabha and Sir Chhotu Ram. The books not only inspire them, but also help them pass time.” About 500 books are available in his library. He lends about 50 books every day. Some farmers prefer reading books in the makeshift library. Gurpal, a farmer from Sangrur, said libraries were proving a morale booster for protesting farmers. They have a good opportunity to study about revolutionaries, different religions and previous agitations.  “These days, I am reading Kartar Singh Sarabha, who was one of the heroes of the freedom struggle. The writings of Sarabha, Bhagat Singh and other revolutionaries are a source of inspiration for farmers,” he added.  Sangrur native Gurpreet Singh Kaler, who runs ‘Nanak Hut’ library, said farmers poetry based on farmers’ plight and their life was liked by many. “Poetry of Pash and Sant Ram Udasi is in high demand,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/libraries-spring-up-at-tikri-border-217120
25-02-2021||---||Submit Nodeep’s medical report on record, rules HC||Chandigarh, February 24Just about two days after labour activist Nodeep Kaur claimed before the High Court that she was beaten black and blue in the police station after being arrested in a “false” case in connection with the farmers’ agitation, the High Court on Wednesday noted the medical report had not been placed on record by the state.As her petition seeking bail came up for resumed hearing, Justice Avneesh Jhingan asserted that the Sonepat Duty Magistrate/Judicial Magistrate First Class, vide order dated January 18, had ordered that Nodeep Kaur be medically examined.“She was medically examined, but the report has not been placed on record by the state, rather only medico-legal report under Section 54 of the CrPC is placed on record,” Justice Jhingan observed before fixing the case for further hearing on February 26 for the state counsel to place the report on record.Nodeep had moved the court through senior advocate RS Cheema and Arshdeep Singh Cheema alleging a false implication in an FIR registered for attempt to murder, assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty and other offences.Justice Jhingan also directed the placing on record medico-legal report in case of co-accused Shiv Kumar. The court, on February 19, had ordered Shiv Kumar to be examined by the Medical Superintendent, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh. “To appreciate the real controversy, report of medical examination of Shiv Kumar under Section 54 CrPC be also produced on record,” Justice Jhingan directed.The Bench also recorded the submission of senior advocate RS Cheema and Arshdeep Singh Cheema on the petitioner’s behalf that Shiv Kumar required medical attention and may be shifted to Sector 32 hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/submit-nodeeps-medical-report-on-record-rules-hc-217121
25-02-2021||---||Khemka: Discoms passing off power theft as sale to farmers||Chandigarh, February 24  Senior IAS officer Ashok Khemka has alleged that power distribution companies in the state are passing off power theft as power sale to farmers.  In a letter, dated February 2 to the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Power and ACS, Finance, Khemka said the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) “has been admitting inflated claims” of distribution companies for agriculture pumpset (AP) sales to farmers, burdening the public with huge subsidies.  “This public fraud is unfortunately not contested by the government before the HERC. The great fudge enables the discoms to claim over 9,200 MU as total AP sales and receive rural energy (RE) subsidy of Rs 6,900 crore from the government without murmur, helping discoms to pad off power theft as sales to farmers,” he added.  He claimed that the average aggregate transmission and distribution (T&D) losses of the two discoms after accounting for AP sales are 19 per cent. “If the AP sales are properly metered and accounted for at the farmer’s end, the true T&D losses of the discoms may be closer to 40 per cent.”  He added in 2007-08, the discoms were claiming RE subsidy for 5,639 MU, which in the span of 12 years had risen steadily by 65 per cent to over 9,200 MU, without any change in either the gross cropped area or the cropping pattern.  He said if the connected tubewell load of 7,500 MW was consuming 9,200 MU during the year was correct then tubewell were operational for 1,230 hours, which was an impossibility,” he said. He suggested direct payment of water subsidy to farmers instead of subsidising discoms. The ACS, Power, PK Das, said, “We have an elaborate energy audit of agriculture feeders. If Khemka has some issues, we will look into it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khemka-discoms-passing-off-power-theft-as-sale-to-farmers-217122
25-02-2021||---||Four of family, 3 others die on Yamuna Expressway mishap||Jind, February 24Seven persons, including four of a family, died in a road accident on the Yamuna Expressway near Jewar village in Gautam Budh Nagar of UP on Wednesday.The deceased have been identified as Manoj Garg (45), his wife Babita (40) sons Abhay (18) and Hemant (16), two relatives Madhuri (14) and Tanu (11) and their Innova driver Rakesh. All were from Jind.The victims were returning home after paying obeisance at a religious place in Vrindavan when their vehicle rammed into a truck.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-of-family-3-others-die-on-yamuna-expressway-mishap-217123
25-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Construction firm official shot; 1 held||Gurugram, February 24An official of a private firm was allegedly shot dead late last night at the under-construction Delhi-Mumbai Expressway near Sancholi village in the Sohna area of Gurugram. Today, the police nabbed the accused who was allegedly involved in the smuggling of stolen iron rods.According to the police, the arrested accused is identified as Bhim Singh Raghav, a Nuh resident. He broke into office to steal the rods, but ran into Rohit Sharma (37), a resident of Jalandhar, who was the administrative officer with Apco Infratech Private Limited working near Sancholi village in Sohna.The complainant, Ajay Vikram Singh, an employee of company, told the police that it was on Tuesday around 11.45 pm when Sharma was about to leave his office, the accused reached there in his car.“When Rohit came out, the accused tried to talk to Rohit. He suddenly fired in his chest and fled. We rushed him to hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead,” Ajay Vikram told the police.Following the complaint, an FIR was registered against the unidentified accused under Section 302 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Sohna Sadar police station.Police Commissioner KK Rao formed a team to nab the accused. Rao announced first class certificate and cash prize for the team who nabbed the accused. “The arrested accused was involved in the smuggling of stolen iron rods. He reached the site with the intention of theft but Rohit resisted his move and in the process the accused killed Rohit. The body was handed over to the family after postmortem and further probe is underway,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, crime.Smuggling angle||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/construction-firm-official-shot-1-held-217124
25-02-2021||---||Stones hurled at DTP team, two injured||Jhajjar, February 24 A team of the District Town Planner (DTP) office was stoned during a demolition drive at an unauthorised colony on the Jhajjar road in Bahadurgarh town on Wednesday.  Two persons, including the driver of a JCB machine, sustained injuries. They were taken to the Civil Hospital.  More police force had to be deployed to bring the situation under control.  Bahadurgarh SDM Hitender Sharma and DSP Pawan Kumar also reached the spot. They said some miscreants had been arrested. The remaining were being identified on the basis of video-recording, added Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stones-hurled-at-dtp-team-two-injured-217125
25-02-2021||Jhajjar||Robbery bid accused had ‘looted’ fuel station||Two youths from Punjab, who reportedly attempted to loot a jewellery showroom in Bahadurgarh on Monday, had looted Rs 29,000 from a petrol pump in Soldha village here three days ago. Two cases of dacoity and violence had been registered against one of the accused in Punjab as well.The accused — Resham of Faridkot and Ranbir of Moga — had disclosed this during police interrogation. They were in police remand for two days. The police had identified their accomplice as Jagjeet Singh of Moga district and were carrying out raids in Punjab to nab him.“Resham had committed dacoity at a jewellery showroom in Punjab and was involved in a manhandling case. He and two others looted cash from a petrol pump in Sulodha village three days ago. The accused had been participating in the farmers’ agitation at the Tikri border so that no one could suspect them,” said police sources.Meanwhile, the Bahadurgarh Beopar Mandal on Wednesday expressed concern over rising incidents of crime by submitting a memorandum to Bahadurgarh SDM Hitender Sharma.They demanded security for jeweller Sudeep Agarwal, at whose showroom the loot attempt was made. The SDM said their demands would be considered sympathetically and sent to the departments concerned. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/robbery-bid-accused-had-looted-fuel-station-217126
25-02-2021||Rohtak||CU launches scholarship test portal||MLN College wins overall trophyYamunanagar: Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, won the overall trophy in the 43rd Zonal Youth Festival organised at Maharaja Agrasen College, Jagadhri, by Youth and Cultural Department of Kurukshetra University. Officiating Principal of the college, Dr Rahul Khanna, said the college participated in 16 activities under the guidance of convener Dr Nirmal Singh and co-convener Dr Bhavna Sethi.The students got recommended in 13 events and commended in two.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cu-launches-scholarship-test-portal-217142
25-02-2021||ON Monday||Draw of lots for plots in Mohali a delayed affair||Pankaj Kamboj, PanchkulaMention routes on roadways busesThe Haryana Roadways buses plying from Kurukshetra to Kaithal go via two routes i.e. via Pehowa or via Dhand. Some construction works on roads have resulted into a third route i.e. via Pundri, which is a longer route. Maximum buses display only the destination. This inconveniences the passengers as they are delayed in reaching their destinations. Since this is a new route, the route must be clearly mentioned on a signboard..Jai Bhagwan Galav, KurukshetraIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/draw-of-lots-for-plots-in-mohali-a-delayed-affair-217143
25-02-2021||New Delhi||Govt ready to talk with protesting farmers, says Tomar||The government is ready to resume talks with protesting farmers if they respond to its offer to put the three contentious farm laws on hold for one-and-a-half years and work out the differences during that time through a joint committee, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Wednesday.Tomar said the government is committed towards the interest of farmers and agriculture. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it is making efforts to double farmers’ income and strengthen the Indian agriculture sector, he said at an event to mark the second anniversary of PM-Kisan scheme.On whether the government is making any effort to resume talks with unions in view of BKU leader Rakesh Tikait’s threat to march to the Parliament on 40 lakh tractors if laws are not repealed, Tomar said the government has been holding discussions with farmers sympathetically.“Even today, whenever their response comes, the government is always ready to hold talks,” he said.Meanwhile, riding high on bumper rice and wheat output, India’s foodgrains production in 2020-21 is slated to touch a record 303.34 million tonnes (MT) up from the 297.5 MT produced in 2019-20, according to second advance estimates of crop production.Announcing the latest production estimates, Tomar said, “The second advance estimates of production of major crops reveal a record production of 303.34 million tonnes of food grains, which clearly outlines the tireless hard work of farmers, research by agricultural scientists, and farmer-friendly policies of the Central government. All-round agricultural reforms will also benefit the country in the long run.”As per the estimates, rice production is expected to be 120.32 MT and wheat 109.24 MT. The production of maize too is expected to be a record one at 30.16 MT while oilseed production during 2020-21 is estimated at 37.31 MT, 4.09 MT more than the production of 33.22 MT during 2019-20. Pulses production is slated to get a boost to 24.42 MT, nearly 1.4 MT more than the previous year.Estimated production of major crops during 2020-21Foodgrains: 303.34 MT (record)Rice: 120.32 MT (record)Wheat: 109.24 MT (record)Nutri/coarse cereals: 49.36 MTMaize: 30.16 MT (record)Pulses: 24.42 MTTur: 3.88 MTGram: 11.62 MT (record)Oilseeds: 37.31 MTGroundnut: 10.15 MT (record)Soyabean: 13.71 MTRapeseed and Mustard:10.43 MT (record)Sugarcane: 397.66 MTCotton: 36.54 million bales (of 170 kg each)Jute & Mesta:  9.78 million bales (of 180 kg each)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-ready-to-talk-with-protesting-farmers-says-tomar-216940
