26-02-2021||Karnal||Will join farmers’ agitation soon, says Nodeep Kaur after getting bail||Labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur, 24, walked out of the district jail on Friday, hours after the Punjab and Haryana High Court granted her bail in a case registered against her in Sonepat district.She accused the Sonepat police of torturing her and fellow activist Shiv Kumar.She was welcomed by people outside the jail and said that she will talk in detail tomorrow.She came out of jail after around one-and-a-half months.“I will continue my fight for labourers and other people,” she added.“Will join farmers’ agitation soon,” she said.She referred to the “black laws” and appealed to the farmers not to burn their crops as it is like their children.“Farmers are sitting there for their demands and the government should listen to their demands. I am out of jail due to the blessings of people. I thank the people who stood by me in the time of need,” Nodeep said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-join-farmers-agitation-soon-says-nodeep-kaur-after-getting-bail-217840
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Default amount rises to Rs 6,800 crore in Haryana DISCOMS||As over Rs 6,800 crore needs to be recovered from defaulters by Haryana’s power distribution companies, the focus of the department has shifted to areas in Haryana where there is a “culture” of not paying electricity bills. There is also a contemplation of naming the defaulters.  The situation under Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) is grim. Till December 2020, there are over 15.59 lakh defaulting connections and against them, Rs 4,754.08 crore amount is pending.  Under private connections, a total of 15.43 lakh connections has default amount of Rs 4,249.33 crore against them. As many as 8.25 lakh (53.5 per cent) connections alone are falling in the rural domestic category, against whom Rs 2,612.44 crore is pending.  The second worst is the domestic urban category where Rs 611.60 crore is due against 3.62 lakh connections. Also, Rs 461.42 crore is pending against 26,592 connections in the industrial sector while 1.64 lakh connections in the agriculture sector have default amount of Rs 82.44 crore against them.  Also, 3.25 lakh connections have been disconnected against whom Rs 1.890.37 crore has been outstanding.  Under the DHBVN, a total of Rs 504.75 crore is pending against government departments too. It is the public health department which is the leader in defaulters with Rs 187.31 crore (37.1 per cent) pending against 7,502 connections. Also, the urban local bodies department has to pay Rs 168.05 crore against 2,395 connections.  Under Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN), there is over a 19 per cent rise in the default amount till December 2020 as compared to 2019-20. A total of Rs 2,105 crore is pending with Rs 1,911 crore against private consumers and Rs 194 crore against government departments.  “There is a fallout of Covid on the private sector, which is responsible for the rise. Meanwhile, we have launched a concerted campaign for recovering the dues. We are targeting the top 100 defaulters as usually it is seen 80 per cent of the amount is defaulted by 20 per cent people. We are also contemplating to release the name of defaulters in the public domain,” said Managing Director (MD) UHBVN Shashank Anand.     Under UHBVN, it is the Rohtak circle which leads in defaulters’ list with Rs 589 crore, followed by Rs 274 crore each in the Sonepat and Ambala circles and Rs 249 crore in the Kaithal circle.         “Through ‘Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon’ (MGJG) scheme we are trying to recover dues. It has become a culture in some districts not to pay the bills. Overall, it is the private consumers who are the maximum defaulters,” said Additional Chief Secretary Power PK Das.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/default-amount-rises-to-rs-6-800-crore-in-haryana-discoms-217831
26-02-2021||---||17-yr-old boy stabbed to death in Panipat||Panipat, February 25A 17-year-old boy was stabbed to death in broad daylight on Thursday. The incident took place near a private hospital in Sukhdev Nagar. Although the crime spot is 100 metre from two police stations and a police post, the police took two hours to reach the spot. The incident took place at 2.40 pm.The deceased has been identified as Sagar Kundu of Kalwa village in Jind district. He had been residing with his maternal uncle at Mukhija Colony here for the past three months. Sagar was a student of Class XI.As per the footage of a CCTV camera installed nearby, the victim was stabbed multiple times by eight youths near Jitendera Hospital in Sukhdev Nagar. The accused managed to escape.Earlier, Sagar tried to take refuge on the hospital premises, but he was chased by the assailants. The accused left a sharp-edged weapon (used for cutting ice) in his back.A youth took him to the general hospital in an auto-rickshaw, but he died during the treatment.SHO (City) Yogesh Kataria, however, refuted the allegation that the police reached late at the crime scene. He said as soon as the matter was reported to them, a police team was rushed to the spot. He claimed to have received information around 4.30 pm.SP, Panipat, Shashank Kumar Sawan said investigations were underway. However, the police official refused to divulge more details as of now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/17-yr-old-boy-stabbed-to-death-in-panipat-217653
26-02-2021||Sunit Dhawan---||Open-air theatre turns into parking, art lovers fume||Tribune News Service Rohtak, February 25 Shri Ram Rangshala, an open-air theatre complex reconstructed and renovated about four years ago, is being used to park impounded vehicles and garbage vans by the local municipal corporation (MC). Art lovers in Rohtak have been staging plays at the Indian Medical Association (IMA) hall on the outskirts of the city due to lack of appropriate space. “We have been staging plays at the IMA hall on Sundays due to lack of requisite space and support from the authorities. The open-air theatre has been occupied by the engineering branch of the MC and is being used to park impounded vehicles and garbage vans,” said Vishav Deepak Trikha, theatre artiste. Art lovers maintained that the open-air theatre should be used for staging plays and holding cultural events and art exhibitions. “Rohtak should have a cultural centre where residents having a flair for art can go and see plays, skits, exhibitions and such events,” observed Prof Rajendra Sharma, an art lover. Dramatists and artistes had been making efforts to get the ‘rangshala’ released and use it for cultural activities, but had not succeeded. Mayor Manmohan Goyal said it would not be possible for the MC to organise plays and such events, but the open-air theatre would be provided to individuals and organisations in accordance with norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/open-air-theatre-turns-into-parking-art-lovers-fume-217654
26-02-2021||Nitish Sharma---||118 CCTV cameras at Brahma Sarovar soon||Tribune News Service Kurukshetra, February 25 To improve the security of tourists and devotees who reach the Brahma Sarovar in large numbers every year, the government has decided to install an advanced security system with artificial intelligence at the Brahma Sarovar.  It will be a multi-crore project and the budget provided under the Krishna Circuit will be utilised in this project. As per information, under this project, 118 cameras will be installed in and around the Brahma Sarovar area and the footage will be monitored at two locations, including the Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB), and stored at the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) office. The DNIT of the project has been prepared and soon a tender will be floated by the Tourism Department.  Recently, MD Sinha, Principal Secretary, Haryana Tourism Department, held a meeting with KDB officials regarding the ongoing projects in Kurukshetra under the Krishna Circuit. During the meeting, Sinha directed the KDB officials to identify the sites for the installation of cameras and not compromise with their quality.  Currently, there are CCTV cameras at scattered locations in Brahma Sarovar, but the cameras don’t cover the entire area and the technology is also old. Besides this, the police are also deployed for the security of tourists and devotees. There have been incidents of people committing suicides and dying due to drowning in the Brahma Sarovar, and recently fishing net was also recovered from the Brahma Sarovar while fishing is prohibited there. Madan Mohan Chhabra, Honorary Secretary, Kurukshetra Development Board, said “It is an ambitious project of the KDB. Kurukshetra is being developed as a major tourist destination and lakhs of tourists reach the Brahma Sarovar every year, to strengthen the security of tourists and devotees, it has been decided to introduce advanced security system having advanced artificial intelligence-enabled CCTV cameras for surveillance, and face recognition technology. There will be security analysis and alerts.” “As many as 118 cameras covering an area of around 400-acre will be installed. The security system will be software-driven and a dedicated team will be deployed for monitoring. A mini control centre will be established on the premises of the Kurukshetra Development Board while the main centre will be in the GMDA. A tender will be floated soon. After Brahma Sarovar, the same technology will be installed at Jyotisar too”, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/118-cctv-cameras-at-brahma-sarovar-soon-217655
26-02-2021||Rewari||Villagers reduce land rate for AIIMS project||The administration’s move of exploring alternative sites for the AIIMS project has apparently forced residents of Majra and Bhalkhi villages to soften their stance over land rates.The AIIMS Sangharsh Samiti claimed that residents of both villages were now ready to sell their land at Rs 40 lakh per acre. They were earlier adamant on Rs 50 lakh per acre while the state government was not ready to pay more than Rs 30 lakh per acre.“Residents have decided to sacrifice for the sake of development and are ready to sell land at Rs40 lakh per acre for the project,” said Sheotaz Singh, samiti chief. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/villagers-reduce-land-rate-for-aiims-project-217656
26-02-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Anil Vij sticks to guns on new panel of names for DGP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 25Citing Manoj Yadava’s appointment letter and the Central Government letter allowing him to join as the Haryana DGP, Home Minister Anil Vij today said the state police chief’s tenure was only for two years, “which is over now”.He clarified that it was not mentioned in the letters that his tenure was of a minimum of two years. He read out from his appointment letter, dated February 18, 2019, which read that the Governor of Haryana was pleased to appoint him as DGP and that his tenure was for two years.Another letter dated February 20, 2019, from the Central Government read that Yadava’s services were at the disposal of the Haryana Government for two years. “As Home Minister, I must ask for a new panel of names for the post of DGP,” he said.“The panel of names is yet to come to me. The procedure should start. The Supreme Court judgment is clear about this. A person was sent for two years and now it was over,” he said.Earlier, Vij had directed the Home Secretary to send a panel of names to the UPSC to initiate the process of selection of the new incumbent.In his letter to the Home Secretary, Vij had said March 2 might be considered as the date of vacancy for the post of the DGP.Vij also cleared the drafts of two Bills. One Bill was on recovery for damage to public and private property and the other on “love jihad”. He said there was a provision of both imprisonment and fine in the “love jihad” Bill.On the recovery for damage to public and private property, he said a tribunal would be set up to assess the damage. He said the organisers of any procession or event which led to the damage would have to pay. “The process will be finalised in one year,” he said.On the question of the SIT report on hooch deaths, he said, “I have sent my recommendations to the Chief Minister. After his approval, I will share these with the media.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anil-vij-sticks-to-guns-on-new-panel-of-names-for-dgp-217657
26-02-2021||---||Farmers: Ram Bilas Sharma’s remark provocative||Jhajjar, February 25Farm leaders camping at the Tikri border have termed as “provocative” former minister Ram Bilas Sharma’s remark that no farmer would be seen near Delhi by Holi. They demanded that the BJP leader took back his words.“Sharma’s statement is ridiculous. It seems he wants to spread illusion among the masses. It is clear that farmers will not go back until the three farm laws are repealed. The BJP government will have to pay the price if it tries to use force against farmers to end the agitation,” said Joginder Singh Nain, a leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union.He further said if Sharma was worried about farmers, he should persuade the Centre to repeal the farm laws.“The arrogance and temerity of the BJP leader is in consonance with the anti-farmer and dictatorial attitude of the RSS. Because of this attitude, he and his Cabinet colleagues in the first term of the Khattar government had met with a humiliating defeat in the 2019 Assembly elections,” said Phool Singh Sheokand, a leader of the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS).Virender Hooda, another farmer leader, demanded Sharma should withdraw his words if he considered himself a well-wisher of farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-ram-bilas-sharmas-remark-provocative-217658
26-02-2021||New Delhi||Former MP Ashok Tanwar launches political platform||Former state Congress chief Ashok Tanwar launched a socio-political outfit “Apna Bharat Morcha” here today and said it was time to consolidate positive energies for the country’s development.The launch event, held at the Constitution Club, was attended by scores of youth and Tanwar supporters, including former Tripura Congress chief Kirit Pradyut Deb Barman.Tanwar said the morcha was the need of the hour in times of “negative politics” and would work as an agent of positive change. “The new outfit will work on three principles of dialogue, debate and discussions.”“The Apna Bharat Morcha is a value-driven initiative. We will have a three-pillared approach of dialogue, debate and discussion. The aim is to invigorate the Indian values of unity in diversity and ensure that we make our country a land of opportunities,” he said at the event.Tanwar, who was an MP from Sirsa in Lok Sabha during 2009-14, had quit Congress days before the Haryana Assembly polls in October 2019.He had revolted against the party’s leadership alleging irregularities in ticket distribution.On the need for launching a new front, the 44-year-old leader said a platform was needed to “crystallise positive energies”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-mp-ashok-tanwar-launches-political-platform-217659
26-02-2021||Saurabh Malik---||Court decries hyper-technical approach to amnesty scheme||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, February 25 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that an amnesty scheme for realising outstanding tax and arrears, among other things, is launched to minimise litigation and a hyper-technical approach by officials and the authorities is contrary not only to the intent and purport of the beneficial scheme, but also to the mandate of Parliament. The Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash asserted that the Union of India had introduced “Sabka Vishwas Scheme” through the Finance Act, 2019, also for the “liquidation of pending disputes”. The Bench observed that the scheme was not a piece of taxation legislation, but beneficial legislation for the Union as well as dealers and assessees. The Bench noted that the government was getting revenue without litigation and assessees were getting immunity from partial tax liability as well as interest and penalty. The Bench stated that it was a win-win situation for both sides, but the respondent was apparently unnecessarily dragging the matter. The ruling came on a bunch of petitions by two Gurugram firms against the Union of India and other respondents. The Bench was told that the petitioners had filed two applications under the amnesty scheme, seeking waiver of interest and penalty as 100 per cent tax stood paid. The Bench was told that one application was filed regarding an appeal pending before the Customs Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal, while the other was regarding a pending show-cause notice. The Bench was told that the designated committee constituted under the amnesty scheme vide impugned order dated February 24, 2020, had rejected an application regarding the appeal before the tribunal. The Bench was told that it was turned down on the grounds that the petitioner had filed a single declaration for four show-cause notices, whereas he was bound to file separate applications for each. Allowing the petitions, the Bench asserted that the issue involved was no more a matter without precedent. The Bench noted that it was a settled law even under taxation that a person eligible to one or another benefit should not be denied the same on procedural or technical grounds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-decries-hyper-technical-approach-to-amnesty-scheme-217660
26-02-2021||---||Centre profiteering from people’s misery, claims Selja||Panipat, February 25Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja on Thursday alleged that the Union Government was profiteering from people’s misery and it had nothing to do with the interests of the public.Led by Selja, HPCC members protested against the rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG and the three farm laws. They also took out a march in the city, which began from the Congress office on NH-44 and concluded at the Palika market. A bike and a gas cylinder were kept on a cart.Kumari Selja said the price of crude oil was down in the international market, but fuel and LPG rates were being increased in the country.She alleged that the government had earned Rs 21 lakh crore in the name of tax, but did not invest anything for the welfare of the common people.Selja lashed out at the state government for scams, unemployment, leak of examination papers and rising crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-profiteering-from-peoples-misery-claims-selja-217661
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-cricketer Yuvraj moves HC for quashing FIR on casteist slur||The High Court today issued notice to Haryana on a petition filed by former cricketer Yuvraj Singh for quashing an FIR registered against him at the Hansi police station under provisions of the IPC and SC/ST Act for making “casteist remarks”.Yuvraj was booked for promoting enmity between different groups on the grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony and other offences on a complaint by Hansi-based lawyer-cum-activist Rajat Kalsan.Appearing before Justice Amol Rattan Singh’s Bench, senior advocate Puneet Bali and Vibhav Jain contended that the petitioner and Rohit Sharma were having a live chat on a social media platform in April 2020 and were discussing to how lives had changed amid the pandemic.In the video, Yuvraj mentioned two cricketers in a friendly manner. Bali stated the two were teammates and friends of the petitioner and it was never the petitioner’s intent to disrespect them or any community during the conversation.Bali further submitted that Yuvraj had, on June 5, 2020, released a public statement, apologising and conveying his true intentions on the entire controversy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-cricketer-yuvraj-moves-hc-for-quashing-fir-on-casteist-slur-217662
26-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Five-yr-old raped, uncle held||Gurugram, February 25A 48-year-old Tauru resident has been arrested for allegedly raping his five-year-old niece, the police have said. The accused was produced in a city court today and sent to judicial custody.On Tuesday night, the girl’s uncle visited her house on Tuesday to meet her father. He took the girl in his lap and took her inside a room. The girl’s father and other members of the family did not suspect him, the police have said.They thought the girl was sleeping with her uncle. The next morning, the father was shocked to see her daughter crying and bleeding, while his relative was missing.On the complaint of the girl’s father, an FIR was registered under the POCSO Act at the Tauru police station.The police said the accused had confessed to have committed the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-yr-old-raped-uncle-held-217663
26-02-2021||Karnal||In Karnal, 6 illegal structures razed||A team of the District Town Planner (DTP) on Thursday razed six illegal structures in three ‘unauthorised’ colonies on the outskirts of the city. Among the demolished structures, three were showrooms and three were under-construction houses. Besides, road network,  several damp-proof courses (DPCs), electric poles in three colonies were demolished by the team members. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-karnal-6-illegal-structures-razed-217664
26-02-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal goes hi-tech in traffic management||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, February 25Aiming at managing traffic and minimising its congestion in the city, the Smart City Ltd has taken the help of hi-tech system. Adaptive traffic control systems and variable message signboards are being installed under the Smart City project.Control systems being installed at 29 pointsThe adaptive traffic control systems are being installed at 29 points, while the variable message signboards at 35 key locations. Speakers are attached with each signboard to ensure a voice message along with a video.Both the adaptive traffic control systems and variable message signboards will be connected with the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC), which is being established in the under-construction building of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC).The adaptive traffic control systems are being installed at 29 points, while the variable message signboards at 35 key locations. Speakers are attached with each signboard to ensure a voice message along with a video.With the help of variable message signboard, the residents would get information about seamless traffic flow, reducing the travel time and fuel consumption during waiting time at red lights, said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, who is also the CEO of Karnal Smart City Ltd.“The variable message signboard is a key element of dynamic traffic management system. Depending on the traffic situation, variable message signboard informs, warns and guides the motorists by displaying route information,” he added.Since all adaptive traffic control systems are centrally connected with the ICCC, it enables the administration to manage all traffic lights centrally, he added.“The adaptive traffic control system is a solution that automatically adapts the timings of traffic lights based on real-time traffic conditions to optimise the flow of traffic. The system will change traffic signal timings based on inputs from non-intrusive thermal-based vehicle detectors deployed at approach of each junction,” the CEO maintained.It would be helpful in making green corridor, any VIP movement, etc, without disturbing normal traffic flow, he added.The variable message signboard is centrally connected with the ICCC to display messages and information for citizens. The operation and maintenance will be taken care of by the implementing agency for five years, Yadav asserted.“Separate electricity and UPS connection is available with each variable message signboard board,” he said.Both the facilities have been started in the city on trial basis and people are complaining that these were started without any proper preparation. They rued that the stoppage time is more than the green light at the traffic chowk where the traffic congestion is high.“The authorities have installed traffic lights at small intervals, leading to traffic congestion. The stoppage timing must be reduced,” said Arun Kumar, a resident of the city.The DC said it was at an initial stage and timing would be adjusted after reviewing the performance of trial period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-goes-hi-tech-in-traffic-management-217666
26-02-2021||Karnal||Factory blast claims 4th life||With one more employee succumbing to burn injuries on Thursday, the number of deaths following the explosions in a cracker factory on the Ghoghripur road here went up to four. The deceased was identified as Pandi Shivam (28) of Tamil Nadu. Undergoing treatment at a private hospital, he died in the wee hours on Thursday. According to police investigation, the owner had been running the factory without obtaining no-objection certificate from the Fire Department. After the statement of family members of the deceased, who came from Tamil Nadu on Thursday, the police registered a case against factory owner Surinder Gupta, who was absconding. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/factory-blast-claims-4th-life-217667
26-02-2021||Parveen Arora||Registries of all illegal colonies to be cancelled||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, February 25The municipal corporation (MC) will get all registry of land in unauthorised colonies cancelled, which were done on the basis of fake no-dues certificates generated with the help of illegal temporary IDs. For it, a committee led by Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha has been constituted and the team has started the scrutiny of registries.As many as 113 registries of land were done on the basis of fake no-dues certificates which were generated from the no-dues certificates of the MC between November 21, 2020, and January 31, 2021. These were generated by creating illegal temporary IDs. The team members are checking the record to ascertain how many registries were related to unauthorised colonies.“I have constituted a team of Karnal SDM and DRO to check the record and find out how many registries of the unauthorised colonies were done on the basis of these no-dues certificates,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner. He maintained that all registries of land in unauthorised colonies would be cancelled.Meanwhile, the issuance of no-dues certificates was stopped in the MC. “We have also stopped the process of the issuance of no-dues certificates from the MC till the portal starts functioning properly,” said the DC.On the other hand, the economic cell of the Karnal police has also started investigation. It is also investigating the record and the employees are also being questioned by the police. However, no arrest has been made so far.“We have started the investigation and received some record. We will come to the conclusion soon,” said Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/registries-of-all-illegal-colonies-to-be-cancelled-217668
26-02-2021||Yamunanagar||MC seals nine shops for not paying rent||A MC team on Wednesday sealed nine shops over non-payment of rent amounting to Rs 12.5 lakh. The team sealed seven shops at the meat market and one each on the workshop road and at the subzi mandi in Yamunanagar. “A number of tenants had not paid rent for two or three years. We issued notices several times, bu they did not respond to our final notices ,” said Ajay Walia, Zonal Taxation Officer.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mc-seals-nine-shops-for-not-paying-rent-217669
26-02-2021||---||Rice exports to China a boost to Haryana industry||Karnal, February 25The demand for the Indian non-basmati varieties of rice by China, which is the largest producer of rice in the world, has given a boost to the state industry. So far, eight exporters from the state have been supplying broken rice to China.The industrialists are expecting good prospects in coming days as well, as they have a good stock of broken rice owing to less demand by the liquor industry during the Covid-induced lockdown.Besides, the exporters say this year due to high-temperature in September, which has affected the quality, leading to more broken and less head rice recovery.“China itself is the largest producer of rice in the world, but it is for the first time in the last three decades that it has imported the produce from our country. We are supplying broken rice, which is available in a huge quantity this year. Traditionally, China was importing rice from Pakistan, Thailand, Myanmar, and Vietnam,” said Vijay Setia, former president of the All India Rice Exporters’ Association (AIREA).He said definitely the demand from China would boost the industry, which was facing several challenges. “Due to the climatic conditions this year, we got high quantity of broken rice. During the Covid-induced lockdown, the demand from the liquor industry, a major buyer of broken rice, was less due to which we have a huge stock available,” Setia added.Meanwhile, Ritesh Sharma, principal scientist of the Basmati Export Development Foundation, a part of the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority, said it was the results of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to China, after which a delegation visited several rice mills. “It is a good sign for rice exports and it will definitely boost the local industry in coming days also,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rice-exports-to-china-a-boost-to-haryana-industry-217670
26-02-2021||Sonepat||Excellence centre to be set up||Student bags 1st place in online quizYamunanagar:   Yuvraj Singh of BTech (1st year) of JMIT, Radaur, Yamunanagar district, secured first position in an online national level quiz competition organised by the disaster management cell of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, on the topic 'Insight into Disaster'. Officiating principal of the college, Dr Rahul Khanna said that Jyoti Tiwari of BSc (second year) of Rajguru College of Applied Sciences for Women, Delhi, secured second position. He added that Aastha of BSc (1st year) of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, also secured second position. He further said Manpreet Singh of BEd (1st year) of Asra Group of Colleges, Sangrur, secured third position. He further said Sagar of BBA (final year) of Ahir College, Rewari, also secured third position.Lecture on soil health managementKarnal: The department of geography, KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal, organised an extension lecture on “soil health management for sustainable higher agriculture production”. Principal Renu Mehta addressed the virtual gathering by welcoming the resource person and participants and stating the importance of soil health management for appropriate soil conservation and environmental sustainabilityWorkshop on ethics in researchHisar:  The department of mechanical engineering, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised a workshop on the topic “Ethical concerns in research”. While addressing the workshop through the online mode, Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, said research should be on ethics. As long as there is no inclusion of moral values in the research, that research will not be useful for the society. He said these days moral values were being eroded in research. Many people prepare a clone journal and publish research papers overnight, causing many kinds of contradictions and problems. Workshop on implementing NEP 2020 Kurukshetra:  In an event organised jointly by Kurukshetra University, Niti Aayog and Bhartiya Shikshan Mandal, Vice-Chancellor of Kurukshetra University Prof Som Nath Sachdeva said  NEP 2020 was a landmark policy decision which would help in building a self-reliant and progressive India. This policy is likely to check the brain drain and motivate the youth towards innovation and research. He further said lots of policies and laws were made, but the results would come only when they were implemented effectively.. 'Varsity must give back to society'Kurukshetra:  Prof BK Kuthiala, Chairman, Haryana Higher Education Council, said Haryana plans to identify one lakh families that are placed low in the economic ladder. In such families, at least one person will be made enabled in such a way so that he earns a respectful living for them. The higher education system of the state will assess such young minds and plan for their skill development. "A self-reliant university is the one that gives back to society more worth that it receives in terms of financial assistance," he said while addressing a seminar on 'Self-reliant Kurukshetra University: Planning and solution' as a keynote speaker, organised under the joint aegis of the department of youth and cultural affairs of Kurukshetra University and the Panchnad Research Institute and Study Centre, Kurukshetra. National webinar organisedKurukshetra: Internal quality assurance cell (IQAC) of Markanda National College, Shahabad Markanda, organised a one-day national webinar sponsored by NAAC, Bangalore, on the topic "A critical evaluation of revised assessment framework of NAAC". Dr Ashok Kumar, Principal, welcomed the keynote speaker, resource persons and delegates from across India. More than 30 papers were put up for presentation by the delegates. Professor, Raj Kumar Mittal, Vice-Chancellor, Ch Bansi Lal University, Bhiwani, presided over the valedictory session. Dr Amit Kumar and Dr Ajay Kumar Arora, both organising secretaries, emphaised that the webinar addressed the objective of assessment and accreditation of higher education institutions in India. The webinar was participated by the college faculty members and delegates from 14 states and two UTs across India.Prof gets young scientist awardKurukshetra:  Dr Jitender Bhardwaj, Assistant Professor, department of zoology, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, has been awarded 'Prof SS Guraya Young Scientist Award" by the Indian Society for the Study of Reproduction and Fertility (ISSRF), in recognition of his outstanding contributions in the research field of reproductive health. Training session on data privacyFaridabad:   The training department of DAV Institute of Management, Faridabad, in association with the internal quality assurance cell (IQAC) organised a training session on the topic "an insight into data privacy" for the first-year students of MBA and MCA courses. Main speaker Kartikeya Raman Gaur, associate director, Deloitte company, said tthe core of data privacy was the respect for data and that individuals own their personal data and not organisations. The data privacy aims to safeguard this personal data. Motivation speech on goal in lifeKarnal:  A programme to motivate students, 'Reverse the equation' was organised at Partap Public School, Sector 6, in which motivational speaker Sunaina Setia made the students aware of their goals in life. She gave tips to achieve the goals set by them. "A person feels happy when he/she achieves the goal, but we should not wait to be happy. We can be happy now and achieve our goal in the future," said Setia while addressing the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/excellence-centre-to-be-set-up-217685
26-02-2021||The road from Sector 69 to Tata complex is in a pitiable condition. In the last rainy season||Gurugram road in pitiable condition||Subhash C Taneja, GurugramIndicate updated status of public grievancesThis refers to 'Anti-encroachment drive in Panchkula till 9 pm' (Chandigarh Tribune, February 20). It was encouraging to learn that the ongoing anti-encroachment drive would now be carried out in the city between 1 pm and 9 pm to deal with violators during evening hours. Quite appreciably, the Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta is leading from the front on this count and his priority also reportedly lies with ensuring a 'negligence free' grievance redressal system. However, it may not be out of place to suggest that various grievances of the city residents may be mandated to be resolved in a time bound manner accompanied by an in-built mechanism for fixing the personal accountability of the officials concerned too. Let the MC's website also indicate an updated status of all public grievances, on a fortnightly basis.SK Gupta, PanchkulaOverloaded vehicles must not be allowedDespite the tall claims made by the police, overloaded vehicles keep plying freely on Radaur-Jathlana Road. Such overloaded vehicles put life of commuters at risk. At times, unable to bear their load, they overturn right in the middle of the road leading to traffic jams. Keeping in view the safety and security of other road users, the police must come down heavily on such violators.Dr Deepak Kaushik, RadaurAll overhead electricity cables in P’kula should be made UndergroundOverhead electricity cables in Sector 8, Panchkula, is a worrisofeature across the city, which could have been created by the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) at its own peril. However, one earnestly wishes that the Panchkula administration considers immediate undergrounding of all the overhead electricity cablesVinayak G, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-road-in-pitiable-condition-217700
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Assembly to  go paperless||Youth found dead near Karnal Karnal: A 24-year-old youth was found dead on the outskirts of Kutail village in the district on Thursday morning. The deceased was identified as Rohit of the same village. Rohit was live streaming on his social media account with friends having liquor around 2 am on Thursday. His family members alleged that he was murdered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-assembly-to-go-paperless-217703
26-02-2021||New Delhi/Jhajjar||Don’t think of using force, warn unions||The protesting farmers are upset with the government and the police over closure of main roads at the Ghazipur border and the notices sent to several protesters for their ‘role’ in the January 26 violence.Relief for Shantanu New Delhi: A Delhi court granted protection from arrest till March 9 to Shantanu Muluk, an accused along with Disha Ravi. in Toolkit case. PTIFarmers’ leader Jagtar Singh Bajwa alleged: “The government is working to suppress the movement.” Notices have been sent to 1,700 farmers across the country for inciting violence. A panel of lawyers from Punjab is on its way to the Ghazipur border.Dharmendar Malik, a BKU member of the UP Krishak Samriddhi Aayog, on Thursday resigned from the commission. Terming former minister Ram Bilas Sharma’s remark that no farmer would be seen near Delhi by Holi as “provocative”, BKU’s Joginder Nain at Tikri warned: “The government will have to pay a heavy price if it tries to use force against the farmers.” — TNS/Agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-think-of-using-force-warn-unions-217594
26-02-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC seeks details of cases pending against sitting, former lawmakers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 25The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made clear its intent to fast-lane cases involving sitting and former MPs and legislators of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh by not only seeking details of pending matters, but also issuing directions for their expeditious disposal.Of Vohra committee & special courtsThe suggestion for special courts flows from recommendations of a committee set up in 1993 under the chairmanship of NN Vohra, then Union Home Secretary, to take stock of info on activities of crime syndicates having links with govt functionaries/political personalities. The panel had suggested a ‘nodal cell’ for the purpose.The Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh made it clear that the information to be furnished would include details of cases pending with the CBI, the Enforcement Directorate and other central agencies. “In spirit of the order passed by the Supreme court titled ‘Ashwani Kumar Upadhyay versus the Union of India and another,’ an officer of the rank of IGP shall be present on the next date of hearing to furnish the requisite information of all cases pending against MPs/MLAs, sitting or erstwhile, in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh,” the Bench said.The District Judges of the two states and the Union Territory too were directed to furnish details of all such cases. “They shall also send a report regarding the stage of such trials,” the Bench added. As the suo motu case, “In Re: Special Courts for MPs/MLAs”, for monitoring the progress of cases pending against the lawmakers came up for resumed hearing, amicus curiae (friend of the court) Rupinder Khosla, citing the information provided by the Registry, submitted that two matters were pending before a Single Judge. He said information may also be required from the Union of India, the CBI, the ED and other central investigating agencies. This, he added, was necessary as the operative part of the Supreme Court order specifically mentioned monitoring the trial of all criminal cases instituted by the state. The Registry was asked to examine the possibility of listing the matter for physical hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-seeks-details-of-cases-pending-against-sitting-former-lawmakers-217597
26-02-2021||Sunit Dhawan & Deepender Deswal||I-T raids on Haryana MLA’s premises||Tribune News ServiceRohtak/Hisar, February 25Income Tax officials today raided several premises in Rohtak, Hansi and Gurugram belonging to Independent MLA from Meham Balraj Kundu and his family.Kundu, who runs a construction business, is the richest member of the Haryana Assembly with declared assets worth Rs 141 crore. He has been proactively supporting the farmers’ agitation.While I-T officials remained tightlipped on the matter, calls made on Kundu’s mobile phone too went unanswered. Sources confirmed that his phone was in possession of the raiding officials.They said the officials had seized a laptop and some documents containing details of financial transactions, donations etc.Kundu, a former BJP leader, was denied the party ticket to contest the Assembly poll from Meham. He then contested as an Independent and won. Initially, he supported the BJP-JJP government. In February last year, he withdrew the support after the government reportedly gave “clean chit” to those involved in alleged corruption cases flagged by him. In October last year, Kundu and his brother were booked in a fraud case. Kundu’s aides and farm union leaders claimed he was being targeted for criticising the government and supporting the farmers’ stir.“Balraj Kundu was the first MLA in Haryana to oppose the three laws. Here comes the reward!” said social activist Yogender Yadav in a tweet. Refuting claims of political vendetta, Member of Parliament from Karnal Sanjay Bhatia said the raids were being carried out on the complaints of “discrepancies” in his accounts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/i-t-raids-on-haryana-mlas-premises-217598
26-02-2021||New Delhi||Former Haryana Congress chief Ashok Tanwar launches new party||Former Haryana Congress chief Ashok Tanwar launched a new political party ‘Apna Bharat Morcha’ in the national capital on Thursday.The launch event, held at the Constitution Club, was attended by scores of youth and Tanwar supporters, including former Tripura Congress chief Kirit Pradyut Deb Barman.“The Apna Bharat Morcha is a value driven initiative, which will work with a three-pillared approach of dialogue, debate and discussion to add not only verve to Indian ethos of unity in diversity but will also lay the foundation for truly making our country the land of hope and fulfillments,” said Tanwar during the event.Tanwar, who was an MP from Sirsa in Lok Sabha during 2009-14, had quit Congress days before the Haryana Assembly polls in October 2019.He had revolted against the party’s leadership alleging irregularities and corruption in ticket distribution and even protested outside the Congress chief’s 10 Janpath residence.He was replaced by Kumari Selja as the state party chief while Tanwar’s bete noire and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda was made the Congress legislative party leader.On the need for launching new political front, the 44-year-old leader said a platform was needed to “crystallise positive energies” and “fulfill the aspirations” of youth of the nation.“Apna Bharat Morcha will be an agent for positive changes and a platform to give voice to the voiceless. It will be a dynamic, value-based platform for consolidating diverse voices and perspectives, which are neglected by the mainstream political parties. It is a movement against the tyranny of ideological vacuum and apathy of the present leadership,” he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-haryana-congress-chief-ashok-tanwar-launches-new-party-217422
26-02-2021||New Delhi||Farmers angry over government notices, closure of main roads at Ghazipur border||The anger of the protesting farmers has started to boil over after three months of the agitation as they are upset with the government and the police over closure of the main roads at Ghazipur border and notices sent to several protesters.Farmer leaders held a press conference at Ghazipur border expressing displeasure over notices by the government sent to protesters for involvement in the January 26 violence.Farmer leader Jagtar Singh Bajwa said: "The police and the central government have crossed the limits of dictatorship. The government is working to suppress the movement, there is resentment among our colleagues in the entire peasant movement."Giving an example, Bajwa said: "A woman has got a notice, and she has works in Delhi. Just because her phone was active in the area on Republic Day, she was sent a notice for it.""Have faith in a democratic country, stop harassing people in support of the movement."Farmer leaders have made it clear that the people to whom notices are being sent should refuse arrest. A legal panel set up by farmers will respond to these notices.Appealing to those who have got the notices, the farmer leaders told them not to attend the inquiry without a lawyer. Farmer leaders on the Ghazipur border claim notices have been sent to more than 100 farmers while notices for inciting violence have been sent to 1,700 farmers across the country.The farmers said that a panel of 10 lawyers from Punjab is reaching the Ghazipur border by this evening which will inform the farmers about the issues related to the legal action.Farmer leaders also expressed their displeasure at the closure of roads as they say it has been three months since they have been protesting on the roads, but they do not want to disturb the local people.Farmers have appealed for roads to be reopened on the border. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-angry-over-government-notices-closure-of-main-roads-at-ghazipur-border-217371
