27-02-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 199 new cases, three more deaths in Haryana||The COVID-19 death toll in Haryana rose to 3,047 on Saturday with three more fatalities, while 199 new cases pushed the infection count to 2,70,610, a health department bulletin said.One fatality each was recorded in Gurgaon, Ambala and Karnal districts, it said.During the past 24 hours, the count of new cases doubled in Gurgaon, from 29 a day earlier to 62 on Saturday, while Karnal, Kurukshetra and Panchkula reported 33, 29 and 20 new cases respectively.The number of active cases in the state jumped from 1,103 on Friday to 1,205 on Saturday while 2,66,358 people have recovered from the infection. The recovery rate was 98.43 per cent, it stated. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-199-new-cases-three-more-deaths-in-haryana-218314
27-02-2021||New Delhi||Government assigns Tarun Bajaj to take additional charge of Revenue Secretary||The government on Saturday issued an order giving additional charge of Revenue Secretary to Tarun Bajaj, who is currently heading Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance.Bajaj will take charge from Revenue Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey, who is also the Finance Secretary and retires on February 28.The government’s decision has come at time when the budget process is underway in Parliament and there were speculations in the political and bureaucratic circles that Pandey may be given an extension to his tenure in the office.“The competent authority has approved assignment of additional charge of the post of Secretary, Department of Revenue to Tarun Bajaj, Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs upon superannuation of Pandey, till the appointment of a regular incumbent or until further orders, whichever is earlier,” an order issued by the Appointment Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) said. This committee is headed by the Prime Minister.Pandey is a 1984 batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of Maharashtra cadre. He took charge of Revenue Secretary in the Ministry of Finance on November 30, 2018. Later, on account of seniority among five Secretaries in the Ministry, he was designated as Finance Secretary. Bajaj is a 1988 batch IAS officer of Haryana cadre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/government-assigns-tarun-bajaj-to-take-additional-charge-of-revenue-secretary-218293
27-02-2021|| Chandigarh||Haryana: Khap panchayat urges dairy farmers to hike milk rates for govt cooperative societies||A khap panchayat in Haryana's Hisar on Sunday urged dairy farmers to sells milk at Rs 100 per litre to government cooperative societies in protest against the Centre's farm laws and high fuel prices.The appeal was made at a meeting of the Satrol Khap held in Hisar's Narnaund under the chairmanship of its head Ramniwas.A leader of the khap panchayat (community court), Phool Kumar Petwar, said dairy farmers have been asked to sell milk at hiked prices from March 1. He, however, said the common people will continue to get milk at Rs 55 to Rs 60 per litre."The khap today took a decision in which we have asked farmers to sell milk at the rate of Rs 100 per litre to government cooperative societies. For the common man, this will continue to be sold between Rs 55 and Rs 60 per litre,” he said.“We want to awaken the government. They should repeal the farm laws and bring down fuel prices," said Petwar, adding that the government is not listening to farmers' demand of repealing the laws and continues to increase fuel prices.“Farmers are adversely hit by rising diesel prices. Farmers not only grow crops, they also rear animals which produce milk,” he said, adding that the government should know that farmers are producers who can hike prices. PTINNNN||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-khap-panchayat-urges-dairy-farmers-to-hike-milk-rates-for-govt-cooperative-societies-218289
27-02-2021||Karnal||Out on bail, Nodeep Kaur says was tortured by cops||Activist Nodeep Kaur walked out of the Karnal district jail on Friday, hours after the Punjab and Haryana HC granted her bail. She was greeted by supporters, including the DSGMC chief. “Both me and Shiv Kumar were tortured by the Sonepat police,” she alleged.Nodeep was arrested by the Kundli police in Sonepat district on January 12 for alleged murder attempt.Claiming that the videos released by the police were edited, she said: “I will furnish the details tomorrow.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/out-on-bail-nodeep-kaur-says-was-tortured-by-cops-218056
27-02-2021||Saurabh Malik||Why norm flouted in rape case: HC to attorney||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 26In an out-of-the-ordinary order, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has sought explanation from a district attorney for making a departure from the standard procedure of recording evidence in a rape case.The direction by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came on a petition against Haryana and other respondents by an accused for regular bail in a case registered at the Model Town police station in Panipat district on May 22, 2019. The trial court had framed charges for rape and criminal intimidation under the IPC and POCSO Act.Justice Sangwan, during the course of hearing, observed that the complainant or victim were to be examined at the first instance as a matter of practice, but the statement of the victim and her mother had not been recorded so far. The petitioner was continuing in judicial custody for about one year, eight months and 23 days.NO victim’s STATEMENT YETIn view of the same, the District Attorney, Panipat, is directed to submit an explanation as to why the statement of the victim and her mother was not recorded at the first instance when trial started. —Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan, Punjab and Haryana High Court“In view of the same, the District Attorney, Panipat, is directed to submit an explanation as to why the statement of the victim and her mother was not recorded at the first instance when trial started,” Justice Sangwan asserted.Directing the filing of an affidavit, Justice Sangwan made it clear that the reason was required to be furnished for giving preference to other witnesses prior to recording the statement of the victim or her mother “as circumstances point out that by delaying the same, prosecution wants to help the accused”.Justice Sangwan directed the Panipat Superintendent of Police to ensure that the statement of both witnesses was recorded before the next date of hearing.The trial court was directed to make an endeavour in the meantime to record the statement of the prosecutrix and her mother before the next date of hearing. In case the statement of the two witnesses was not recorded by the date fixed, the trial court was directed to make an endeavour to give short dates for recording their statement.Justice Sangwan was earlier told that the case was adjourned on two previous dates as it was stated at the Bar that the prosecutrix was not turning up for deposing in the trial court. The counsel for the petitioner referred to trial court orders since November 11, 2020, to submit that no prosecution witness was examined till February 11. Summons issued to the prosecutrix were received back unserved. The state counsel submitted that 13 of the 18 prosecution witnesses had been examined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/why-norm-flouted-in-rape-case-hc-to-attorney-217852
27-02-2021||Sonepat||18-year-old farmer dies||An 18-year-old farmer from Patiala died at the Kundli protest site near the Singhu border today morning. The deceased was identified as Navjot Singh of Kheri Jatta village in Patiala district.The police said it seemed that the youth died of heart stroke, but the exact cause of the death would be ascertained in the postmortem report.Navjot had joined the protest on February 22. After having dinner yesterday, he went to sleep in his tent. He did not wake up in the morning. His friends immediately called a doctor, who declared Navjot dead. Balkar Singh, sarpanch of Kheri Jatta village, said Navjot was the only son of his parents. His father owns three acres.In all, 23 farmers have died at Kundli protest site during the ongoing protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/18-year-old-farmer-dies-217853
27-02-2021||---||Murder victim’s kin block traffic||Panipat, February 26 Alleging police inaction, family members of Sagar Kundu, the Class XI student who was murdered on Thursday, blocked traffic for around two hours on Friday. They kept the body on the road near the Assandh naka. The police handed over the body to the family members after postmortem examination. On their way to the cremation ground, they stopped near the Assandh naka and blocked traffic. Claiming police inaction, the family members demanded the arrest of the accused. They said they would not perform the last rites till the accused were arrested. Commuters, especially schoolchildren, faced problems as they were stuck in traffic for around two hours. Following an assurance by DSP Sandeep Kumar that the killers would be arrested at the earliest, the family members agreed to perform the last rites. Panipat SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said a case had been registered and four accused identified. He added that five special teams were conducting raids to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/murder-victims-kin-block-traffic-217854
27-02-2021||---||Cane farmers threaten to stop mill ops||Ambala, February 26Sugarcane farmers have decided that it would stop delivering their produce to Naraingarh Sugarmills Limited from March 8 and force its management to stop operations on March 10 if the dues up to February were not cleared by then.These decisions were taken at a panchayat held in Naraingarh today.Farmers under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) gathered outside the sugarmill and raised slogans in support of their demands. They also decided to hold a mahapanchayat on March 10.Forced to protestThe crushing season started in November last year. As per norms, the payment has to be cleared within 14 days of the purchase of sugarcane. But so far, the payment up to December 16 has been cleared. We are left with no option, but to protest. —Malkit Singh, BKU (charuni) leaderMore than 5,000 farmers, who deliver sugarcane to the mill, await dues.Rajiv Sharma, a spokesman for the BKU (Charuni), said: “Sugarcane worth around Rs 124 crore has been delivered to the mill for crushing this season so far. The dues of around Rs 101 crore are pending. Not only this. Post-dated cheques of around Rs 9 crore of the last season are also pending.”District BKU (Charuni) chief Malkit Singh said, “The crushing season started in November last year. As per norms, the payment has to be cleared within 14 days of the purchase of sugarcane. But so far, the payment up to December 16 has been cleared. We are left with no option, but to protest.”When contacted, Naraingarh SDM Vaishali Sharma said, “The district administration has cleared Rs 24 crore dues till December 16. The mill has a stock worth Rs 39 crore, but market conditions are unfavourable for the sale of sugar. This is why it is taking time to clear the stock. The mill has written to the Shahabad sugarmill MD to buy the stock. A positive response is awaited. The mill has also applied for a loan of Rs 25 crore to clear the dues. Stopping the mill operations is no solution.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cane-farmers-threaten-to-stop-mill-ops-217855
27-02-2021||---||Another juvenile held for minor’s gang-rape||Kurukshetra, February 26A 17-year-old juvenile has been held in connection with the gang-rape of a 17-year-old girl of the Babain area in Kurukshetra on February 22.He was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board and sent to an observation home.The police had earlier arrested two youths and a minor in connection with the case.“Four accused, including two minors, have been apprehended. Efforts are on to arrest the fifth accused,” said Sub-Inspector Praveen Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/another-juvenile-held-for-minors-gang-rape-217856
27-02-2021||Parveen Arora||44 NEET, JEE aspirants join 1st batch at Shahpur DIET||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, February 26With full of enthusiasm and having dreams of becoming doctors and engineers, 44 students from different parts of the state have joined the first batch of coaching classes at the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) in Shahpur village started by the state government under its ongoing Super-100 programme.The programme was started in 2018 to provide a platform to students of government schools to crack the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE).Earlier, two coaching centres were started in Rewari and Panchkula, but from this year, two more centres — one in Karnal and another in Hisar — have been added.As many as 50 meritorious students — 28 girls and 22 boys — were selected on the basis of entrance tests and screening. Of them, 44 students — 24 girls and 20 boys — have joined the classes so far and the rest are expected to join in a couple of days.The coaching, boarding, lodging, food and uniforms are free for these students. They have been provided tablets for study free of cost. The students are at cloud nine after being selected for the programme.“A girl in my neighbourhood got selected in Super-100 programme last year. She motivated me a lot to pass the test. Now, I am happy that I am selected for these coaching classes,” said Muskan, a student from Jhajjar.Ritika belongs to Sirsa and she wants to be a doctor. She said they had been provided equal study atmosphere like in private sectors. Keshav and Nitika of Jhajjar were motivated by their teachers to try for the Super-100 initiative for competitive exams.“I was inspired by my math teacher to prepare for the test and now I have been selected,” said Keshav, who wants to be a doctor. He appreciates the technology being adopted by the teachers to teach them.Principal Ravinder Chaudhary said the centre started working this week and Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav inaugurated it. “It’s a government initiative for the students of government schools who cannot afford expensive coaching for competitive exams. The faculty members of the ACE Tutorial, Chandigarh, are assisting in coaching of medical and non-medical subjects,” he said, adding that the first batch will be of two years.“We have hostel facility for these students and we have restricted the meeting of the parents with their wards for the time being, but they are allowed to talk on hostel landline number with their wards for some minutes between 6pm and 8pm daily,” the Principal added.Hitesh Sardana, one of the faculty members, said the qualified staff members were assisting these students. “We are providing coaching to students for six hours daily in three batches of two hours each,” he said, adding that the students devote seven to eight hours daily for self-study. “We use digital methods to explore the IQ level of the students,” Sardana added.2 more centres open in Karnal, HisarEarlier, two coaching centres were started in Rewari and Panchkula, but from this year, two more centres — one in Karnal and another in Hisar — have been added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/44-neet-jee-aspirants-join-1st-batch-at-shahpur-diet-217857
27-02-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Power defaulters owe discoms Rs 6,800 crore||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 26Since over Rs 6,800 crore needs to be recovered from defaulters of the Haryana power distribution companies, the focus of the department has shifted to areas in Haryana where there is a “culture” of not paying electricity bills. The department is also contemplating on naming defaulters.The situation under the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) is grim. Till December 2020, there are over 15.59 lakh defaulting connections and against them, Rs 4,754.08 crore amount is pending.Under private connections, a total of 15.43 lakh connections have default amount of Rs 4,249.33 crore against them. As many as 8.25 lakh (53.5 per cent) connections alone are falling in the rural domestic category, against which Rs 2,612.44 crore is pending.The second worst is the domestic urban category where Rs 611.60 crore is due against 3.62 lakh connections. Also, Rs 461.42 crore is pending against 26,592 connections in the industrial sector while 1.64 lakh connections in the agriculture sector have default amount of Rs 82.44 crore against them.Also, 3.25 lakh connections have been disconnected against which Rs 1.890.37 crore has been outstanding.Under the DHBVN, a total of Rs 504.75 crore is pending against the government departments too. It is the Public Health Department which is the leader among defaulters with Rs 187.31 crore (37.1 per cent) pending against 7,502 connections. Also, the urban Local Bodies Department has to pay Rs 168.05 crore against 2,395 connections.Under the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN), there is over 19 per cent rise in the default amount till December 2020 as compared to 2019-20. A total of Rs 2,105 crore is pending with Rs 1,911 crore against private consumers and Rs 194 crore against government departments.“There is fallout of Covid on the private sector, which is responsible for the rise. Meanwhile, we have launched a concerted campaign for recovering the dues. We are targeting the top 100 defaulters since it is usually seen that 80 per cent of the amount is defaulted by 20 per cent people. We are also contemplating to release the name of defaulters in the public domain,” said Managing Director (MD) UHBVN Shashank Anand.Under the UHBVN, it is the Rohtak circle which leads in defaulters’ list with Rs 589 crore, followed by Rs 274 crore each in the Sonepat and Ambala circles and Rs 249 crore in the Kaithal circle.“Through ‘Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon’ (MGJG) scheme we are trying to recover dues. It has become a culture in some districts not to pay the bills. Overall, it is the private consumers who are the maximum defaulters,” said PK Das, Additional Chief Secretary, Power.Rohtak circle heads violators’ listUnder the UHBVN, it is the Rohtak circle which leads in defaulters’ list with Rs 589 crore, followed by Rs 274 crore each in the Sonepat and Ambala circles and Rs 249 crore in the Kaithal circle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/power-defaulters-owe-discoms-rs-6-800-crore-217858
27-02-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Power project in Aravallis hangs fire||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, February 26The construction of a 66-KV power substation in the Surajkund area of Aravalli hills here has been hanging fire for more than five years. Reason: the project, costing about Rs 30 crore, is awaiting a nod from the Forest Department.“Launched by Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPN) in 2015, the Municipal Corporation (MC) had in 2018 allotted one hectare for the project on the main Surajkund road. The final clearance from the Forest Department has been pending for two and a half years. As a result, the construction is stuck,” said department officials.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had in June 2015 had announced the project at a public meeting held here. An HVPN official said, “The project land is located in the region that comes under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA). Every construction in this region requires an NOC from the Forest Department.”Construction to start soonThe Power Department is yet to receive the no-objection certificate from the Forest Department for the sub-station. The construction is expected to start soon as the sanctioning process is at the last stage. —ML Garg, Executive engineer, HVPNThe project was to improve the power supply in more than 30 residential and commercial areas inhabited by three lakh people. The localities which were to be benefitted by the proposed substation included Sectors 21, 45 and 46, Greenfields Colony, Dayalbagh, Charmswood Enclave, Eros Garden, Green Valley, Mewla Maharajpur, Lakkadpur village, Khori and Gurukul Basti and other establishments, including hotels.The region faces overloading and tripping due to increased demand. ML Garg, Executive Engineer, HVPN, said: “The Power Department is yet to receive the no-objection certificate (NOC) from the Forest Department for the sub-station. The construction is expected to start soon as the sanctioning process is at the last stage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/power-project-in-aravallis-hangs-fire-217860
27-02-2021||---||Three killed in accidents||Palwal, February 26Three pedestrians, including a woman, were killed in separate road accidents in the district in the past 48 hours. All victims were hit by speeding motorcycles.In the first case, Balbir (50) of Aswata village was killed after he was hit while walking towards his village on Wednesday.In the second case, Manoj alias Anmol (28) of Hodal was hit near Godota Chowk in Hodal while crossing a service road on Wednesday night.In the third case, a woman aged about 35 years was hit by a speeding motorcycle near Sondh village on Thursday. Separate cases were registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-killed-in-accidents-217861
27-02-2021||---||Rohtak firm booked for Rs 176-cr bank fraud||Chandigarh, February 26The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case on a complaint from Canara Bank, Main Branch, Rohtak, Haryana, against a private company based in Rohtak and its directors and other unknown persons and public servants on the allegations of bank fraud of Rs 176.28 crore.According to the CBI, the list of accused included Lakshmi Precision Screws Ltd along with its directors Lalit K Jain, Rajesh Jain and Vijay Kumar Jain and mortgagors of property Nilikesh Jain and Saurav Jain.It has been alleged that the private company through its directors had defrauded the consortium of banks by misrepresentation and false documents making diversion of funds, disposing of the mortgaged properties without the consent of banks. An alleged loss of Rs 176.28 crore was caused to the consortium of banks, Canara Bank and State Bank of India.The accused private firm was incorporated on December 27, 1968, as a private limited company and was converted to a public limited company on August 20, 1971. It was engaged in the manufacturing of high-tensile fasteners. Searches were conducted today at five places, which led to recovery of incriminating documents, said the CBI in a press statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-firm-booked-for-rs-176-cr-bank-fraud-217862
27-02-2021||=||All set for buying rabi crops on MSP: Dy CM||Sirsa, February 26Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has said that the state government has made elaborate arrangements for the procurement of rabi crops.Talking to the mediapersons at his residence in Sirsa today, Dushyant said this would be the first time in Haryana when five crops — wheat, mustard, pulses, chickpeas and barley — would be bought on the MSP.“This will be the first time in history when barley will be procured on the MSP. Proper arrangements will be made for the procurement of the crops from farmers and this time the payment will be made within 48 hours,” he said.The Deputy CM said every single grain would be procured from farmers who were registered on the “meri fasal mera byora” portal. He appealed to all farmers to get themselves registered on the portal.Dushyant shown black flagsFarmers showed black flags to Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala while standing at the boundary wall of the stadium in Sirsa on Friday. Dushyant sat in a helicopter to go to Samalkha when the farmers reached the stadium and raised anti-government slogans while holding black flags.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/all-set-for-buying-rabi-crops-on-msp-dy-cm-217863
27-02-2021||Hisar||Peaceful farmers' stir moral victory: Deepender Hooda||Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda has said that farmers have registered a moral victory over the Centre by protesting peacefully at the Delhi borders for three months.“A peaceful and organised protest is a moral victory over the Centre. Future generations will remember this agitation,” he said while addressing farmers at the Kitlana toll plaza in Bhiwani district today.The Congress leader added, “The Centre must not forget that the young generation is the integral part of the agitation. And it is struggling hard to find employment. The rate of unemployment has doubled since 2013. This is a serious matter.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/peaceful-farmers-stir-moral-victory-deepender-hooda-217864
27-02-2021||Sonepat||Farmers at Singhu border observe ‘Yuva Kisan Diwas’||Farmers observed “Yuva Kisan Diwas” at the Singhu border today to mark the contribution of the youth to the agriculture sector and the ongoing agitation.The main stage was managed by young farmers, while young men and women addressed the gathering. The speakers flagged unemployment and privatisation of the education section.They said Centre’s policies were aimed at uprooting the youth from their land and turn them into cheap labour for corporates. They accused the Modi government of not only being anti-farmer, but also anti-youth and anti-student.Cultural programmes were presented on the occasion, while young singer Romi Ghamana released a song on “andolanjeevis”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-at-singhu-border-observe-yuva-kisan-diwas-217865
27-02-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||143 shops to be demolished for Delhi-Mumbai Expressway||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, February 26The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) is set to demolish 143 showrooms and commercial establishments for the 12-lane Delhi-Mumbai Expressway project. These structures have allegedly encroached government land on the banks of the Gurugram canal, adjoining the bypass, which is being converted into 12-lane expressway.“As this could be the biggest demolition drive by the HSVP so far, the illegal structures dotting the 1.5-km stretch on the left side of the highway here, have delayed the handing over of the 70 metres of ROW (Right of Way) to the NHAI by almost an year,” claim the sources.“The encroachments also threaten to change the alignment of the Rs 3,580-crore expressway connecting Delhi and Mumbai under the Bharat Mala project,” the authorities said.As many as 143 illegal structures, mainly commercial establishments (showrooms), existing on the HSVP and Irrigation Department land are to be removed and this could be taken up next week as per the sources in the department, who claim that political support to the land mafia occupying the land is perhaps the main reason behind the delay.Action expected anytimeThough a land survey and demarcation have already been done, an action is expected anytime as the top authorities of the state government and the Union Transport Ministry have given a go-ahead for the removal of the encroachments. SourcesThough a land survey and demarcation have already been done, an action is expected anytime as the top authorities of the state government and the Union Transport Ministry have given a go-ahead for the removal of the encroachments, reveal the sources.The eight points raised to justify the demolition include mass illegal constructions by the land mafia , irreversible damage to the greenbelt of the residential sectors, poor scope for the sale of plots and land in upcoming sectors located behind these showrooms, future expansion scope and security threat to expressway by these buildings. A police force of 1,250 personnel and at least three Duty Magistrates have been sought to carry out the demolition, according to officials.“All the illegal structures have either been removed or will be razed soon,” says Pradeep Dahiya, Administrator, HSVP, here.The expressway starts at the Ring Road-DND junction in New Delhi, passes through Faridabad to culminate at the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway interchange junction at Mindkola village of Palwal. Its foundation was laid on March 1, 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/143-shops-to-be-demolished-for-delhi-mumbai-expressway-217866
27-02-2021||---||Three arrested for extortion in Pehowa||Kurukshetra, February 26The police have arrested three persons, including two women, in Pehowa on extortion charge. The accused have been identified as Harshdeep Kaur, her mother Kamaljeet Kaur and Prabhjot Singh.They were produced in a local court, which granted them bail. Harman Singh of Pehowa had reported that Harshdeep had got a false case on the charge of stalking and under the IT Act registered against him last year.He claimed that they had pressurised his father for a settlement and demanded Rs 11 lakh. According to the complainant, they had paid Rs 5.5 lakh and were being threatened of another case if the remaining amount was not paid.On Thursday, the suspects asked the complainant to reach the Pehowa grain market with the money. On Harman’s complaint, the police formed a raiding team. The suspects were caught and Rs 5.5 lakh and a car recovered from their possession. A case was registered at the Pehowa City police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-arrested-for-extortion-in-pehowa-217867
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||4,791 health workers get jab||A total of 4,791 health workers were on Friday vaccinated against Covid, taking the total number to 2,98,863. With 148 fresh cases, the total number of cases in the state went up to 2,70,411. Karnal reported a maximum of 30 cases, followed by Gurugram (29). With one death in Kaithal, the toll reached 3,044. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-791-health-workers-get-jab-217868
27-02-2021||---||56 HCS officers transferred||Chandigarh, February 26The Haryana Government today issued transfer and posting orders of 56 HCS officers with immediate effect.Jagdeep Dhanda, Special Secretary, Public Works (Building and Roads), was given additional charge as Additional Deputy Commissioner, Ambala.Munish Nagpal, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Nuh, and Municipal Commissioner, Nuh, was posted as Additional Deputy Commissioner, Fatehabad, and Municipal Commissioner, Fatehabad.Kuldhir Singh, Municipal Commissioner, Kaithal, was posted as CEO, Zila Parishad, Rewari, and CEO, DRDA, Rewari.Vatsal Vashist, Chief Protocol Officer, Gurugram, was posted as Chief Protocol Officer, Gurugram, and Additional Deputy Commissioner, Jhajjar.Jag Niwas, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Jhajjar, was posted as Additional Deputy Commissioner, Nuh, and Municipal Commissioner, Nuh.Ranjit Kaur, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Yamunanagar, and Special Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management, was posted as Special Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management, and Additional Deputy Commissioner, Yamunanagar.Mahender Pal, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Rohtak, and Special Officer, APZ, Rohtak, was posted as CEO, Zila Parishad, Rohtak, and CEO, DRDA, Rohtak, in addition to his present duties.Ashok Kumar Bansal, Secretary, RTA, was posted as Additional Deputy Commissioner, Sonepat.Subhita Dhaka, CEO, Zila Parishad, Jhajjar, and CEO, DRDA, Jhajjar, was posted as District Transport Officer-cum Secretary, RTA, Jhajjar.Jaideep Kumar, awaiting orders of posting, was posted as CEO, Zila Parishad, Hisar, and CEO, DRDA, Hisar.Samwartak Singh Khangwal, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Fatehabad, and Municipal Commissioner, Fatehabad, was posted as Additional Director (Admn), Secondary Education, and Additional Secretary, School Education, and Municipal Commissioner, Kaithal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/56-hcs-officers-transferred-217877
27-02-2021||---||Chapati-making machine at langar ‘pandal’||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chapati-making-machine-at-langar-pandal-217878
27-02-2021||Karnal||NSS camp Valedictory function||Online poster-making contestYamunanagar: T An online poster-making competition was organised at the national level by the geography department of Guru Nanak Khalsa College. Hundreds of students from various educational institutions across the country participated in this competition to show their talent and knowledge. College principal Dr Major Harinder Singh Kang said the objective of this competition organised on the topic of 'Covid-19's impact on health' was to give a message of awareness and caution among the youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nss-camp-valedictory-function-217879
27-02-2021||The road leading to the Chandigarh railway station from Panchkula side is in a terrible mess. since inception the road is riddled with potholes||Railway station road in a mess on panchkula side||Drainage near state border ineffective This is Vivek Vihar, which is towards the eastern part of the city nearing the Punjab boundary. The drainage system which touches the inhabited area has been choked because of callous attitude of the Drainage Department. Straw, hard material, unusual items and unprecedented waste have accumulated and choked the smooth flow of water resulting in stagnation. Foul smell emanates from the area. Residents and stakeholders of cleanliness are equally responsible and accountable. It needs immediate attention of the department concerned. —Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/railway-station-road-in-a-mess-on-panchkula-side-217880
27-02-2021|| Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court grants bail to activist Nodeep Kaur||Activist Nodeep Kaur was granted bail by the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday, reported news agency ANI.In the bail plea, filed through her counsel,  R. S. Cheema, Arshdeep Singh Cheema and Harinder Deep Singh Bains, Kaur had stated that she was falsely arraigned as accused in an FIR lodged under various sections, including attempt to murder, assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty and other offences under Sections 148, 149, 332, 353, 186, 384, 379-b, 307.Also read: Nodeep Kaur case: Dalit activist Shiv Kumar's medical report reveals 2 fractures, broken toenail bedsWill join farmers’ agitation soon, says Nodeep Kaur after getting bailJustice Avneesh Jhingan passed the order after hearing lengthy arguments in the matter.Taking suo motu cognizance of emails alleging her illegal confinement by the Haryana Police, the High Court had earlier ordered treating the matter as a criminal writ petition.The Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes has already taken suo motu notice of the reports highlighting the matter. It asked the state Additional Chief Secretary (Home) to intervene and also called for a report by February 23 after initiating immediate requisite action. Panel chairperson Tejinder Kaur said that the Commission took suo motu notice since the victim was a resident of Sri Muktsar Sahib district.Also read: In bail plea, Nodeep Kaur claims to have been severely beaten up by Haryana PoliceIn her petition, the labour rights activist claimed that she was "targeted and falsely implicated" in the case as she was successful in generating massive support for the ongoing farmer movement against the Centre's three new farm laws.Kaur, who is a member of the Majdoor Adhikar Sangathan, said they mobilized people for a protest at Kundli in the Sonipat district against the Centre's new farm laws.The plea alleged that the mobilisation of local labourers in support of farmers annoyed the administration and a plan was devised to stifle the protest.Kaur was arrested in Haryana's Sonipat on January 12, the Haryana police had earlier said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-grants-bail-to-activist-nodeep-kaur-217761
