28-02-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram: Class IX student alleges rape; accuses her female schoolmate of hatching plan||In a shocking incident, a Class IX student of a Delhi school was allegedly abducted, held captive in a hotel room and gang-raped by a Class XII and Class IX student.She was allegedly led to the hotel by a girl schoolmate.The incident came to light yesterday when the victim along with her family filed a police complaint. An FIR was registered and police nabbed the three accused, including the girl schoolmate.The victim is still being treated in a hospital and the arrested accused are all students of private schools. The accused girl is a schoolmate of the victim who allegedly hatched the entire plan and lured her on pretext of visiting Connaught Place.“One accused who is a Class XII student is a major while the girl and third accused students of Class IX of private schools are minors. One accused was produced in a city court today and sent into judicial custody while girl and another accused was produced in front of juvenile justice board and both were sent into correction home, Faridabad.“The victim claims that the accused girl was behind the entire plan while we are investigating all angles,” said the investigating officer.According to the complaint filed by the 15-year-old victim, the accused girl had met her some days ago at the house of another classmate. They then made a plan to visit Connaught Place.“On February 26, when I along with my classmate and accused girl were on the way to Connaught Place, the accused girl called her two male friends there. We first reached the hotel, located near Molahera village where we were total six friends. The main accused Vikas booked room number 106 where he forcibly raped me. At that time the accused girl and her another friend were there while others had left the hotel.“It was in late evening when I somehow fled the hotel and reached home. I was in trauma and finally told my family yesterday who rushed me to police station. My schoolmate girl is the main culprit,” the victim told police.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the three under sections 6, 17 of POCSO Act, sections 363 (abduction), 342 (wrongful confinement) of IPC at women police station west last late night and today three accused, including the girl, have been nabbed.“Just after receiving the complaint, an FIR was registered under appropriate sections of IPC and POCSO Act and three accused were nabbed. Further investigation is going on,” said Poonam Dalal Dahiya, ACP, crime against women.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-class-ix-student-alleges-rape-accuses-her-female-schoolmate-of-hatching-plan-218708
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||BJP-JJP combine enjoys majority in Haryana Assembly: CM Khattar||Playing down the Congress’ claim of bringing a no-confidence motion against his government in the state Assembly during the upcoming budget session, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said the BJP-JJP combine enjoys majority in the House.“It is their right to bring a no-confidence motion against the government. We are in majority. The Opposition is doing such an exercise as they are afraid of their sustainability,” the CM told reporters here.The budget session of the Haryana Assembly will commence from March 5.         Leader of the Opposition in the House and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda had said recently that “voices of dissent” are being heard among the MLAs supporting the government and they will bring a no-confidence motion against it.Khattar on Sunday said a Bill against religious conversion by force, inducement or through marriages solemnised for the sole purpose of adopting a new religion will also be introduced in the budget session.The Bill will be brought in which there will be provisions against conversion by misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, inducement, marriage or any fraudulent means, Khattar said.The CM also sought to play down the issue of reported dissatisfaction shown by his Home Minister Anil Vij over the extension given to DGP Manoj Yadava after the completion of his two-year term on the post.“We had informed the Centre about the extension to be given by the state government to the DGP. There is a misconception and this will end,” he said.On the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws, he said farmers’ plan to raise the price of milk from Rs 50 per litre to Rs 100 per litre as part of the protest will fail their agitation.He termed the farmers’ agitation as a “political issue” with no justified demands.Over the delay in the panchayat polls in the state, Khattar said, “Let the situation improve and farmers end protest, the polls will be conducted afterwards.”Khattar, who also holds the finance portfolio, said separate provisions will be kept for the Below Poverty Line (BPL) families in the state Budget.The monthly income of those falling under the BPL category has been raised from Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000, he added.With groundwater resources depleting fast and canal water insufficient to meet farmers’ needs by conservative flood irrigation method, the state government will set up four micro irrigation projects in districts of Mahendragarh, Bhiwani, Dadri and Fatehabad, he said.An emphasis would be laid on crop diversification, sowing of cash crops to increase the income of farmers and bring them out of the debt trap, he added.He ruled out the state government’s role in the recent IT searches on the premises of Independent MLA Balraj Kundu. “The state government has no role in it. The MLA had himself recently claimed that his business has become worth Rs 7,000 crore and this has come into the knowledge of the IT Department,” he said.He said the government policy to provide 75 per cent reservation to candidates from Haryana in the private sector will be notified soon. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-jjp-combine-enjoys-majority-in-haryana-assembly-cm-khattar-218696
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||After Haryana Assembly committee threatens moving privilege over ‘misleading’ info, one IAS expresses ‘regret’ and other ‘apologises’||After a Haryana Assembly Committee on Public Undertakings (COPU) threatened to move privilege motion against two IAS officers over giving “misleading” information, one IAS expressed “regret” and another “apologised”.  The issue pertained to a complaint against installing old transformers in a new 66KVA substation at village Taprian in Panchkula district.  When the members of COPU visited Taprian village on September 30, 2020, then Managing Director (MD) Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPNL), Mohammed Shayin, told them that as per their “policy” old transformers were being used again if they were working to their capacity.  During proceedings before the COPU, dated October 12, 2020, which was chaired by Speaker Gian Chand Gupta himself, then Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) Power TC Gupta told that as per a “policy” spare items were being used at places where there was lesser load instead of selling them in scrap. The speaker told him to verify the facts before giving any statement before the committee and asked him to submit a copy of the “policy”. Shayin said they would place the copy before the COPU.  When no copy of the “policy” came, the COPU wrote to HVPNL on November 12, 2020, to submit it within seven days. However, on December 14, 2020, HVPNL wrote, “No specific policy for utilisation of spare 12.5/16MVA, 66/11KVT/Fs at new HVPNL substation is available on record. However, a policy for utilisation of spare transformers at new substations will be put up in next BoDs (Board of Directors) meeting at HVPNL.”  During a meeting on January 28 this year, Chairperson of COPU Aseem Goyal said a committee of the assembly was like a “mini house” and top officials of the power department gave wrong statements in the name of transformers policy when the speaker was himself chairing the meeting.Member MLAs, Mohan Lal Badoli, Chiranjeevi Rao and Kuldeep Vats, called for sending the matter to privilege committee.  The matter was referred to the speaker for taking action. He called for a personal hearing of both the IAS officers.  On February 11, expressing “regret”, TC Gupta told the COPU that the situation had arisen due to inadvertent use of the word “policy” instead of “practice”.“The word ‘policy’ was used by me on the briefing and written communications of the officers of HVPNL which was personally explained to your good self during the meeting. It is humbly submitted that a ‘practice’ repeatedly used may also be called a ‘policy’,” said his letter to speaker, dated February 11. Shayin apologised, and in a letter dated February 22 to speaker, he said that the use of the word “policy” vis-à-vis “practice” was a common practice in HVPNL. He assured that attention would be paid to such “minute details”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-haryana-assembly-committee-threatens-moving-privilege-over-misleading-info-one-ias-expresses-regret-and-other-apologises-218685
28-02-2021||---||4-year-old raped in Haryana’s Sonipat||Chandigarh, February 28A four-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 36-year-old man in Haryana’s Sonipat district, police said on Sunday.The accused living near the victim’s house falling in an area under the Rai police station allegedly lured her to his place and raped her on Friday night, said police.The accused has been arrested, a police official said over the phone. A case of rape under the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered, said the police official. --PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-year-old-raped-in-haryanas-sonipat-218661
28-02-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram society declared containment zone after 20 test positive for Covid||After almost a gap of two months, Gurugram has gone ahead with cluster containment after 20 residents of a posh condominium tested positive for coronavirus.The residents, most of whom are elderly, belong to IREO Victory Valley in sector 67. It is suspected that the contagion spread after a birthday party hosted by a resident at a restaurant. The health authorities, however, are yet to confirm the development.According to residents, around seven people contracted the infection after a group of 22-25 attended the party on February 7. Soon 12 others also tested positive.“There are 20 active cases in the condominium as of now. They tested positive on different dates. We cannot confirm the source of the infection.The party was hosted on February 7 and the first case was detected on February 19,” chief medical officer (CMO) Virender Yadav said.The health department has collected more than 700 samples so far and are conducting contact tracing. Covid restrictions have been imposed in society mandating strict social distancing and suspension of the majority of outdoor activities or gathering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-society-declared-containment-zone-after-20-test-positive-for-covid-218615
28-02-2021||---||‘Jail-Radio’ for Ambala inmates||Chandigarh, February 27Haryana Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Rajeev Arora inaugurated the third ‘Jail-Radio’ of the state at the Central Jail, Ambala.In his address, he said the main objective of starting the ‘Jail-Radio’ was to promote art, creativity and harmony among the inmates.On the occasion, DGP (Jails) KK Selvaraj was also present. Earlier, jail-radios had been started in Panipat and Faridabad in collaboration with the Tinka-Tinka Foundation.Arora said the Central Jail at Ambala was considered as a historic jail in the nation and was among the three Central Jails of the state. He said though a jail has a restricted environment but with the introduction of radio, its inmates will be interacting with the outside world. He said there were 19 jails in the state and the state government planned to start ‘Jail-Radio’ in almost all jails in order to initiate the process of jail reforms for inmates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jail-radio-for-ambala-inmates-218503
28-02-2021||---||Two youths shot dead in Rohtak village||Rohtak, February 27Two youths were shot dead and as many injured in a firing incident at Nindana village in Rohtak on Saturday.Some rivalry is stated to be the reason behind the incident that led to the shootout. The police have registered a case and the injured were admitted to a hospital. As per police sources and eyewitnesses, five youths were sitting on the roof of an abandoned house located on Nindana-Gugahedi road this afternoon. Some youths arrived at the spot by a car and started firing at the five youths.Two youths were killed, while two were injured in the incident. One of the youths escaped unhurt. The deceased have been identified as Ankush of Farmana village and Vikas of Nindana village. Both were in the age group of 18-20 years.The police said two of the assailants had been identified and all accused would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-youths-shot-dead-in-rohtak-village-218504
28-02-2021||Chandigarh||2 IAS officers transferred||Kiran to take up fuel price hikechandigarh: Congress MLA Kiran Choudhry on Saturday said she would bring a calling attention motion on liquor scam, unemployment, law and order situation, Sutlej-Yamuna-Link, rising fuel prices, stoppage of the Rajiv Gandhi Bima Yojana, water shortage in Bhiwani district and the absence of a policy on ENA in the coming Budget session. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-ias-officers-transferred-218508
28-02-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Sarpanch, 200 others booked for rioting||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, February 27Villagers showed black flags to the BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Ram Chander Jangra and obstructed his car at Meham town in the district on Saturday. The police have registered a case against a village sarpanch and 200 others in this regard.Jangra was invited as the chief guest at the inaugural ceremony of an indoor stadium at Saraswati Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School in Meham. A number of persons assembled there and started raising slogans against the BJP government.Was chief guest at inaugural eventWhen the MP came out of the school after the function, the protesters showed black flags to him and tried to stop his car. The police personnel on duty somehow managed to disperse the protesters, following which the MP’s car sped away.“We are supporting the farmers’ agitation and will not allow any BJP leader to enter our area until the government fulfils the demands of the protesting farmers,” said a youth participating in the protest demonstration.The police have registered a case against Ashish, sarpanch of Farmana village, and 200 unknown persons on charges of rioting, wrongful restraint and obstructing public servants from discharge of public functions under Sections 147, 149, 186 and 341 of the IPC on the basis of a complaint lodged by a police officer. No arrest was made till the filing of this report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sarpanch-200-others-booked-for-rioting-218490
28-02-2021||---||Haryana Chief Minister announces four welfare schemes on Ravidas Jayanti||Chandigarh, February 27Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced four public welfare schemes during a state-level programme organised on the occasion of the 644th birth anniversary of Guru Ravidas at his Chandigarh residence on Saturday.Under the Mukhyamantri Antyodaya Parivar Utthan Yojana, one lakh poorest families of the state would be targeted.“Every possible effort will be made to increase the family income of such families to at least Rs 8,000 to Rs 9,000 per month. For this, the state government will emphasise on the skill development of members of such families, providing employment opportunities to the unemployed members and also providing financial assistance,” said the Chief Minister.Khattar announced that the financial assistance of Rs 50,000 being given under the Dr BR Ambedkar Awas Navinikarn Yojana for the repair of the house to Scheduled Caste families living below the poverty line was increased to Rs 80,000.The Chief Minister added that the BPL families belonging to any category would be able to avail themselves of the benefits of the scheme. Till now the scheme was limited to the BPL families belonging to the Scheduled Castes. He said from April 1, 2021, the annual income slab of the BPL families would be increased from Rs 1.20 lakh to Rs 1.80 lakh.The Chief Minister announced that the legal aid given to the victims of atrocities under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act was increased from Rs 11,000 to Rs 21,000.An amount of Rs 11 crore has been allocated under the Sant Mahapurush Vichar Samman and Prasaar Yojana. Under the scheme, financial assistance of minimum of Rs 50,000 and maximum of Rs 1 lakh will be provided to the social and religious organisations for organising programmes on the birth anniversaries of great men at the block and gram levels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-chief-minister-announces-four-welfare-schemes-on-ravidas-jayanti-218491
28-02-2021||---||Farmers seek reopening of Jharoda border||Jhajjar, February 27Farmers camping at Tikri border have objected to the sealing of the Jharoda border leading to Najafgarh from Bahadurgarh town here.They have demanded immediate opening up of the Jharoda border alleging that the Delhi Police have sealed the border with an intention to create an anti-farmer atmosphere among the public. The Jharoda border was sealed on January 26 after the violence in Delhi during the tractor-parade.A large number of people from Jhajjar, Rohtak and surrounding areas daily travel to the national capital in connection with their jobs and business purposes.They are now compelled to use either the Metro or alternative routes via villages to reach their destination in Delhi. The rising load of vehicles on the routes is leading to traffic congestion and disturbing the peaceful atmosphere of the villages.“We don’t want to cause any inconvenience to the people. Hence, a clear passage has been provided to them even in the 15-km stretch between Jakhoda to Tikri where farmers have been camping since November 26. But the Delhi Police have kept the Jharoda border blocked for the past month, forcing thousands of commuters to opt for alternative routes. It is nothing but a move to harass the people to make them go against the farmers,” alleged Jai Bhagwan, a leader of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU).Joginder Singh Nain, another farmer leader, alleged the border had been sealed deliberately with the intention to defame the farmers’ agitation. The Delhi Police must open the border immediately so that people could travel to Delhi without any trouble. The Centre is adopting all tactics to bring a bad name to the agitation, but it won’t succeed as the farmers were united and the protest is persistently garnering public support, he added.Virender Hooda, another farmer leader, said the Centre and the Delhi Police have no answer as to why people are being harassed by sealing the Jharoda border which is the only way to reach Delhi from Bahadurgarh by one’s own vehicle?“The Centre wants to cause anarchy and a civil war-like situation by sealing all border points of Delhi so that it could blame the farmers for it. But we will not let the Centre succeed in its design,” alleged Virender Hooda, adding that the issue would be placed in the next meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.Notably, multiple barricades have been placed by the Delhi Police on the Jharoda border to prevent the entry of vehicles in Delhi from Bahadurgarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-seek-reopening-of-jharoda-border-218492
28-02-2021||---||1,100 industrial power thefts detected in a day||Chandigarh, February 27Haryana Power Minister Ranjit Singh said that since 4.30 am today, as many as 236 teams comprising more than 1,000 officers conducted raids for power theft in the big industries running in the state.“During the raids, more than 1,100 cases of industrial power theft have been caught. With these raids, the Electricity Board will be collecting huge revenue of around Rs 100 crore,” he said. He was addressing a press conference at his residence on Saturday.The minister said that the teams who have carried out the raids included two directors of the Power Department, a Chief Engineer, six Superintending Engineers and XEN, JE and other officers and employees.Ranjit Singh said that the raids have been carried out in industries running in five big cities including Gurugram, Dharuhera, Faridabad, Rewari and Hisar.The minister said officers have also been found involved in the thefts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-100-industrial-power-thefts-detected-in-a-day-218493
28-02-2021||---||Sanitation worker dies of  asphyxiation in Hisar||Hisar, February 27A sanitation worker died of asphyxiation while cleaning a sewage channel late last evening. The victim has been identified as Vikrant. He along with another worker, identified as Anil, was cleaning a sewage channel near Lahoria Chowk when the incident took placeThe police have booked contractor Amandeep of Yamunanagar district, who had hired sanitation workers, under Section 304 of the IPC.A complaint against him was lodged by subdivisional engineer, Public Health Engineering Department, Gurtej Singh. He accused him of not following rules while sending sanitation workers for cleaning manholes.The Haryana PWD Mechanical Workers’ Union along with family members of the victim also staged a dharna, following which district officials reached the spot.The Union demanded Rs 15 lakh as compensation to the victim’s family and government job to one of family members.Hisar SDM Ashwir Nain accepted the demands on behalf of the government after which the last rites of the victim were performed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sanitation-worker-dies-of-asphyxiation-in-hisar-218494
28-02-2021||---||Increase in temperature may affect wheat yield: Experts||Ambala, February 27Following an increase in temperature, agriculture scientists have cautioned the wheat farmers, especially those who had sown late varieties, to be vigilant else they may witness yield loss.Currently 85,000 hectare land is under wheat crop cultivation.Senior coordinator at Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Ambala, Balwan Mandal said, “A rise in temperature is not good for wheat crop as it may have an impact on the yield, especially on the late sown crop, and the farmers may witness a loss of 1 to 2 quintal of yield per acre. The farmers who had sown wheat in the last week of November or in the first week of December must go for light irrigation.”Guru Prem, subject matter specialist, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Tepla, said, “Rise in temperature will have an impact on the yield but the farmers who had adopted crop residue management and sown wheat without removing and burning paddy residue are unlikely to face any loss.”Meanwhile, agriculture experts have also advised farmers to keep monitoring their fields and report if they detect yellow rust in the crop.Yellow rust is a fungal disease which manifests as powdery yellow stripes on leaves. These stripes hinder photosynthesis, makes the grain shrivel and stop the growth of the plant. In case of yellow rust, the farmers can observe a yellow powder on the leaves and it will leave the colour on the hand or any cloth when being touched but yellowing of leaves doesn’t necessarily signify yellow rust attack as there could be several reasons behind it, including the overdose of herbicide and soil salinity, the agriculture expert said. Yellow rust was reported in the Bihta block of Saha earlier this month.Shekhar Kumar, Assistant Plant Protection Officer, Ambala, said, “Yellow rust was also reported in around 2.5 acre wheat crop earlier this month at Bihta village but it was timely controlled and no other incident has been reported this year. The farmers must keep monitoring their fields, inform the department and also spray a solution of propiconazole 25 per cent EC to control its spread.”Deputy Director, Agriculture, Ambala, Girish Nagpal, said, “Late variety is sown in some pockets of Naggal, Barara and Saha of Ambala. The current weather conditions are also conducive for fungal diseases.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/increase-in-temperature-may-affect-wheat-yield-experts-218495
28-02-2021||---||VC threatened to fire us from job: Teachers||Kurukshetra, February 27 Four women contractual teachers of Kurukshetra University have sought action against KU Vice Chancellor Prof Soamnath Sachdeva for allegedly threatening them with firing from their job if they continue to insist on their demand for the implementation of the enhanced salary. The alleged incident happened on Friday when Dr Chander Rekha, Dr Sangeeta, Dr Yogita and Dr Sweta reached the Vice Chancellor’s office as representatives of the Kurukshetra University Contractual Assistant Professors Association (KUCAPA) raising the issue of inordinate delay in the implementation of the enhanced salary as per the Seventh Central Pay Commission. “Instead of paying heed to our demand, the Vice-Chancellor, Kurukshetra University threatened us with firing from our existing job if we continue to demand the same. He even warned us of strict action if we carry out march in the campus. We were astonished to see the reaction as the same salary enhancement has been implemented in almost all state universities of Haryana,” says Dr Sangeeta. The teachers along with the other members of the association today reached Raj Bhavan and submitted a complaint to the Governor of Haryana, Satyadeo Narayan Arya, who is Chancellor of Kurukshetra University. They have also conveyed the matter to Education Minister. Meanwhile Dr Brajesh Sawhney, Director, Public Relations, KU, said, “There is no such issue. The university advised the teachers not to hold protest march during the working hours. The university has sympathetically considered their demand and already requested the government for financial aid as it has been going through tough times.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vc-threatened-to-fire-us-from-job-teachers-218496
28-02-2021||Kurukshetra||Man duped of Rs 30 lakh on pretext of business deal||A local resident has been duped of Rs 30 lakh on the pretext of a business deal in Himachal Pradesh. In his complaint to the police, Raj Kumar Saini alleged that Kamal of Jind met him with a business proposal and introduced him to Ravinder Kumar of Rohtak.  He was told that Ravinder Kumar and two other persons, directors of a company, were working on a hydropower plant at Bandh village. “They persuaded me to invest in the project and I agreed to become a partner  in the company,” he said. However, when he enquired about the delay in the project, he was told that the company was yet to get an NOC.  The complainant alleged that when he asked the partners to return his money, they threatened him of dire consequences. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-duped-of-rs-30-lakh-on-pretext-of-business-deal-218497
28-02-2021||---||Illegal structures razed in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, February 27 A team of the District Town Planner (DTP), Yamunanagar, has demolished eight damp proof courses, seven shops and ‘kachcha’ roads at an unauthorised colony in Bilaspur town of Yamunanagar district. The team of demolition drive comprised of DTP Amit Madholia, assistant town planner Dinesh Singh, junior engineer Ravinder Kumar and Bilaspur Naib Tehsildar Arvind Chaudhry (appointed as duty magistrate) on February 25. “The unauthorised one-acre colony was recently carved out in the revenue estate of Bilaspur town near Bilaspur-Kapal Mochan road,” said Madholia. He said the general public was requested that they should not invest their hard earned money in such unauthorised colonies and should contact the office of the DTP for any enquiry before buying land.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-structures-razed-in-yamunanagar-218498
28-02-2021||---||Sonepat man booked for sexual assault||Sonepat, February 27 A four-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by a 40-year-old man in a village of Rai block of Sonepat district.  On a complaint of the victim’s mother, a case was registered against Babloo (40), under Section 376-AB of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act at Rai police station. Rai SHO Vivek Malik said the accused had been arrested and would be produced before a court on Sunday.  According to information, the victim’s family was living in a rented accommodation. On Friday evening, when the girl was playing outside a room, Babloo, who resides in the same building, took her in his room and allegedly sexually assaulted her.  The police lodged a case and took the victim to a general hospital but the doctors referred her to Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women in Khanpur Kalan for her medico-legal examination and treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-man-booked-for-sexual-assault-218499
28-02-2021||Yamunanagar||Man held with pistol, four  cartridges||A team of the Anti-Narcotics Cell of the Yamunanagar police has arrested a person and recovered one illegal country-made pistol and four live cartridges from his possession. The accused has been identified as Narvair Singh of Kherki Brahman village of Yamunanagar district. Police spokesman Chamkaur Singh said Mahavir Singh, incharge of the Anti-Narcotics Cell, had got information that a man having an illegal country-made pistol was roaming in the Badhi Majra village area. He said he formed a team which arrested the accused and recovered the pistol and four live cartridges from his possession. “The accused was produced before a local court on Friday which sent him to judicial custody,” said Chamkaur Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-with-pistol-four-cartridges-218500
28-02-2021||---||Be careful while using terms that can be misinterpreted, says High Court||Chandigarh, February 27The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that the “celebrities”, in particular, were required to be careful in usage of any term which can be misinterpreted.The assertion came as Justice Amol Rattan Singh directed that coercive action would not be taken against cricketer Yuvraj Singh, who was seeking the quashing of an FIR registered against him at the Hansi police station under provisions of the Indian Penal Code and SC/ST Act for allegedly making “casteist remarks”.Justice Amol Rattan Singh made it clear that the interim direction was subject to the outcome of the investigation and the reply to be filed in the matter. In his detailed order, Justice Amol Rattan Singh added that the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention and Atrocities) Act, 1989, was a legislation enacted to safeguard the interests of a section of society known to be oppressed since ages.“Naturally, any violation of the provisions of the said Act has to be dealt with strictly to try and ensure that a sense of wellbeing is instilled in such sections of society, towards which every person, and ‘celebrities’ in particular, should be careful in the usage of any term which can be misinterpreted,” Justice Amol Rattan Singh said.Appearing before Justice Amol Rattan Singh’s Bench, senior advocate Puneet Bali and Vibhav Jain contended that the petitioner and his colleague Rohit Sharma were having a live chat on a social media platform in April 2020. In the video, Yuvraj Singh mentioned about two fellow cricketers in a friendly manner. Bali added that the two were colleagues and friends of the petitioner. It was never the petitioner’s intent to disrespect them or any community during the conversation.NO COERCIVE ACTION AGAINST YUVRAJ||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/be-careful-while-using-terms-that-can-be-misinterpreted-says-high-court-218501
28-02-2021||---||Faridabad gets 12 CNG buses||Faridabad, February 27 Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Krishan Pal Gurjar launched 12 low floor compressed natural gas (CNG) buses on four different routes for the city bus service at the general bus stand at Ballabgarh here on Saturday.  These buses will be operated by the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL). The city bus service operated by the Haryana Roadways had come to an end about two years ago.  GMCBL CEO Anju Chaudhary said while the move was an extension of the service already operational on inter-city routes between Gurugram and Faridabad, 12 buses had been introduced on four local routes of Faridabad, as the latter had no such facility and the GMCBL had been asked to provide it till Faridabad comes up with its own service.  The number of buses could be increased in case the demand rises, it is claimed. The GMCBL, an initiative of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), which has been operating 151 buses in Gurugram, had earlier offered to run about 50 buses in Faridabad.  According to the officials concerned, the fare for the service will range between Rs 10 to 30. The routes that will be covered include Ballabgarh general bus stand, Badarpur border, civil hospital, Byepass road, residential societies of Greater Faridabad and parts of the NIT area here. According to sources in the Transport Department, earlier, the city bus service having a fleet of 160 buses operated by a local depot of the Haryana Roadways was closed in 2019, after buses got grounded due to lack of repairs or maintenance. Though the Faridabad Smart City Limited had also announced to launch Rs 463-crore Smart City bus service in 2018, the PPP mode project is yet to come out of the files. However, Haryana Roadways Workers Union chief organiser Ramashray Singh said they oppose the move as it would lead to privatisation of the Transport Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-gets-12-cng-buses-218502
28-02-2021||Saurabh Malik||SIT to probe illegal detention: Gurugram court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 27In a judgment liable to change the way police officials show the arrest of the accused days after taking them in custody, a Gurugram court has ordered initiation of inquiry in an illegal detention case by constituting a special investigation team of an IAS and two IPS officers.Notice has also been issued to five police officials, belonging to a special task force. They have been asked to show cause why proceedings should not be initiated against them for perjury.Additional Sessions Judge Ashwani Kumar made it clear that the decision behind illegal confinement of the accused in an abduction case did not appear to be confined to the officers at the lower level as “there appears (to be) active connivance of the higher-ups in the special task force”.He said once the factum of illegal confinement and false statement stood established, the court was required to initiate legal proceedings, irrespective of the victim’s interest in it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sit-to-probe-illegal-detention-gurugram-court-218444
