04-05-2021||Patna||‘We failed, went by govt’s false assurances’: Patna high court on Covid crisis||The Pata high court on Tuesday upbraided the Bihar government for its handling of the Covid crisis but did not pass any order after being told mid-way through the hearing that the state government has announced a lockdown till 15 May.“At least one order has been complied with,” the bench of Justices Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Mohit Kumar Shah observed after the state’s advocate general Lalit Kishore informed the judges about the government’s decision.The judges, however, made it clear that they would pass “appropriate orders” on Thursday. “The court will fail in its duty if necessary orders are not passed in the larger public interest to ensure the right of life to the people in the state,” the bench said as it wrapped up Tuesday’s hearing.The bench said it wasn’t issuing any directions today though the state government had failed to implement its previous directions and their implementation “remained on paper”.Like at the previous hearings, the bench was upset with the state government for not doing enough when the hearing started at 11 am on Tuesday and observed that the court could not go on waiting and put the lives of people at risk.“We have all failed. All of us feel ashamed for what we have done. Don’t make a joke of the proceedings. We cannot wait. We cannot play with the lives of the people, you may. It is an observation on us also that we have failed. This has happened only because we depended on the state officials and false assurances given by state officials,” the bench observed.When Bihar’s top law officer Lalit Kishore claimed the state government had taken effective steps, the bench promptly told him that he should not make a joke of the proceedings.When he referred to the state’s Rajendra Nagar Eye Hospital where 150 beds had been marked for Covid patients, the bench brushed it away saying this was nothing and reminded the state about its assurances.“You had spoken about 1,000 beds at the IGIMS (Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences) and 500 beds at the ESIC (Employees’ State Insurance) hospital, but it could not start. PMCH (Patna Medical College and Hospital) is in shambles, NMCH (Nalanda Medical College & Hospital) is struggling,” the bench said.“The orders we have passed from the first date when we first took the matter on April 15 speak for themselves. In our opinion, certain drastic measures need to be taken to tackle the situation in the state, which has already gone beyond control”.“According to you, the government has taken effective steps, but it has failed and therefore we have to pass orders. The fact remains that you could not manage beds in ICU,” the court said, asking what happened to the PSA plant (pressure swing absorption plant for oxygen) at PMCH and why it was not functional despite statements made earlier to the court.The court also raised doubts about the functioning of dedicated Covid health centres, saying most beds are vacant and there were no facilities there. The court also asked additional solicitor general KN Singh to seek instructions from the Centre in light of today’s proceedings and told Bihar to file a detailed affidavit on the progress made by the Bihar government in fighting the Covid crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/we-feel-ashamed-high-court-rebukes-bihar-government-on-handling-covid-crisis-101620125657210.html
04-05-2021||Patna||Bihar Congress slams Nitish Kumar government’s handling of Covid-19||The Congress party has accused the Bihar government led by chief minister Nitish Kumar of failure to manage the Covid-19 crisis, which has found the health infrastructure in the state crumbling under pressure with shortage of beds, medicines, oxygen support and trained manpower reported across the state.“The state government is unable to draw its quota of oxygen, allotted by the Centre, for want of storage facility. This often led to a serious crisis of oxygen for patients admitted in hospitals,” said Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) president Madan Mohan Jha.Chairman of BPCC media department, Rajesh Kumar Rathore alleged black marketing of oxygen cylinders and drugs like Remdesivir had gone beyond government’s control. “A 40-kg cylinder of oxygen is being sold at ₹50,000 to ₹1 lakh, as hospitals are grappling with oxygen shortage,” he said.Several hospitals in Bihar have reported shortage of oxygen and medicine such as Remdesivir over the past few days. Patna high court pulled up the state government on Monday saying it lacked expert advice, trained manpower, adequate oxygen and life saving drugs to deal with the second wave of the pandemic, which has left hundreds dead and thousands others scrambling for hospital beds in the state.A senior officer of the health department, pleading anonymity, said the state was able to get 120-135 MT of medical oxygen per day against the current requirement of nearly 250MT. “There is a serious problem in getting the centrally allocated quota of oxygen, as not a single hospital has cryogenic storage-- required for storing liquid medical oxygen,” he said.The centre has allocated 214MT of medical oxygen to Bihar every day, out of this, 34 MT is to be created from the Air Separation Units (ASU) in the state, he added.Covid patient Rita Dubey, who was admitted to the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) in Patna in a serious condition, was prescribed Remdesivir injections, which retailers claimed to be out of stock. Her son Prashant Dubey claimed he was forced to buy two vials of the life-saving injection of 100mg potency for ₹56,000 from the black market. The drug carries MRP of ₹2,800 per unit.“Other crucial drugs like Doxy 100mg and Azithromycin 500 are also out of stock at medicine retail outlets. Subsequently, I had to pay double the cost of these medicines,” alleged Dubey.Health minister Mangal Pandey didn’t reply to questions over the alleged shortage of oxygen, oxygenated beds and common antibiotics.Criticising the state government over its alleged failures, BPCC president Madan Mohan Jha said a Covid task force made up of Bihar Pradesh Youth Congress (BPYC) members had helped over 250 Covid patients in accessing medical facilities in the month of April. BPYC officer bearers said they had arranged ICU beds for over three dozen Covid patients and distributed more than 100 oxygen cylinders in the past one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-congress-slams-nitish-kumar-government-s-handling-of-covid19-101620111376435.html
04-05-2021||Patna||FIR against Pappu Yadav and supporters for violating Covid-19 rules||Bihar politician and Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) chief Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav was booked for alleged violation of Covid-19 guidelines and disaster management rules in Gaya late Monday night. Yadav claims he was at the hospital to take “stock of the facilities” for treatment of Covid patients.The former MP was booked for “forcibly” visiting the Covid-19 wards at Magadh Medical College Hospital in Gaya and not wearing a personal protection equipment (PPE) kit during the rounds. The FIR adds that Yadav and his supporters didn’t listen to hospital staff and guards who were trying to stop them.Yadav and his supporters were booked at the city’s Medical police station under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after a complaint was filed by Dr P K Agarwal, the superintendent of Magadh Medical College Hospital, said Abhishek Singh, Gaya’s district magistrate (DM).Yadav said he has been visiting several hospitals across the state to help patients with admission and to check the status of oxygen supplies. Earlier on May 2, he was stopped outside Ara Sadar Hospital in Bhojpur district citing Section 144.“The condition of govt hospitals is very bad. There is no cleanliness in the Red Zone. Attendants are forced to sleep on the ground. What have Nitish Kumar and Mangal Pandey done for so many days?” Yadav said.He alleged that the state government was trying to hide its shortcomings. “Private hospitals are minting money as government hospitals have failed to provide quality treatment to the common man,” he said.Supporting Yadav's claims, a Patna resident said Yadav was at least visible in the midst of suffering people and was speaking for them, when no other politician was visible anywhere. "Hospitals are not admitting patients. Where will people go? Despite his own health issues, he is helping people he doesn’t know and who may never have voted for him,” said Surendra Prasad. Prasad said Yadav helped his patient get admission in a hospital.Another Patna resident, Kumari Manisha, whose relative is admitted in a private hospital in the city said, “I got Remdesivir from Yadav. The medicine is available in black market at a very high price, but the former MP gave it to me for free."Meanwhile, the district police chiefs across Bihar have been asked to ensure effective implementation of Covid-19 related restrictions.Bihar recorded 11,407 new Covid infections on Monday to go past the five lakh-mark. 82 fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 2821 in the state, health department bulletin said. Patna with 11,407 new cases and Gaya with 662 cases are among the worst hit districts in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fir-against-pappu-yadav-and-supporters-for-violating-covid-19-rules-101620104295793.html
