05-05-2021||Patna||Bihar reports 14,836 new Covid-19 cases, Patna worst affected||Bihar was on Wednesday left with more than 1.13 lakh active COVID-19 cases with nearly 15,000 people testing positive in the last 24 hours, while its death toll rose to 2987 as 61 people succumbed to the dreaded coronavirus since the previous day. According to the state health department, 14,836 people tested positive in the last 24 hours and Patna remained the worst hit among Bihar's 40 districts, accounting for 2420 of the fresh cases and 17 of the fatalities during the period. The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases reported from the district, so far, stands at 1.15 lakhs, more than 20 per cent of the states aggregate of 5.38 lakh cases and its active caseload soared at 20,487. Meanwhile, rattled by the second wave which has caused its active caseload to jump by more than 50 times in about a month, the state underwent an 11-day lockdown. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar reached out to the people of the state with an appeal to put off, "if possible", ceremonies like weddings until the situation was under control. As per the guidelines issued by the state home department, marriage ceremonies can take place with a maximum number of 50 people attending the functions. The day also saw the police cracking down on those flouting restrictions imposed to contain the contagion, besides those involved in "black marketing" of oxygen cylinders, the demand for which has seen a dramatic rise following the recent spurt in COVID-19 cases. According to the state police headquarters, four residents of the state capital were arrested and 55 oxygen cylinders seized from their possession. Notably, the day also saw the chief minister chairing a high-level meeting where he issued instructions for ensuring adequate supply of oxygen and increasing the generation capacity. Besides, altogether 448 vehicles have been seized, seven people arrested, five FIRs registered and fines to the tune of ₹7.97 lakh slapped, in the last 24 hours, on those found to be guilty of violating the guidelines and protocol enforced for containing the outbreak, said the police headquarter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-reports-14-836-new-covid-19-cases-patna-worst-affected-101620232602413.html
05-05-2021||Patna||Patna’s Mahavir temple offers free oxygen lifeline during Covid-19 crisis||Patna’s historic Mahavir Mandir is closed for devotees due to the raging Covid-19 pandemic but it has opened up a lifeline for Covid-19 patients, many of whom have died in hospitals and at homes in absence of oxygen support.Amid the shadow of gloom cast over the state’s healthcare sector which is crumbling under pressure from an increasing number of Covid-19 patients requiring oxygenated beds or ventilator support, the over 300-year-old temple is spreading hope from dawn to dusk by giving out oxygen cylinders to patients for free. All that patients’ attendants or kin need to show is the prescription and the Aadhaar card of the patient.“People need to register online for oxygen, but if one is unable to do so, oxygen is given on presentation of required documents. The idea is to help people in genuine need for free,” said Acharya Kishore Kunal, the administrator of the temple.Ramchandra Sheshadriji and his team, who were earlier engaged in preparing Tirupati laddoos for famous ‘navedyam’, have now got down to public service whole-heartedly. Since many visiting the temple for oxygen are either aged or physically frail, the temple volunteers deliver cylinders to their vehicles while offering reassuring words.While black marketing of oxygen cylinders and important drugs continues to create a depressing scenario for Covid patients, harried residents recognised that selfless initiatives such as these are ‘god sent’, spreading hope and positivity.“For us, this is not just oxygen, it comes along with Hanuman ji’s blessings,” said Abhay Kumar, who got an oxygen cylinder from the temple for his teacher, a Covid patient in home isolation.Acharya Kunal said the temple management wanted to set up an oxygen plant, but it was going to take time at a time when people were crying out for immediate help.“We contacted many firms, but the minimum time it would take is four months. So, we decided to refill small cylinders. Industrialist Sanjay Bhartiya has helped in this pious endeavour and we appreciate his gesture,” he added.Mahavir Mandir has also started a 40-bed Covid hospital at Patna-based Mahavir Arogya Sansthan and another 25-bed hospital in Begusarai.A couple of years ago, the Mahavir Mandir Trust, which runs 12 big institutions including hospitals and orphanages, started free treatment for cancer patients under the age of 18 years and children born with holes in hearts, Kunal said.Mahavir Mandir is not alone in this pious movement, several voluntary organisations and individuals such as Gaurav Rai have also pooled in critical resources such as oxygen cylinders to help the needy. Fondly called oxygen man, Rai carries small cylinders in his car everyday to deliver at the doorsteps of the needy – all for free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patnas-mahavir-temple-offers-free-oxygen-lifeline-during-covid-19-crisis-101620217114332.html
05-05-2021||Patna||11-day lockdown underway in Covid-rattled Bihar, authorities face difficulty ensuring compliance||An 11-day complete lockdown, imposed in the wake of a state-wide Covid-19 surge on an unprecedented scale, got underway on Wednesday in Bihar where the authorities had a tough time ensuring compliance from people.Police personnel had begun patrolling the streets since early in the morning, anticipating heavy rush and overcrowding between 7 A.M. and 11 A.M., the four-hour period during which shops selling vegetables, meat, fish, poultry, and grocery items have been allowed to do business.Owners of many shops, not dealing in items deemed as essentials, faced a rude shock as they were made to down their shutters, besides being slapped with fines, by the men in uniform.The policemen were also seen striking their canes against the ground at many places to scare away and disperse people who had come out to make purchases and gathered at shops or around hand-pulled vegetable and fruit carts throwing physical distancing norms to the winds.Many motorcycle-borne youths, loitering around to enjoy high-speed rides on the deserted streets, tried to brazen it out when stopped by police personnel whom they told with a sheepish grin that they had come out for "hawakhori" (breath of fresh air).Some of them ended up being fined and even their vehicles being impounded. The luckier ones were let off after being made to undergo, in public, the humiliation of doing squats with their hands grabbing their earlobes.Some of the businessmen and residents, whose behaviour was deemed to be recalcitrant, also ended up being arrested.The number of arrests made, vehicles seized and amount of money recovered by way of fines is likely to be provided by the state police headquarters by the evening.The lockdown from May 5 to 15 was announced by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday on his official Twitter handle, a day after the Patna High Court pressed the panic button and told his government that it will have to pass a judicial order if the state failed to show the resolve to impose restrictions necessitated by the raging "second wave" that has wrought huge devastation across the country.Meanwhile, many people complained of alleged high- handedness by the authorities in enforcing the lockdown and claimed that the guidelines issued by the state home department have left plenty of room for ambiguity."We are in the restaurant business. In the morning some police personnel came and ordered us to down our shutters. The guidelines say we can do home delivery of food from 9 A.M. to 9 P.M. but in the same breath, they add that restaurants have to remain closed.'Why could they not be more specific and make it clear that our kitchens be allowed to function and our delivery boys be allowed to perform their jobs", said a Boring Road resident who did not wish to be named.A male nurse, residing in Sipara locality who visits Shri Krishna Nagar, about five kilometres away, to attend to an elderly patient, said, "it is not clear whether or not auto rickshaws are allowed to ply. During my commute today, I could see the driver of the three-wheeler I rode paying bribes to constables at three places."The burden fell on my shoulders, finally. The autorickshaw driver insisted that I cough up ₹50 for my daily commute which costs less than half of that. I had to do as he said. But how are we going to survive in this manner? We have limited means", he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/11day-lockdown-underway-in-covid-rattled-bihar-authorities-face-difficulty-ensuring-compliance-101620215311860.html
05-05-2021||Patna||Bihar Covid crisis goes on with kin of dying patients assaulting hospital staff||At least five persons were arrested in three incidents of attack on hospital staff and vandalising property in Vaishali, Muzaffarpur and Bhagalpur districts over the last 24 hours in Bihar. Those arrested were relatives of Covid patients who died during treatment. Their kin alleged that the deaths were caused by medical negligence by the hospitals.In Vaishali, police said three persons were arrested and a search for several others was going on for vandalism and manhandling of staff at a government hospital after the death of a Covid patient late on Tuesday evening. Following the incident, the hospital staff went on a strike.50-year-old Sumitra Devi, who was admitted to the Sadar hospital in a critical condition on Tuesday morning, died during treatment in the evening, which made her family and relatives accuse the medical staff of negligence. They ransacked furniture and broke window glasses and allegedly abused and manhandled the staffers. It was only after police’s arrival that the body of the woman was wheeled out. Two children of the dead woman, Jwala Mahto and his sister Sharmila Kumari, were arrested by police. Sharmila told reporters that her mother was “not treated properly” and the nursing staff at the hospital sought bribes at every step.“Nurse [name withheld] asked [for] money for treatment [of mother]. The other staff members were asking for cash separately to go check on my mother. When they were refused money, the medical staff referred her [mother] to Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH). It is complete medical negligence,” Sharmila told gathered reporters.A case was registered after the incident with the Town police station for rioting, assaulting public servants and criminal intimidation along with the sections of Epidemic Disease Act. The hospital has denied medical negligence.“There was no negligence. Patient’s condition was critical when she was brought to hospital. Her oxygen level was very low,” said civil surgeon Dr Indradeo Prasad. He added that policemen have been posted outside the hospital on his request after the incident.In the second incident, reported from Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) Muzaffarpur, angry relatives of a Covid patient admitted in ward 14, vandalised hospital property alleging the patient died due to medical negligence. The hospital staff ran for cover. The situation was brought under control after the station house officer (SHO) of police outpost Sumanji Jha arrived at the hospital with his team.In Bhagalpur, two brothers, Akshay Kapri and Chhotu Kapri were arrested earlier today allegedly for assaulting medical staff and vandalizing property at Mayaganj Hospital accusing them of mismanagement and negligence.Police said the accused attacked Dr Rahul Kumar Bharti and Dr Ranjan Kumar alleging they had cut off oxygen supply to their grandfather. After the situation was brought into control, the doctors at the hospital staged a flash protest refusing to return to work in absence of adequate security.The brothers said they had already lost their father and uncle to the coronavirus and were enraged to see the knob of oxygen cylinder supplying gas to their grandfather switched off. “I made a video, which went viral on social media. This led to police taking action against me,” alleged Akshay.Incidents of attacks on doctors and nurses have increased in Bihar in the past couple of weeks following the healthcare infrastructure crumbling under pressure from the second wave of Covid-19 infection. While the hospitals struggle to treat a rising number of patients, their problems have been compounded by a shortage of ICU beds and critical medical supplies such as oxygen and life-saving medicines, which are being hoarded and black marketed by unscrupulous elements. Unable to contain the crisis quickly, the state government has announced a 10-day long lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-covid-crisis-goes-on-with-kin-of-dying-patients-assaulting-hospital-staff-101620197181925.html
05-05-2021||Patna||Bihar: Crackdown on black marketing, hoarding of oxygen and Covid medicines||The Economic Offences Unit (EOU) of Bihar Police said it arrested at least four persons for hoarding and black marketing of oxygen and seized around 20 cylinders of the life-saving gas in Patna on Tuesday. The crackdown comes amid rampant black marketing of essential medical supplies to treat Covid1-19 patients, several of whom have died due to their shortage while several others have been forced to buy these at exorbitant prices.The EOU has constituted two teams comprising 10 policemen each to conduct raids and also set up a 24x7 control room with dedicated phone lines-- 0612-2215142 and 8544428427 inviting residents and NGOs to report illegal trade of essential medical supplies. “Traders are cashing in on the virus panic by jacking up prices of essential products,” said an official.12 oxygen cylinders (50 litres each) were seized on Tuesday from Madhav Market near Maurya Hospital in Patrakar Nagar police station area in the capital along with the arrest of traders Dhiraj Kumar Mehta and Kameshwar Rai for hoarding. Police also raided Agamkuan police station area and seized another five cylinders (50 litres each) following the arrest of two hoarders, Priyansu Raj and Pratik Singh.Earlier 57 oxygen cylinders (5 kg each) were seized in a raid in the SK Puri police station area. EoU officials said these were being sold to Covid-19 patients under home quarantine in Patna for as high as ₹40,000- over 10 times the normal price.Several hospitals in Bihar have reported shortage of oxygen and medicine such as Remdesivir over the past few days. A senior officer of the health department, pleading anonymity, said the state was able to get 120-135 MT of medical oxygen per day against the current requirement of nearly 250MT. The centre has allocated 214MT of medical oxygen to Bihar every day. However, the state is struggling to store liquid medical oxygen in absence of cryogenic storage.Additional director general of EoU, Nayyar Hasnain Khan said informers and plain clothes cops were keeping an eye on private hospitals, oxygen generation plants and medicine stockists to check illegal trade. The unit is also using technical surveillance to track offenders.“We also appeal to people to not hoard oxygen cylinders and drugs as those who immediately need them will face difficulties,” Khan said.Enforcement officers said several gangs were suspected to be involved in the hoarding of oxygen cylinders.Facing criticism over its handling of the crisis, the Bihar government on Tuesday announced a statewide lockdown for 10 days from May 5 in order to get a grip on the situation after rebuke from Patna high court. 105 people died due to the infection in Bihar on Tuesday, while 14,794 fresh positive cases pushed the tally of the diseased to 523,841, health department bulletin said. The state-wide coronavirus death toll increased to 2,926.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-crackdown-on-black-marketing-hoarding-of-oxygen-and-covid-medicines-101620187881484.html
05-05-2021||Patna||JD(U) and other Bihar parties hit rock bottom in Assam, Bengal polls||Bihar based political parties including the ruling Janata Dal (United) (JD-U) couldn’t win even a single seat in the recently concluded Bihar and Assam assembly elections. What is even worse, most of their candidates lost even their deposits in a grim reminder of their limited influence in politics outside Bihar.The JD(U) managed 0.11% of the total votes polled in Assam with all the 34 party candidates losing their deposits as per election commission data. JD(U) leaders, aware of the poll outcome, said the majority of party candidates polled around 600- 800 votes with only a few getting over 1000 votes. In 2016 Assam assembly polls, the JD(U) contested four seats and earned 0.07% votes.In Bengal, JD(U) fared even worse with 0.02% vote share with majority of the 16 party candidates losing their deposits, the JD(U) leader quoted above said.The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) candidate got 0.07% votes on the single seat contested in Assam with support from the Congress-led alliance. The RJD didn’t field any candidates in West Bengal and extended support to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress.Similarly, the Lok Janshakti party (LJP) contested 10 seats in West Bengal and around dozen seats in Assam with a negligible return of 0.01% and 0.04% votes respectively.The CPI-ML( liberation), which has re-emerged as a political force in Bihar after last year’s assembly elections, got 0.03% of all the votes cast in West Bengal and in Assam, it could manage only 0.14% votes.Sanjay Verma, a senior JD(U) leader and in-charge of Assam polls, said the party did not perform as per expectations because of a straight contest between BJP and Congress –AIUDF alliance in Assam. Similarly, its 16 candidates in West Bengal did not gain much due to the straight fight between the BJP and the TMC in the state.“But in both the states, the JD(U) has managed to strengthen its organisational base and would strive to gain political space in the coming days,” Verma said.RJD’s Abdul Bari Siddiqui, a former minister, said his party could have done better in Assam had it got more seats in alliance with the Congress. “The party has made considerable inroads in Assam. In Bengal, we did not contest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-and-other-bihar-parties-hit-rock-bottom-in-assam-bengal-polls-101620184221118.html
05-05-2021||Patna||Control room set up in Bihar's Darbhanga to dispose of unclaimed bodies of Covid-19 victims||On Sunday night, four members of Kabir Sewa Sansthan (KSS) were concealed behind PPE suits at Bhigo Multidham in Darbhanga.Behind them were four bodies of victims of Covid-19, wrapped in plastic body bags.According to the founder of KSS, Navin Sinha, though relatives of two of the deceased were present, there was no one for two others to bid final adieu. However, funeral pyres were finally lit by KSS volunteers as none of the relatives, who stayed 50 meters away from the crematorium, could muster the courage to come close to perform last rites despite being provided with a PPE kit.“We faced a tough time a few days ago in arranging for the funeral of a 45- year old suspected corona victim (ward no. 27). Only one distant relative was willing to handle the body. People in the neighbourhood shut their doors. Finally, we managed to carry out his last rites 20 hours later,” Sinha said.He said the KSS was formed to arrange for the funeral of unclaimed bodies with the help of dozens of volunteers.Meanwhile, district magistrate Thiyagrajan SM, at a review meeting on Monday, asked officials to arrange manpower for providing assistance in the funeral of the deceased.SDO (Sadar) Rakesh Gupta said there were instances of kin abandoning the bodies of corona victims.Now, Darbhanga municipal commissioner Manesh Kumar Meena has issued a circular that cleanliness in-charge of the municipal ward concerned would ensure the lifting of unclaimed bodies while identifying four employees under his jurisdiction for this purpose. The municipal corporation has set a control room for the disposal of unclaimed dead bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/control-room-set-up-in-bihar-s-darbhanga-to-dispose-of-unclaimed-bodies-of-covid-19-victims-101620181336832.html
