08-05-2021||Patna||JD (U) MLC dies of Covid; over 12k fresh cases reported in Bihar||JD (U) MLC Tanvir Akhtar was among 76 people who died due to Covid-19 in Bihar in the last 24 hours as state witnessed a surge of 12, 948 fresh positive cases on Friday, taking the tally to 112976.An ex-JNU student’s union president, Akhtar, who became an MLC in 2016, was also JD (U)’s minority cell in-charge. He was admitted to Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) a couple of days back and breathed his last on Saturday morning. The government has announced a state funeral for Akhtar.Prior to joining JD (U), Akhtar was with the Congress. His death was mourned by all party leaders including chief minister Nitish Kumar. “He was an able politician and an affable person who took keen interest in social work,” said chief minister in his condolence message. His death was also condoled by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, leader of opposition in Bihar assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and senior JD (U) leaders. Meanwhile, Patna continues to be the hotspot for Covid-19 with 2,498 cases, followed by Nalanda with 740 cases.The state capital has so far reported 733 deaths, 23 of which have been last 24 hours.Begusarai and West Champaran reported 586 and 578 cases respectively while 560 cases were reported from Samastipur.On the other side, there has been the steady improvement of recovery rate from 78.36% on May 4, 79.16% on May 7 to 79.97% on May 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jd-u-mlc-dies-of-covid-over-12k-fresh-cases-reported-in-bihar-101620486848500.html
08-05-2021||Patna||Amid pandemic, Bihar to launch free ration scheme under public distribution system||In a major reprieve to the people battling the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has decided to dole out free ration to around 8.71 crore beneficiaries under the public distribution system (PDS) from Saturday, officials said.“We have sufficient allocation of foodgrains from the Food Corporation of India (FCI). The state’s quota of foodgrains is being lifted and carried to the PDS retailers to ensure smooth distribution of free grains,” said a senior officer of the state food and consumer protection department. He said that there were some issues from the PDS dealers, which were being sorted out. However, its secretary Vinay Kumar could not be contacted for his comments.The PDS outlets have lifted a sufficient amount of wheat and rice from the state food corporation (SFC) godowns to launch free distribution of foodgrains for May, as announced by chief minister Nitish Kumar earlier this week.The Central government has already announced free distribution of 5-kilogram of wheat and rice per unit to all ration card holders for the month of May and June under the Pradhan Mantri Kalyan Yojna. An equal amount of foodgrains in equal proportions would be distributed free of cost from the state’s scheme.With this, a family of five is entitled to 20 kilograms of rice and 30 kilograms of wheat per month. Unlike last year, however, the beneficiaries would not be getting pulse this time. Last year, each person received 500 grams of pulse free of cost under the Central government scheme.As per the rough estimate, the FCI had allocated around 8.70 lakh metric tonne of wheat and rice for their lifting by May 31. The amount of foodgrains not lifted within the deadline would be adjusted in the next month’s quota and a suitable deduction would be made in the next month’s allotment, said an FCI officer.There are around 55,000 listed PDS retail outlets across 38 districts in Bihar. However, about 47,000 outlets are currently functional.The number of beneficiaries under PDS stands at 8.71 crores while the amount of ration for free distribution is 25 kilogram per unit. Foodgrain allocation by the FCI for May is 8.70 lakh MT. The total number of working PDS outlets is 47,000 while the deadline for the final lifting of the May quota from FCI is May 31.Amid pandemic, Bihar to launch free ration scheme under public distribution system (PLAYBACK) Subhash Pathak/HTCPATNAIn a major reprieve to the people battling the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has decided to dole out free ration to around 8.71 crore beneficiaries under the public distribution system (PDS) from Saturday, officials said.“We have sufficient allocation of foodgrains from the Food Corporation of India (FCI). The state’s quota of foodgrains is being lifted and carried to the PDS retailers to ensure smooth distribution of free grains,” said a senior officer of the state food and consumer protection department. He said that there were some issues from the PDS dealers, which were being sorted out. However, its secretary Vinay Kumar could not be contacted for his comments.The PDS outlets have lifted a sufficient amount of wheat and rice from the state food corporation (SFC) godowns to launch free distribution of foodgrains for May, as announced by chief minister Nitish Kumar earlier this week.The Central government has already announced free distribution of 5-kilogram of wheat and rice per unit to all ration card holders for the month of May and June under the Pradhan Mantri Kalyan Yojna. An equal amount of foodgrains in equal proportions would be distributed free of cost from the state’s scheme.With this, a family of five is entitled to 20 kilograms of rice and 30 kilograms of wheat per month. Unlike last year, however, the beneficiaries would not be getting pulse this time. Last year, each person received 500 grams of pulse free of cost under the Central government scheme.As per the rough estimate, the FCI had allocated around 8.70 lakh metric tonne of wheat and rice for their lifting by May 31. The amount of foodgrains not lifted within the deadline would be adjusted in the next month’s quota and a suitable deduction would be made in the next month’s allotment, said an FCI officer.There are around 55,000 listed PDS retail outlets across 38 districts in Bihar. However, about 47,000 outlets are currently functional.The number of beneficiaries under PDS stands at 8.71 crores while the amount of ration for free distribution is 25 kilogram per unit. Foodgrain allocation by the FCI for May is 8.70 lakh MT. The total number of working PDS outlets is 47,000 while the deadline for the final lifting of the May quota from FCI is May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/amid-pandemic-bihar-to-launch-free-ration-scheme-under-public-distribution-system-101620462367258.html
08-05-2021||Patna||Bihar jewellers federation pegs loss of over ₹150 cr due to Covid-19 this wedding season||As the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic brought the entire state of Bihar under total lockdown, jewellers and goldsmiths are ruing the huge loss in business due to the closure of Jewellery outlets and shops all over, HT has learnt.The All India Jewellers and Goldsmiths Federation, Bihar, has claimed a loss of not less than 150 crores in the jewellery business in the state this season of weddings and Akshay Tritiya. “The festival of Akshay Tritiya has turned out to be big business time for the jewellers for the last few years. It’s almost like the Dhanteras and Diwali when people prefer to purchase gold. Importantly on Dhanteras, people also prefer to buy vehicles, but on Akshay Tritiya, it’s only the gold which is under focus,” Ashok Kumar Verma, president of the All India Jewellers and Goldsmiths Federation, Bihar, said.The state capital alone gives jewellers the business of over 50 crores on this occasion while the other small cities also do good business, he added.“This time the jewellery shops will remain closed like other shops even on Akshay Tritiya as the total lockdown will last on May 15,” he said.While the bookings of jewellery for the weddings are being cancelled on a large scale, as many families have postponed the date of marriage functions, even Akshay Tritiya, a festival considered traditionally the most auspicious occasion for the purchase of gold, has failed to bring life to the jeweller business. This year the festival falls on May 14 while the total lockdown in the state will conclude on May 15.Amrit Prakash, a jeweller from Bakarganj area in Patna, said the Covid-19 pandemic has badly affected the Akshay Tritiya sale. “All jewellery outlets have to keep the shutters down till May 15. Even online bookings are not coming because the delivery of the product is not possible on the occasion,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-jewellers-federation-pegs-loss-of-over-rs-150-cr-due-to-covid-19-this-wedding-season-101620459727003.html
