10-05-2021||Patna||226 oxygen cylinders seized from Katihar railway station||A team of Katihar district administration raided railway station premises late on Sunday night and seized 226 oxygen cylinders allegedly transported by a gang that has been milking the crisis to make hay in the black market.Police suspect that the black marketers was sourcing the cylinders from Maharashtra. SDO Shankar Sharan said that the administration got a tip-off about a consignment of new oxygen cylinders alighted from Lokmanya Tilak Express train at Katihar and being uploaded in different vehicles. They sought help from Railway authorities about the details of those who booked the consignment. Administration also scanned CCTV footages of railway station premises to identify the persons, vehicle drivers and cleaners. “Once we got an input, a police team and the district drug control officer conducted a raid near the VIP gate of Katihar railway station. We seized two pickup vans loaded with small oxygen cylinders from the spot. However, drivers and others managed to escape,” SDPO Amarkant Jha. Police also seized a car from the spot, which allegedly belongs to the owner of a local news channel. SDM Shankar Sharan said, “Preliminary investigation suggested that the consignment was meant for black marketing. The accused wouldn’t have escaped in case they had valid papers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/226-oxygen-cylinders-seized-from-katihar-railway-station-101620659058366.html
10-05-2021||Patna||Bodies of suspected Covid-19 victims found floating in Ganga in Bihar||Several bodies, decomposed, bloated and suspected to be of people who succumbed to Covid-19, were on Monday found floating in the river Ganga in a Bihar district.Officials in Chausa block of Buxar, which borders Uttar Pradesh, rushed to the spot of the unseemly sight upon hearing the news."We were alerted by the local chowkidar that many bodies have been spotted floating from upstream. We have so far recovered 15 of these. None of the deceased happens to be a resident of the district," Chausa BDO Ashok Kumar told PTI over phone.He said "many Uttar Pradesh districts are situated right across the river and the bodies may have been dumped in the Ganges for reasons not known to us. We cannot confirm whether the deceased were indeed Covid-19 positive. The bodies have started decomposing. But we are taking all precautions while ensuring that these are disposed of in a decent manner".Some news channels claimed the number of bodies to be as high as 100, which the BDO dismissed as "highly exaggerated".Many local residents, who spoke before cameras with their faces masked, claimed that the district administration was "in denial over many such unfortunate incidents involving residents of Buxar".They alleged that those manning cremation ghats were charging a fortune whenever people reached there with the body of a near and dear one who died of the coronavirus."There is also a shortage of wood and other material required for cremation. Availability of these has taken a hit because of the lockdown. So many bereaved family members are impelled to immerse the bodies of their departed relatives in the river," one of the residents said.Often family members of a Covid-19 victim are not handed over the body by the administration which claims it would perform the last rites observing the protocol in place for the deadly virus, another local stated."What indeed happens is that the officials develop cold feet later and fearing that they might catch the infection themselves, they dump the bodies in the river and flee. Little do they realize that they are also polluting the river," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bodies-of-suspected-covid-19-victims-found-floating-in-ganga-in-bihar-101620655861774.html
10-05-2021||Patna||Bihar govt seeks additional support from Centre to tackle second wave of Covid-19||The Bihar government on Monday told the Patna High Court that it needed more D-type (46-litre capacity) and B-type cylinders for smooth transportation of oxygen to far-flung areas in the state and the Centre has already started with the supply of 75 D-type cylinders through the Indian Air Force (IAF), HT has learnt. “Bihar has lifted 208 mt of the 214 mt allocation. Oxygen supply has been streamlined but the real challenge is to have an adequate number of D-type cylinders as they can be directly used with a pipeline to ensure gas supply to beds in hospitals in different parts of the state,” senior counsel Vikas Singh, appearing for Bihar government, said, adding that in the last three days, the number of cases in the state had come down and recovery rate improved to around 82%. Singh submitted the affidavit filed by the chief secretary about the status of healthcare facilities in the state before the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar. Alongside, a letter of principal secretary, department of health, Bihar, to the secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare, sent on May 7 for additional support to tackle the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic was also attached.The additional requirements include 20,000 D-type oxygen cylinders, 10,000 B-type cylinders, 5,000 10-litre capacity cylinders and 3,000 5-litre cylinders, besides 25,000 flow meters, 50,000 oxygen masks, 1,000 high-flow nasal cannula and 50,000 pulse oximeters. Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey has also requested the Union government for the same. Additional solicitor general KN Singh said that 3688 D-type and 6400-B-type were delivered in April 2020 and further allocation was coming in. Vikas Singh also informed the court that Bihar’s demand for 300 mt of oxygen had also been enhanced to 400 mt, as the demand was dynamic, and the government was hoping that the allocation of 214 mt would also be accordingly increased. Advocate General (AG) Lalit Kishore told the bench that the government was in the process of constituting a high-power experts’ committee, while the chief minister was himself monitoring the situation and associating senior ministers in the decision-making process. “There is no notification for the constitution of a group of ministers, but the CM is himself monitoring the situation,” he added. The court, however, wanted certain information regarding the availability of beds and their occupancy and demand in every district, the number of positive cases and the number of people in home isolation. The court will again hear the matter on Wednesday. The bench also cited the example of one district, Araria, where just around 400 beds could cater to a population of 28 lakh. The court was also informed that Araria had just six ventilators, and all were lying unutilized. On this, Vikas Singh requested the court not to get down to micro-management as it could involve the officers in data preparation only and not in the actual work. However, the bench said that it could not shut its eyes. “We are just seeking information, as these are the issues that concern all. We are not here to govern. When it comes to oxygen requirement, the court is expected to pass orders. But the court also needs to know the ground situation, as it also gets feedback from its sources,” it added. The AG also requested the bench to pass an order for the release of cylinders seized by police, as they were exhibits and could pose problems at a later stage. The court said that it could be ensured simply by approaching the magistrate. “After taking photographs, the cylinders could be released. There are enough provisions in this regard,” it added. What the govt affidavit says Bihar has 167 Covid care centres, 117 dedicated Covid health centres, 12 dedicated Covid hospitals and 219 private hospitals providing care to patients. Instructions have been given to increase the existing bed capacity of the dedicated Covid health centres by 25% and upgrade CCCs and DCHCs for the treatment of moderate cases. The health department has a total capacity of 855 ventilators, out of which 378 are deployed for treatment of Covid-19 patients at dedicated Covid hospitals and DCHCs. Keeping in view, the need for ventilators in approved private facilities, the nod has been given for their use from government facilities to private facilities also. CT scan service is available in 16 district hospitals and the installation process is underway at additional 15 district hospitals. A total of 95 essential drugs for the general management of Covid-19 and 54 ICU drugs has been notified. Out of these, the Bihar medical services infrastructure corporation limited has a rate contract in place for 70 essential drugs and 31 ICU drugs. For the drugs which do not have a rate contract in place, the civil surgeons have been instructed to procure them locally. The Central government has allocated 87,800 Remdesivir vials to Bihar. Out of that, 42,500 have been distributed to civil surgeons and medical colleges. Special powers have been entrusted upon medical superintendents of medical colleges and hospitals and civil surgeons for procurement of goods, services and manpower for three months under the provisions of the disaster management act, 2005. Vacancies According to the affidavit, against a total of 5,566 sanctioned positions of general medical officers, at present 2,893 are working. Advertisement has been issued for the recruitment of additional 2632 general duty medical officers. Besides, against 5508 sanctioned posts of specialists, the working strength at present is 1,795. An advertisement for additional 3706 specialists has also been issued. The last date to apply is May 24 for both. Against 915 sanctioned contractual posts of general medical officers, the working strength is just 279, while against 769 sanctioned contractual posts of specialists, presently 150 are working. The government has also created 1,000 posts of MBBS doctors at medical colleges and hospitals across districts for appointment on a contractual basis for one year through walk-in interviews. The government has also issued orders to continue the services of final year post-graduate and diploma students of medical colleges and hospitals for three months beyond the academic session at ₹95000/month and ₹90000/month respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-seeks-additional-support-from-centre-to-tackle-second-wave-of-covid19-101620652580147.html
10-05-2021||Patna||Bihar launches virtual learning for classes 9 to 12 on Doordarshan from May 10||Bihar Education Project Council (BEPC) is starting virtual learning for students in classes 9 to 12 through Doordarshan (DD) from Monday to make up for the disruption in studies, caused by the closure of educational institutes in the state amid a raging Covid-19 pandemic. The programme is getting technical support from UNICEF, Bihar.Officials of BEPC said that they will re-telecast ‘Mera Doordarshan-Mera Vidyalaya’ programme to engage students in academic activities through fun learning.“Headmasters, teachers and guardians are requested to ensure the students of concerned classes watch the programme and avail the benefit,” Sanjay Singh, director of BEPC appealed.Virtual classes for students of class 9 and 10 will be telecast from 10 am to 11 am while students of class 11 and 12 will be taught between 11 am to 12 pm on a daily basis. As per the council, around 40 lakh students are enrolled in classes 9 to 12 across the state.Another BEPC official said the objective was to cover the syllabus of April and May. “Subject wise and chapter wise video classes have been prepared. We are looking forward to expanding the time slot and including virtual programmes for junior classes as well in the coming days,” the official said.Nipurnh Gupta, communication officer of United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) Bihar, said they had extended technical support in converting study materials of different classes in digital format. “Analyzing the target audience, television is a better medium for digital learning than mobile in the state,” he said.Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU), Darbhanga, the nodal university for conducting BEd CET 2021, has extended the last date for filling admission form till May 25. As per the fresh schedule, entrance test will be conducted on June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-launches-virtual-learning-for-classes-9-to-12-on-doordarshan-from-may-10-101620620417442.html
10-05-2021||Patna||Bihar to use tamper proof laser technology for quality control of roads||Bihar road construction department (RCD) will now use a “high precision laser-based technology” to check the quality of newly constructed roads and maintenance of old ones to save time, cost and ensure accuracy in assessment.The department till now relied on manual verification of quality control measures as stipulated under the International Roughness Index (IRI), which was not only time-consuming and costly but also prone to fudging. It has now decided to adopt the laser-based network survey vehicle (NSV) technology, recently introduced to check the quality of construction of national highways.Vehicles equipped with NSV technology come with high resolution camera and laser-beam throwing capacity to record and assess the condition of roads beneath the surface. Bihar has around 5,000 km of national highways, 4000km of state highways and around 11,000km of major district roads. Additional chief secretary, RCD, Amrit Lal Meena said the new technology will also ensure that contractors are penalized suitably for not adhering to quality control measures. “Manual inspection of road is a vigorous exercise and costs a huge sum as road maintenance was brought under the Bihar public grievances resolution rights act,” said Meena.Bihar Right to Public Grievance Redressal Act 2015 makes it incumbent on the government agencies to deliver a set of services within a stipulated time, empowering residents with the legal right for hearing of grievances, redressal and of communication on the decision taken.Meena said the department decided to adopt the NSV technology after RCD minister Nitin Navin, during a recent meeting to review various undergoing road projects, asked for speedy disposal of complaints related to poor maintenance of roads.Accordingly, the executive engineers of the department have been told to engage among 41 firms, empanelled by the Union ministry of road transportation and highways (MoRTH), for faster and digitized survey of roads for their timely maintenance.Under the RCD’s maintenance policy, contractors are obligated to maintain roads for seven years after its completion. Meena said the policy also had provisions for high-level inspection of the projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-use-tamper-proof-laser-technology-for-quality-control-of-roads-101620616458074.html
