13-05-2021||Patna||Bihar extends Covid-19 lockdown: What’s allowed and what’s not||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Thursday that a state-wide lockdown, in effect since May 5 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is being extended by 10 days, till May 25. Originally scheduled to end on Saturday, the lockdown will enter extended phase from May 16 onwards.Also Read | Bihar extends Covid-19 lockdown by 10 days till May 25The Bihar government has released guidelines that will be in effect during this 10-day period, according to news agency ANI. Here’s a look:(1.) All state government offices will remain closed. However, essential services such as district administration, police, civil defence, water supply, sanitation, fire services, health, veterinary clinics, disaster management etc. shall be exempted from the purview of the lockdown.(2.) With regards to judicial administration, decisions taken by the Bihar high court shall be applicable.(3.) Shops and establishments -- commercial and private -- shall be closed. Exemptions include banking and insurance services, non-banking financial services, industrial and construction works, e-commerce, agriculture, print and electronic media, telecommunication, petrol and LPG filling stations etc.(4.) Retail shops and fruit and vegetable shops can open in urban areas from 6am-10am, while in rural areas, these shall operate from 8am-12noon. Lockdown guidelines shall not be applicable on cold storage, ware-housing services and private security services.(5.) Hospitals and related health facilities shall continue to function normally. However, all non-essential travel (including on foot) shall be completely prohibited.(6.) No vehicular movement shall be allowed. However, public transportation services can operate at 50% passenger capacity. Only those who have to catch trains or board flights shall be all allowed to take public transport services.(7.) Exemptions: Ambulances and vehicles involved in health services, private vehicles with e-pass issued by district administration, heavy goods vehicles, private vehicles in which passengers travelling to airports/railway stations (with valid tickets), heavy goods vehicles etc.(8.) All schools, colleges, coaching institutions and other educational institutions to be closed, and no examinations shall be conducted. Restaurants and eateries shall be closed, with only home delivery permitted from 9am-9pm. “Dhabas” on national highways can open.(9.) All religious places, cinema halls, malls, clubs, swimming pools, stadia, gyms, parks and gardens shall be closed. Also, all religious, political, entertainment, sports, educational, cultural and other events are disallowed.(10.) Not more than 20 attendees are allowed at weddings or funerals. No DJs and “baraats” shall be allowed for weddings and the local police station shall have to be informed at least three days in advance.Any violation of any of the aforementioned guidelines shall invite prosecution under the Disaster Management Act. According to a health department bulletin on May 12, Bihar’s Covid-19 tally stood at 622,433. This includes 519,306 recoveries, 99,623 active cases and 3,503 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-extends-covid-19-lockdown-what-s-allowed-and-what-s-not-101620914370997.html
13-05-2021||Patna||Bihar extends Covid-19 lockdown by 10 days till May 25||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Thursday that the statewide lockdown imposed to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is being extended for 10 days - from May 16-25.Click here for full Covid-19 updates"Reviewed the ongoing lockdown in Bihar with ministerial colleagues and officials. We can see that the lockdown is having a positive impact. Therefore, we have decided to extend the lockdown in the state for 10 days, from May 16-25, 2021," a rough translation of Kumar's tweet, posted in Hindi, read.आज सहयोगी मंत्रीगण एवं पदाधिकारियों के साथ बिहार में लागू लॉकडाउन की स्थिति की समीक्षा की गयी। लॉकडाउन का सकारात्मक प्रभाव दिख रहा है। अतः बिहार में अगले 10 दिनों अर्थात 16 से 25 मई, 2021 तक लॉकडाउन को विस्तारित करने का निर्णय लिया गया है।On May 4, the Crisis Management Group of the Bihar government decided to impose a lockdown in the state, from May 5-15, amid a rise in daily Covid-19 cases. The government's decision, which was taken at a meeting presided over by chief secretary Tirupurari Sharan, came a day after it was pulled up by the Patna high court for "poor" handling of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read | Bihar announces 10-day lockdown after HC nudgeWhile Kumar, in his tweet, didn't announce relaxations and curbs which will be in effect during the extended phase, it is expected that the ones which were in effect in the first phase, will carry on.Follow all Live Covid-19 updates hereIn the first phase of the lockdown, all government and private offices were directed to be closed. Hospitals, medical laboratories, ambulance services and essential services such as civil defence, electric supply, water supply, fire services, veterinary work, postal and telecommunication etc. were allowed to function.Also, industrial and construction work, agricultural activities, e-commerce, computer services were allowed to function, while grocery shops, retail shops dealing with fruits and vegetables were allowed to operate from 7am to 11am.According to a Bihar health department bulletin on May 12, the state's Covid-19 tally stood at 622,433 as 9,863 more people tested positive for the viral disease on the day. The related death toll, meanwhile, reached 3,503 as 74 more people succumbed to the virus. Recoveries and active cases are at 519,306 and 99,623 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-lockdown-in-bihar-extended-till-may-25-announces-cm-nitish-kumar-101620896101819.html
13-05-2021||Patna||Bihar meets Covid-19 challenge with ‘e-LOTS’ web portal for virtual learning||In a bid to strengthen the online learning system for government school students amid Covid-19 pandemic, Bihar state education department launched a web portal named e-LOTS on Wednesday to converge e-books and audio-visual learning materials on a single digital platform.The web portal has been jointly developed by the Bihar Education Project Council (BEPC) and Unicef and has created a digital library for students and teachers as well, education department officials say.“As schools are facing closure due to the pandemic, the web portal has been designed to continue the teaching and learning process. Subject-wise and chapter-wise e-books have been uploaded in English and Hindi. Those who wish to access audio-visual learning materials can switch to linked gateways with a single click,” said BEPC director Sanjay Singh.Conventional mode of classroom learning has been disrupted since last year in March, when the Covid pandemic outbreak forced closure of education institutions forcing teaching to move online. Bihar is currently under a fresh spell of lockdown during the second wave of Covid-19.The e-LOTS portal has been linked with various digital educational platforms like DIKSHA portal, Swayamprabha channel and National Repository of Open Educational Resources to provide adequate study material for comprehensive learning of students and training of teachers, they added.Singh said the portal will also help teachers with information on curriculum, learning outcomes and teaching-aids.“Besides, teaching materials created for running catch-up courses have also been uploaded for reference of teachers,” he added.The e-LOTS web portal can be accessed through http://bepclots.bihar.gov.in/ or a mobile application available in Google Play store.The portal also offers career advice and guidance to class 10 and 12 pass outs with options to explore various traditional and vocational courses, entrance exams and scholarship.As per the education department, more than 41,000 people visited the web portal on Wednesday. A govt school teacher, who preferred anonymity, said, “Majority of students enrolled in govt schools belong to economically backward class. Internet access for study is a distant dream for them. The government should come up with a cheaper medium for imparting digital education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-meets-covid-19-challenge-with-e-lots-web-portal-for-virtual-learning-101620878929052.html
13-05-2021||Patna||Bihar to subsidise purchase of ambulances in rural areas under MMGPY scheme||Bihar state transport department has announced subsidy on purchase of ambulances under Mukhya Mantri Gram Parivahan Yojana (MMGPY) by amending the existing vehicle options listed under the scheme. Officials said this was done to meet the increasing demand for ambulance services in rural areas.Transport minister Sheela Kumari said the proposal to include ambulance purchase under the scheme was approved on Tuesday.“Earlier, subsidy was offered only on purchase of three or four-wheeler passenger vehicles. Now, subsidy will be provided on purchase of 1068 ambulances under the scheme, which will incur an expenditure of ₹21 crore,” she said. According to transport department officials, interested candidates can apply online to avail the benefit till May 16.The decision comes at a time when the state’s health infrastructure has come under massive strain due to the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, resulting in a flood of infected patients seeking healthcare facilities such as ambulance services, oxygenated hospital beds, life saving medicines etc. The state has seen loss of several lives due to the shortage of resources.Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, transport secretary, said, “All ambulances will be equipped with oxygen and basic medical facilities. Under the scheme, two people from backward classes from each block will be given a subsidy, which amounts to 50% of the cost of vehicles not exceeding ₹2 lakh, on purchase of an ambulance.”Launched in 2018, MMGPY aims to ease transportation facilities in rural areas and generate employment. According to a senior transport official, more than 13,000 applications have been received in the phase-8 of MMGPY, while altogether 36,000 beneficiaries have availed the incentive offer so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-to-subsidise-purchase-of-ambulances-in-rural-areas-under-mmgpy-101620875449235.html
