16-05-2021||Patna||Bihar: GA slams state govt over Covid-19 mismanagement||Leaders of the Grand Alliance (GA) on Sunday slammed the state government for alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic, which complicated miseries of people owing to various crises, and urged the chief minister Nitish Kumar to have the say of legislators in using the local area development (LAD) fund to refurbish health infrastructure in their areas. Last month, the state government had allocated ₹2 crore out of the total ₹3 crore of the LAD fund of each legislator to the health department for management of the pandemic, which infected nearly 6.50 lakh people in its second wave. Legislators of the opposition parties were feeling handicapped to help the people during the pandemic as they were unable to provide monetary help to the distressed lots. The GA, which held a virtual meeting under the leadership of RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Sunday, issued a 15-point charter of demands, which also included the issuance of a status report on purchases of ambulances purchased from LAD fund MPs/MLAs in the last 15 years. They alleged that the government was indulging in tampering with data on pandemic instead of focussing its attention on ensuring proper care to the people under treatment. This is for the first time when leaders of the opposition parties, including those of the Congress and left parties, held a joint meeting to discuss the chaos and various crises the people are grappling with to access suitable medical facilities in the state. RJD senior Alok Mehta, who conducted the meeting, said that the GA wrote a letter to the CM asking him to provide a monthly allowance of ₹750 to those left jobless due to the pandemic and ration to those who don’t pay income tax. Yadav questioned the rationale behind allocating a major chunk of LAD fund to the health department without seeking the legislators’ consent and claimed that people of Bihar were suffering the most owing to the state government’s inefficiency and mishandling of the pandemic by a select group of bureaucrats. The opposition leaders alleged that the government had taken ₹50 lakh from each legislators’ quota in the name of improving health infrastructure last year. But we were completely unaware of what happened with the fund. They also demanded payment of ₹4lakh as exgratia to those who died waiting for the Covid test. The leaders also asked for increasing the number of RT-PCR test instead of less reliable tests like rapid antigen and TrueNat modes. They also sought to know the progress in setting up the expert committee, which they had suggested during a meeting with the governor. Arrangement of sufficient quantity of vaccine, the appointment of doctors and medical staff on an urgent basis and issuance of a white paper on the equipment procured under the PM Cares fund were among other demands. Meanwhile, Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Ajit Sharma also wrote a letter to the CM, asking him to arrange the purchase of one fully equipped ambulance in each district from the ₹2 crore discretionary quota fund, which the state government has already taken, to take care of covid-infected people of their respective areas. The Congress party has also proposed to set up a district-level task force of its office bearers to monitor the quality of medical facilities being offered to the covid-infected people in the government and private hospitals and pressurise the district administration and health officials to discharge their duties properly. Earlier on Saturday, Indian Youth Congress (IYC) chief Srinivas BV reviewed the functioning of the state Youth Congress volunteers, who are part of the SOSIYC, for extending help to the people suffering from the pandemic and their families by way of facilitating the availability of suitable beds in hospitals, arranging oxygen and necessary medicines and providing food to those under home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharga-slams-state-govt-over-covid-19-mismanagement-101621181527284.html
16-05-2021||Patna||Two more black fungus cases detected in Bihar; Covid cases on the decline||Two new cases of mucormycosis or black fungus were detected at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) while three others were suspected to be infected of the fungus, taking their total number to 24 on Sunday, when 6,894 new infections of coronavirus — the lowest in a day this month — and 89 deaths were reported in Bihar. “We got two new confirmed cases of mucormycosis, taking its total cases at our institute to six,” said Dr Manish Mandal, medical superintendent, IGIMS. Details of the patients were awaited, he added. Of the new Covid-19 infections reported Saturday, Patna topped with 1,103 cases, followed by Gaya 381, Samastipur 331, East Champaran 297, Begusarai 270, Madhubani 267, Supaul 240, and Araria 236, among other districts. Bihar’s test positivity ratio (TPR), which is the people testing positive for the virus out of the total tested, had declined to 6.7% on May 15, the lowest this month. Bihar’s TPR was 15.6% when it went in for a 10-day lockdown on May 5. The state’s lockdown has since been extended to May 25. The average growth rate of Covid-19 infection between May 8 and 15 also slid to 1.5%. Bihar inoculated 1,09,706 people against Covid-19 on Sunday as against 1,24,104 people on Saturday and 1,16,441 on Friday because of closure of many vaccination session sites. Meanwhile, Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey said 14,000 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B injection, a specific drug for treatment of cases of mucormycosis, were made available to the health department through the World Health Organisation. Some hospitals had earlier claimed that the injection was not available in the state and they had written to the state drug controller about it. Around 6,000 vials of injection from this stock were made available to different hospitals in the state. These include AIIMS-Patna (2000 vials), IGIMS, Patna Medical College Hospital, Nalanda Medical College Hospital, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital, Bhagalpur (300 vials each), Darbhanga Medical College Hospital, Government Medical College Hospital, Bettiah,, Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital, Gaya, Vardhaman Institute of Medical Sciences, Pawapuri (200 each) and 1,600 vials to the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS), Patna. Pandey said that injections for patients admitted at private facilities would be stored at the RMRIMS. Around 24 cases of black fungus, associated with Covid-19, have so far been reported in the state. He also said that 37,430 doses of Remdesivir, for treatment of coronavirus patients, had been made available to various district hospitals while 50,321 doses were available in Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-more-black-fungus-cases-detected-in-bihar-covid-cases-on-the-decline-101621181467187.html
16-05-2021||Patna||Bihar traders demand Corona warrior status; promised special vaccination camp||Traders in Bihar are requesting status of Corona Warriors so that a special camp could be held to vaccinate them. They reason they have been running their businesses for people’s convenience despite the threat presented by the pandemic and therefore merited such classification.On Friday, in an online interaction with the deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, the members of the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) in Bihar also requested for the appointment of a nodal officer in every district to solve their issues.“Though the government is yet to consider them, they are the real Corona warriors. They need vaccination on priority basis... Also, the government should provide them with life insurance,” CAIT state president Ashok Kumar Verma said.Healthcare professionals, security personnel such as defence and central armed police forces, NGOs, frontline workers and volunteers employed with allied and health care services, accredited social activists such as Anganwadi and ASHA workers, essential services providers such as postal services, fire services, police men, treasury, public utilities including petroleum, CNG, LPG, PNG, disaster management, power generation and transmission units, National Informatics Centre, early warning agencies, civil defence, emergency services, prisons, municipal-level services such as sanitation, water supply etc are classified as Corona warriors by the Central and state governments and they are insured for ₹50 lakh and given vaccination on priority.The traders association said if given a list of migrants returning from other states, they were willing to help them. It also raised the issue of private owners overcharging for ambulance services in rural areas.Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad said a vaccination camp will soon be arranged for traders, who he described as the “backbone of the economic system of the state”. “The government has already planned nodal officers in all the districts for the convenience of traders,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-traders-demand-corona-warrior-status-promised-special-vaccination-camp-101621142106503.html
16-05-2021||Patna||Bihar enrols ward committees to check Corona in rural areas, says it’s helping||Bihar Panchayati Raj department has now entrusted the task of tracking and isolation of Covid patients in the villages to the ward implementation and management committees, comprising ward members, in each gram panchayat with an aim to check the spread of Covid-19 cases in rural areas. Bihar has a total of 8,387 gram panchayats spread in the rural areas.Ward level committees have also been told to report entry of outsiders in the villages to block level officers (BDOs) or medical officers while monitoring the health of high risk groups including villagers above 60 years of age, pregnant women, persons having serious ailments and children.The department is also taking daily updates from panchayats on distribution of masks, testing, and awareness about vaccination in the rural areas, where vaccine hesitancy is a serious issue, an official of the department said.“The ward implementation and management committee in each gram panchayat have been given specific roles and responsibilities to ensure the spread of Covid could be lessened in rural areas through fast tracking, isolation and proper medical care to affected persons. We are taking daily updates from all districts and panchayats about the Covid cases,” said additional chief secretary (ACS), panchayati raj department, Amrit Lal Meena.Meena said the ward members have also been assigned the task of house to house visits to track any suspected patients with the help of local administration. “The ward members have been asked to extend all help to families where Covid cases have been detected during the quarantine period and ensure that the affected persons are not neglected or left helpless,” the ACS said.Ward members have also been told to ensure strict compliance to Covid protocols including social distancing, wearing of masks and preventing large gatherings in rural areas.“The assemblage of people in social events in rural areas has come down after lockdown. We are trying to minimise it through coordination with ward members and trying to create awareness. Instructions have been issued that cases be filed against those flouting Covid protocols in villages, said another senior officer in the panchayati raj department, who didn’t wish to be identified.The official claimed several gram panchayats have done good work in the past few weeks by distributing masks, sanitising market places and creating awareness about the need for inoculation among the rural population.For instance, Brahampur Karman gram panchayat in Motipur block in Muzaffarpur has reported 94% mask distribution to listed households and 60% vaccination among residents above 45 years age group. In Fatehpur gram panchayat in Belchi block in Patna district, 9,000 masks have been distributed with vaccination of residents in the 45 plus age group nearing 100%, officials said.Similarly, Bithuna gram panchayat in Bhagwanpur haat block in Siwan district has reported distribution of masks to 2,168 families out of the 2,600 families till date, apart from organising camps to vaccinate residents. This time, the panchayat department is providing six masks to each of the 1.80 crore rural households in the state while the urban department is providing masks in municipal limits.“In mask distribution, over ₹150 crore would be paid to rural self help group members. This decision has provided doorstep employment opportunities to poor women in these pandemic times,” said ACS, panchayati raj department.The state government on Saturday said that the Covid situation was improving rapidly and the positivity rate had dipped by more than half in just 10 days from a high of 14.04% to 6.7%. According to the health department, 7,336 out of the 1.10 lakh samples tested over the 24 hour period had tested positive. However, 73 deaths took the toll to 3,743 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-enrols-ward-committees-to-check-corona-in-rural-areas-says-it-s-helping-101621137486149.html
