17-05-2021||Patna||CM launches app for tracking patients under home isolation||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar launched Covid-19 home insolation tracking (HIT) mobile application through video conference on Monday for online monitoring of infected patients under home isolation in the state.In the pilot project, the online monitoring system has been made functional in Supaul, Gopalganj, Aurangabad, Nalanda and Bhagalpur.Speaking over the occasion, Kumar said, “A large number of Covid-19 patients are under home isolation. As cases of a dip in oxygen level of Covid-19 patients have increased, it is important to keep a tab on the oxygen level of these patients. Health department workers will visit the home of Covid-19 patients to measure their body temperature and oxygen level on daily basis. They will also enter daily report through the app.” “If required, those patients with an oxygen level below 94 will be shifted to a dedicated health centre for timely medical treatment. Health workers of rural areas have also been trained to use the application”, he added.Information and Technology secretary Santosh Kumar Mall said the application has been developed by BELTRON in collaboration with the state health department. Kumar also inspected community kitchens set up in 15 districts through a virtual tour.As per the Patna district administration, more than 1.30 lakh people have been fed till May 16 through 19 community kitchens set up in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cm-launches-app-for-tracking-patients-under-home-isolation-101621266370474.html
17-05-2021||Patna||We are aghast, says Patna high court at discrepancy in govt statistics of deaths||Patna:The Patna high court on Monday signalled its displeasure at the inconsistency in the government’s figures of deaths in two affidavits filed by top officials and told the government to file the data afresh after verifying them from all sources.“We are aghast at the manner in which the affidavits are being filed. The bench deserves better treatment from the government. We don’t appreciate this,” a bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar said on Monday after reviewing two affidavits filed by chief secretary and Patna divisional commissioner on deaths in Buxar district. The bench had earlier sought a detailed affidavit from the Patna divisional commission in course of a hearing on a public interest litigation (PIL) on Covid management after the “disturbing” issue of corpses floating in the Ganga river was reported.The bench was upset that while the chief secretary’s affidavit said only six deaths had taken place in Buxar since March 1, 2021, there were 789 cremations mentioned in the commissioner’s affidavit at just one cremation ghat, Muktidham Charitarban, Buxar, under the Nagar Parishad between May 5 and May 14.“The CS (chief secretary) does not say that six deaths are only due to Covid. The commissioner also does not say that 789 deaths are non-Covid ones. The total population of Buxar is 17 lakh, but the figures are only for Nagar Parishad. There is no mention of the religion or age groups of the dead. Hindus may be a majority in Buxar, but that does not mean there is none from other religions. Last rites may also have been performed at burial grounds,” the bench said.Advocate general Lali Kishore conceded that certain clarifications were required to reconcile the data and promised to come back to the court after getting the details.The judges told Lali Kishore, the state’s top officer, to vet the affidavits before they are filed with the court.“At this point in time, we do not comment anything further on these affidavits, but all facts first must be verified from all sources and then only placed before us, else it will amount to filing of false/incomplete affidavit.,” the bench observed, ordering the state to depute at least two technically qualified persons to update the data.The bench said they also wanted to know the age group of the people who had died, irrespective of whether the deaths were attributed to Covid-19 or not. “If the young people are dying, it is serious,” it said.The bench also noted that the state hadn’t been updating the websites with the correct figures“We notice that the official website maintained by the State of Bihar for recording births and deaths has not yet been updated. We see no reason as to why the deaths, be it 6 or 789, would not have been updated on the official website. Equally, this would apply to all the districts of Bihar,” the bench observed.Oxygen supplyThe bench also wanted to know if the state had been provided with enough tankers for transportation of 400 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) it had demanded. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) K N Singh said the Centre had allocated the demanded quantity and the issue of transportation had been resolved.“Let an affidavit of the principal secretary, health, verifying such fact, be filed within next two days. He shall also inform the sufficiency or lack thereof, of the infrastructure for transporting the entire allocated quota of oxygen (LMO). He shall apprise the Court of the infrastructure for storage and transportation up to the point of end user,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/we-are-aghast-says-patna-high-court-at-discrepancy-in-govt-statistics-of-deaths-101621262711315.html
17-05-2021||Patna||Suspected Covid-19 victim’s body carried on garbage cart in Bihar, probe ordered||A middle-aged man, who died at his rented house at Jalalpur locality of Bihar’s Nalanda district on May 13, was taken to the burial ground in a pushcart as the municipality’s ambulance failed to turn up on Friday.The victim’s maternal uncle Ramavtar Prasad said his nephew Manoj Kumar alias Guddu complained of uneasiness and was admitted to the Sadar hospital in Biharsharif on May 11. Two days later, he was discharged and brought home, where he eventually died a few hours later. Earlier in the day before his discharge from the hospital, Manoj Kumar’s sample was collected to check for Covid-19 infection. The test results had not arrived by the time of his passing.Given the possibility that the deceased could be Covid infected, an ambulance was called to take him to the burial ground but it didn’t turn up even after 18 hours of his death, said Prasad.Later, the victim’s kin contacted local ward councillor Sushil Kumar alias Mitthu, who allegedly demanded ₹22,000 for cremating the body. The family said they agreed to pay him ₹16,500, following which, two men wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits arrived with a garbage pushcart and carried the body to the burial ground. A video of the body being carried in the municipality garbage cart went viral on social media.Following the incident, a committee of local residents requested Nalanda district magistrate (DM) Yogendra Prasad for a probe alleging misconduct by the ward councillor. They wanted to know why a municipal vehicle was not provided for carrying the body and why a municipal committee, formed to conduct the last rites of unclaimed bodies, did not intervene in the situation.Biharsharif municipal commissioner Anshul Agarwal said, “We are investigating why a push cart was used to carry the body.”Some healthcare workers claimed a shortage of ambulances was the reason for the emergency vehicle’s non-availability, while the civil hospital authorities said ambulances were used only either to bring patients to hospital or send bodies to crematoriums from hospitals.However, Nalanda civil surgeon Dr Sunil Kumar seemed to disagree with the shortage of ambulance theory. “We have more than 200 vehicles to take bodies to the crematorium. A proper investigation will be done into the matter and action will be taken against those who are involved in the incident,” said Kumar.Several incidents of bodies being carried on bicycles or pushcarts have been reported from rural areas of the state recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/suspected-covid-19-victim-s-body-carried-on-garbage-cart-in-bihar-probe-ordered-101621248310370.html
17-05-2021||Patna||Foreign monasteries, charities in Bodh Gaya help locals fight against Covid-19||Monasteries run by foreign countries at Bodh Gaya in Bihar and some foreign charity organisations are helping the residents of the heritage city and the nearby villages during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown in the state, said several people aware of the developments. Bodh Gaya has Buddhist monasteries run by over four dozen countries.While most of them are distributing cooked food and food grains among the poor, some Vietnamese nationals have sent oxygen concentrators to help Covid-19 patients in the region battle the shortage of the life-saving gas.Suresh Kumar, the Bodh Gaya Hotel Association president, said one Nghiem Thanh Thuy, a leader of 9 Huong Charity Group in Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam, has sent five oxygen concentrators for hospitals in Bodh Gaya.“Today it was handed over to Jivak Hospital, a local private hospital at Bodh Gaya to save lives of serious Covid patients. Nghiem was... worried about the people at Bodh Gaya and the villages around it and so asked volunteers and businessmen to donate funds to help people here. And today we have got five oxygen concentrators,” Kumar said. He added that it was great to see that foreign visitors to Bodh Gaya are ready to serve people with humanitarian work.Dinu Kumar, a tourist guide at Bodh Gaya who is now working with the Thien Tam Charity group from Vietnam, said the group helped people in over 50 villages around Bodh Gaya in the last few weeks during the lockdown.“People have been dying not only because of the disease, but hunger is also a big problem. There’s no work and no earnings. I am a tourist guide who has been jobless due to Covid for the last several weeks. It’s this charity work which has helped me and my family survive,” Dinu Kumar said.Kumar claims the group has already provided over 50 oxygen cylinders to the Covid patients in this area.Rakesh Kumar, the president of Bodh Gaya tourist guide association, said many including the Thai and Bhutan monasteries were doing charity works these days. “Besides, some organisations which are supported by the people from countries like Australia, the US, the UK, Germany and France are also helping people out during Covid,” Kumar said.Bihar reported 89 more Covid-19 deaths on Sunday, though its active caseload and the number of fresh cases reported daily continued to decline along with a drop in the positivity ratio. According to the health department, the death toll has now reached 3,832, an increase of more than 1,000 since the beginning of this month when the state went under a lockdown on May 5 to contain the raging second wave of the pandemic. The lockdown has been extended till May 25. The total number of cases Covid cases in the state stands at 6.51 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/foreign-monasteries-charities-in-bodh-gaya-help-locals-fight-against-covid19-101621227909722.html
17-05-2021||Patna||Monsoon likely in Bihar by June 15, Patna readies to deal with water logging||Monsoon is likely to arrive in Bihar on time by June 15 but hot and humid conditions will prevail till then as temperatures rise across the state, the Patna meteorological centre has predicted.“Due to conducive meteorological mechanisms, the monsoon is likely to arrive in Bihar on June 15, the normal date of commencement of rainy season in the state. Southwest monsoon usually enters Bihar through north-eastern districts and covers the entire state in two to three days,” said SK Patel, an official at Patna weather centre. He added that the forecast of monsoon reaching Kerala by May 31 was favourable for timely onset of the season in other states as well.Meanwhile, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has sped up work to de-silt drains to deal with water logging incidents in the rainy season. The civic body said it has identified areas prone to water logging and drainage cleaning is going on in full swing there.“We are likely to complete the sewage and drainage cleaning work by May 25. Despite Covid-19 fear, our sanitisation team has been carrying out unclogging work since February 15. We are also preparing to stock an adequate amount of bleaching and Malathion for pre-monsoon fogging,” PMC public relations officer Harshita said.She added that quick response teams will be deployed in all six circles to respond to any monsoon-related distress calls and it will start functioning from June 10.On Sunday, Buxar recorded the maximum temperature of 41.2°C; Patna recorded a maximum temperature of 40.2 °C, Gaya 40.6°C and Bhagalpur 37.5°C. The minimum temperatures in the state hovered around 25°C to 28°C, said the weather department.Amit Sinha, an official at the Patna meteorological centre, said the maximum temperature across the state remained up to 3°C higher than corresponding normal. “The meteorological conditions indicate hot and dry weather till May 19 followed by a brief spell of rain. The state is unlikely to experience any effect of the Tauktae cyclone,” Sinha added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/monsoon-likely-in-bihar-by-june-15-patna-readies-to-deal-with-water-logging-101621225389962.html
