19-05-2021||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav converts his govt residence into Covid care centre; ruling parties call it ‘drama’||Continuing his offensive stance against the Bihar government over alleged mismanagement in handling Covid-19 surge in the second wave, leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Wednesday converted his official residence at 1 Polo Road in the state capital as a Covid care centre as a gesture to extend help to Covid-19. In a letter to chief minister Nitish Kumar, Yadav urged the state government to take over the centre for its operationalisation.“There is already a huge shortage of beds and isolation centre. Poor people infected with Covid have no space in their dwellings to go for isolation or get quarantined. As a responsibility towards those affected with Covid, I have converted my official residence to a covid care centre. I want to hand over the centre to you and your department to run it. I will always be ready for any further help,” the 31-year-old Yadav scion said in his letter. Yadav, who is in New Delhi, dashed out a fresh letter to the chief minister on Wednesday, saying that he had opened the Covid care centre from his funds with all facilities like oxygen cylinders, beds, medicines as well as meal facilities for patients and attendants.He also posted a video on his official Twitter handle, slamming the government for its alleged insensitivity and poor health infrastructure to handle the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in the state. Yadav also rued the fact that the chief minister had not responded to his letters wherein suggestions were made to tone up the health system and contain the spread of the deadly virus, especially in rural areas. On Tuesday, the opposition leader had written to the CM seeking his permission to visit hospitals and primary health centres and make field visits to assess the various initiatives that were being taken by his party to provide beds, oxygen cylinders to Covid-19 patients.Yadav said he had written a letter to health minister Mangal Pandey to take over the covid care centre for its smooth operation so that those patients who could not get beds could be admitted there.The ruling JD(U) and BJP were quick to dub Yadav’s move as “drama”.“Tejashwi is enjoying luxury in New Delhi during this period of Covid. It is his old habit to run away whenever there is a crisis in Bihar. At a time when the state has made all arrangements to handle the pandemic, he is seeking permission to come to Bihar. By whose permission did he go to New Delhi that he is seeking permission to come back?” said Nikhil Anand, state BJP spokesperson. Anand said Yadav is afraid of the growing popularity of former MP Pappu Yadav and now wants to come back to save his so-called Muslim-Yadav politics.Senior JD(U) leader and MLC Neeraj Kumar called Yadav’s move a political stunt to mislead people. “Tejashwi should tell first whether he would reside at his official residence to boost the morale of the covid patients? Opening a covid care centre at the official residence is only an eyewash. The intentions are not clear,” he said.“It is hilarious that Tejashwi has opened a covid care centre at his official residence and wants the government to run it. What does he want to prove? Tejashwi has all resources and there are doctors in his family. They can easily run a covid centre at their residence. This is all big drama,” said Suheli Mehta, JD(U) spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-yadav-converts-his-govt-residence-into-covid-care-centre-ruling-parties-call-it-drama-101621448495616.html
19-05-2021||Patna||Bihar family forced to carry body for cremation on garbage cart; 3 sacked||A family in Bihar’s Nalanda district was forced to use a garbage cart to carry their family member to the crematorium who died of coronavirus disease. The heart-wrenching video of their journey to the cremation ground has provoked local authorities to sack three municipal employees for dereliction of duty.Officials in state capital Patna also stepped in, issuing fresh instructions to municipal bodies to emphasise that it was their responsibility to give people who lose their lives to Covid-19 a dignified funeral at state expense. Ashok Kishore, secretary of urban development and housing department, also directed officials to circulate a phone number that people can dial for help.The latest video from Nalanda, one of the widely-circulated clips that reveal how grieving families that lost a member to Covid-19 had a torturous time trying to arrange for their last rites, shows two persons wearing personal protection equipment pulling the cart through Malliksarai village in Islampur block, about 70 km from Nalanda district headquarters, on May 15. Three more people carried the wood on another cart.Local residents said the dead man, Shankar Choudhary, had died due to coronavirus at home. His wife pleaded with the panchayat officials for a vehicle to take her husband to the crematorium. Her neighbours too shut their doors on her after they learnt that Shankar Choudhary died of Covid-19. Finally, the family used the hand cart; they couldn’t afford anything else.It was a garbage cart, said Jaglal Choudhary, who described himself as a distant relative of the dead man. He said since there was no one to helo, the family covered him with a piece of cloth and took the body on this cart to the cremation ground for his final rites.Hilsa sub-divisional officer Radhakant said the administration formed a three-member committee of additional SDO Shashank Raj, executive officer Navin Kumar and circle officer Ajay Kumar to probe the incident. It turned out that the employees gave the family the garbage cart to carry the body. Nalanda district magistrate Yogendra Kumar, has ordered dismissal of the three sweepers for dereliction of duty.This wasn’t the first such incident in the district.On Monday, the Nalanda police filed a First Information Report against six people including ward councilor and employees of Biharsharif Municipal Corporation under the Epidemic diseases act on charges that they extorted money for cremation of people who died due to Covid. Municipal commissioner Anshul Agarwal has terminated ward jamadar, sweepers and suspended the sanitary inspector when a fact-finding team found that they had carried the body in a garbage cart to the crematorium in Sohsarai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-family-forced-to-carry-body-for-cremation-on-garbage-cart-3-sacked-101621418899467.html
19-05-2021||Patna||Bihar: Priority vaccination, frontline worker status sought for street vendors||Over 90% of street vendors in Bihar, especially in rural areas, are left out of the Covid vaccination drive since they lack the resources or training to register online for receiving the vaccine, says the Bihar chapter of National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI).An official of the association says a majority of these street vendors are neither technology savvy nor aware of the registration process and several others don’t have smartphones. Any person seeking to get vaccinated has to first register and get an appointment on the CoWIN web portal. The internet-enabled process has been held to be exclusionary for the disadvantaged social groups. Chhattisgarh high court recently asked the state governments to set up special help desks to ensure rural and poor people are able to register for Covid vaccine without internet, mobiles or computers.Bihar has around 2.5 lakh registered street vendors according to an estimate by the vendors’ association. Around 25,000 of these street vendors are located in Patna, of which 18,000 have been identified by the NASVI.“They have been the basic service providers... throughout the pandemic. But a majority of them have remained deprived of the vaccination facility,” Rakesh Tripathi, state coordinator of the NASVI, said.The state government was requested last week to declare street vendors as frontline workers during the Covid pandemic, enabling special arrangement for their vaccination. “We have been told that our request has been forwarded to the department concerned,” Sangita Singh, the NASVI president said.Dr Chandrashekhar, a senior physician said there was merit in the demand to vaccinate street vendors on priority. “During lockdown people are totally dependent upon them and are in regular touch with them. They should be vaccinated on priority basis to keep a vast population of the society free from the threats of infections,” he said.Tripathi said special camps could be planned to vaccinate street vendors in colonies and communities with the help of vending committees of the municipal corporation.Sanjeev Pandey, state coordinator of the National Urban Livelihood Mission, said there were 1.66 lakh identified street vendors with identity cards issued by NULM. “The NULM has hardly any say in this programme,”Pandey said and added, if any new guideline is issued in this connection, it will be followed.Recently the state government told Patna high court that it had been allocated over 10.45 lakh doses of Covid vaccine for the age group of 45 years and above and these vaccines will arrive in the state between May 21 and June 1.Maharashtra, Rajasthan,Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh account for 66.70 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country, the Union health ministry had said a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-priority-vaccination-frontline-worker-status-sought-for-street-vendors-101621409597602.html
19-05-2021||Patna||Bihar looks to turn migrants’ return into opportunity to complete PMAY homes||Bihar is looking to migrant workers’ return to the state amid the current wave of Covid-19 pandemic as an opportunity to finish at least 40,000 Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana- Gramin (PMAY-G) homes allotted to the workforce in the last few years. “All the districts have a list of migrant workers who were allotted funds under PMAY(G) in the last few years. But these units have not been completed for various reasons including the long absence of the beneficiaries from the state,” said a senior RDD official engaged in implementation of the housing scheme. He said all deputy development commissioners (DDCs) in the state were instructed to get the work finished this time.PMAY-G is the rural development ministry’s flagship scheme, which helps homeless poor families and those living in kutcha houses with less than two rooms, to construct a pucca house in a minimum of 25 square metres area. For Maoist areas, the government’s assistance is ₹1.3 lakh per house while for non-Maoist areas, it is Rs. 1.2 lakh, which is paid in three instalments. In addition, ₹30,000 is paid to the beneficiaries to meet the cost of engaging workers for construction under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). PM Narendra Modi pointed out last September that PMAY homes were built more efficiently during the first wave of coronavirus with 18 lakh houses constructed across the country during the pandemic. He listed migrant workers’ return to their homes as a big factor behind construction finishing in 45-60 days, compared to the previous average of 125 days.Bihar’s principal secretary of the rural development department, Arvind Chaudhary said a large number of unfinished units, especially those sanctioned to migrant workers, were at least 50% complete. “These units could be finished in the coming months by migrant beneficiaries as they are now staying in the state,” he said. However, the lockdown in the state, following the resurgence of Covid cases since April, has slowed down the construction of the low cost units in rural areas, officials said. This has already impacted the target of completing over 6 lakh unfinished units under Mission Completion drive, launched in January this year. “Construction material and workers are not easily available due to the restrictions [during the current lockdown]. We had set a target of completing 6 lakh pending units by May or June. But that looks unachievable now and could be moved to the end of this year,” said a rural development department official. In Bihar, a total of 2.6m PMAY homes were sanctioned, of which, around 1m units were in different stages of completion. The Mission Completion drive targeted completion of 490,000 unfinished units in three months’ time, however, only 4.20 lakh units were completed by March 30, the official added. RDD principal secretary hopes the pace of work would gain momentum once the restrictions are eased up after Covid cases decline. “We are hopeful that by September we will complete all unfinished units. In the past few months, we have completed one lakh units/month on an average. We will accelerate it now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-looks-to-turn-migrants-return-into-opportunity-to-complete-pmay-homes-101621406596862.html
