20-05-2021||Patna||Bihar panchayat heads warned of action if they make payments violating rules||Authorities in Bihar have warned panchayat heads of penal action if they continue making payments through cheques and drafts in violations of the rules that make it mandatory for them to use the Public Financial Management System (PFMS). The system tracks funds and ensures real-time reporting of expenditure at all levels.Additional chief secretary Amrit Lal Meena on Tuesday wrote letters to district Panchayati raj officers and asked them to ensure total compliance with the rules and lodge cases against those failing to comply.Also Read | Ignorance, poor infrastructure makes rural Bihar more vulnerable to Covid-19Panchayati raj minister Samrat Chaudhary said they were compelled to issue the warning as panchayat representatives in eight to 10 districts were found issuing drafts and cheques to buy masks, soaps, etc, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “They had been asked earlier to use... PFMS for accountability and transparency in transactions. However, some were not following the PFMS,” said Chaudhary.Officials said they have sought to enforce the norms particularly after ₹741 crore were allocated to about 8,000 panchayats in the state. “...in the pandemic situation, panchayat representatives often ignore norms to make purchases,” said an officialHe added authorities were looking into payments made through cheques and drafts after April 1 and appropriate action would be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-panchayat-heads-warned-of-action-if-they-make-payments-violating-rules-101621504963491.html
20-05-2021||Patna||Video of patient pushed to Bihar hospital on cart goes viral, patient vanishes||A video footage of a patient being brought to a government hospital on a pushcart-- which is generally employed to carry garbage-- in Bihar's West Champaran district has gone viral on social media on Thursday.In the video, about half a dozen people are seen pushing the cart, with the patient inside, before shifting her to a stretcher after reaching the sub divisional hospital in Bagaha, 70 kms north of Bettiah.Family of the patient, identified as Kamali Devi, said they were forced to bring her to the hospital, about 7kms from their house at Malkauli near Bagaha 2, on a garbage pushcart after a rapid deterioration in her health on Wednesday evening. "She is running high fever and has developed breathlessness," said Nathuni Bin, Kamali's husband."What else can be done when the vehicles are not plying," he asked, avoiding a direct answer to a query if he tried for the ambulance or not.The woman's husband was referring to absence of public transport during the ongoing lockdown in Bihar, clamped to contain the spread of Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the disease in the state.Recently two incidents of bodies of Covid-19 patients being carried on carts owned by the civic administration in Nalanda district went viral on social media, raising questions on availability of ambulances in the state. A probe was ordered in the first of the two cases reported from Biharsharif town earlier this week.In the present case, Bagaha’s sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Shekhar Anand said there was no need to bring the patient on a handcart. "In the course of our investigation, we came to know that the patient was not denied the ambulance. We have a good number of ambulances for service, and we want people to make use of our ambulance services for ferrying the patients," the SDM said.In another twist to the saga, the 45-year-old patient was found to have left the Bagaha sub division hospital without notifying the authorities, who have now declared her LAMA (left against medical advice). "She was under our treatment as she was suffering from breathlessness. But, in the morning, she was nowhere to be found in the hospital and hence she has been declared a LAMA," said Dr. AK Tiwari, the medical officer of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/video-of-patient-pushed-to-bihar-hospital-on-cart-goes-viral-patient-vanishes-101621502536285.html
20-05-2021||Patna||Ignorance, poor infrastructure makes rural Bihar more vulnerable to Covid-19||Babban Singh (62) is confined in a room at his home for the last 20 days after testing positive for Covid-19. Singh, a farmer under Hardiya panchayat of Bihar’s Samastipur district, travelled 50kms from his Singhia block residence to a Darbhanga private lab for the Covid test. He did it on the advice of his son, who lives in Mumbai.“I had a fever for 6-7 days, but for the last 7-8 days there is no fever, though there is a lot of weakness. I also got in touch with a doctor in Patna and took the prescribed medicines, including injections. I also got my wife tested, but fortunately, she was negative. Now I will again go to Darbhanga, 50 kms from Hardiya, for tests,” he said.But there are not many like Babban Singh in rural Bihar. Most ignore apparent Covid symptoms and act foolishly brave, still not ready to accept the fatal consequences of Covid infection. “People cough and sneeze, but they carry on, treating it as seasonal flu... A couple of weeks ago, some officials came for testing after some villagers fell ill and detected positive cases in Bangrahtta, Hardiya, Sumaha and adjoining places. The infection seems to be spreading, but we don’t know to what extent,” said Singh.Similar reports from other districts too, suggest the rural population is mostly either ignorant or complacent apart from nurturing a false sense of immunity.Dr Vikas R Keshri, currently a senior research fellow at the George Institute for Global Health in New Delhi, says the challenge posed by the pandemic is much bigger for rural areas in states like Bihar due to a number of factors, viz. high population density, limited healthcare, false sense of immunity, ignorant beliefs such as Covid-19 being a high society and urban phenomenon, apart from exposure to migrant natives arriving from the urban hotspots of the disease.“After the first wave, people got complacent and so did the authorities. When the second wave struck, all were caught off-guard. I fear that the government’s continued claims of a drop in the test positivity rate may prove counterproductive by instilling a sense of complacency while the real magnitude of the infection is still not known and will be difficult to even assess due to harsh ground realities. Rural societies are very close knit and even in pandemic times, they continue to perform social customs, attend social functions and puja etc.,” he said.Reports from rural areas point to large gatherings for marriages, thread ceremonies, last rites and other social occasions being held, despite the restrictions imposed. Masadha village in Bhojpur has seen a number of deaths in the last one month. “So far, only four deaths have been confirmed due to Covid-19, but the actual number may be much higher,” said former deputy mukhiya Satyendra Singh.Another report from Ghoswar village in Vaishali district said villagers were concerned following 17 deaths in 25 days and several others suffering from unknown ailments.Rural lifestyle is not to be blamed alone for the situation; the creaking healthcare infrastructure too has a big role to play in precipitating the crisis, say health experts.Dr Anil Kumar, an assistant professor with the department of history in Delhi university’s Rajdhani College, recently drew the attention of Madhubani district magistrate towards the lack of basic health facilities at Kanhauli (Khajauli)-- his native village. “There is just one health centre for more than 8,000 people but it is not functioning even in the midst of pandemic. Villagers are suffering and dying in the absence of health facilities. One doctor on alternate days or at least on a weekly basis will immensely help,” he wrote to the DM after one person died with Covid symptoms but without a test report to confirm. The DM has assured him to look into the request.In absence of formal healthcare set up, people are forced to rely on ‘jhola chap’ doctors or quacks due to their accessibility and affordability.Under the National Health Mission (NHM), Primary Health Centre (PHC) is established to cover a population of 30,000 in rural areas and 20,000 in hilly, tribal and desert areas. Then there are other smaller health centres, but how many of them are actually able to meet the challenge is a big question. The Patna high court has also sought details of the situation in the rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ignorance-poor-infrastructure-makes-rural-bihar-more-vulnerable-to-covid19-101621496762481.html
20-05-2021||Patna||Covid-19 stigma, vaccine hesitancy slowing fight against covid-19 in rural Bihar||The fight against Covid-19 in rural Bihar is getting hampered due to lack of healthcare, vaccine hesitancy, low testing and delayed results among other factors. This is worrying since nearly 67% of the 3,928 deaths reported in the state are from predominantly rural districts.“Many villagers have Covid symptoms, like cold cough and fever, but only 10% have tested,” says 33-year-old Babloo Kumar Yadav of Dwasai village in Katihar district. They instead rely on quacks, he adds.In Ara, people claim RT-PCR test reports arrive very late, negating the very purpose of testing. Mithilesh Kumar Singh, a resident, says his wife Seema Singh got herself tested at Ara Sadar Hospital and her report came after five days. “After a few days, I too got symptoms of Covid and went for testing. My report came after 10 days,” said Singh.Ara’s civil surgeon Dr L P Jha claims 3,500 tests are done in the district daily on an average. “In urban areas, the number of testing is 400 to 500. Rest are done in rural areas,” he said, suggesting testing was proceeding relatively smoothly in rural areas.Officials on the ground say reluctance is the real reason why Covid tests are not going up significantly in rural areas. “We send mobile testing teams in villages but they are not interested. Due to the stigma attached to Covid, most of them hide their symptoms and avoid testing,” said Dr Pradep Kumar, posted at Dandkhora primary health centre of Katihar district.He, however, points out that deficiency in healthcare infrastructure in rural areas such as shortage of manpower is also obstructing the Covid containment drive. “I have been working continuously for three days. If I don’t get a day off now, I will go mad. Against the sanctioned strength of seven doctors, we just have two currently,” he says.Bihar’s additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit said the government has decided to reactivate 1,451 additional primary health centres (APHCs) to augment medical infrastructure in rural areas.Vaccine hesitancy among the rural folks is another major problem. Kaimur district magistrate Navdeep Shukla says a vaccination team returned empty-handed on Saturday from villages in Ramgarh after people refused vaccination calling it dangerous. The DM says they are now taking help of panchayat representatives to convince people.“We are concentrating on rural areas and emphasis is on testing and vaccinating. For vaccination, 72% of the sites are going to be in rural pockets,” said the additional chief secretary for health.“To increase rural testing, we are taking help of 80,000 ASHAs (accredited social health activists) who have started visiting each household with oximeters and are reporting immediately to headquarters through HIT Covid App, launched on Monday,” he added. The app is meant to ensure regular monitoring and tracking of Covid-19 patients in home isolation.(With inputs from Prashant Ranjan, Ara)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-stigma-vaccine-hesitancy-slowing-fight-against-covid-19-in-rural-bihar-101621493203711.html
20-05-2021||Patna||Most Covid vaccination sites in Patna to stay closed on Thursday||Only 11 out of 56 vaccination sites in Patna will be operational on Thursday to serve the 18-44 years age group as the state is low on Covid vaccines. As a result, many vaccination sites have been shut down in remote areas of other districts. The extent of the vaccination squeeze is evident as the state managed to vaccinate only 25, 037 people on Wednesday against its daily target of 2.50 lakh people.Officers associated with the vaccination programme said the state capital has received 14,000 doses of vaccine to be used over the next two days. Ever since the state began vaccinating the 18-44 years age group from May 9, Patna received two tranches of 38,000 and 25,000 doses. The quantity received on Wednesday, with the instruction to use it over the next two days, was the lowest so far.This is well below the number Bihar’s additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit suggested will be made available by the Centre. On Tuesday, he said 200,000 doses of Covishield vaccine were expected on May 20 and 23 and another batch of 289,250 doses was expected on May 24.He, however, parried away a question on current vaccine availability in the state and on the closure of many vaccination sites.Manoj Kumar, executive director, state health society, Bihar, too did not respond to phone calls or text messages on availability of vaccines and curtailment of vaccination sites.Among the bigger centres, which would operate on Thursday, are the Patna Women’s College, the three Kendriya Vidyalayas at Danapur, Sheikhpura and Kankarbagh, the ITI at Digha, Aryabhatta Knowledge University and the Sri Krishna Memorial Hall.Most states are going through the problem of vaccine shortage as the Central government promises to make 2.16 billion vaccine doses available in the country in five months. This will include 750 million doses of Covishield and 550 million doses of Covaxin between August to December. India has stopped the exports of Covid-19 vaccines--blamed for the shortage in the country during the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/most-covid-vaccination-sites-in-patna-to-stay-closed-on-thursday-101621488763136.html
