22-05-2021||Patna||Bihar IMA forms panel to probe doctors’ death; toll reaches 96||Stung by the death of over 96 doctors in Bihar in the current wave of Covid-19, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Bihar Branch has constituted an eight-member committee under the chairmanship of Dr Sahjanand Prasad Singh, IMA India (president-elect) to investigate reasons behind such a large number of casualty of doctors in the state.The IMA president said that more than 329 doctors have succumbed so far during the second Covid-19 wave and 96 out of these casualties have been reported from Bihar, which now has the highest number of doctor deaths during the second wave. “During the first wave of Covid-19 last year, 30 doctors had lost their lives in Bihar,” said Dr Singh.According to the news agency ANI’s report, the IMA said that over 400 doctors across the country have succumbed to the Covid-19 infection during the second wave of the pandemic.On May 18, the IMA had said 269 doctors had lost their lives during the Covid-19 second wave over the past two months. During the first wave in 2020, India had lost 748 doctors. With the updated toll shared by the IMA today, India has now lost over 1,000 doctors due to Covid-19.Of the 96 deaths reported in Bihar, 38 had taken place in Patna alone with 14 deaths reported from Muzaffarpur, as per a list released by the IMA, Bihar chapter. Five deaths have been reported in Bhagalpur and three each at Gaya and Siwan. “Doctors in Bihar have been working continuously. The committee has been formed to find out the reasons for death as doctors even in non-Covid hospitals and clinics have been treating patients. In many cases proper distancing with patients could not be maintained,” said Dr Singh, IMA national president (elect). The IMA president blamed the lack of proper care and facilities for doctors for such a high number of casualties. “In all government or private hospitals, no beds have been reserved for doctors’ treatment. Doctors died for want of beds and ventilators,” alleged Dr Singh. “At least two beds could have been reserved for our fraternity members and the mortality would have been much less. After all, we are also working for the public and their welfare,” he added.Dr Singh was also critical of oxygen supply and said that the state capital has more than 200 hospitals (both government and private) but only 90 got oxygen supply during the crisis. “More than 100 did not get supply but still kept treating patients by managing oxygen in the name of humanity,” he said. The IMA has demanded that doctors should be properly treated even in private hospitals and beds should be earmarked for them. “We demand that those doctors who died due to Covid should be given ₹50 lakh compensation amount by the respective state governments,” Dr Singh demanded and informed that IMA has decided to give ₹10 lakh each from its side to families of poor doctors. “In Bihar, we are going to give ₹10 lakh to the family of three poor doctors and this will be done in other states as well,” Dr Singh said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-ima-forms-panel-to-probe-doctors-death-toll-reaches-96-101621703278455.html
22-05-2021||Patna||Senari accused acquittal: State, victims may move SC||A day after Patna High Court acquitted all the 13 accused in the 1999 Senari massacre case, a sense of shock and disbelief has gripped the Senari village and reopened the wounds of the few who survived the bloodbath.The double bench of Patna High Court on Friday acquitted the accused for “want of sufficient evidence regarding their identity” in the massacre of Bihar’s Senari village where 34 upper caste men were killed. The decision surprised the state government as well. Advocate General Lalit Kishor told media persons that the state government may challenge the verdict in the Supreme Court. The law department has also sought an advisory from Kishor.The victims’ families are expected to file an appeal against the verdict after the certified order is out later this week. An angry Arun Sharma asked, “Then who killed 34 and injured five men in 1999?” Senari since then has come out of the darkness with the village having motorable roads, electricity and other government facilities. Sources said that even though the villagers are shocked by the court’s verdict, the cordial atmosphere prevails. “The anger is mostly against court, police and government in general,” said Babu Sharma.However, it has opened the wounds once again. Recounting the horror, 47-year-old Arjun Sharma who was 25-year-old at that time said, “I was standing at the door of my house along with brothers and cousins Suresh, Sachidanand, Naresh, Sheo Kumar, Vimlesh and Kavindra. The extremists, who were in police uniform, arrived there and they caught hold of Kavindra and Vimlesh and took them towards Thakurbadi. They killed them by cutting their throats.” “The entire village is shocked with the verdict. The villagers are not ready to accept that the accused have been let off,” said villager Ajay Sharma, 54, who also lost his brother. He blamed the police and the state government for the acquittals. “The police did not file a strong charge sheet with solid evidence against them,” he alleged. Ajay Kumar, 59, whose younger brother Ranjan and cousins were killed in the massacre on March 18, 1999, said if the court acquitted all the accused, who killed his family and others in the village. “The extremists took them to Thakurbari, tied their legs and hands. The miscreants first cut the throat of the victims and thereafter they cut the stomach of those who were found alive,” he said recalling the gory incident. The verdict has also shocked Sharda Devi, 62, who lost his 21-year-old son Rakesh in the incident. “It is being said that the accused persons could not be identified. I want to ask how could an old lady, who was trying to save her life, identify the accused 20 years later?” she asked.Mohan Sharma, 45, was picked by the Maoist Communist Centre (MCC) like other men of the locality and lined up near Thakurbari under the Karpi police station area. “Two people were killed before me. I was hit by a sharp-edged weapon. I fell and pretended to be dead. I wrapped under the cover of dead bodies, from where I escaped when gunmen fled away,” he recalled. Social activist Bablu Sharma told HT the state government provided compensation and government job to the next kin of the deceased. “Many of the family have shifted to other places and have built houses. There is no hatred in the village now. Most of the families are now residing in Khatangi, Manjhiyawan and Odibigha villages,” he said.Former mukhiya of Karpi village, Kamlesh Sharma informed that eight of the victims is a close relative of the then High Court’s registrar Padmnarayan Singh, who died due to heart attack after he saw bodies. His son Ramakant Singh is the senior lawyer of Patna High Court, but he could not take action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/senari-accused-acquittal-state-victims-may-move-sc-101621703218333.html
22-05-2021||Patna||Darbhanga Medical College Hospital battles big odds to save Covid-19 patients||The facilities at the Darbhanga Medical College Hospital (DMCH), one of the oldest medical colleges in Bihar after the Patna Medical College Hospital, are in a sorry state.Residents of several districts including Samastipur, Madhubani and Saharsa depend on the DMCH but a visit to this medical college reminds one of hell.Filled with garbage and waterlogged, the hospital premises are unhygienic with pigs and cows hanging around.Nurses on emergency duty were seen crossing over pools of dirty water. A nurse, Dipa Kumari, said they have been facing this situation for 27 years and it worsens during the monsoons. She said frontline workers are forced to serve by putting their own lives at risk.Not even the DMCH medical superintendent Mani Bhushan Sharma's office has been spared. In order to escape injury or get himself drenched in the filthy water, Sharma has to take the help of a guard and driver to reach his office.When asked, Sharma said the situation is not new because this hospital is very old and situated in a low-lying area. On the Covid situation and facilities for Covid patients, he said they are fighting day and night with the support of the administration. He, however, pointed out that there is a lack of manpower to handle ventilator issues. Sharma, who himself has recovered from coronavirus, said his daughter is also Covid positive, but despite all odds, he is doing everything possible to ensure the recovery of patients.Sharma said DMCH is running a Covid ward in a new building where everything is upgraded.However, in front of the DMCH superintendent's office is the Covid ICU ward. The nearby area is again inundated with dirty water.Doctor Ashutosh Kumar, who serves in the Covid ICU ward said, said doctors and nurses are at God's mercy with high chances of infection from garbage and water-logging on the premises but they are helpless.The road to the new nurses' hostel, especially for the ones serving in the Covid wards is damaged and water-logged.Chandan, whose father-in-law is critical and admitted to the Covid ward, crosses the water-logged road to buy medicines. He said, "What can we do? I have to go to get medicines every day. I have to buy them from outside."The surgery ward of DMCH is in a similar poor state, and the chances of any untoward incident can't be ruled out. Half the building has already been vacated by the administration due to worsening conditions leaving the surgery ward at God's mercy.Reacting to the poor condition of the building, a surgical ward staff member said, "Yes, we are afraid but you have to ask this question from the government."The DDC of Darbhanga Tanay Sultania told ANI, "We have made available two senior doctors (POD) and four SR/PG doctors in each shift for three shifts every day. Apart from that, we have made available one senior doctor and two PG students of the medicine department in each shift for the care of serious patients. Physician on call (head of one medicine unit) is also available.""Before April 12 only one POD and 2-3 PG students were there for the entire HDU ward and converting HDU to semi-ICU--the entire HDU ward is made as semi-ICU with 75 BIPAPs available for non-invasive ventilation. Sixteen patients are currently on BIPAP. The nursing station has been operationalised on each floor. There are two nurses each on five floors in each shift. Earlier there were only six nurses in each shift," he said.He said, "And we increased the number of ward boys from 4-5 in total to 10 government ward boys in each shift and six outsourced ward boys in each shift dedicated to the movement of cylinders. Also, the control room functions all the time for addressing complaints. Twenty calls are made by operators on their own to admitted patients to seek feedback in each shift every day."Blaming the low-lying area and the old building that houses the DMCH for the unhygienic conditions on the premises, Sultania said the entire focus has now been shifted to the cure of Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhanga-medical-college-hospital-battles-big-odds-to-save-covid-19-patients-101621694018488.html
