23-05-2021||Patna||Bihar: MBBS interns at Covid hospital threaten to go on strike over hike in stipend||Around 850 MBBS interns in Bihar may strike work from next week if their demands over increase in stipend, providing insurance cover and counting their period of Covid-19 duty as part of the year-long internship programme were not met. “We will try and meet the additional chief secretary (health), Pratyaya Amrit, tomorrow (Monday). Seeing his response, we will decide the date of our strike if the government doesn’t heed our demands,” said Gautam Kumar, a 2016-batch medico at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH). The undergraduate students of the NMCH have blown the bugle of protest by staging a demonstration on college campus Saturday and mobilised support among batchmates of six other medical colleges to get their message across to the state government. Ripples of protest were evident at the Sri Krishna Medical College Hospital in Muzaffarpur and the Darbhanga Medical College Hospital at Laheriasarai in Darbhanga on Saturday. MBBS final year students of other state-run medical colleges, including the Patna Medical College Hospital, Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital, Gaya, Vardhaman Institute of Medical Science, Pawapuri (Nalanda) and Government Medical College, Bettiah, have also expressed solidarity with the NMCH students, leading the protest, claimed Gautam. The NMCH has been declared a 500-bed dedicated Covid-19 hospital along with the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Science (IGIMS), an autonomous institute of the state government on the pattern of AIIMS, both in Patna. The students are demanding parity in internship. They claim MBBS interns at the IGIMS get more monthly stipend than any of the other eight state government-run medical institutions. “The enhancement of monthly stipend of IGIMS interns by ₹2,800 to ₹26,300 has been approved in principle. Add to it the ₹1,000 incentive per 8-hour shift for Covid-19 duty, approved on May 21. With an average of eight days of Covid-19 duty in a month, their consolidated stipend would go up to ₹34,000 (approx.), while we will get a pittance of ₹15,000 monthly, with no incentive for Covid duty,” said Gautam. His batchmate Anuj Kumar said the government had not raised their stipend since 2017 when it was last revised from ₹12,000 to ₹15,000. “The stipend of junior doctors, pursuing post-graduation (PG), was increased last year, but that of MBBS interns has not been increased since 2016, though the government is committed to increasing it every three years,” said Anuj. The students are also demanding that their period of Covid duty be counted as part of the one-year MBBS internship programme so that they are eligible to appear in the national eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET) for postgraduate courses. “We need to complete 365 days of internship before we can appear for the NEET entrance test for the PG programme. MBBS final year medicos at Patna’s IGIMS and in other states have completed their exam and joined as interns, but we haven’t. If the government delays our exams, our internship period will be affected, which will make us ineligible to appear in the NEET entrance test next year. So, our Covid duty should be counted as an internship,” added Anuj. The students mock at the Bihar government’s decision to stop the MBBS final year examination mid-way, after it began on April 17, in light of the spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. “First, the state government defers our exams for the safety of students from the pandemic and a few days later it drafts us for duty in Covid-19 wards,” said Gautam. The medicos are also demanding insurance cover for doing Covid-19 duty, given the risk involved. Bihar has already lost around 130 doctors during the pandemic. Bihar had 44,907 active cases of coronavirus on Saturday, with 6,85,574 cumulative cases and 4,442 deaths. Patna, with 725 new cases out of the 4,375 reported in the state on Saturday, led the district tally with 1,41,380 total cases and 1,135 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharmbbs-interns-at-covid-hospital-threaten-to-go-on-strike-over-hike-in-stipend-101621789743451.html
23-05-2021||Patna||760 Bihar government teachers fall to Covid-19, families face financial crisis||After Mrityunjay Pandey (42), a government school teacher in Bihar’s West Champaran district, succumbed to Covid-19 last week, his family had to take a loan to pay the hospital bills and raise money through crowd funding for his last rites, HT has learnt. Not just that, Pandey’s younger brother Aman, a civil service aspirant, has now decided to give up his dream since he needs to sustain the family.Neeru Kumari, a resident of Nalanda district, is also struggling to sustain her two kids after her husband’s demise on May 9. “My husband Santosh Kumar was a primary school teacher. After his death, survival has become very difficult. I have no source of income and there is no one in my family to take care of us,” she said.Bihar State Primary Teachers’ Association (BSPTA) has claimed that at least 760 government school teachers and librarians have died due to Covid, battling the second wave of the disease between March and May.“The highest number of teachers’ deaths has been recorded in Patna, West Champaran, Banka and Nawada districts, where more than 30 teachers have died in each district. We request the state government to immediately provide the promised assistance to help the families sustain,” said Chandra Prakash, media-incharge of BSPTA.He added that the families of teachers who died last year due to Covid-19 are still knocking at the doors of government offices to claim the promised ex-gratia relief and compassionate appointment. “Paper work at snail’s pace mounts trouble for the bereaved families,” he added.The association also sought the status of frontline Covid-19 warrior for all government teachers and demanded for their vaccination on a priority basis.Giriwar Dayal Singh, director of secondary education, said, “All district education officers have been asked to compile death records of teachers. We initiated the survey in the first week of May but the collected information was not sufficient to ascertain the total death figure”.Sanjay Kumar, additional chief secretary of state education department, said, “Dependents of all those teachers who have died of Covid-19 are entitled to claim an ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh.”Meanwhile, TET-STET Qualified Teachers’ Association has demanded insurance coverage up to ₹50 lakh, family pension and compassionate appointment for all 3.5 lakh teachers appointed on contract basis, who are serving schools under the Panchayati Raj Institution and urban local bodies.Markanday Pathak, state president of the association, said, “The government discriminates between regular teachers and contractual teachers. The latter is deprived of special benefits, family pension and insurance coverage. We have been deployed in community kitchens, vaccination centres and containment zones, risking our lives. But when it comes to our rights, the government simply disowns us”.“Recently, Delhi and Mumbai announced financial assistance of ₹1 crore and ₹50 lakh respectively to the families of teachers, who died of Covid-19. However, the Bihar government has not announced any increase in the ex-gratia amount for teachers, despite engaging them in Covid-19 duties,” said Ashwini Pandey, spokesperson of the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/760-bihar-government-teachers-fall-to-covid-19-families-face-financial-crisis-101621753625550.html
23-05-2021||Patna||AIIMS-Patna doctor bats for increased surveillance, testing, vaccination||Dr Umesh Kumar Bhadani, head of the expert committee formed by the Patna High Court order and dean at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna on Saturday said that there was a growing need for increased surveillance, testing, vaccination and more treatment, but the most important factor remained Covid-appropriate behaviour.“There is expected third wave 6-8 months after the end of the second wave, which may end in July 2021. It may be in pockets or localised areas, depending on the vaccinated population. The virus mutates and vulnerable people are likely to get infected. Therefore, it is important to reach out to maximum people, as infected persons without symptoms are more dangerous,” he said, while speaking at a meeting on Covid-19, organised and moderated by senior advocate and former additional solicitor general SD Sanjay.Bhadani said that during the first wave, all were equally vulnerable, but aged people got sicker and so they were vaccinated first. “In the second wave, the virus has mutated, but those vaccinated are less vulnerable. The young people move more for livelihood and so got more infected. The third wave is anticipated to affect the younger population more, which are not vaccinated and move more. As per data, when 86% of people develop immunity, it is called the stage of herd immunity,” he added.The AIIMS doctor said that there was a need for massive information and awareness campaign for basic hygiene and social protection, as also preventing large gatherings. “Vaccination has to be in. creased, but it takes time. The Gram Panchayats should play an active role and empowered with proper awareness and action plan. The resources should now be directed to the grassroots level and there should be mobile vans for testing and vaccination. There should be centralized and state-level experts group,” he added.Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey said that the state government and the Centre were working together to control the pandemic and the results were showing, with the positivity rate dropping from 16% around 25 days ago to just 4% today, resulting in a large number of beds in Covid care centres and dedicated Covid hospitals unoccupied. He said the pace of vaccination would also pick up in June and improve further in mid-July.“With less than 50,000 active cases, Bihar is ranked 16th in the country. Although Bihar received just 16 mt of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) per day before the pandemic, it reached up to 210 mt to meet the growing demand. There was no shortage of oxygen or important drugs. Around 50,000 vials of Remdesivir are still stocked in districts. There is ample stock of Amphotericin,” he added.Pandey said that it was unfortunate that some ventilators, which were not functional in some districts due to shortage of anaesthetists and technical staff, were being highlighted in media, but the fact that over 1500 ventilators are functional saving lives. “We did appoint anaesthetists, but we did not get as many as we required,” he said, taking a dig at the leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for offering to open a Covid care centre in his government home without understanding that some basic standards have to meet for opening any such facility.BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said it was quite disappointing that, as per a recent survey, barely 60% of people use masks in towns, out of which 20% wear it on the chin. “One can well imagine the situation in rural areas,” he said, adding that when the states were getting 42% of the divisible tax pool of the centre, they should also come forward to take the responsibility of vaccinating people below 45 years.He said that over 50-lakh vaccines had been damaged by the states when every vaccine was important. The Centre is doing everything to augment supply. Covaxin license has been given to five companies. When Centre will complete free vaccination of above 45 years, it will also take the load off states,” he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/aiimspatna-doc-bats-for-increased-surveillance-testing-vaccination-101621703218940.html
