24-05-2021||Patna||Woman found hanging in police station, three cops suspended||Three police officials were suspended and a probe ordered after a 28-year-old woman was found hanging at Rahui police station of Nalanda district past Sunday midnight, hours after she was “rescued” by the police from Patna Junction railway station on a complaint filed by her husband who alleged she was abducted on May 21, police said.Following the incident, Nalanda SP Hariprasath S suspended the officer on duty, the investigating officer and a policewoman over dereliction of duty. “The chief judicial magistrate has been informed about the incident and proceedings are being carried out as per the law,” he said. On May 21, after the woman reportedly eloped with one Luv Yadav, her husband Rudal Yadav lodged a police complaint for abduction. Countering the allegation, Luv’s parents also filed an FIR against Rudal and his brother for “kidnapping Luv,” police said. On Sunday evening, the police found the woman and Luv together at Patna Junction and handed them over to Rahui police in Nalanda. The woman, who has three children, was held overnight at the police station, to be produced before a magistrate on Monday to record her statement.Around midnight, the woman allegedly hanged herself using her saree. She was rushed to Biharsharif Sadar Hospital where she was declared brought dead by the doctors, a police officer said. The autopsy report was awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/woman-found-hanging-in-police-station-three-cops-suspended-101621869487180.html
24-05-2021||Patna||BJP ally Jitan Ram Manjhi embarrasses NDA over PM’s pic on Covid-19 vaccine certificate||The Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) partner in Bihar, the Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM-S), embarrassed the ruling coalition in the state Bihar once again when party’s president and former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi made a demand. In a tweet, Manjhi said that if Covid-19 vaccination certificates bear the photo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi then death certificates issued to all those who died of the virus must also have the PM’s photograph. “If you are so fond of putting (the PM’s) photograph on the vaccine certificate, then his photo should be put on the death certificate of death too. Only this will be fair”, said Manjhi in a tweet on Monday. This is the second time in two days that Manjhi had embarrassed the BJP and the NDA. Earlier on Sunday, soon after taking the second dose of Covid-19 vaccination and after receiving the vaccination certificate, the former CM questioned the logic behind putting the PM’s picture on the vaccination certificates. “President Ram Nath Kovind’s photo would be more appropriate on the certificate as he is the highest constitutional functionary in India,” said Manjhi. As an alternative, the former Bihar CM suggested that the certificates can have the photos of the President, the Prime Minister as well as the chief minister of the respective states.Manjhi is not the lone politician to have objected to the PM’s photo on the certificates. The Jharkhand government started issuing certificates with CM Hemant Soren’s photograph instead. In a similar move, the Chhattisgarh government started rolling out its own vaccination certificate for the 18-44 age group with CM Bhupesh Baghel’s photo.Manjhi’s tweet has given the opposition a ray of hope of a possible defection amid the pandemic. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), while backing Manjhi’s demands, provoked him to come out of the alliance. “What he raised today, the opposition has been demanding the same. If you are against the autocratic system, come out of it otherwise people will think that you are issuing statements to be in news,” said RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary. “I can say for sure that the certificate is an authentic letter for one and all anywhere in the world,” said BJP Bihar president Sanjay Jaiswal while the Janata Dal (United) state president Umesh Kushwaha said, “Manjhiji is a mature leader and part of the NDA. In a democracy, everybody has the right to put forward his views and at times people come out with personal views as well, which is always welcome. This is the beauty of democracy.”HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan justified Manjhi’s demand and alleged that vaccination percentage among Dalits and Adivasis has been abysmally low in the state. “Not 1% of the population of Dalit and the adivasis (the tribals) have been vaccinated yet because they are afraid and fear vaccination. Putting the President’s picture, who is also a Dalit, will inspire them,” said Rizwan. The HAM-S spokesperson said that “One wants to get laurels for vaccination. Then he should also get the pictures on death certificates,” indicating a large number of Covid-19 deaths in the state. Political analyst DM Diwakar said that Manjhi, by issuing such statements, is sending out a “confusing signal.” “This means that all is not good for him in the ruling alliance and he’s probably judging waters elsewhere. The problem with him is that he cannot adjust anywhere but he, along with VIP, Owaisi’s party, can be helpful in forming government in such fluid conditions in Bihar,” said Diwakar who is also a former director at AN Singa Institute for Social Studies. Manjhi’s party, the HAM-S, is part of the NDA in Bihar and his son Santosh Manjhi is the minister for minor irrigation and SC/ST welfare department in the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government. The HAM-S won four seats out of seven it contested during assembly elections held in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bjp-ally-jitan-ram-manjhi-embarrasses-nda-over-pm-s-pic-on-covid-19-vaccine-certificate-101621859767419.html
24-05-2021||Patna||28-yr-old woman ‘rescued’ on husband’s abduction complaint, dies by sucide: Cop||A 28-year-old woman was found hanging in a Bihar police station past Sunday midnight, hours after she was “rescued” by the police from Patna Junction railway station on a complaint filed by her husband who alleged she was abducted on May 21, police said.The woman, who was found at the railway station 100 km from her house in Nalanda district, told the police team that she left on her own with a 34-year-old auto-driver, Luv Yadav, the man accused by her husband of abducting her.S Hariprasath S, the Nalanda district police chief, said the woman was handed over to the district’s Rahui police after her rescue at the Patna Junction station. The woman, who has three children, was held overnight in a room at the police station so that she could be produced before a magistrate on Monday to record her statement. Luv Yadav, the man accused of abducting her, was in the lockup.Police believe that she died by suicide around midnight. When the police personnel found her hanging by her sari, she was taken to the Biharsharif Sadar Hospital. Doctors told the police that she was dead.Hariprasath said he suspended the officer on duty, the investigating officer and a woman cop on grounds of dereliction of duty. A medical board was also constituted to conduct the autopsy since this is a case of death in police custody.An inquiry has been ordered to investigate lapses in the police’s handling of the case.“The CCTV footage has also been preserved to facilitate the inquiry,” the Nalanda superintendent of police said.Traffic was disrupted in the area around the police station after scores of people gathered outside the station, accusing the police of torture. They demanded that an FIR be registered against the police personnel as well.This is the fifth reported case of death in police custody in Bihar.January 10: Dharmendra Manjhi, 34, who was arrested on charges of liquor smuggling, died when he was being taken to the police station from the court in Patna. Police had cited Manjhi’s ill health for his death. February 23: A 32-year-old Shailesh Pandey arrested for allegedly killing his three-month-old daughter in Bihar’s Saran district was found hanging at Avtar Nagar police station lock-up. February 28: Thirty-four-year-old Mohammad Imran alias Ekka, who was arrested on the charges of murder of a woman was found dead in Baunsi police station lockup under mysterious circumstances.March 9: A 35-year-old man, Amarjit Choudhary, who was detained for questioning on the charges of torture of his family members, died in the custody of the Kathara police outpost of Patepur of Vaishali district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/28yrold-woman-rescued-on-husband-s-abduction-complaint-dies-by-sucide-cop-101621854307238.html
24-05-2021||Patna||Covid cases on decline, says Nitish Kumar, extends Bihar lockdown by 7 days||The Bihar government on Monday extended Covid-19 lockdown by a week till June 1 after a review led by chief minister Nitish Kumar. This is the second time the state has extended the lockdown first announced from May 5 till May 15.“Reviewed the ongoing lockdown in Bihar with ministerial colleagues and officials. The lockdown is showing good results and positive cases are coming down. Therefore, we have decided to extend the lockdown in the state for seven days, from May 26 till June 1, 2021,” Nitish Kumar said in a tweet, posted in Hindi.The lockdown has slowed down the spread of the infection.On Sunday, Bihar reported 4,002 positive cases, down from the 14,794 positive cases reported in the state on May 4, the day before the lockdown.“The positivity rate which stood at 15.7% on May 2 has come down to 3% on May 12 and the recovery rate has increased to 93.44%,” said a senior Bihar government official, requesting anonymity.According to the Union health ministry data, there were 33 districts in Bihar which had a positivity rate of more than 10% a fortnight back. On Monday, there was only one district in this list: state capital Patna.Bihar’s crisis management group decided on May 4 to impose a state-wide lockdown from the following day in a desperate attempt to curb the spread of Covid-19 cases and the continuing shortage of life saving drugs, medical oxygen and hospital beds across the state.The state government had been reluctant to go for a hard lockdown when the second wave of Covid infections hit many parts of the country and had tried to control the spread of the infection in early April with restrictions on trade and business activities. Schools and other educational institutions and religious places were told to close. Private and government offices were told that not more than 33% of the staffers can report to work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid-ve-cases-on-decline-says-nitish-kumar-extends-bihar-lockdown-by-7-days-101621848308582.html
24-05-2021||Patna||Bihar ministers asked not to flout lockdown by touring constituencies||The Nitish Kumar government in Bihar has advised its ministers not to make rounds of their constituencies in violation of the restrictions in place during the lockdown, clamped earlier this month to contain the Covid-19 outbreak.A notification to this effect was passed by the cabinet secretariat department on Sunday which noted with concern "reported instances of ministers touring their constituencies or districts under their charge (prabhaar)" for reviewing the progress of development works etc."Such acts by honourable ministers will send a wrong message to the common people who might become disinclined to scrupulously adhere to the restrictions in place during the lockdown. These restrictions have been in place to control the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic which has gripped the state," the notification said."It is therefore requested that the honourable ministers avoid tours of their areas for reviews and inspections. If required, they may opt for video conferencing," the communication added.Lockdown was imposed in the state on May 5 for 11 days and, buoyed by the "positive outcome", the government extended it till May 25. During the period, a marked decline has been observed in the active caseload and positivity rate while the recovery rate has improved.The state had been relatively less severely affected by the viral outbreak when it first struck last year. However, the second wave has wrought devastation, infecting more than four lakh people in the last couple of months and claiming over 2,000 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-ministers-asked-not-to-flout-lockdown-by-touring-constituencies-101621846516129.html
