25-05-2021||Patna||Cyclone Yaas to trigger heavy rain, thunderstorm in Bihar on May 26: MeT||Patna Meteorological Centre on Tuesday sounded an alert predicting the impact of cyclone resulting in heavy to extremely heavy rain in the parts of the state on May 26, following the India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s forecast for the escalation of Cyclone Yaas into a very severe cyclonic storm near eastern coast. Director of Patna Meteorological Centre Vivek Sinha issued a special weather bulletin on Tuesday cautioning moderate to heavy rain along with high-velocity winds, thunderstorm and lightning activities in most parts of the state on Wednesday and continue till May 30.Deliberating the current weather system, Sinha said, “As per today’s numerical model, Cyclone Yaas is situated over west-central and east-central Bay of Bengal. The cyclone is likely to move towards the northwest region at the speed of 16 kmph. On Wednesday, the cyclone may intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm crossing Odisha and West Bengal and reach Jharkhand and Bihar. However, the cyclone is expected to weaken into depression in Jharkhand which would also slow downwind speed up to 40kmph in Bihar and Jharkhand”. “Under the influence of above meteorological mechanisms, the state is expected to reel under heavy rain and thunderstorm activities. Southern districts are more prone to experience the high impact of the cyclone while rest parts may receive light to moderate rain”, he added As per tthe daily bulletin issued, Sangrampur and Munger received 50 mm rain each, Amrapur and Bihpur 40 mm each while Sabour 30 mm.Weatherman Dinesh Kumar Bharti, said, “East and central parts of the state recorded light to moderate rain. Impact of Cyclone Yaas would be felt in southern districts within 24 to 48 hours”.Meanwhile, chief minister Nitish Kumar held a high level meeting with ministers and senior officials to review preparedness for Cyclone Yaas. Kumar asked the officials and DMs of all districts to be on alert and be prepared to meet any requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cyclone-yaas-to-trigger-heavy-rain-thunderstorm-in-bihar-on-may-26-met-101621955411108.html
25-05-2021||Patna||Patna-based Rajni Ranjan showcases her Covid-19 inspired nail art, expresses gratitude for Sonu Sood||From safety reminders on social media posts to health messages through graffiti and artwork, many artists have come forward to raise awareness around coronavirus pandemic. And in one such unique initiative to support the cause, Patna-based artist Rajni Ranjan is using her creativity to educate the masses, one nail at a time.Ranjan, a professionally trained beautician and a self-taught freehand nail artist, recently posted pictures of her art that shows portraits of a nurse inoculating a patient painted on nails along with precautionary messages. She captioned the photo, “Let’s get your weapon and get armed to fight against this evil... Get vaccinated get shielded.”The 26-year old who aims to spread Covid-19 vaccination awareness with her innovative skills says, “I pick topical causes, newsy events and even festivals to spread the message through this medium of mine, and vaccination awareness is important in the present situation.”Ranjan also created another artwork thanking actor Sonu Sood for his exemplary efforts for helping those in need. With the actor’s portrait and message as ‘Sonu Sood – The Real Super Hero’ on each nail, the artist in her heartfelt note wrote, “If I can’t give back to the society, then this isn’t a good life I am leading.” – Sonu Sood. This man shows how your actions speak louder than words. @sonu_sood thank you for being there in hard times for everyone.” The actor also acknowledged her artistic craft on Twitter.The story of using nails as a canvas goes back to 2017, the year when Ranjan joined Instagram with a purpose to show her artistic side but with a twist. “When I joined the social media platform, I wanted to showcase my interest in art but with something different, so I started painting nails,” says Ranjan who directly paints own nails or artificial ones without designing a rough sketch. She also adds, “It takes up to 2-3 hours to complete one design. And if there are minor mistakes, those can be easily rectified similar to how we do on canvas.”As Ranjan has been doing nail art for the last 6-7 years as leisure pursuit, she also credits inheriting her father’s creative side for her artistic skills. “Papa used to do canvas painting as a hobby earlier, I think somehow I have got the talent and inspiration from him”, she says.She also aspires to get certified training in nail art and open a studio, and also give training to those interested in the profession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patnabased-rajni-ranjan-showcases-her-covid-19-inspired-nail-art-expresses-gratitude-for-sonu-sood-101621940774620.html
25-05-2021||Patna||25 ventilators sent by Centre 9 months ago finally installed at Bihar hospital||The 25 ventilators received nine months ago under PM CARES Fund finally became operational on Monday at the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), the largest government hospital in north Bihar.Hospital officials have maintained that the installation was delayed due to paucity of oxygen supply and other technical issues. While the hospital has been in the news for alleged poor state of affairs, the ventilators provided under the PM CARES fund too have been questioned by several states over their quality. The Centre, however, has blamed lack of technical knowhow as the chief reason for problems faced by the states. DMCH medical superintendent Mani Bhushan Sharma too was on record having accepted a lack of manpower to handle ventilators.Darbhanga district magistrate (DM) Thiyagarajan SM, himself a doctor, said the oxygen cylinder manifold system from the old surgical wing was shifted to Covid care wing, which also has a 25-bed ICU, after completion of necessary civil works.“Earlier, doctors had complained that the consumption of oxygen in the ventilators was high. The complaint has been redressed,” said DMCH superintendent Dr Manibhushan Sharma.He said two patients have now been placed on the ventilators received from PM CARES Fund.Three ventilator technicians, one biomedical engineer, four paramedics and three technicians to run the new manifold oxygen plant have been roped in by DMCH to run the new ICU efficiently, Sharma said.The total number of ventilators at the DMCH has now gone up to 32.On Monday, 2,844 people were reported to have tested positive for Covid-19 infection in the last 24 hours, raising the state’s tally to over 692,000 cases. The disease also claimed 93 more lives in Bihar raising the death toll to 4,642.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/25-ventilators-sent-by-centre-9-months-ago-finally-installed-at-bihar-hospital-101621916769552.html
25-05-2021||Patna||19 new cases of black fungus in Bihar, total rises to 201||Bihar has reported 19 new cases of Mucormycosis or black fungus on Monday, taking the total number of patients to 201. The state also registered one death, taking the death toll from the disease to five.Seven new black fungus cases were reported from Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), four at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), three at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital in Bhagalpur, one from the Darbhanga Medical College Hospital (DMCH) and four from different private health facilities in Patna, said state health officials, adding other details were awaited. Black fungus is a life-threatening opportunistic fungal infection and according to the Union health ministry, India currently has 5,424 cases among Covid-19 patients spread across 18 states and Union territories. 4,556 of these patients have a history of Covid-19 infection and 55% of them had diabetes. Mucormycosis, if left untreated, can kill up to 80% of those infected. In others, it can lead to loss of eyesight and deformity of facial structures as doctors debride or remove the dead tissues. It usually affects the nose, eye, and then moves on to the brain.The Bihar government on May 22 declared black fungus a notifiable disease under the epidemic diseases act. On May 18, it designated the AIIMS at Patna and the IGIMS, as centres of excellence for the treatment of the fungal infection in the state. Several other states have also declared Mucormycosis as an epidemic.Bihar reported the first casualty due to suspected Mucormycosis when a 58-year-old man from Kaimur, admitted at the AIIMS, died on May 12. A doctor, who was undergoing treatment at the Ruban Memorial Hospital, a private health facility in Patna, also died of black fungus on May 17. Two deaths of patients from Chapra and Patna were reported at the IGIMS on May 23. AIIMS Patna has already created a separate 30-bed ward for treatment of cases of black fungus, which have been rising rapidly from the end of April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/19-new-cases-of-black-fungus-in-bihar-total-rises-to-201-101621914969563.html
