31-05-2021||Patna||Two labourers die while cleaning sewer in Patna||Two labourers working with L & T Construction company under the Namami Ganga project died after inhaling toxic gases while cleaning a sewer, near Beur jail in Patna on Monday. An eyewitness said, “The incident took place around 12.30 pm when one labourer entered the drain for cleaning the sewer and fell unconscious. Seeing no movement, another labourer went down to check on him. However, he also started feeling suffocated and fainted within a few minutes. In the meantime, the employees of L & T escaped from the spot. Soon, locals informed the police,” he added.On getting information, SHO of Beur police station Manish Kumar rushed to the spot and fished out the bodies with the help of JCB machine and sent them to PMCH for treatment where the doctors declared them brought dead. The L & T officers did not even identify the bodies of both labourers. Later, a man hailing from the same village identified the bodies as of Mohammad Idarish and Mohammad Iqbal, both residents of Murshidabad in West Bengal.SHO said, “Both the labourers were rescued from the 25-feet underground drain after a 45-minute operation. They died because of inhaling methane gas produced in the sewer.”He said, “Soon after the incident, supervisor and contractors escaped from the spot. The police are looking into the matter.”Meanwhile, Raman Kumar, MD of Buidco, executing the Beur project, did not respond to repeated calls and messages for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-labourers-die-while-cleaning-sewer-in-patna-101622473728941.html
31-05-2021||Patna||JD-U leader abducted in Khagaria, family alleges police inaction||Twenty-four hours after a local Janata Dal-United (JD-U) leader and member of Fisheries cooperation committee was abducted by unidentified people from Bihar’s Khagaria district, the police are yet to trace him or his kidnappers. The investigating officials said it was a case of political rivalry.Police said that the incident took place on Sunday evening when Ashok Sahni alias Munna, district president of JD-U cooperative cell, along with his driver Babloo was returning from their Baluahi based home in Gangaur on a motorcycle. When they reached Khagaria-Bakhri Road, a luxury car obstructed their way and forced Sahni and his driver into the vehicle before speeding away. The miscreants released Babloo a little while later.The matter came to light when the station house officer (SHO) of Muffasil police station, Ranjit Kumar, found an abandoned motorcycle carrying the name plate of JD (U) district president and contacted his house.Sahni’s wife Shivani told the police that her husband had gone to Gangaur for personal work with his driver. Police then managed to trace Babloo, who narrated the entire incident to the police. Police also learnt later that Sahni’s kidnappers changed vehicles after his abduction.Meanwhile, Sahni’s family has alleged police inaction claiming the probe was ineffective in the initial hours of kidnapping despite there being enough hints about the identity of the culprits.“Separate teams under the supervision of Sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Sumit Kumar are working on the case,” said Khagaria superintendent of police (SP) Amitesh Kumar. He added that raids were on to nab the suspected criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-leader-abducted-in-khagaria-family-alleges-police-inaction-101622460468729.html
31-05-2021||Patna||Bihar extends Covid lockdown by a week till June 8 but with some relaxations||The Bihar government on Monday extended Covid-19 lockdown by a week till June 8, following a review of the situation by chief minister Nitish Kumar and state officials. This is the fourth extension of the lockdown that began on May 5.“Seeing the cases and the positive impact of the lockdown, it has been decided to extend the lockdown by one more week till June 8 but certain relaxations for trade and commerce are being provided,” Nitish Kumar said in a tweet. The lockdown was earlier supposed to end on June 1.Additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad said all shops and business establishments will now open alternately from 6 am till 2 pm. “The district magistrates will decide which shop is to open on which day,” said Prasad. Earlier, certain shops including grocery and vegetable kiosks were allowed to open from 6 am till 10 am.Prasad added that government offices will also be allowed to function with 25% staff strength, however, private offices will continue to remain closed.On Sunday, Bihar reported 1,475 positive Covid cases, down from the 14,836 cases reported on May 5, the day the lockdown was announced. 5104 deaths, including 52 in the last 24 hours, have taken place in the state due to the disease.The test positivity rate, which stood at 15.7% on May 2, has now come down to 1.8% on May 30 and the recovery rate has increased to 96.67%. The state reported 18,377 active cases on Sunday.“The impact of the lockdown has been very encouraging and the crisis management group (CMG) has decided to continue with the restrictions and relaxations announced on May 16,” said additional chief secretary (health), Pratayaya Amrit.Bihar’s CMG had decided to impose a state-wide lockdown in a desperate attempt to contain the disease and to deal with the continuing shortage of life saving drugs, medical oxygen and hospital beds across the state.The state currently faces a big challenge of vaccinating people in rural areas although it has dispatched vans for testing and vaccinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-extends-covid-lockdown-by-a-week-till-june-8-but-with-some-relaxations-101622450868343.html
