01-10-2020||India||Ahead of Wildlife Week, carcass of tusker with bullet wounds found in Odisha||A day before Odisha celebrates the Wildlife Week, forest officials found the carcass of a tusker in Angul district on Thursday raising suspicions that the elephant was shot dead by poachers who escaped with its tusks.Wildlife officials said the carcass of the elephant with its tusks missing was found in Taptajharan Malyagiri forest in Angul distric.“It is suspected that the elephant has been killed for tusks by poachers. Post-mortem would make things more clear,” said a forest official of Angul.This is second such elephant death this week in the state. Earlier on Monday, a female elephant died near Banjhiama village in Dalijoda reserve Forest in Cuttack district. The elephant was allegedly shot on its right leg by poachers and was in critical condition when the locals spotted it. It succumbed to its injuries while undergoing treatment.On Sunday, forest officials had found a carcass of an elephant on the outskirts of Ratakhandi village under Sadar block in Bolangir district.Wildlife activists have been alleging that Odisha has turned out to be a happy hunting ground for elephant poachers. Last month, officials in Koenjhar district seized around 19 kg of elephant tusks from a car and arrested three persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-wildlife-week-carcass-of-tusker-with-bullet-wounds-found-in-odisha/story-LMNxTJ3bfhqpDJKwumACEJ.html
01-10-2020||India||SC nod to govt plan to refund air tickets||New Delhi The saga of airline ticket refunds finally came to an end on Thursday with the Supreme Court signing off on the Central government’s proposal of airlines refunding money within three weeks for air tickets booked during the lockdown, and either within 15 days or through passenger credit till March 31 next year for tickets booked before the lockdown. The move ends months of uncertainty for passengers who saw the flights on which they booked tickets being cancelled on account of the lockdown imposed to fight the coronavirus disease. Scheduled air services restarted in India only on May 25. This formulation, proposed by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) after consultation with airlines and travel agents, was largely accepted by all stakeholders, in view of the unprecedented situation created by the pandemic.Accepting the suggestions of the DGCA in entirety, a three-judge bench comprising justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy, and MR Shah said, ‘’Strict enforcement of Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR) at this moment (that required immediate refund of tickets) may not yield any meaningful result for any stakeholder. We also feel that such formulations (framed by DGCA and Ministry of Civil Aviation) are workable solutions in these peculiar circumstances which are prevailing in the country.”According to the order, if a passenger booked a ticket during the lockdown (from March 25 to May 24) for domestic or international travel during this period, he/she shall be entitled to full refund (without cancellation charges) to be made by the airline (Indian and foreign carrier) within three weeks from the date of cancellation. In cases where the ticket was booked through a travel agent, this money will be routed to the passenger through the agent. For international travel, the court dealt only with ex-India flights (originating from India) although during the hearing of the petitions, DGCA accepted that the benefit of refund will be available on flights originating outside the country provided the ticket was booked in India.For tickets booked prior to the lockdown period, the court asked airlines to “make all endeavours” to refund the collected amount to the passenger within 15 days beginning Thursday. “If on account of financial distress, any airline(s) are not able to do so, they shall provide credit shell, equal to the amount of fare collected, in the name of passenger when the booking is done either directly or through travel agent, so as to consume the same on or before March 31, 2021,” the order said. The order came on a petition filed by passengers represented through Pravasi Legal Cell and Air Passengers Association. The Federation of Travel Agents filed a separate petition demanding that the “credit shell” should be issued in the name of the agent as in several cases passengers were yet to pay for the tickets. DGCA objected to this suggestion as it recognised only the relationship between an airline and the passenger. The bench resolved the situation by directing that the passenger be free to transfer the shell to any person, including the travel agent. Airlines such as IndiGo, SpiceJet, GoAir, Vistara and AirAsia were represented in the matter through their respective counsel. While most airlines were satisfied by the DGCA’s formulation, GoAir requested the court to extend the shell period till March 31, 2022 because airlines have been hit hard by the pandemic . The airline cited a report by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) which showed 2020 as the worst year in the history of airlines with net losses of $84.3 billion posing a risk to 32 million jobs worldwide.The bench was not inclined to extend the period. Justice Reddy, writing the judgment for the bench, said, “We are not inclined to accept the same keeping in mind that the passengers who, with the hope of travel, have booked their tickets by spending their own money.”Vistara and AirAsia objected to the interest on the credit. According to DGCA, the airline will pay 0.5% interest from the date of cancellation till June 30 this year and thereafter 0.75% per month till March 31, 2021.Arvind Datar, lawyer for Go Air, responding to the DGCA’s scheme, said, “In two months we have disbursed Rs 40 crore refund and have to repay Rs 266 crore. Our flights are operating at 60% strength, prices have been capped, fuel charges have increased and we have to pay salaries to our workforce. From today, the deadline to make full refund expires in six months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-nod-to-govt-plan-to-refund-air-tickets/story-vApaPn8g8SNWHCYDerDEkJ.html
01-10-2020||India||Bhushan files review plea in contempt case||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Friday sought a review of the Supreme Court order asking him to deposit a fine of Re 1 in a contempt case for his two tweets against the judiciary.This is Bhushan’s second review petition in the case.On August 31, the Supreme Court had directed Bhushan to pay a fine of Re 1 by September 15, failing which he would face three months of imprisonment and debarment from practicing before the Supreme Court for a period of three years. Bhushan paid the fine on September 14 and filed a review petition challenging the order convicting him of contempt passed by the Court on August 14. In his petition, Bhushan has raised 12 technical grounds urging the court to set aside the verdict. He has said that at no point of time, the three-judge bench indicated to him their intention to debar him from practice. He said that debarring a person from practice was a drastic step to be considered as a “last resort” by the Court.Bhushan further said that his reply was not considered by the bench before passing its order and he was denied an opportunity to lead evidence. Moreover, he said that the punishment in default could never be in excess of what was prescribed under Section 12 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. Section 12 provides for imprisonment up to six months or fine up to Rs 2000 or both.Bhushan sought permission of the top court to allow him to make oral arguments on his review petition as the practice normally is to decide the review petition in chambers without affording an open court hearing to the petitioner. Bhushan also raised constitutional issues saying that the bench went by his supplementary statement issued to the press which was not part of the contempt proceeding.“The judgment limits criticism to individual cases and puts all criticism of the institution or actions beyond the scope of the right. The above approach to Article 19(1)(a) completely disregards the principle that dissent and the free and fearless exchange of views concerning all matters pertaining to the state of Indian democracy are an especially central purpose of the right. The strength of this proposition is evidently compounded when these matters touch on the judiciary as an institution, in view of its unelected and counter-majoritarian position,” Bhushan’s petition said.In two tweets published by Bhushan in June this year, the lawyer blamed the CJI for keeping the Court closed during the Covid-19 lockdown and accused the judiciary for destroying democracy without a formal Emergency over the past few years. The Court while considering these tweets went on to hold Bhushan guilty of contempt. Further, the Court said that Bhushan “aggravated” the contempt against him by further making “reckless” allegations against past judges and refused to either withdraw the same or offer regret.The judgment had said, “It is not expected of a person who is a part of the system of administration of justice and who owes a duty to the said system, to make such tweets which are capable of shaking the confidence of general public and further making wild allegations in the affidavit thereby further attempting to malign the said institution. Such an act by responsible person who is part of this system cannot be ignored or overlooked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhushan-files-review-plea-in-contempt-case/story-zqBy6vMNybipGwAYZSLj1H.html
01-10-2020||India||NIA court grants bail to Assam peasant leader Akhil Gogoi in anti-CAA protest case||A National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court here on Thursday granted bail to peasant leader Akhil Gogoi in connection with a case related to inciting violence during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) agitation in Assam last year. NIA special judge Pranjal Das granted bail to Gogoi in connection to a case lodged initially in Chabua police station in Dibrugarh district on a surety of Rs 30,000 and other conditions like non-tampering of evidence and avoiding influencing witnesses. But the leader of Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), who was arrested in December last year on charges of violence during the anti-CAA stir, will remain in jail as he is yet to get bail in another NIA case lodged in Chandmari in Guwahati. Both cases had later been transferred to the NIA. Gogoi had earlier been granted bail by Gauhati High Court in July in connection with three separate cases slapped against him by Assam Police for allegedly inciting violence during the anti-CAA stir. “The court granted bail to Gogoi in connection with the NIA case filed in Chabua. He was denied bail in connection with the case in Chandmari in August this year. The bail application in that case will come for hearing on October 13,” Santanu Barthakur, counsel for Gogoi, said. Gogoi was arrested at Jorhat on December 12 last year for his role in the protests against CAA, which seeks to fast forward citizenship to Hindus, Sikhs, Christians, Parsis, Buddhists and Jains from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Three of his associates were arrested a day later. He was later handed over to NIA and a court in Guwahati sent him to 10 days custody of the agency on December 17. He was taken to New Delhi the same day for questioning. Gogoi was brought back to Guwahati on December 25 and has been in judicial custody ever since. The NIA has lodged the cases under several sections of IPC and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act (UAPAA) pertaining to criminal conspiracy, sedition, promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc., assertions against national integrity, support to terrorist organization etc. The three associates of Gogoi, who were also arrested in December last year, are already out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-court-grants-bail-to-assam-peasant-leader-akhil-gogoi-in-anti-caa-protest-case/story-pR8NQLC2WzAyxrRIIz4qbP.html
01-10-2020||India||SC seeks response from Rajasthan govt on rape of minor girl by father||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought the response of the state of Rajasthan on a plea challenging the bail granted by the Rajasthan high court to a person accused of raping his minor daughter.A bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul heard the petitioner’s counsel Ronak Karanpuria before issuing notice to Rajasthan government and the accused.“Issue notice returnable in three weeks,” the bench which also comprised justice Ajay Rastogi ordered.The accused is alleged to have continuously raped and molested his daughter from 2014 when she was 10 years old.When the daughter informed her mother of the same, the mother left the house along with the daughter for a few days but the accused persuaded them to come back.The exploitation continued and though the victim informed her aunt and grandmother of the same, nobody believed her, the petition said.Eventually when she was assaulted on March 18, 2020, the mother took a stand and approached the police on April 20 and filed a complaint based on which an FIR was registered. A medical examination was conducted on the victim on April 21 which concluded that sexual intercourse had taken place.The accused was charged with offence of rape under section 376 of Indian Penal Code and for offences under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.The Rajasthan high court, however, granted bail to the accused on September 3.“High Court mechanically and casually granted bail to the accused without considering the gravity of offence. High Court ought to have considered that if released, he in his capacity as the father of prosecutrix can to influence, intimidate and coerce her and can tamper evidence/witness,” the petition in the Supreme Court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-response-from-rajasthan-govt-on-rape-of-minor-girl-by-father/story-pPV22Hk6rAPIXselSYItEI.html
01-10-2020||India||No gathering permissible around India Gate area, says DCP||No gathering is permissible around the India Gate area owing to the imposition of Section 144, Delhi deputy commissioner of police said on Thursday. A gathering of 100 people in Jantar Mantar is allowed but with the prior consent from the competent authority, the DCP office said. The order comes a day before a gathering was being planned demanding justice for the Dalit woman of Hathras, who was allegedly gang-raped on September 14 and later succumbed to the injuries on September 29.  No gathering is permissible around India Gate due to imposition of Section 144 CrPC.@CPDelhi @LtGovDelhi @PMOIndia @HMOIndia @DelhiPolice #unlock4guidelines“General public is informed that in view of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order (dated 03.09.2020) a total gathering up to 100 persons is permissible at Jantar Mantar, and that too with prior permission of the competent authority,” the DCP office tweeted.In the past few days, several protests took place near the India Gate area. The recent farm bill protests in which a tractor was set on fire took place in this area. Police arrested five people, including the Punjab Youth Congress president Brinder Singh Dhillon, for leading the group that had set afire a tractor on Monday this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-gathering-permissible-around-india-gate-area/story-oz0djDtrNjF6qBnBh63RKL.html
01-10-2020||India||IMD issues rain warning for several Odisha districts||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday issued a warning of rainfall to several districts of Odisha including the capital city of Bhubaneswar for next 24 hours. In the weather forecast issued today, HR Biswas, IMD Director, Bhubaneswar said,” Warnings issued in most districts expect coastal and adjoining interior areas; western and extreme southern end of Odisha for next 24 hours. All districts will witness rain, but it will heavy only in 1 or 2 places. Capital city can have light to medium rainfall.”IMD Director added that a low-pressure area over North-west Bay of Bengal near Odisha is likely to develop and wind speeds can reach upto 40-50 kmph.Moreover, fishermen have been warned not to venture into the sea.“Low-pressure area over North-west Bay of Bengal near Odisha coast is likely to cause light-medium rain for the next 4-5 days. 1 or 2 places likely to have heavy to very heavy rain. Wind speeds can reach 40-50 kmph and fishermen have been warned,” the IMD Director said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-rain-warning-for-several-odisha-districts/story-CAKywlwsxLSiqr76RpWh3L.html
01-10-2020||India||‘Ready to fight even with God’: KCR on river water dispute with Andhra||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday decided to confront the Centre for its failure to resolve the river water disputes between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, even after six years of bifurcation of the combined state. “When it comes to protecting the interests of farmers in the state, I am ready to fight even with God. We shall ensure that Telangana would get its rightful share of every drop of water in Godavari and Krishna rivers,” the chief minister said. At a high-level meeting of the irrigation department in Pragati Bhavan, KCR finalised the strategy to be adopted by the state government at the apex council meeting convened by Union Jal Sakthi minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat on October 6. Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy would present his state’s arguments at the meeting called to discuss the disputes between the two Telugu states on river water sharing. Asking the officials to put forth powerful arguments supported by all the required data before the apex council meeting, KCR said he would expose the Centre’s inaction in resolving the inter-state water disputes. “Under the AP Reorganisation Act, Telangana should be allocated its water share in the rivers. We wrote a letter to the Prime Minister on June 14, 2014 within two weeks of the formation of Telangana, requesting him to take up water allocation to the state. We had asked for the constitution of a special tribunal under Section (3) of the Inter State River Water Disputes Act 1956 or through the existing tribunal,” he pointed out. The chief minister regretted that even after six years, there was no response for the letter written to the PM. “The Centre is trying to give an impression that it is settling the disputes by calling for apex council meetings. In reality, the Centre is not doing anything,” he said. Stating that he would take the Centre to task at the apex council meeting on October 6, KCR said “there should be absolute clarity on the allocation of water to Telangana.” The chief minister also vowed to give a befitting reply to Andhra Pradesh which, he said, was intentionally creating disputes on the river water sharing. “We shall put forth our arguments so strongly that the AP government will not raise the issues again in future. We shall reject the attempts made to undermine the rights of Telangana people,” KCR said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-fight-even-with-god-kcr-on-river-water-dispute-with-andhra/story-htOI9hflDWDD45m9sUrzkL.html
01-10-2020||India||FIR filed against Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi under pandemic law over march towards Hathras||A first information report (FIR) was filed against Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra under the pandemic law and Section 144 over Thursday’s march towards Hathras.The Congress leaders were going to visit the family member of the Dalit woman who was gangraped in Hathras when they were detained by Uttar Pradesh Police. A fortnight after her rape, the 19-year-old victim died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday.The Gandhis were detained as they were walking to their destination after their vehicles were stopped at Yamuna Expressway, citing imposition of Section 144.An FIR for violation of criminal procedure code (CrPC) 144 (the section imposed for not allowing the gathering of more than four people) as well as the violation of pandemic act was lodged against Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and unknown protestors, Gautambuddhanagar Commissioner of Police Alok Singh said.The Gandhi siblings were taken away in a police jeep on Thursday evening and kept in a guest house for sometime. Then, they were released and escorted back to Delhi by the UP police.The Congress had claimed that the leaders were arrested by the police. “Shri Rahul Gandhi, Smt Priyanka Gandhi and senior Congress leaders have been arrested by the UP police,” the party said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-filed-against-rahul-gandhi-priyanka-gandhi-under-pandemic-law-over-march-towards-hathras/story-tpViNILUY31T5dlSmi7CAN.html
01-10-2020||India||Seventh round of India-China military talks on border row likely next week||India and China are expected to hold the seventh round of corps commander-level talks in eastern Ladakh next week in their latest attempt to reduce military friction along the contested border, officials familiar with the developments said on Thursday. The two countries have been locked in a border row for almost five months, and their armies have made arrangements for a long haul in the Ladakh sector with no resolution to the dispute in sight. Indian and Chinese diplomats held talks on the border standoff on Wednesday with little to show beyond a commitment to implement decisions made at the last round of military talks about maintaining stability along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). The September 21 military talks remained inconclusive, with Indian negotiators firmly demanding comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante as the only approach towards de-escalation, and China asking India to withdraw its soldiers from strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to reduce friction. The two sides, however, made some headway. According to a joint statement, released in New Delhi and Beijing on September 22, the two sides agreed to stop sending more troops to the front line and to hold a seventh round of commander-level talks “as soon as possible, take practical measures to properly solve problems on the ground, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquility in the border area.” China’s recent assertion that it abides by the LAC as proposed by Premier Zhou Enlai to Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru in 1959 has complicated the border row in eastern Ladakh, and called into question Beijing’s intent to restore status quo ante of early April and de-escalate the conflict, officials said. A change of guard is set to take place at the Leh-based 14 Corps, with its current commander Lieutenant General Harinder Singh moving out shortly after completing his one-year term. Singh is heading to Dehradun as the commandant of the Indian Military Academy. Singh will be replaced by Lieutenant General PGK Menon. He was present along with Singh at the September 21 talks. The change of guard will take place around mid-October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seventh-round-of-india-china-military-talks-on-border-row-likely-next-week/story-1DEyccDJrDufi9B6YTqKXM.html
01-10-2020||India||‘Shocked our conscience’: Allahabad High Court summons UP officials in Hathras gang-rape case||The Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court on Thursday summoned top government and police officers of Uttar Pradesh to assess their handling of the Hathras gang-rape case. In an 11-page order that relied on reportage of the 19-year-old’s cremation past midnight, the high court said it is taking suo moto cognisance of the case since the alleged incidents which took place after the death of the victim on 29 September leading up to her creation “have shocked our conscience”.Justices Jaspreet Singh and Rajan Roy also summoned the family members of the Dalit woman who was allegedly gang-raped on the night of September 14 and succumbed to the injuries later, on September 29 in Delhi. The judges ordered the state to ensure that “no coercion, influence or pressure is exerted upon the family members of the deceased in any manner, by anyone”.Also Read: Hathras gang-rape case: BJP lawmaker slams UP cops over 2.30am cremation, says it violates religious beliefsThe court has asked the state government to respond by October 12 when it will hear the officials and the woman’s family. The judges referred to several media reports that echoed the family’s allegations that the UP police had hurriedly completed the cremation of the young woman, allegedly without the consent of her family to underline that a dead person must be respected by the state.Also Read: ‘Media will go, we’ll still be here’: Top official on visit to Hathras family“The State must respect a dead person by allowing the body of the person to be treated with dignity and unless it is required for the purposes of establishing a crime to ascertain the cause of death and be subjected to postmortem or for any scientific investigation, medical education or to save the life of another person in accordance with law, the preservation of the dead body and disposal in accordance with human dignity,” it observed.“We are inclined to examine as to whether there has been gross violation of the fundamental rights of the deceased victim and the family members of the victim; whether the State Authorities have acted oppressively high handedly and illegally to violate such rights,” the court said.If the reports are true, then it will be a case of “gross violation of basic human and fundamental rights,” the court noted.“Death must be so beautiful...To forget time, to forget life, to be at peace,” the court said recalling Oscar wilde. “But in this case, the victim was treated with extreme brutality by the perpetrators of the crime and what is alleged to have happened thereafter, if true, amount to perpetuating the misery of the family and rubbing salt in their wounds,” it said.After the incident led to a nationwide outrage, Uttar Pradesh assistant director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar denied that the body was cremated without the family’s consent. “They were present during the funeral. The body was putrefying. The victim died yesterday in Delhi. After the post-mortem, the funeral was conducted with the consent of the family members,” Kumar said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocked-our-conscience-allahabad-high-court-summons-up-officials-in-hathras-case/story-oDgRGY3cHr7P8ZnprQNWKP.html
01-10-2020||India||‘Anti-democratic’: Opposition slams ‘reckless’ UP Police for detaining Rahul Gandhi||Opposition leaders from across the country condemned the detainment of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi by Uttar Pradesh Police while he was on his way to meet the family members of the 19-year-old Hathras gangrape victim.The Congress leader was walking to his destination along with his sister Priyanka Gandhi after their convoy was stopped at Yamuna Expressway, citing imposition of Section 144.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar slammed the “reckless” behaviour of the police and called the incident “extremely condemnable”.“Reckless behaviour of UP Police towards @INCIndia leader Shri @RahulGandhi is extremely condemnable. It is reprehensible for those who are supposed to uphold the law to trample upon the democratic values in such a manner,” he tweeted.Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M K Stalin said that the incident showed the extent of “atrocities and injustices” faced by citizens under a “ruthless government”.“I strongly condemn #Hathras & #Balrampur rape cases which show the extent of atrocities & injustices faced by citizens under such a ruthless & cruel govt. If @RahulGandhi can be manhandled for seeking #JusticeForIndiasDaughters what protects the common man from @myogiadityanath?,” Stalin tweeted.Congress leader Shashi Tharoor shared photos of the scuffle between UP Police and Rahul Gandhi on his Twitter handle, and said that Opposition presence was being termed as “politicisation”. Earlier in the day, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi had urged the opposition to not increase the tension through “political tourism”. “Godi media terms opposition presence as politicisation: how low will they bend to serve their masters’ agenda? The role of Opposition is to stand up for the victims of a Govt which lets lawlessness run rife, denies any form of justice to the family & tries to cremate the truth,” Tharoor tweeted.Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan slammed the UP Police for preventing Rahul Gandhi from visiting the victim’s family, calling the move “anti-democratic”.“Rahul Gandhi has every democratic right to go to Hathras. There is also constitutional freedom. The move to eliminate it all is ultimately anti-democratic. This cannot be allowed in a democratic society. The police assault on Rahul Gandhi is a reprehensible act,” said Vijayan in an official statement.The 19-year-old gangrape victim had succumbed to her injuries in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-democratic-opposition-slams-reckless-up-police-for-detaining-rahul-gandhi/story-Bfzm1ul4sQFCDoJvYXEOZJ.html
01-10-2020||India||Congress not a reliable ally, no tie-up in future, says H D Kumaraswamy||A day after Congress leaders including leader of opposition in the Assembly Siddaramiah said that there would be no tie-up with the regional Janata Dal (Secular) to take on the ruling BJP in Karnataka, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy hit out at the national party saying it was not a “reliable ally and worthy of a tie-up”.The Congress leaders had ruled out any kind of alliance with JDS for the upcoming bypolls to two assembly constituencies Sira and RR Nagar as well as for four graduates and teachers constituencies for the upper house Vidhana Parishat. While the assembly polls are scheduled for November 3, the election for the four seats in Vidhana Parishat will be held on October 28.Kumaraswamy in a series of tweets said “Who came to the door of Deve Gowda (national President of JDS) seeking alliance in 2018? We never went to the Congress’ doorstep. Congress is not a party worthy of allying.” The JDS leader went on to write, “Apart from toppling my coalition government, they even lured BSP MLAs who were supporting its government in Rajasthan and are daily destabilising the government in Maharashtra clearly showing they are unworthy of being allied with.”Saying that since Congress does not accept “coalition dharma” Kumaraswamy said there was no question of aligning with it in the future. He also said “let not some Congress leaders misuse Deve Gowda’s and JDS’ name in the guise of forming a coalition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-not-a-reliable-ally-no-tie-up-in-future-says-h-d-kumaraswamy/story-7eUurB8ojcoUM0cMW6uWTN.html
01-10-2020||India||India, Myanmar working to operationalise Sittwe port in early 2021||India and Myanmar are working to operationalise Sittwe port by the first quarter of 2021 while the tendering process for 69 bridges for the trilateral highway involving Thailand will begin soon, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday. Shringla made the remarks while co-chairing the India-Myanmar foreign office consultations with permanent secretary U Soe Han. India’s assistance to Myanmar currently stands at $1.4 billion, and New Delhi will provide debt service relief under the G20 Debt Service Suspension Initiative to Myanmar from May to December to mitigate the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Despite the challenges caused by the Covid pandemic, we are working towards operationalising the Sittwe port by the first quarter of next year. With respect to the 69 bridges on the trilateral highway, I am happy to inform you that we will soon be moving forward with the tendering process,” Shringla said. Sittwe port is part of the Kaladan multi-modal transit transport project, which is crucial to India’s plans for the landlocked northeastern states to access the Bay of Bengal through Mizoram and to provide alternative connectivity to Kolkata without having to use the circuitous Siliguri corridor. Once the port is operationalised through a private operator, Indian goods can be taken via the Aizawl-Zorinpui-Palletwa axis to Kaladan river, and then transferred to Sittwe port. The India-Myanmar-Thailand trilateral highway has been held up due to problems associated with the stretch in Myanmar and the construction of the bridges is expected to speed up work on the project. Shringla described security cooperation between the two countries as robust and said both sides were sensitive to each other’s security concerns. Myanmar’s handing over of 22 Indian insurgents was “deeply appreciated” by India as it sent a “strong message of deterrence to inimical elements on both sides”, he said. He requested Myanmar for the early conclusion of an extradition treaty, a mutual legal assistance treaty on civil and commercial matters, and an agreement on the transfer of sentenced persons. As part of defence cooperation, an Indian team for deployment of meteorological squadrons will travel to Myanmar this month, and India will receive Myanmar’s representative at its maritime Information Fusion Centre for the Indian Ocean. Shringla also assured the Myanmar side that India is committed to sharing its capabilities for a Covid-19 vaccine with its strategic partners. The two sides also discussed ways to mitigate the pandemic’s impact, including supply of medicines, equipment and technology. The consultations, which were held virtually, reviewed overall bilateral ties, including border cooperation and upgrade of border infrastructure, the status of India’s development projects, trade and investment, and cultural cooperation, including the restoration of earthquake-damaged pagodas in Bagan. With the Joint Trade Committee’s next ministerial meeting to be held on October 20, Shringla said India is also looking forward to enhancing cooperation in the energy sector. Myanmar, with an energy portfolio of more than $1.2 billion, is the largest destination for Indian investments in oil and gas in Southeast Asia. The situation in Rakhine state also figured in the discussions. India recently entered into trilateral cooperation with Japan in Rakhine, under which it will create infrastructure for 15 schools. “Our efforts towards ensuring an early, safe and sustainable repatriation of internally displaced persons to Myanmar will continue,” Shringla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-myanmar-working-to-operationalise-sittwe-port-in-early-2021/story-JdJWJeb4nL6Gtw9PAFx11M.html
01-10-2020||India||Telangana records 50% excess rainfall this monsoon season||Telangana has recorded a 50 per cent increase in the average rainfall in this year’s south-west monsoon season which concluded on Wednesday.According to the official figures obtained from the state agriculture department, the state received an average rainfall of 1078.30 mm as on Wednesday, as against the normal rainfall of 720.4 mm since the monsoon entered the state in the second week of June. This accounts for an increase of around 50 per cent.However, Hyderabad meteorological department has projected that the state received 45 per cent excess rainfall this rainfall season. The average rainfall as on September 30 was 1,102 mm as against the normal rainfall of 759.6 mm – an excess of 45 per cent.“The IMD calculates rainfall season from June 1 to September 30, whereas the agriculture department takes into consideration the south-west monsoon, which enters the state a bit late,” Hyderabad meteorological department’s weather expert B Raja Rao said.He said this year’s rainfall was the highest in the last 10 years. “Last time the state received such a heavy rainfall was in 2010, when it was 33.5 per cent more than the normal rainfall. We only take into consideration the last 10 years’ data. So, compared to the previous decade, too, this year’s rainfall could be the highest,” Rao said.While Mulugu district received the highest rainfall of 1916 mm, Nalgonda received the lowest rainfall of 636 mm. Out of 33 districts, as many as 27 districts received an excess rainfall of 20 per cent or more.The IMD weather expert attributed this abnormal increase in the rainfall this season to frequent low-pressures in Bay of Bengal. “There was one low-pressure each in June and July and as many as five in August and two in September, that caused heavy rains in the state,” he said.Adding to this phenomenon, there were formation of vertical wind shears over some areas that resulted in excess rainfall in several places. “For the first time after many years, there was an excess rainfall of 50-80 per cent in south Telangana and Rayalaseema of neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. In fact, there was an excess rainfall of 84 per cent in Anantapur, which is considered to be a perennially drought-hit area,” Rao said.He said the impact of south-west monsoon in the state will continue for some more days, before it starts retreating. So, rains will continue for some more days, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-records-50-excess-rainfall-this-monsoon-season/story-rq9XgI4NzPE4z3i3dEo0TL.html
01-10-2020||India||‘Media will go, we’ll still be here’: Top official on visit to Hathras family||The family of the Uttar Pradesh’s Dalit woman, who died days after being gang-raped and tortured in Hathras, has alleged being made to feel the “pressure” from a senior district official who visited them today. A 22-second video of the Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar speaking to the family in a courtyard has been widely shared online.The video shows Kumar telling the father of the woman that the media will go away in a day or two and that he should stick to his statement.“These media persons are not here to stay. Half would go today and the remaining will move away tomorrow and only few will remain. It is we who would stand with you and thus it is your wish if you want to change your statements or not. Do not harm your credibility, else we might also change…,” says the district magistrate in the video, before it ends abruptly.There is another video in which a woman from the victim’s family is seen blaming the district administration for putting pressure on the victim’s father.Repeated efforts were made to obtain the district magistrate’s version on this issue, but he did not take the call.When asked, Aligarh divisional commissioner GS Priyadarshi indicated he was not aware of the content of the video. “I can react once I come across the content of the said video,” Priyadarshi said. A senior Uttar Pradesh police officer said today the forensic report has revealed that the woman was not raped. Citing a forensic science laboratory (FSL) report, ADG (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said the cause of her death is an injury on the neck and trauma resulting due to it.“The report of the FSL has come. It says clearly that samples did not have sperm. It makes clear that there was no rape or gang rape,” Kumar said.Last week, Hathras ASP Prakash Kumar had told mediapersons that initially the accused were booked for attempt to murder under Section 307 of the IPC. Later, on receiving more inputs, Section 376-D (gangrape) of the IPC was added to the FIR, he had said.On Wednesday, the family had alleged that the UP police forced the cremation of the woman who was brutally raped by four men. The Yogi Adityanath government has been accused of trying to suppress the collection of additional forensic evidence and prevent the ballooning of protests through the forced cremation.District officials contended that they had consent from the woman’s family, but the manner in which the developments took place raised questions over the conduct of the administration and law enforcement.The woman succumbed to injuries in Delhi on Tuesday and the body was moved later that night to her hometown 200km away. The cremation was carried out at 2.30am amid heavy deployment of police, who stopped locals and the media from approaching the site.“The police have forcibly taken the body and my father along with them for cremation. When my father reached Hathras, he was immediately taken (to the crematorium) by the police,” the woman’s brother was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Hathras DM Praveen Kumar had denied the charges. “The funeral was conducted with the due permission of the father. No one in the family, except a handful, have levelled such charges. Initially, family was not prepared to shift the victim to Delhi for better treatment but later agreed to it,” the DM had told the PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/media-will-go-we-ll-still-be-here-top-official-on-visit-to-hathras-family/story-FNchqNAjzq3hUaZRouaGIJ.html
01-10-2020||India||Railways to start 200 additional trains during holiday season: Rly Board CEO||Railways is planning to introduce 200 additional special trains between October 15 and November 30 to cater to passengers during the holiday season, Railway Board CEO VK Yadav announced on Thursday.At present around 310 special trains are plying since the lockdown was announced while regular trains remain suspended indefinitely.“We have conducted meetings with the general managers of zones and instructed them to speak with local administration and review the status of coronavirus. They have been asked to give us a report after which we will decide how many trains can be introduced during the holiday season. Our estimate as of now is that we will run around 200 trains, but it is an estimate, the number could be more,” Yadav said at a press conference.Regular train services have been suspended since March 22.“As far as passenger trains are concerned, the situation now is that we will analyse the requirements of trains, the traffic patterns and coronavirus status on a daily basis. Wherever there is a need we will run trains,” he said.Railways had also introduced 20 pairs of ‘clone special trains’ from September 21, in addition to the 310 special trains operating now.Yadav also said that the occupancy of clone trains, which were introduced by the national transporter in routes with high demand, is around 60 %.“We have started the system of clone trains where every morning we analyse the data on trains through a software and our efforts are to ensure that wherever there is long waitlisting, a clone train is run there. We have also decided that wherever the clone train is filled, we will run another clone train on the same route to ensure that there are no passengers waitlisted,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-start-200-additional-trains-during-holiday-season-rly-board-ceo/story-HCHM3gBYWzAjHSqHMMJmcK.html
01-10-2020||India||Unlock 5: Statewise rules and restrictions of Delhi, Punjab, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh||In its reopening guidelines for October, the ministry of home affairs has asked the states to decide on the resumption of several activities, including schools and colleges. The only thing that the state governments won’t be able to do is to impose local lockdowns without consulting the Centre.Several state governments have announced separate guidelines. Delhi: The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has issued an order for status quo to be maintained in all activities permitted in the national Capital so far. There was no second round of lockdown in Delhi since June, after the Centre began unlocking. Schools in Delhi are shut till October 5. A decision is this regard will be taken before that.Punjab: Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered a slew of relaxations, including lifting of night curfew and an end to the Sunday lockdown.Punjab has already allowed to reopen schools from September 21.Maharashtra: The Maharashtra government on Wednesday extended coronavirus-induced lockdown till October 31, but also said that hotels, restaurants and bars will be allowed to operate from October 5 with restricted capacity. Hotels, food courts, restaurants and bars can operate from October 5 with capacity not exceeding 50 percent or as prescribed by local authorities.The Railways will increase the frequency of local trains in the MMR. Local trains in Pune region will restart with protocols and procedures adopted in the MMR.Dabbawallahs of tiffin carriers in MMR will be allowed to travel by local trains after procuring QR code passes from the Mumbai police commissioner’s office.Schools have not reopened in the state.Tamil Nadu: Before Centre’s guidelines, Tamil Nadu announced that lockdown in the state will be extended till October 31, with a few relaxations. The government earlier decided to reopen school from October 1. But now the decision has been put off.Restaurants and tea shops will be allowed to run from 6am till 9pm while parcels services and takeaway services can be availed till 10pm. The state is also allowing 100 incoming flights in Chennai airportWest Bengal: The government permitted theatres to open from October 1. The government has also released an SOP for Durga Puja to begin from October 23. Uttar Pradesh: The Uttar Pradesh government Thursday announced the guidelines under Unlock 5 and said all schools and coaching institutes, outside containment zones, will be allowed to open in a graded manner after October 15. The state government has finally allowed Durga puja with idols even in parks and other places strictly adhering to Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-5-statewise-rules-and-restrictions-of-delhi-punjab-maharashtra-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-uttar-pradesh/story-msBP0hKUiN7k1eokxsyTQN.html
01-10-2020||India||Assam flood situation improves marginally; 2.70 lakh still affected||Assam’s flood situation improved marginally on Thursday with river waters showing a receding trend and affecting a population of 2.70 lakh in seven districts, a bulletin issued by the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said.Till Wednesday, over 2.83 lakh people were affected in eight districts.At present, 426 villages are under water and more than 25,307 hectare of crop areas have been damaged in the state, the ASDMA said.The Brahmaputra was flowing above the danger level at Dhubri and the Kopiliu in Nagaon, the bulletin said.The flood affected districts are Bishwanath, Barpeta, Goalpara, Morigaon, Hojai, Nagaon and West Karbi Anglong.Nagaon is the worst hit with more than 1.90 lakh people suffering, followed by Morigaon with 35,670 and Goalpara with 26,127.Relief centres have been opened in Nagaon district where 117 people have taken shelter in 12 relief camps.The death toll in the three waves of floods in the state stands at 120.Infrastructural damages, mostly embankments, have been reported from West Karbi Anglong district, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-flood-situation-improves-marginally-2-70-lakh-still-affected/story-ucz9AXqth9K2VAwSKlhw5K.html
01-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Pak initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation along LoC, fitting response being given, says Army and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pakistan fired artillery guns in ceasefire violation along Line of Control, fitting response being given: ArmyIndian Army on Thursday said Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation along LoC in Keran and Machhal Sectors of Kupwara district in the afternoon by firing artillery guns, mortars and other weapons. “Befitting response is being given,” the Army has said. Read moreEx-Pak PM recalls ‘reverse-engineering of US missile’ to demonstrate his ties to militaryIn an attempt to demonstrate his ties with Pakistani military just days after hitting out at its leadership, ousted former prime minister Nawaz Sharif has claimed that his government had reverse-engineered a US cruise missile to develop the country’s own missile programme. Read moreKerala HC rejects former bishop’s plea to adjourn his trial in rape caseThe Kerala High Court on Thursday rejected a petition of rape accused former bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal to adjourn the trial against him citing a big spurt in coronavirus cases in Kerala. In his plea, he said in view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation his lawyers are finding it difficult to appear before the trial court in Kottayam and hearing can be resumed after two months once the situation normalises. Read moreJ-K cops nab 2 drug smugglers in Samba, seize 13 kgs of poppy straw, Rs 27 lakh cashTwo narcotic smugglers were arrested and 13 kg of poppy straw (hukki) and Rs 27 lakh cash were seized from them in Samba district, the Jammu and Kashmir Police said Thursday. A police party while conducting searches of stranded trucks on Mansar Morh, intercepted a truck that led to the drug bust. Read more2 British PMs benefited from slavery, admits WestminsterTwo British prime ministers – Robert Peel and William Gladstone – are among top politicians who directly benefited from slave trade and indentured labour in India, America, West Indies and elsewhere, according to a major review of parliamentary art in Westminster released on Thursday. Read moreIPL 2020: Rohit Sharma reaches 5000 runs in Indian Premier League, joins Virat Kohli and Suresh Raina in elite listMumbai Indians captain Rohit Sharma made his way into the record books in the IPL 2020 match No. 13 against Kings XI Punjab in Abu Dhabi on Thursday. Rohit became the third cricketer to score 5000 runs in IPL after RCB captain Virat Kohli and CSK’s Suresh Raina. Read moreMithila Palkar’s share about her granddad’s recovery from Covid tugs at people’s heartstringsThe ongoing pandemic has altered millions of lives. Among those who have found it difficult to adjust are senior citizens who often find it hard to understand why they cannot step out like earlier or have as many visitors come meet them. Read moreAnanya Panday charms in western and Indian look both and these throwbacks from Khaali Peeli’s first test look are proofAs fans excitedly wait on the edge for Maqbool Khan-directorial Khaali Peeli, lead star Ananya Panday added to the rising anticipation around the romantic thriller with throwback pictures from her first look test. Read moreWatch| Hathras case twist: UP top cop claims girl not raped; bid to stir caste tension||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pak-initiated-unprovoked-ceasefire-violation-along-loc-fitting-response-being-given-says-army-and-all-the-latest-news/story-f0YJEN4vO9diDTeFyvrhNM.html
01-10-2020||India||Onus on Pakistan for normal neighbourly ties, says India||India on Thursday said the onus is on Pakistan for creating an environment conducive to normal neighbourly relations in an atmosphere free of terrorism and violence. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava made the remarks during a weekly news briefing while answering a question on India’s overall relations with its neighbouring countries. He said India’s position on ties with Pakistan is well-known. “The government has conveyed that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan in an atmosphere free of terror, hostility and violence. The onus is on Pakistan for creating such an environment,” he said. In recent days, India has held a bilateral summit with Sri Lanka, a meeting of the Joint Consultative Commission with Bangladesh, and foreign office consultations with Myanmar and these engagements were part of the country’s “neighbourhood first” policy, he said. The Indian government is committed to friendly and mutually beneficial relations with neighbours, and its engagements are based on a “consultative, non-reciprocal and outcome-oriented approach”, Srivastava said. India also has a large development cooperation footprint in neighbouring countries, with several projects to promote greater connectivity, improved infrastructure and people-to-people contacts, he added. In response to another question, Srivastava dismissed Pakistan’s criticism of an Indian court’s verdict acquitting all 32 accused in the 1992 Babri mosque demolition case, including senior BJP leaders LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi. “India is a mature democracy, where the government and the people abide by the verdicts of the court and show respect for the rule of law. It may be difficult for a system with a coercive apparatus, where people and the courts can be silenced at the will of the establishment, to understand such a democratic ethos,” he said. Srivastava also said India expects Pakistan to ensure the safety and security of the Indian high commission in Islamabad and its personnel following a “staged protest” outside the mission over the recent death of 11 Pakistani Hindus in Rajasthan. He said the Pakistani Hindus, who were in India since September 2015, died after consuming a “toxic substance” and their deaths were reported to the external affairs ministry on August 8. In response to a communication from the Pakistani high commission in New Delhi seeking information on the incident, India had shared an interim response on August 14. This incident was “exploited by the Pakistani establishment to further its own anti-India propaganda”, and a “staged protest was held in Islamabad”, where people who claimed to belong to the Hindu community had gathered outside the Indian mission, he said. “I would say it is the responsibility of the Pakistani authorities to ensure the safety and security of the Indian high commission in Islamabad and its personnel,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/onus-on-pakistan-for-normal-neighbourly-ties-says-india/story-pFFmX7TqBeKZlAu7ZdimTJ.html
01-10-2020||India||J-K cops nab 2 drug smugglers in Samba, seize 13 kgs of poppy straw, Rs 27 lakh cash||Two narcotic smugglers were arrested and 13 kg of poppy straw (hukki) and Rs 27 lakh cash were seized from them in Samba district, the Jammu and Kashmir Police said Thursday. A police party while conducting searches of stranded trucks on Mansar Morh, intercepted a truck that led to the drug bust.“During checking of the truck we found a gunny bag containing 13 kg of poppy straw. It was kept in the tool box. During further search, two polythene bags containing bundles of Indian currency worth Rs 27 lakhs was also recovered,” said a police spokesperson. The drug peddlers have been identified as Samiullah (truck driver) and his associate Zahid Maqbool, both residents of Lower Munda in Qazigund. The truck was also seized. A case under sections 8/15/22/29 of NDPS Act has been registered at the Samba police station and further investigations have been initiated. Linkages in the supply chain of this narcotic module are being investigated, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-cops-nab-2-drug-smugglers-in-samba-seize-13-kgs-of-poppy-straw-rs-27-lakh-cash/story-11pKzhc766Nyn29ZIjBloN.html
01-10-2020||India||‘My talent has seen me through…’||Actor Tanya Desai believes nothing except talent can take you a notch above the rest. “After schooling from Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, I shifted to Delhi for college and it was there I started dance training,” she tells. Soon, she become an instructor at that same institute. Narrating her journey Tanya said, “Simultaneously, I was doing dance reality shows and started as background dancer in films. It was during one such song-dance stint for the film ‘Lollypop Since 1947’ when its female protagonist and parallel lead were replaced and its producer came to me and offered me the parallel lead in the film and that’s how acting happened.”Her debut film didn’t see light of the day but worked started coming her way. “Next, I got a Shashilal Nayar’s ‘Naagrik’ that awaits release. To keep my finances going, I took up TV and did numerous shows like ‘CID’, ‘Dil Dosti Dance’, a Telugu film that will release on OTT followed by another theatrical ‘Street Light’. I was also part of controversial Tamil web series ‘Godman’.” she said.Tanya feels that her talent has seen her through and in merely six years she has achieved recognition and has a good body of work. The pretty actor will be next seen with ‘Aashiqui’ heartthrob Rahul Roy in an international film ‘Night and Fog.’ “This film exposed me to international cinema and provided me a platform to learn a lot. Apart from this, I’m thrilled with the flattering response my recently released web series ‘Crackdown’ has received.”On the road ahead, Tanya plans to continue working in diverse languages and across mediums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/my-talent-has-seen-me-through/story-seS9fP7v77pTK0A6pgNmwJ.html
01-10-2020||India||Pakistan fired artillery guns in ceasefire violation along Line of Control, fitting response being given: Army||Indian Army on Thursday said Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation along LoC in Keran and Machhal Sectors of Kupwara district in the afternoon by firing artillery guns, mortars and other weapons. “Befitting response is being given,” the Army has said.Early in the day, two soldiers were killed and four injured in an unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pakistani troops along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Naugam sector.“Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Naugam sector, Kupwara on Thursday morning by firing mortars and other weapons,” Srinagar-based defence spokesperson Colonel Rajesh Kalia said.He said two soldiers were killed and four sustained injuries in the firing from across the border.“The injured personnel are being evacuated while a befitting response is being given to the Pakistani firing,” he added.This year has seen a number of ceasefire violations by Pakistan from across the LoC, especially in north Kashmir.On Wednesday, Lance Naik Karnail Singh was killed during shelling by Pakistan along the 744 km-long LoC in Krishna Ghati (KG) sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district. The deceased soldier was a native of Loha Khera in Sangrur district of Punjab.On Monday, an army soldier was injured when Pakistani forces opened fire on the Indian pickets in north Kashmir’s Machil sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-fired-artilery-guns-in-ceasefire-violation-along-line-of-control-fitting-response-being-given-army/story-l78I5OweVt9F2104WcDFhK.html
01-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape case: BJP lawmaker slams UP cops over 2.30am cremation, says it violates religious beliefs||Nand Kishor Gurjar, a lawmaker of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday asked governor Anandiben Patel to act against officials, who he said, had denied the family of the Hathras gang-rape victim the right to perform her last rites.Gurjar, who represents Loni assembly constituency of Ghaziabad near national capital Delhi, said the police had hastily performed the last rites of the 19-year-old woman in violation of religious beliefs of Hindus not to cremate the dead after sunset.The family of the 19-year-old Dalit victim had alleged that they had been forced by UP police to perform her last rites in the stealth of the night. The police said they had the consent of the kin. Opposition parties have slammed the Yogi Adityanath government over the hurried cremation, arguing that it was meant to suppress protests.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi detained on way to Hathras, UP police take him back to DelhiGurjar claimed that a ‘political syndicate’ was at work along with officials to paint the BJP as anti-dalit and the administration’s decision to cremate the woman past midnight was part of this conspiracy.“The entire thing appears to be the handiwork of top officials from Lucknow to Hathras to malign the image of the government. It just cannot happen that such acts that are against the spirit of ‘sanatana dharma’ - of not cremating the dead at night and denying family the right to even lend a shoulder to their daughter’s bier – would be allowed without the consent of senior officials like UP DGP and others,” the lawmaker said in a letter to the governor. Also Read: Govt may declare Hathras village a Covid containment zone, says DM“The unfortunate incident in Balrampur too appears to be the handiwork of this syndicate about whom I had briefed the chief minister in the past,” he said demanding that officials be tried for murder and the cases against them be tried in a fast track court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-case-bjp-lawmaker-slams-up-cops-over-2-30am-cremation-says-it-violates-religious-beliefs/story-TszXMtCfiRzpnMKOO6XCQO.html
01-10-2020||India||14-year-old girl killed with stones, body dumped in field in UP’s Bhadohi||A 14-year-old girl was murdered and dumped in a field outside a village under Gopiganj police station area of Bhadohi district on Thursday noon, police said.The incident took place when the girl went out of her house for some work.“Relatives of the girl said she went outside for some work during noon. When she didn’t return for over one and a half hour, they launched a search for her. Later, they found her body lying in a millet field. There was blood all around. The kin rushed her to a hospital where doctors declared her brought dead,” said a police official.The officer said the unidentified assailants stoned the girl to death and dumped her body in the field.Superintendent of police, Bhadohi, Rambadan Singh, who inspected the spot, said a case had been registered against unidentified assailants under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).A team has been constituted to identify the assailants involved in the incident and ensure their arrest.Asked if the girl was also raped, the SP said he can’t say anything about it now.“The body has been sent for the post mortem. The examination will ascertain whether she was raped or not. We are investigating the matter,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-year-old-killed-with-stones-body-dumped-in-village-field-in-up-s-bhadohi/story-vCWURXieaAf3hvexJRvWZO.html
01-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi detained on way to Hathras, UP police take him back to Delhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, his sister and party general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other leaders were detained by the police on their way to Hathras to meet the family of the 19-year-old Dalit girl - who died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, a fortnight after she was allegedly gang-raped in her village. The Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) dubbed the proposed visit of Gandhi siblings to Hathras as “political tourism”. Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the criminals will be punished for their barbarism. “The probe teams are carrying out the investigation, but I think there should not be political tourism on the same,” he said.The Gandhis and other Congress leaders were first stopped at Greater Noida on the Yamuna Expressway and later detained when they started walking towards Hathras, around 145 km from Greater Noida.Taken away in a police jeep, the Gandhis were kept in a guest house for sometime before being released and escorted back to Delhi by the UP police. The Congress had claimed that Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi were arrested by the police and attacked state chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the move.“Shri Rahul Gandhi, Smt Priyanka Gandhi and senior Congress leaders have been arrested by the UP police,” the party said on Twitter.Videos and pictures shared by the Congress showed Rahul Gandhi falling down in the scuffle that ensued when the police tried to stop Congress leaders and supporters from marching towards Hathras near the Jewar toll plaza. The girl was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. Priyanka Gandhi also alleged that the police used ‘lathis’ on Congress workers and many of them were wounded in the baton-charge.Earlier, Rahul Gandhi was seen asking the UP police under which law he was being stopped and insisted that he would like to proceed alone towards Hathras to meet the rape victim’s family since Section 144 was imposed. Under this section, assembly of four or more people is prohibited.“Can you tell me under which law can you stop me from marching towards Hathras? I want to go alone to Hathras and on what basis can you arrest me?” he asked, to which police officials replied that he had violated Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) of disobeying orders promulgated by the government during the Covid-19 pandemic.Rahul Gandhi also alleged that in India today only RSS people and Prime Minister Narendra Modi can move around. “In today’s India, only Modi can walk or travel by air. No one else can,” he said.The Congress leader also tweeted, “In times of sorrow, loved ones are not left alone. It is Jungle Raj in UP that meeting a family in mourning also scares the government. Do not be so afraid chief minister.”Priyanka Gandhi said they were repeatedly stopped from going to Hathras. “When we all started our march on foot with Rahul ji, we were repeatedly stopped and lathis rained on us in a barbaric manner. Many workers were injured. But our intention is clear,” she alleged.“The sticks of an egotistical government cannot stop us. I wish these lathis were used by this police while standing in defence of Hathras’s Dalit daughter,” she also tweeted in Hindi.“An arrogant power is demonstrating its power over the dead bodies of innocent girls and it is indulging in injustice, instead of preventing it. Our struggle for women will continue for a safe society and state, where they can live freely and progress,” Priyanka Gandhi said in another tweet.Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala also posted a video with a tweet showing Rahul Gandhi allegedly being manhandled.“Lala Lajpat Rai had said that every blow of a stick on my body would prove to be the last nail in the coffin of the British Raj. The sticks on Rahul ji and Priyanka ji’s convoy will also prove to be the last nail in the coffin of the Yogi government,” he tweeted in Hindi.Former union finance minister P Chidambaram also alleged that none of the country’s laws seemed to apply to the UP police.“UP police is a law into itself. None of the laws of the country seem to apply to it. What is wrong if the leaders of a political party protest against a gruesome crime and wish to visit the victim’s family?” he asked on Twitter.The Congress has demanded Adityanath’s resignation over the gruesome incident that it said was a “blot” on the society. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi said the ‘Nirbhaya of Hathras’ did not die but was killed by a “cruel and insensitive” government and its administration. In a video message, she said the country will speak up against this injustice and not allow the BJP to divide the country and violate the Constitution.Before leaving for Hathras, Rahul Gandhi attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government over “jungle raj” in Uttar Pradesh. “The atrocities on daughters continue in UP’s jungle raj. They were not given respect when alive and now the dignity has been taken away even in death. The BJP’s slogan of ‘Beti Bachao’ is not to save girls but to hide facts and save power,” he tweeted.Priyanka Gandhi too attacked Adityanath over the increase in incidents of rape in UP. “Hathras-like gruesome incident has happened in Balrampur. The girl’s feet and back was broken. There have been atrocities on girls in Azamgarh, Baghpat and Bulandshahr. There is no limit to UP’s jungle raj. Law and order cannot be implemented through marketing and speeches. This is the time for the chief minister’s accountability. People want answers,” she tweeted in Hindi. But the BJP accused the Congress of politicising the issue and said the Uttar Pradesh government would provide justice in the incident.Without naming the Gandhis, Naqvi said, “Those who are trying to increase the tension through political tourism, should not do that. Everyone is saddened and wants punishment for the culprits. The Uttar Pradesh government is working towards it. You will see the results soon.”In UP, cabinet minister Siddharth Nath Singh lashed out at the Congress leaders and accused them of politicising the incident. He said the Congress leaders must answer why they haven’t visited Rajasthan where a similar incident of rape has been reported. Singh said the Hathras gang rape will be heard in a fast track court and the UP chief minister has already declared that a special investigation team (SIT) will probe the matter. “It will be made public in a week’s time,” he said, adding the state government has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2,50,000, a house and a job for the family of the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-detained-on-way-to-hathras-up-police-take-him-back-to-delhi/story-5P6cxXkmg6vkb4leInyLnL.html
01-10-2020||India||Kerala HC rejects former bishop’s plea to adjourn his trial in rape case||The Kerala High Court on Thursday rejected a petition of rape accused former bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal to adjourn the trial against him citing a big spurt in coronavirus cases in Kerala.In his plea, he said in view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation his lawyers are finding it difficult to appear before the trial court in Kottayam and hearing can be resumed after two months once the situation normalises. But his plea was opposed by the prosecution saying it was part of his plan to delay the trial. It said when witnesses are facing intense animosity and danger, it will be inappropriate to adjourn the case at this juncture. The prosecution also cited his multiple attempts earlier to delay the trial. The court agreed to the contention of the prosecution and rejected Mulakkal’s plea. Following the rejection of the plea, the trial will continue in the chief judicial magistrate court in Kottayam. The court has posted the next hearing on October 5. Since proceedings are in-camera press has not been allowed to cover the trial. Mulakkal, former head of the Jalandhar Diocese was accused of raping a 44-year-old nun of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation between 2014 and 2016. He was arrested in September 2018, but later released on bail. The rape survivor and fellow nuns who supported her are leading a secluded life in a convent in Kottayam. There were many attempts to evict them but the High Court had intervened and directed police to give protection to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-rejects-former-bishop-s-plea-to-adjourn-his-trial-in-rape-case/story-3kYQ2Qh385OgywvAlCrrJP.html
01-10-2020||India||People want us to sing for free on digital platforms, says Kailash Kher||Singer Kailash Kher feels music has been an indisputable stress buster during the ongoing Covid crisis. “The pandemic has played heavily on our mental health along with the physical aspect. So, I focused on my music as it plays a big role in de-stressing as music gives internal peace to all.” The singer was in the state capital recently as a panelist at the official meet to discuss upcoming film city in Uttar Pradesh initiated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Talking about what all kept the ‘Kailasa’ singer busy, “During the phase I came out with a motivational song ‘Main hi mera rakshak hoon’ then memoir on suicide ‘Ek jyot hai jagi’ along with the song ‘Atmanirbhar hum, bolo Vande Matram’ and others. Under Sangeet Setu, with Citizen Rights Association (ISRA), I combined three generation (123 singers) of musicians to give a message of peace and strength to the world,” said Kailash. The ‘Teri deewani’ singer collaborated with many organisations for various projects. “Currently I’m also organising musical motivational talks. As I feel when said with music thoughts leave a deeper impact.” Kailash has done some commercial recordings too. “In this tough phase I tried my best to keep crediting salaries of my staff and thankfully I was able to generate it like always. As per live gigs, enquiries have started to pour in and God-willing we will be able to do shows from December onwards. We need live shows as virtual income is too low and most of them have been in collaborations for a cause. Truth is that everyone wants us to sing for free on digital platforms.” He is working on his new album. “We planned to bring it come out by this year but ‘Parmatma ne yeh saal to nigal hi liya’. Probably, by next year we will able to bring out the new album.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/people-want-us-to-sing-for-free-on-digital-platforms-says-kailash-kher/story-9J094MzCcHkwqZbAIjoYbP.html
01-10-2020||India||ED files chargesheet against LeT chief Hafiz Saeed in terror funding case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a chargesheet against Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) chief Muhammad Hafiz Saeed, his deputy Shahid Mehmood, a Dubai-based funds manager Mohammad Kamran and a Delhi-based hawala operator Mohammad Salim in connection with its money laundering probe against outfit’s financial arm Falah-i-Insaniyat (FiF) Foundation. The agency had initiated a money laundering probe against Mohammad Salman and Mohammad Salim, arrested in 2018, on the basis of a probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). A statement by ED on Thursday said that Salman was involved in receiving funds from FIF operators through illegally operated hawala channels. FiF is a Pakistan based organisation established by Jamat-ud-Dawa (JuD), the parent organisation of LeT, founded by Hafiz Saeed. FiF was designated as a terrorist organization by the United Nations in March 2012. The UN and the Indian agencies have repeatedly claimed that FIF is nothing but a front end organization of JuD & LeT that was formed to evade security and sanctions. India declared FIF as a terrorist organisation under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in August 2016. The ED said that LeT uses FiF to raise funds and build a network for further terror activities. The agency’s probe revealed that funds were re-routed from Pakistan to Dubai and further to India through hawala channels. “Salman was the recipient of funds sent by Kamran and his associates Abdul Aziz Behlim and Arif Gulambashir Dharampuria, in Dubai. Salman used the funds received from abroad for construction of a Masjid at Uttawar, Palwal, Haryana and for the marriages of poor girls in and around the area of village Uttawar,” the ED said. The ED probe revealed Salman received Rs 4.69 crore through FiF and its members. The agency said it has attached three properties of Salman in New Delhi worth Rs 73.12 lakh. He was chargesheeted by the ED earlier this year. Both Salman and Salim are in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-files-chargesheet-against-let-chief-hafiz-saeed-in-terror-funding-case/story-xvTeOVjCTf6jV3iUh8tfiM.html
01-10-2020||India||When Gandhi stood trial for sedition||On the occasion of the centennial birth anniversary of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, the Hindustan Times published a special supplement on October 2, 1969, which had essays by political thinkers, eminent journalists, Gandhians and writers. Fifty years on, we republish a piece from the supplement titled ‘Statement at the great trial of 1922’, which details the events of the year when the Father of the Nation was tried under section 124A of the Indian Penal Code — the sedition charge — for causing disaffection against the colonial government. The first part of this article offers a report of the trial. The second part is Gandhi’s oral submission. Gandhi also read out a written statement in court. The original piece has been edited for brevity:The historical trial of Mahatma Gandhi and Shri Shankarlal Ghelabhai Banker, editor, and printer and publisher respectively of Young India, on charges under section 124A of the Indian Penal Code was held on Saturday, 18th March, 1922, before Mr C. N. Broomfield. J.CS., District and Sessions Judge, Ahmedabad. Also read: MK Gandhi’s South Africa daysJ. T. Strangman, Advocate-General, with Rao Bahadur Girdhartal Uttamram, Public Prosecutor of Ahmedabad, appeared for the Crown. Mr A. C. Wild, Remembrancer of Legal Affairs, was also present. Mahatma Gandhi and Shri Shankarial Banker were undefended. Among the members of the public who were present on the occasion were: Kasturba Gandhi, Sarojini Naidu, Pandit M. M. Malaviya, Shri N. C. Kelkar, Smt J. B. Petit and Smt Anasuyabahen Sarabhai.The Judge, who took his seat at 12 noon, said that there was a slight mistake in the charges framed, which he corrected. The charges were then read out by the Registrar. These charges were of “bringing or attempting to bring into hatred or contempt or exciting or attempting to excite disaffection towards His Majesty’s Government established by law in British India, and thereby committing offences punishable under Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code,” the offences being in three articles published in Young India of September 29 and December 15 of 1921 and February 23 of 1922. The offending articles were then read out: The first of them was, “Tampering with Loyalty”; the second, “The Puzzle and its Solution” and the last, “Shaking the Manes.” The Judge said that the law required that the charges should not only be read out but explained. In this case it would not be necessary for him to say much by way of explanation. The charge of each case was that of bringing or attempting to bring into hatred or contempt or exciting or attempting to excite disaffection towards His Majesty’s Government established by law in British India. Both the accused were charged with the three offences under Section 124A, contained in the articles read out, written by Mahatma Gandhi and printed by Shri Banker. The charges having been read out, the Judge called upon the accused to plead to the charges. He asked Gandhiji whether he pleaded guilty or claimed to be tried. Gandhiji said: “I plead guilty to all the charges. I observe that the King’s name has been omitted from the charge, and it has been properly omitted.” The Judge asked Shri Banker the same question and he too readily pleaded guilty. The Judge wished to give his verdict immediately after Gandhiji had pleaded guilty, but Sir Strangman insisted that the procedure should be carried out in full. The Advocate-General requested the Judge to take into account “the occurrences in Bombay, Malabar and Chauri Chaura, leading to rioting and murder.” He admitted, indeed, that ‘ in these articles you find that non-violence is insisted upon as an item of the campaign and of the creed,” but he added “of what value is it to insist on non-violence, if incessantly you preach disaffection towards the Government and hold it up as a treacherous Government and if you openly and deliberately seek to. instigate others to overthrow it?” These were the circumstances which he asked the Judge to take into account in passing sentence on the accused. (...)Court: Mr Gandhi, do you wish to make any statement on the question of sentence? Gandhiji: I would like to make a statement. Court: Could you give me a writing to put it on record? Gandhiji: I shall give it so soon as I finish it.Gandhi then made an oral statement (...) “Before I read this statement I would like to state that I entirely endorse the learned Advocate-General’s remarks in connection with my humble self. I think that he was entirely fair to me in all the statements that he has made, because it is very true and I have no desire whatsoever to conceal from this court the fact that to preach disaffection towards the existing system of Government has become almost a passion with me, and the Advocate-General is entirely in the right when he says that my preaching of disaffection did not commence with my connection with Young India but that it commenced much earlier, and in the statement that I am about to read. it will be my painful duty to admit before this court that it commenced much earlier than the period stated by the Advocate-General. It is a painful duty with me but I have to discharge that duty knowing the responsibility that rests upon my shoulders, and I wish to endorse all the blame that the learned Advocate-General has thrown on my shoulders in connection with the Bombay occurrences, Madras occurrences and the Chauri Chaura occurrences. Thinking over these things deeply and sleeping over them night after night, it is impossible for me to dissociate myself from the diabolical crimes of Chauri Chaura or the mad outrages of Bombay. Also read: Gandhi: The chroniclerHe is quite right when he says that as a man of responsibility, a man having received a fair share of education, having had a fair share of experience of this world, I should have known the consequences of every one of my acts. I know them. I knew that I was playing with fire. I ran the risk and if I was set free I would still do the same. I have felt it this morning that I would have failed in my duty, if I did not say what I said here just now. I wanted to avoid violence. Non-violence is the first article of my faith. It is also the last article of my creed. But I had to make my choice. I had either to submit to a system which I considered had done an irreparable harm to my country, or incur the risk of the mad fury of my people bursting forth when they understood the truth from my lips. I know that my people have sometimes gone mad. I am deeply sorry for it and I am, therefore, here to submit not to a light penalty but to the highest penalty. I do not ask for mercy. I do not plead any extenuating act. I am here, therefore, to invite and cheerfully submit to the highest penalty that can be inflicted upon me for what in law is a deliberate crime, and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen. The only course open to you, the Judge, is, as I am going to say in my statement, either to resign your post, or inflict on me the severest penalty if you believe that the system and law you are assisting to administer are good for the people. I do not expect that kind of conversion. But by the time I have finished with my statement you will have a glimpse of what is raging within my breast to run this maddest risk which a sane man can run.”He then read out the written statement: “I owe it perhaps to the Indian public and to the public in England, to placate which this prosecution is mainly taken up, that I should explain why from a staunch loyalist and co-operator, I have become an uncompromising disaffectionist and non co-operator. To the court, too, 1 should say why I plead guilty to the charge of promoting disaffection towards the Government established by law in India. My public life began in 1893 in South Africa in troubled weather. My first contact with British authority in that country was not of a happy character. I discovered that as a man and an Indian, I had no rights as a man because I was an Indian. But I was not baffled. I thought that this treatment of Indians was as excrescence upon a system that was intrinsically and mainly good. I gave the Government my voluntary and hearty co-operation, criticising it freely where I felt it was faulty but never wishing its destruction. Consequently, when the existence of the Empire was threatened in 1899 by the Boer challenge, I offered my services to it, raised a volunteer ambulance corps and served at several actions that took place for the relief of Ladysmith (...) The first shock came in the shape of the Rowlatt Act, a law designed to rob the people of all real freedom. I felt called upon to lead an intensive agitation against it. Then followed the Punjab horrors beginning with the massacre at Jallianwala Bagh and culminating in crawling orders, public floggings and other indescribable humiliations. I discovered too that the plighted word of the Prime Minister to the Musalmans of India regarding the integrity of Turkey and the holy places of Islam was not likely to be fulfilled. But in spite of the forebodings and the grave warnings of friends, at the Amritsar Congress in 1919, I fought for cooperation and working of the Montagu-Chelmsford reforms, hoping that the Prime Minister would redeem his promise to the Indian Musalmans, that the Punjab wound would be healed, and that the reforms, inadequate and unsatisfactory though they were, marked a new era of hope in the life of India. But all that hope was shattered.” (...)In fact I believe that I have rendered a service to India and England by showing in non-cooperation the way out of the unnatural state in which both are living. In my opinion non cooperation with evil is as much a duty as is co-operation with good. But in the past non co-operation has been deliberately expressed in violence to the evil doer. I am endeavoring to show to my countrymen that violent non-cooperation only multiplies evil and that an evil can only be sustained by violence, withdrawal of support of evil requires complete abstention from violence. Non violence implies voluntary submission to the penalty for non-cooperation with evil. I am here therefore to invite and submit cheerfully to the highest penalty that can be inflicted upon me for what in law is deliberate crime and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen. The only course open to you the judge and the assessors is either to resign your posts and thus dissociate yourself from evil. If you feel that the law you are called upon to administer is an evil and that in reality I am innocent or to inflict on me the severest penalty, if you believe that the system and the law you are good for the people of this country and that my activity is therefore injurious to the common wealth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-gandhi-stood-trial-for-sedition/story-5NKJFXXvjL4mSdum64vFYP.html
01-10-2020||India||JMM youth wing chief Basant Soren to fight Dumka bypoll||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) youth wing president and Shibu Soren’s son Basant Soren will be the party candidate from Dumka in the by-election to be held on November 3, party general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya announced on Thursday.Bhattacharya said Basant will file his nomination on October 12 and appealed to the leaders of the alliance partners to campaign for him to ensure that the JMM wins by record margin in the bypolls.Basant was nominated, said Bhattacharya, after the party received multiple requests and feedback from various quarters.“Santhal had been the workplace of Guruji (Shibu Soren) from where he revolted against money lenders, besides launching a movement against addiction. The people want to remain with him,” he said.He said the JMM has been the championing the cause of adivasis and moolvasis, in particular in Santhal, Chotanagpur and Kolhan regions and people have wished that Basant be the party candidate.JMM working president and chief minister Hemant Soren, during his three-day Dumka visit last month, also got this message and the party decided to field Basant, he said.Bhattacharya said the JMM also wants congress to announce its candidate’s name for the Bermo by-election soon so that the party could energise its workers to ensure the victory of the alliance candidates with historic margins.The bypoll in Dumka was necessitated after Hemant vacated the seat in January this year while opting to retain his Barhet seat. He had won both the seats in the 2019 assembly polls.On Bihar election, Bhattacharya said the JMM was still talking to the RJD and others in the grand alliance and would make the announcement shortly.“We can contest more seats if we go to the polls alone or less number of seats if contesting as alliance partners,” he said.The JMM had identified 12 seats in Bihar assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jmm-youth-wing-chief-basant-soren-to-fight-dumka-bypoll/story-vo5CkRnt9ctxpZhFmh3JMK.html
01-10-2020||India||Customs detain LDF leader in Kerala gold smuggling case||Almost three months after seizure of 30 kg gold from a diplomatic consignment the Customs department on Thursday detained a Left Democratic Front (LDF) leader from Kozhikode in north Kerala in connection with the case. “Karat Faisal, an LDF municipal body councillor, is suspected to be the kingpin in the case and invested heavily in the racket and played a major role in distributing smuggled gold to jewellers,” said a Customs officer who did not wish to be named.Customs officials raided his house in Koduvally in the early hours of Thursday and later took him to Kochi. Officials said they came to know about his role after sustained interrogation of some of those arrested in the gold smuggling case. He will be produced in a court later. This is not Faisal’s first brush with the law. In 2013 the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence had arrested him in connection with a smuggling incident in Kozhikode airport but he was let off after coughing up a hefty fine. He was reported to be very close to two LDF independent legislators, Karat Razak and PTA Raheem. The smuggling case came to light after 30 kg gold was seized from a consignment that came in the name of an employee of the United Arab Emirates consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. Later that month, the case was handed over to the National Investigation Agency. The NIA later said proceeds of smuggling could have been used to fund terror networks in the country.In a related development, one of the prime accused in the gold smuggling case Sandeep Nair has moved an application in the court to make a confession under the Section 164 A of the Indian Penal Code. The NIA did not oppose his plea in the court. There are reports the NIA will make him an approver to reach many big fish after his statements virtually led to Karat Faisal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/customs-detain-ldf-leader-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case/story-zkXB3QtUxuRxJfUMB0dLcK.html
01-10-2020||India||Pak HC fixes hearing on appointment of defence council for Kulbhushan Jadhav on Oct 6||The Islamabad High Court (IHC) has fixed the hearing of the case related to the appointment of defence counsel for Kulbhushan Jadhav on October 6, ARY News reported.The hearing will be held by a larger bench of the high court comprising Chief Justice Athar Minallah, Justice Amir Farooq, and Justice Mian Gull Hassan Aurangzeb.This comes after Pakistan Foreign Office Spokesperson had earlier rejected India’s demand for an Indian lawyer or a Queen’s counsel.In September, the Islamabad High Court in Pakistan had directed the federal government to give India another chance to appoint a lawyer to represent Jadhav and adjourned hearing for a month.Ministry of External Affairs’ spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had said that Pakistan has not been able to fulfil its obligations on implementation of ICJ judgment in the Kulbhushan Jadhav case and has not yet addressed core issues including provision of all documents and unimpeded access.He said that Pakistan has also not addressed the appointment of an Indian lawyer or a Queen’s counsel to ensure a free and fair trial for Jadhav.“The Government of Pakistan has not been able to fulfil its obligations on implementation of the ICJ judgment in letter and spirit. It has not yet addressed the core issues, which includes the provision of all documents related to the case, providing unconditional and unimpeded consular access to Kulbhusan Jadhav and appointment of an Indian lawyer or a Queen’s counsel to ensure a free and fair trial,” Srivastava had said at a press briefing.India said Pakistan should provide for an unimpeded, unhindered and unconditional consular access and that the meeting of Indian officials with Jadhav should take place in an atmosphere free from fear of retribution.India also said that any conversation between Jadhav and High Commission officials must necessarily take place in privacy and without the presence of any Pakistani official or recording by Pakistan.Pakistan claims that Jadhav was arrested from Balochistan in 2016 on charges of espionage. India has rejected Pakistan’s allegations and said he was kidnapped from the Iranian port of Chabahar. In early 2017, a Pakistani military court sentenced him to death.The International Court of Justice (ICJ) had upheld India’s claim that Pakistan has committed an egregious violation of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations on several counts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-hc-fixes-hearing-on-appointment-of-defence-council-for-kulbhushan-jadhav-on-oct-6/story-vK1sqOsyDBvL25hdZGnhxM.html
01-10-2020||India||Trump event cited for enquiry into Centre’s Covid handling, SC rejects plea||The government handling of the Covid-19 pandemic could be a matter for public debate but courts cannot examine the same, the Supreme Court said on Thursday, dismissing a plea seeking a commission of enquiry into the central government’s response to coronavirus disease.The plea by former Indian diplomat KP Fabian alleged that the ‘Namaste Trump’ event in February, when the coronavirus was spreading, was held in violation of the advisory issued by the central government against allowing a large congregation.The bench, headed by justice L Nageswara Rao, said that the government has to be given latitude when it comes to such issues and there is bound to be difference of opinion with regard to the government’s action in such matters.“It is a matter of public debate but the court cannot go into it. Government has to be given latitude. It is a matter of opinion. Six months ago, nobody knew what would happen,” the bench which also comprised justice Ajay Rastogi said.Advocate Prashant Bhushan, representing petitioner Fabian, told the court that the World Health Organisation (WHO) had given a warning in January 2020 regarding the seriousness of the coronavirus threat but the Indian government failed to heed the same.“The government did not start screening international passengers till March. The Namaste Trump event was held in which 1 lakh people gathered in a stadium despite the Ministry of Home Affairs itself having issued advisory against allowing large congregations,” Bhushan submitted.Bhushan also said that experts had advised against total lockdown and a meeting was also held with the chief secretaries of states in which it was decided that only hotspot districts would be kept under lockdown.“But immediately after that, the Prime Minister unilaterally declared a nationwide lockdown. The WHO had asked nations to procure PPE kits but the same was not done by the Centre on time and many doctors died. Two crore jobs were lost and the GDP fell by 23.9 which was the worst for any country,” Bhushan argued.He also highlighted the difficulties faced by migrant workers due to the lockdown.The bench, however, dismissed the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trump-event-cited-for-enquiry-into-centre-s-covid-handling-sc-rejects-plea/story-NRCQusoygYQKFmwxjpqyMM.html
01-10-2020||India||Adityanath govt permits Durga puja under strict Covid-19 protocol||Durga puja organisers in the Uttar Pradesh capital heaved a sigh of relief as the state government has finally allowed Durga puja with idols even in parks and other places strictly adhering to Covid-19 guidelines. The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday announced the ‘Re-open’ guidelines, paving the way for public celebration of Durga Puja, Ramleela, larger political activities including those for the UP Assembly bypolls on seven seats, or larger marriage gatherings. “We are happy about the state government decision in allowing Durga puja. The uncertainty has finally ended. We will go for smaller size idols and shall follow all the guidelines,” said Arun Banerjee, president of the Bengali Club. “We are the oldest organisation in the city celebrating Durga puja for more than 100 years now. It was difficult to discontinue a century-old tradition. This Durga puja let’s pray to God to kill the demon virus which has claimed several lives in the country,” he said. Rabindra Palli puja committee president Mihir Banerjee said, “This is a welcome decision. This is our 37th year. We are going for Kalash puja or will go for small size Durga idols. No distribution of ‘bhog’ (Prasad) will be conducted and will organise ‘pushpanjali’ in small batches.” Tirtho Sengupta of RDSO Durga puja committee said, “We are happy with the decision. A meeting has been called on Friday evening to discuss the arrangements. We will place an order for small-sized idols.” An elated Manoj Bhadra, president of Bondhu Mahal said, “During the pandemic along with celebrating Durga Puja, we will have to look into the health of devotees visiting the pandals.” “We have decided to strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines in our Puja pandal,” he said. Bhadra said, “Though we are getting a very short time to prepare for the puja, our members will work to make it a grand event with curtailed programmes.” He said, “We have ordered for a small Durga protima and our ‘purohit’ and ‘dhaki’ have confirmed their participation.” Ramakrishna Math, which has been organising ‘Durga Puja’ for nearly 40 years now, is going ahead with the rituals. “We will follow all Covid guidelines, including social distancing and limited gathering,” said Swami Muktinathananda, president of the math.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adityanath-govt-permits-durga-puja-under-strict-covid-19-protocol/story-HCXgTHd9bQYKIKY7iUvpzL.html
01-10-2020||India||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel tests positive for Covid-19, goes into self-isolation||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel said he has tested positive for Covid-19 and has gone into self-isolation at his New Delhi residence on Thursday.Announcing the news on his Twitter handle, the leader also urged all those who had come in contact with him recently to self-isolate. Click here for Covid-19 live updates“I have tested positive for COVID-19. I request all those who came in close contact with me recently, to self-isolate,” he tweeted.Congress’ Abhishek Singhvi and Tarun Gogoi, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Union Ministers Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari and Pralhad Patel are some of the other leaders who have tested positive for Covid-19.Meanwhile, India on Thursday reported 86,821 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the tally to 6,312,584, according to health ministry dashboard at 8am. The country also reported 1,181 new fatalities due to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 98,678.There are 9,40,705 active cases in the country, whereas a total of 52,73,201 people have been cured of the disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-congress-leader-ahmed-patel-tests-positive-for-covid-19-goes-into-self-isolation/story-LMjmITmmhFiIZwE8RGXI9J.html
01-10-2020||India||Under fire for supporting actors, Ramdas Athawale to meet Hathras victim’s family||After drawing flak over seeking justice for actors while neglecting the Hathras gang rape victim, Union Minister Ramdas Athawale has announced that he would be meeting the woman’s family on Friday. Athawale was criticised for taking actor Payal Ghosh who accused filmmaker Anurag Kashyap of sexual harassment to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari on Tuesday while not saying single a word on the Hathras rape victim who died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday.On Wednesday, the minister announced that he will meet the family of the victim on Friday and also announced protests by his party, Republican Party of India (RPI) at Azad Maidan.“I will meet the family of the victim on Friday,” said Athawale. “I will also meet Governor Ananddiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday and demand a fast track court to nail the victims,” he added. The Shiv Sena has criticised Athawale saying that he was more concerned for justice for the actors instead of common people. “Athawale sought justice for an actor, but not for the poor girl from Hathras whose family was not even allowed to cremate her,” said Sena MP Sanjay Raut.In recent times, Athawalehas been supporting actor Kangana Ranaut who launched a tirade against the Shiv Sena and said the RPI will offer security to her. In addition, he also met Koshiyari protesting the demolition of Ranaut’s office and demanded compensation for her.This evoked criticism of Athawale from both rivals as well as social media users who questioned the priorities of the Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment and pointed out that he seemed more interested in celebrities than Dalits. Political observers rue that the Dalit leadership has bowed before the major political parties. “Athawale knows that celebs would attract more publicity for him than taking up the Dalits cause and hence favours them,” said political analyst Hemant Desai.The woman in Hathras was allegedly attacked and raped on September 14 in a field near her home. Details of the barbaric assault emerged last week, and the woman was shifted to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital where she battled for life till Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-fire-for-supporting-actors-ramdas-athawale-to-meet-hathras-victim-s-family/story-xnH85mrd733v2limNco5EN.html
01-10-2020||India||In photos: Rahul Gandhi, sister Priyanka detained by UP Police||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi were detained by the Uttar Pradesh Police while they were on their way to meet the family of Hathras gangrape victim. The leaders were detained as they were walking to their destination after their vehicles were stopped at Yamuna Expressway, citing imposition of Section 144. The 19-year-old victim died at a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, a fortnight after she was allegedly gangraped and tortured by four upper caste men in UP’s Hathras.After the Congress leaders announced their decision to visit the victim’s family, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi urged the opposition to not increase the tension through “political tourism”. However, he did not name any party. The state government was working to punish the criminals for their “barbarism”, he added.Earlier in the day, Congress workers protested at the Delhi Noida Delhi (DND) flyway against the gangrape. They blocked five lanes of the Delhi-Noida side of the flyway by squatting on the road. “We demand President’s rule in Uttar Pradesh. We also demand safety and security of victim’s kin, as in the past in UP, there were instances where rape victim’s kin have been murdered. The government should also give decent compensation to the family,” UP Congress leader Badruddin Quraishi said. Meanwhile, Rahul Gandhi said he will march to Hathras alone in view of Section 144.“I am standing here peacefully. I want to march alone to Hathras. Section 144 talks about public assembly. I will go alone to Hathras. On what basis are you detaining me,” asked Rahul Gandhi in Hindi to the cops present on the scene.The two leaders were detained. However, the Congress alleges that they were arrested. The Uttar Pradesh Congress called for a statewide protest against the police action on Gandhis.In one of the pictures from the incident, the Congress leader is seen on the ground. Party workers and his security men quickly gathered around to help him up get up.Congress general secretary KC Venugopal condemned the leaders’ arrest.“The cowardly UP Govt has arrested Shri @RahulGandhi & Smt @PriyankaGandhi for seeking justice & trying to meet the bereaved Hathras victim’s family. I appeal to all PCCs and @INCIndia workers to protest today against the arrest of Rahul ji, Priyanka ji & other party leaders,” tweeted Congress general secretary KC Venugopal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-priyanka-gandhi-detained-while-on-their-way-to-meet-hathras-gangrape-victim-s-family-photos/story-DmGA4nQcHXzDxB4GVWzWlM.html
01-10-2020||India||Alcohol smuggling racket scalps woman member of Vijaywada’s Durga temple trust board||A woman leader of YSR Congress party on Thursday resigned from the trust board of famous Goddess Kanaka Durga temple in Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh, a day after the police seized a huge stock of liquor bottles, allegedly being smuggled from neighbouring Telangana from her car. Chukka Venkata Naga Varalakshmi submitted her resignation to the trust board as well as the executive officer of Kanaka Durga temple, owning moral responsibility for the seizure of as many as 280 liquor bottles from her car at Jaggayyapet on Wednesday. In her letter, Varalakshmi said she was no way connected with the transport of liquor bottles in her car. She said it was her driver Shiva who might have indulged in smuggling.“I will not continue in the post till the inquiry is completed,” she said. The Jaggayyapet police already arrested Shiva and also booked a case against him and Varalakshmi’s husband Venkata Krishna Prasad, also a YSRC leader under relevant sections of the Andhra Pradesh Excise (Amendment) Act 2020. The police seized the big consignment of liquor from Varalakshmi’s car which was parked in an apartment close to her residence. The value of the seized alcohol is around Rs 40,000. According to Jaggaiahpet circle inspector P Chandrasekhara Rao, preliminary investigation revealed that the liquor was procured from Telangana and smuggled into the state. “We are questioning the driver and investigating the role of the car owner,” he said. Varalakshmi told the police that she had only asked the driver to fill fuel in the vehicle and was not aware of the presence of liquor bottles in it. “We won’t encourage such practices,” she claimed. Telugu Desam Party Andhra Pradesh unit president Kala Venkat Rao demanded the abolition of entire trust board of Kanaka Durga temple in the wake of seizure of liquor bottles from the vehicle of one of the board members. “It clearly shows what kind of persons the Jagan Mohan Reddy government had appointed in the temple trust board. Not just the board member, even endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas also should resign from the post,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alcohol-smuggling-racket-scalps-woman-member-of-vijaywada-s-durga-temple-trust-board/story-zCg6xmh0Z5gwe7kF8L46pI.html
01-10-2020||India||Maoists kill 2 villagers in Chhattisgarh for being informers: Police||Two villagemen, one of them a former deputy sarpanch, from two villages of Bijapur district were killed by Moaists for being “police informers”, police said on Thursday.The incidents took place on Wednesday night in two villages under Jangala police station area. “Maoists have killed Dhaniram Korsa, a former deputy sarpanch of Bardela village, and another was Gopal Kudiyam of Gongla village, both under Jangala police station. We have brought the body for post-mortem and combing of the area has started,” said IG Bastar, Sunderaj P.Police claimed that a group of Maoists reached the villages and killed Korsa and Kudiyam with sharp-edged weapons, suspecting them to be “police informers”.In Bijapur, 12 people, including three policemen and a forest ranger, have been killed in the last one month - an issue of concern for both police and human rights activists.Sunderaj P, in a statement to the media, said Maoists are frustrated because of an effective campaign against them, many of their camps have been demolished.“Realising that there is no future in Maoism, a large number of Maoists has also surrendered due to which the Maoists are frustrated and are trying to terrorise by killing and beating innocent villagers,” said the IG.He further said that roads, bridges, culverts and other basic facilities have been provided to the villagers in the Bastar region in the last few years even in situations of lockdown and floods, which has increased the confidence of the villagers in governance, administration and security forces.“They panicked after losing the confidence of the villagers and they are killing them,” said the IG.Other police officers believe that the Maoists want to create an environment of fear among villagers which can help them increase recruitment. “There has been a decrease in recruitment of sentries in 2017-18. The other very important factor behind the killings is that there is total indiscipline in ranks of Maoists, with local cadres now doing mass executions without even taking approval of senior cadres. And lastly, there is total ideological disarray with movement becoming an armed war with no ethics,” a police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-kill-2-villagers-in-chhattisgarh-for-being-informers-police/story-BD4PNPWJ4toNtevzzsq9OO.html
01-10-2020||India||Passenger from UAE held in Kerala for smuggling gold in mask||Despite high security at airports to deter gold smuggling, a passenger from the UAE tried to sneak in 40 grams of the yellow metal concealed behind the exhalation valve of a N-95 mask that he was wearing before Customs officials caught him at the Kozhikode international airport on Tuesday“This is the first time we are coming across such a concealment tactic. It shows smugglers are out to exploit every situation whether it is pandemic or not. Usually we avoid masks and they were using this opportunity to smuggle,” said a senior Customs official.He said the passenger Amar Mohammad, a native of Bhatkal in neighbouring Karnataka, who arrived by a Vande Bharat flight, had completed all checks and was about to exit the airport when an officer noticed that the mask he was wearing was sagging at one side and he was frequently adjusting it. When asked about it, he turned agitated and was in a hurry to slip out, the official said.After checking his mask, officials found gold concealed inside it. The official said after the incident now passengers have been asked to deposit their mask also along with their wallet, belt and mobile phones for checking. “The smuggled gold is worth Rs 2 lakh. We have detained him. It really shows the smugglers are making use of all opportunities,” said the official.Though there is no normal flight these days, smugglers make use of ‘Vande Bharat’ and chartered flights to carry out their activities thinking frisking norms would be lax during the Covid-19 pandemic, said the official. Smugglers have used date seeds, bra straps, belt buckles, shoes soles, sausages and gold paste to ring in the gold as its price soars in the country. For Customs officials it is a high-stakes hide-and- seek game every day. Last year in Kerala 550 kg gold seized from four international airports. Security at airports has been tightened after 30 kg of gold were seized from the Thiruvananthapuram international airport on July 5 from a consignment for the UAE consulate. The seizure led to a probe by the NIA which is continuing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passenger-from-uae-held-in-kerala-for-smuggling-gold-in-mask/story-ngyEmUWqy0B4y3VvLJbnmK.html
01-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Incidents such as Hathras gangrape won’t be tolerated in Maharashtra, says CM Uddhav Thackeray and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Incidents such as Hathras gangrape won’t be tolerated in Maharashtra, says CM Uddhav ThackerayMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said that Hathras-like incidents will not be tolerated in the state and those who are indulging in crimes against women would be dealt with severely. Read more.Rahul Gandhi, sister Priyanka detained; not allowed to march to Hathras to meet UP woman’s familyRahul Gandhi, his sister Priyanka were detained by the Uttar Pradesh police on Thursday near Yamuna Expressway when the duo, after being stopped on the highway, decided to march to Hathras to meet the family of Uttar Pradesh woman who was gang-raped and died in a Delhi hospital earlier this week. Read more.IPL 2020, RR vs KKR: Pat Cummins made Steve Smith look like lower-order batsman, says Brad HoggWhen Kolkata Knight Riders bought Australia fast bowler Pat Cummins for Rs 15.5 crore at the auctions last year, many believed that the franchise had spent too much money. Questions were raised whether Cummins will be able to justify the price tag in Indian Premier League. The no. 1 Test bowler in the world Cummins, on Wednesday, showcased why he is a threat irrespective of the format, when KKR faced Rajasthan Royals in IPL 2020. Read more.Amitabh Bachchan recalls when he couldn’t afford Rs 2, shares emotional childhood memoryActor Amitabh Bachchan has shared a touching story from his youth, in a recent episode of the game show Kaun Banega Crorepati. When a contestant recalled how his family was having a difficult time financially, Amitabh told him the story of when he wanted to join the school cricket team, but couldn’t afford it. Read more.Sonet in flight mode as Kia Motors India records its highest-ever monthly salesKia Motors India registered a record performance in domestic sales charts in the month of September and sold 18,676 units here, its highest-ever since making India debut back in August of 2019. Read more.Amid outrage over Hathras case, another Dalit girl raped in Balrampur, diesAmid outrage over the Hathras rape case, another similar story has now emerged from neighbouring Balrampur. A Dalit girl was allegedly gangraped and later died on the way to the hospital. Both the accused in the Balrampur incident have been arrested. Watch full video here.Blue tea or magic potion? Milind Soman’s wife Ankita Konwar makes fans move over Dalgona coffee and kadhaTea lovers, especially those who love to experiment with the beverage, have a new surprise for their taste buds in the form of Blue Pea flower tea which was recently introduced to fans by Milind Soman’s wife Ankita Konwar. Read more.Bored of online Ludo? How about this DIY version with vegetables?With so many people staying at home, many have turned to board games to pass time. There are also those who downloaded online games to play with friends and family. Ludo is among those games that has kept people busy during the lockdowns. However, if you’re among those who now feel bored of the same old version of the game, how about giving it a little twist? Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-incidents-such-as-hathras-gangrape-won-t-be-tolerated-in-maharashtra-says-cm-uddhav-thackeray-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Ffs9GeMMS8BSEumBHHf5BK.html
01-10-2020||India||GST collection shows growth for the first time since March||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection, a tax on consumption, has shown the first sign of recovery in business activities since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown from March 25 with a 4% year-on-year growth at Rs 95,480 crore in the September, and a 10.4% jump over the preceding month, official data said.Interestingly, GST collection for September this year in Maharashtra, a key industrial state remained almost stagnant over the corresponding period last year at Rs 13,546 crore, according to the data released by the Union finance ministry on Thursday. Karnataka saw a 5% contraction (Rs 6,050 crore) in the period.Other major industrial states have shown positive revenue growth in September this year over the corresponding period last year. Tax collection from Haryana (Rs 4,712 crore) and Tamil Nadu (6,454 crore) jumped 15% while Gujarat saw a 6% growth at Rs 6,090 crore. Also Read: ITR filing: Deadline for assessment year 2019-20 extended to November 30Experts say that the worst is over and collection is expected to increase in coming festival months depending on the unlockdown steps taken by various states. MS Mani, senior director at consultancy firm Deloitte India said, “A modest increase of 4% in the GST collections compared to the previous year indicates that the economic recovery process is underway, with some key large states also reporting increased collections.” The GST collection grew for the first time after contractions for six months in a row. The indirect tax collection that saw a declining trend since March (8.4%) this year, plunged 72% in April at Rs 32,172 crore, the lowest ever since its launch on July 1, 2017. The 68-day hard lockdown since March 25 was also reflected in the May collection with 38% annual fall (Rs 62,151 crore). The fall in revenue, however, slowed to 9% in June (Rs 90,917 crore) mainly on receipts for the lockdown period. Subsequently, the annualised revenue collections fell 14.3% in July (Rs 87,422 crore) and 13% in August (Rs 86,449 crore). Also Read: The economy going forward“The gross GST revenue collected in the month of September, 2020 is Rs 95,480 crore of which CGST [Central GST] is Rs 17,741 crore, SGST [State GST] is Rs 23,131 crore, IGST [integrated GST] is Rs 47,484 crore (including Rs 22,442 crore collected on import of goods) and Cess is Rs 7,124 crore (including Rs 788 crore collected on import of goods),” the finance ministry statement said. The government has settled Rs 21,260 crore to CGST and Rs 16,997 crore to SGST from IGST as regular settlement, it said. “The total revenue earned by Central government and the state governments after regular settlement in the month of September, 2020 is Rs 39,001 crore for CGST and Rs 40,128 crore for the SGST,” it added. “During the month, the revenues from import of goods were 102% and the revenues from domestic transaction (including import of services) were 105 % of the revenues from these sources during the same month last year,” it said.Abhishek Jain, tax partner at consultancy firm EY India said, “With a significant part of the economy resuming operations and international trade as well resuming pace, the collections have shown decent growth. The increased revenues indicate reinstatement of normalcy in business operations and provides an in general optimistic outlook.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-collection-shows-growth-for-the-first-time-since-march/story-bOtMCfezjiEgmylX0IxzOO.html
01-10-2020||India||‘Will be last nail in the coffin of Yogi government,’ says Randeep Singh Surjewala on lathicharge||Quoting Lala Lajpat Rai, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Thursday said the baton charge on Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi’s cavalcade will prove to be the last nail on the Yogi government’s rule in Uttar Pradesh. “Lala Lajpat Rai had said that every baton on my body will prove to be the last nail in the British empire’s coffin....the baton charge on Rahul and Priyanka’s cavalcade will prove to be the last nail on Yogi government’s rule,” the Congress spokesperson tweeted.  लाला लाजपत राय ने कहा था मेरे तन पर पड़ा लाठी का एक एक वार अंग्रेजी राज के ताबूत में आखिरी कील साबित होगा।राहुल जी और प्रियंका जी के काफिले पर चल रहीं लाठियां भी योगी सरकार के ताबूत में आखिरी कील साबित होंगी। pic.twitter.com/cVYzJnO2A7 बाँधने मुझे तो आया है,जंजीर बड़ी क्या लाया है?यदि मुझे बाँधना चाहे मन,पहले तो बाँध अनन्त गगन।सूने को साध न सकता है,वह मुझे बाँध कब सकता है?न रुकेंगे, न थकेंगे, सिर्फ़ बढ़ेंगे-न्याय, धर्म, नीति के पथ पर।#JusticeForIndiasDaughters #डरपोक_योगीOn Thursday, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were detained by the Uttar Pradesh police near Yamuna Expressway when they started marching to Hathras to meet the family members of the Dalit woman who was allegedly gang-raped on September 14 and succumbed to the injuries on September 29 in Delhi.The Gandhis were first stopped on their way as Section 144 has been imposed in the area. Later, they were detained. Videos of Rahul Gandhi stumbling after being pushed by police personnel have emerged on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-pushed-by-cops-will-be-last-nail-in-the-coffin-of-yogi-government-says-randeep-singh-surjewala-on-lathicharge/story-9zHKD65H7rnjAqcNQCBVMO.html
01-10-2020||India||Key witness surfaces in Balrampur gang-rape case, 2 arrested||A key witness in the case of alleged gang-rape of a 22-year-old Dalit woman from Balrampur district in Uttar Pradesh, who later succumbed to her injuries, has surfaced. He is a local doctor, who was first called to treat the victim by the two accused at a room behind a grocery store run by one of the accused in a nearby market.The doctor told media persons that one of the accused visited his clinic to take him to his house to treat the victim, introducing her as a family member at around 5pm on Tuesday.The doctor said he became suspicious after finding the victim lying alone on a sofa.“I returned immediately, stating that I will treat her only in the presence of her family members and started asking for her father’s name and contact number.The youths then told me that they would bring the victim to the clinic with her father for the treatment, but they did not do so. Later, I came to know that she died,” he stated.The victim’s mother had earlier alleged that some youths had abducted her while she was returning home from the college and taken her to a room where she was raped and brutalised.The incident occurred on Tuesday when the woman had gone to take admission in a college near her village but did not return home till late in the evening, said superintendent of police (SP) of Balrampur, Dev Ranjan Verma, who visited the victim’s family with the district magistrate (DM), Krishna Karunesh, on Thursday.The woman later returned on a rickshaw with a glucose drip inserted in her hand while the family members were searching for her.Verma said the family members stated that the woman’s condition was not good, so they rushed her to a nearby hospital and later to the Balrampur district hospital, where she succumbed to her injuries.While the family alleged that the woman’s hands and legs were fractured, police officials stated that no such injuries were confirmed in the post-mortem examination.The two accused were arrested after an FIR was registered following a complaint filed by the victim’s brother, officials said.Also Read: Centre should impose President’s rule in UP, says Mayawati over Hathras, Balrampur incidentsThe victim was cremated on Wednesday night itself after a post-mortem examination by a panel of four doctors. The police claimed that the cremation was carried out by the family and villagers on their own.According to the doctor’s account there was no glucose drip in the victim’s hand when he visited her at the room she was kept at by the accused. He added that the woman was complaining of stomach ache and was fully conscious. The police later recovered the victim’s sandals near the room. Also Read: Hathras gangrape: BJP MP Hans Raj Hans wants strict actions against officials responsible for hasty cremationDM Krishna Karunesh and SP Dev Ranjan Verma assured the family members that the case will be sent to a fast track court and the strictest action will be taken against the accused.The DM handed over a permission letter for ex gratia relief of Rs 6, 18,750 to the victim’s father, assuring further help.The accused were booked under sections 376-D and 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for gang-rape and murder respectively. Police officials quoted above added that further probe was on in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-witness-surfaces-in-balrampur-gang-rape-case-two-arrested/story-7qu6MJ4Us6wjK3Tr3brWwO.html
01-10-2020||India||Govt may declare Hathras village a Covid containment zone, says DM||Amid the countrywide outrage following the death of a young woman who was allegedly gang raped and brutalised by four men in UP’s Hathras leading to her death, the district magistrate on Thursday appeared to raise doubts about the rape. The victim, in her statement to the police, had named the four accused who were later arrested under Sections 376 D (gang rape) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code.Talking about the medical examination report, Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar said there was no injury on the private parts of victim and samples had been sent to forensic science lab in Agra to establish conclusively whether or not it was an incident of gang rape.“The report from the forensic science lab in Agra may come in three days and it will make the picture clear,” Kumar said even as the Special Investigation Team (SIT) reached Boolgarhi village in and began investigation into the gang rape case.Senior IPS officer Bhagwan Swaroop, who is posted as secretary of home department, heads the SIT, which has been asked to submit its report within a week.Two other members of SIT are deputy inspector general of police Chandra Prakash and Poonam (who goes by one name), the commandant of 15th Battalion of Provincial Armed Constabulary, Agra. “SIT headed by Bhagwan Swaroop and two other members reached Hathras. They were in the village on Thursday to interact with family members of the girl. The SIT is recording statements and has gone to the crime scene also,” the Hathras district magistrate said.“Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code has been imposed in Hathras district and no unlawful assembly of people will be allowed,” the district magistrate said. Section 144 prohibits assembly of four or more people.The entry of journalists in the village was prohibited reportedly after some police personnel were found with Covid-19 symptoms.“We have asked these cops to get themselves tested and if they test positive, the village might be declared a containment zone. Thus, entry of outsiders, including media, has been stopped on apprehension of Covid-19,” the Hathras DM said.There were also reports that Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi set off on foot to meet the family of Hathras gang rape victim after the police stopped them on the Yamuna Expresswayciting prohibitory orders.However, Kumar denied any information about the arrival of the two Congress leaders.The 19-year-old Dalit woman, died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday a fortnight after she was gang-raped at Hathras while she was out to collect fodder with her mother. She was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-district-magistrate-raises-doubts-on-gang-rape-report-media-barred-from-victim-s-village/story-FtJWBe5cZwCQNxVu2sgTAO.html
01-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape case: Such incidents won’t be tolerated in Maharashtra, says CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said that Hathras-like incidents will not be tolerated in the state and those who are indulging in crimes against women would be dealt with severely.“Hathras-like incidents will never be tolerated in Maharashtra. For that matter, any kind of crime against women, including harassment and eve-teasing, would be dealt with severely,” Thackeray said while virtually inaugurating the newly-formed Mira-Bhayandar Vasai-Virar police commissionerate.Also Read| ‘Why was family not allowed?: NCW writes to UP DGP over midnight cremation Hathras gangrape victim’s body There should be fear of police and people should feel safe, the CM said.The Maharashtra chief minister’s remarks come after a 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras on September 14. She died at a hospital in New Delhi on Tuesday. The accused were arrested.The incident has sparked outrage across the country, Questions have been pouring in as to why the victim’s body was cremated by the Uttar Pradesh Police without the family’s consent at 3am on Wednesday.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi, sister Priyanka detained; not allowed to march to Hathras to meet UP woman’s familyAlthough Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath spoke to the victim’s family and assured them of stringent action against the accused, members of opposition parties have blamed the state government for its failure to control crime.Meanwhile, Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, who embarked their journey on foot to meet the victim’s family after UP Police stopped them at Yamuna Expressway due to Section-144, have been detained.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-case-such-incidents-won-t-be-tolerated-in-maharashtra-says-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-c3f0tBO1LtDFcjHZR87OxI.html
01-10-2020||India||Hong Kong lifts bar, Air India to operate Delhi-Hong Kong flight on October 4||After being temporarily banned by the Hong Kong government in the second half of September, Air India will fly to Hong Kong from New Delhi on October 4. The Hong Kong government on September 20 barred Air India from flying as passengers aboard were found to be Covid-19 positive. A New Delhi-Hong Kong flight scheduled on September 21 was cancelled. The embargo on Air India flights is till October 3. Issuing a statement, Air India has informed that those who were scheduled to fly from New Delhi to Hong Kong on September 21 can travel by the October 4 flight. “Passengers holding confirmed booking on cancelled flight of 21st Sep ‘20, are requested to contact the booking offices and call centre till 1700hrs of 2nd October for booking of tickets,” Air India tweeted. #FlyAI : Air India will operate a flight from Delhi to Hong Kong on 4th October '20. Passengers holding confirmed booking on cancelled flight of 21st Sep '20, are requested to contact the booking offices and call centre till 1700hrs of 2nd October for booking of tickets.(1/2) pic.twitter.com/si9PuGQZ2hBooking for the remaining seats will open on October 2 at 6pm.“Booking for remaining seats on this flight will open on 2nd October ‘20 at 1800 hrs on Air India website, Booking Offices and Call Centre,” Air India tweeted. Air India passenger flights were barred from landing in Hong Kong between August 18 and August 31 after 14 passengers on its Delhi-Hong Kong flight of August 14 tested positive for COVID-19 post-arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hong-kong-lifts-bar-air-india-to-operate-delhi-hong-kong-flight-on-october-4/story-HAB3cKhMDqP1wSwAjydM6O.html
01-10-2020||India||7 years in orphanage to cracking KAS exam, journey was tough for Doda’s Gazi Abdullah||He lost his father at a tender age of two years and had to spend seven years at an orphanage in Srinagar’s Bemina because of acute penury back home in Doda, but his grit and hard work eventually paid him rich dividends. 24 year old Gazi Abdullah, who belongs to remote Gundna village in Doda district, has ranked 46th in the open merit list among the 70 qualifiers and fourth in the resident of backward area (RBA) category in the prestigious Kashmir administrative service (KAS) exams, results for which were declared on Tuesday. “I was born in 1996 and my father Mohammad Abdullah, a private school teacher, died in 1998. He had picked up arms and joined militancy before being killed in an encounter that year. My mother Nagina Begum never divulged it to me but today when I insisted she eventually told me the truth. Probably she kept it a secret to protect me from going astray. Despite being uneducated, she has been the biggest inspiration and strength for me. She emotionally and morally supported me to come this far,” Abdullah said.Doda region was a hot bed of Pak sponsored terrorism in the 1990s. Abdullah stated that his mother had no option but to send him to an orphanage since she had no means to raise him at home. “My mother Nagina Begum is uneducated and works on a meagre honorarium of Rs 2,400 per month as an integrated child development services (ICDS) helper. After I passed class 4th from Rafiq memorial academy in Doda, I was sent to an orphanage in Srinagar where I spent seven years,” he said. Abdullah recalled the hard times he and his mother had to go through. “We had nothing to eat. Even today she gets paltry honorarium as an ICDS helper. I was sent to the orphanage called welfare educational institute in Srinagar where I studied till class 12. I was one of the 10 toppers in class 10th in Kashmir division,” said Abdullah. Also Read: J&K panchayat body seeks complete implementation of 73rd amendmentThe young man said that he realized soon that it was his battle to overcome the challenges life had thrown at him. “After 12th I returned to Doda and started giving private tuitions to meet my expenses. I did my graduation from Doda in life sciences and then my PG in botany from AMU,” he said. He said he cracked the prestigious KAS exams in his very first attempt. “I wanted to set an example for others like me. Despite a disturbed past, I never went astray and stayed positive,” he added. Also Read: Farooq takes up Jammu’s ‘crumbling’ health infra with CentreAbdullah, who never took any coaching to crack the KAS exams, said he was immensely helped in his pursuit by second hand books and free educational material available on the internet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-years-in-orphanage-to-cracking-kas-exam-journey-was-tough-for-doda-s-gazi-abdullah/story-9ljOwn2cZ7RIvDWoeJSJBJ.html
01-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi, sister Priyanka detained; not allowed to march to Hathras to meet UP woman’s family||Rahul Gandhi, his sister Priyanka were detained by the Uttar Pradesh police on Thursday near Yamuna Expressway when the duo, after being stopped on the highway, decided to march to Hathras to meet the family of Uttar Pradesh woman who was gang-raped and died in a Delhi hospital earlier this week. The former Congress president alleged that he was pushed to the ground and struck with a lathi by the police. Pictures from the scene showed Gandhi being held back by the policemen, while one of the frames captured him taking a tumble and falling to the ground as the pushback by police continued. The party workers quickly gathered around to pick him up. The police are citing the imposition of Section 144, which prohibits the assembly of four or more people, to deny Gandhis. “I am standing here peacefully. I want to march alone to Hathras. Section 144 talks about public assembly. I will go alone to Hathras. On what basis are you detaining me,” asked Rahul Gandhi in Hindi to the cops present on the scene.  The 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday a fortnight after she was gang-raped at Hathras while she was out to collect fodder with her mother, was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night.Earlier, members of Dalit groups and activists alleged that the early morning cremation was done to prevent any mobilisation or protests in the village. “The whole world is watching how the government and the police together cremated our sister in the absence of her family. I have been taken into custody and put under house arrest in Saharanpur; but we will continue to fight,” said Chandrasekhar Azad, chief of the Bhim Army, who had led protests outside Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-priyanka-gandhi-detained-by-up-police-while-on-their-way-to-meet-hathras-gangrape-victim-s-family/story-5pY3uUt3xRdNkHbR4oFuSP.html
01-10-2020||India||‘Why was family not allowed?: NCW writes to UP DGP over midnight cremation Hathras gangrape victim’s body||National Commission For Women (NCW) has written to Director general of police (DGP), Uttar Pradesh, seeking an explanation for the midnight cremation of Hathras gangrape victim’s body in the absence of her family.The 19-year-old woman died at a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, a fortnight after she was allegedly gangraped and tortured by four upper caste men while she was out to collect fodder with her mother in UP’s Hathras.Also read: Stopped on UP highway, Rahul Gandhi, sister Priyanka set off on foot to meet Hathras family “In UP Gang-Rape Tragedy, 2.30 am Cremation By Cops, Family was Kept Out. @NCWIndia condemn it strongly. Why the family wasn’t allowed in Cremation? Why at night?@Uppolice @hathraspolice,” said NCW chief Rekha Sharma tweeted.Dalit community leaders and women rights activists claim that the early morning cremation was done to prevent any mobilisation or protests in the village.“The whole world is watching how the government and the police together cremated our sister in the absence of her family,” Bhim Army chief Chandrasekhar Azad said on Tuesday.Women rights activists like Yogita Bhayana, who heads the group People Against Rape in India (PARI), condemned the incident, describing it as “something beyond human rights violation”.Also read: Hathras gang-rape case: Samples sent to Agra forensic lab, say police“It is the newest low. Even in the Nirbhaya case there was nothing like this. None of the cases this happened. The family deserves an answer. They can only do this to a Dalit family..they knew the caste would not retaliate so they did this,” Bhayana said.Kavita Krishnan, secretary of the All India Progressive Women’s Association, said that the girl and her family were being denied dignity even in death and mourning.“When the family found her and she was taken to the police station, the police said she is trying to trap people and then she was hospitalised and not kept in ICU for six days and then on her death the police blamed the victim’s family and they are denying this Dalit family and victim dignity even in death and mourning,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-was-family-not-allowed-ncw-writes-to-up-dgp-over-midnight-cremation-hathras-gangrape-victim-s-body/story-FDCBrAQNHSjdWRBYEd112O.html
01-10-2020||India||Bank holidays in October 2020: Banks to stay closed on these 14 days||The festive month of October has begun and, therefore public and private banks will be closed on a number of days in addition to second and fourth Saturdays, and Sundays. According to a Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines, banks remain closed on all public holidays. However, it is to be noted that there are some holidays which are regional, i.e restricted to certain states only. Regional holidays are decided by respective state governments.It is also likely that on these bank holidays, ATMs may not disburse cash.The list of bank holidays for October 2020 is as follows:(1.) October 2 (Friday): Gandhi Jayanti(2.) October 4: Sunday(3.) October 8 (Thursday): Chellum (regional)(4.) October 10: Second Saturday(5.) October 11: Sunday(6.) October 17 (Saturday): Kati Bihu (regional)(7.) October 18: Sunday(8.) October 23 (Friday): Mahashaptami (regional)(9.) October 24 (Saturday): Mahashatmi (regional)(10.) October 25: Sunday(11.) October 26 (Monday): Vijaya Dashami(12.) October 29 (Thursday): Milad-e-Sharif (regional)(13.) October 30 (Friday): Eid-e-Milad(14.) October 31 (Saturday): Valmiki Jayanti, Sardar Patel (regional)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bank-holidays-in-october-2020-here-are-days-on-which-banks-will-stay-closed/story-0bzMNuLGX4bEcQy6ekrUqN.html
01-10-2020||India||Boeing 777 aircraft, part of Air India One fleet for PM Modi: All you need to know||Two Boeing 777 aircraft, with missile defence systems which will serve on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Air India One’ fleet, will arrive in India today. The two aircraft were initially scheduled to land in India early 2020 but it was delayed due to “operational issues”.Air India had sent the two long-haul Boeing 777-300ER aircraft to a Boeing facility in Dallas to be modified for VVIP travel. The aircraft will only be used by PM Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu.Here’s all you need to know about the first customised Boeing 777 aircraft:- The aircraft has its own missile defence system called the Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) and Self-Protection Suites (SPS), which is capable of countering missile threats.- The two aircraft will be on par with the US President’s Air Force One in terms of security measures.- The pair can fly between the US and India in one go without having to stop for refuelling.- The two Boeing 777 aircraft will have the Self-Protection Suites (SPS), which is used in the US President’s Air Force One.- SPS includes large aircraft infrared countermeasures, counter-measures dispensing system and integrated defensive electronic warfare suite . These protection systems can jam enemy radar frequencies and divert heat-seeking missiles by disturbing their guidance systems.- This will be India’s first dedicated aircraft for the President, Vice President and Prime Minister - who usually travel via state-run airline, Air India. - The Boeing 777 aircraft will be operated by Indian Air Force pilots and not by pilots of Air India.- Air India Engineering Services Limited (AIESL), which is a subsidiary of the Indian national carrier, will be maintaining the two new planes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boeing-777-aircraft-part-of-air-india-one-fleet-for-pm-to-arrive-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-rw7xM88Za2LRaCzd4HbHFL.html
01-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape case: Evidence of rape not found, claims ADG||The medical report of the Dalit woman from Hathras, who died of injuries after being assaulted by a group of upper caste men, has not found injuries that could confirm gang-rape, Hathras superintendent of police Vikrant Vir said on Thursday. Hathras district magistrate (DM) Praveen Kumar too confirmed the same. The report has been prepared by the Aligarh Muslim University Medical College, where the woman was being treated before she was shifted to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital.  #WATCH Postmortem report says victim died due to her neck injury. FSL report hasn't found sperm in samples, making it clear that some ppl twisted the matter to stir caste-based tension. Such people will be identified & legal action will be taken: ADG Prshant Kumar on Hathras case pic.twitter.com/qMOUct7t92According the report, there were injuries but not those that could confirm sexual assault.“There was no injury on private parts of the victim women. The samples have been sent to Forensic Science Lab in Agra,” the DM has said. “Postmortem report says victim died due to her neck injury. Forensic laboratory report hasn’t found sperm in samples, making it clear that some people twisted the matter to stir caste-based tension. Such people will be identified and legal action will be taken,” ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar said. On September 14, the woman had gone to the fields with her mother to collect fodder and went missing. Later, she was found — with tongue cut and several injuries indicating that she was severely beaten up and there were attempts to strangle her.She was first admitted to Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital and then shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi on Monday. A day later, she died, leading to nationwide outrage. The National Human Rights Commission has issued notices to the Uttar Pradesh government and the state’s police chief in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-case-samples-sent-to-agra-forensic-lab-preliminary-report-doesn-t-confirm-rape-claim-police/story-f22lpDy1a6PMvFrHSPcVqL.html
01-10-2020||India||Odisha: Man tries to stab mother in front of Assembly; overpowered||A man threatened to kill his mother by slitting her throat in front of the Odisha Assembly on Thursday while the monsoon session was on. Police personnel posted there were able to overpower him.Police commissioner Sudhansu Sarangi said the man from Nayagarh district was taking his mother to a hospital when, all of a sudden, he pulled out a knife and attempted to stab her just outside the security ring of the Assembly. Keeping her at knife-point, the man held some leaflets and uttered names of some ministers and political leaders, alleging corruption.“While the exact reason behind the attack is yet to be ascertained, the mother claimed that the man, in his 30s, has mental health issues. Police officers safely rescued the mother while the man is being sent to the psychiatry department of SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack. There has been no security breach,” said Sarangi.However, vehicular movement near the Assembly was disrupted for a while due to the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-tries-to-stab-mother-in-front-of-assembly-overpowered/story-dDicNtde9Pg2IDDVg1QVLK.html
01-10-2020||India||UP SIT interacts with family of Hathras gang-rape victim, records statements||The special investigation team (SIT) constituted to probe the brutal ‘gang-rape’ case in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh reached village Boolgarhi and interacted with the family members of the victim on Thursday. The SIT also visited the crime spot and recorded statements of villagers relevant to the case, said officials.Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) have been put in force in Hathras district to prevent unlawful assembly of people.The administration has also barred the entry of media in the village claiming it might be declared a Covid-19 containment zone if some of the on-duty cops showing symptoms of coronavirus are found to be positive for the disease.“We have asked these cops to get themselves tested and if they test positive, the village might be declared a quarantine zone and thus entry of outsiders including media has been stopped on apprehension of Covid-19” stated Praveen Kumar, district magistrate, Hathras.On 14th September, a 19 year old woman from the village was allegedly gang-raped by four accused, now in custody. The girl was first admitted to JN medical college in Aligarh but was shifted to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi last Monday as her condition deteriorated. However, she could not be saved and breathed her last on Tuesday morning at the hospital.Uttar Pradesh police was accused of hurriedly organising her cremation at 3am on Wednesday against her family’s wish to take her body home and cremate her the following morning.The state government constituted a SIT headed by senior IPS officer Bhagwan Swaroop, secretary of home department to probe the case. Two other members of SIT are deputy IG Chandra Prakash and Poonam, the commandant of 15th battalion PAC Agra. The SIT is to submit its report within a week.Also Watch: Amid outrage over Hathras case, another Dalit girl raped in Balrampur, dies“The SIT headed by Bhagwan Swaroop and two other members has reached Hathras and was in the village on Thursday to interact with family members of the girl, who was gang raped. The SIT is recording statements and has also visited the crime scene,” stated district magistrate of Hathras, Praveen Kumar.Meanwhile Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi’s vehicles were stopped by the police at Greater Noida in Gautam Buddha Nagar district while on its way to Hathras citing the prohibitory orders in place in the district.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi, sister Priyanka set off on foot to meet Hathras gangrape victim’s family after police stop them at UP highwayPraveen Kumar said that according to the medical report, there was no injury on the private parts of the victim; therefore, nothing can be said conclusively about gang-rape, the samples have been sent to the forensic science lab in Agra.“Report from the forensic science lab at Agra might be obtained in three days and that will be conclusive evidence of gang-rape,” said the DM, Hathras, Praveen Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-sit-interacts-with-family-of-hathras-gang-rape-victim-records-statements/story-bMjQ2sGRodbAActDyFs99O.html
01-10-2020||India||Air pollution: North-western states to adopt hot spot approach||Union minister for environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) Prakash Javadekar said 50 Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) teams would be deployed this winter in the Delhi-national capital region (NCR) in a bid to rein in the worsening air quality index (AQI) level, which has become an annual health hazard. The CPCB authorities would also coordinate with some of the north-western states on a daily basis to monitor polluting emissions, Javadekar said.Also read: Delhi HC wants Centre’s response on plea to stop stubble burningThe minister made the announcement following a review meeting with his counterparts from Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Delhi on Thursday.These north-western states have been recording some of the worst AQIs in the country during winter over the past few years because of the seasonal stubble burning. Farmers set their fields ablaze to clear excess crop residue in time for the wheat sowing season, which leads to poor AQI across the region.It was decided at the meeting that the north-western states will adopt a hot spot-based approach to control air pollution during the upcoming winter season.For example, Delhi will focus on controlling pollution sources in 13 of its hot spots such as Mayapuri, Bawana, Narela, Dwarka, Rohini, RK Puram, and Jahangirpuri. Similarly, Haryana will focus on Panipat, Sonepat, Jhajjar etc. UP will concentrate its actions on Bulandshahr, Meerut, Noida, Greater Noida etc and Rajasthan will lay emphasis on Bhiwadi.The trials of a microbial consortium -- also being called PUSA decomposer that has been developed by scientists at the Indian Agriculture Research Institute (IARI) -- have started in earnest across thousands of acres in all the stubble-burning states, Javadekar said. “We may see the results of the trials within a year. The Centre has disbursed Rs 1,700 crore in the past three years for subsidising straw management machinery to Punjab, Haryana and UP. The move has also resulted in the reduction of pollution in areas under stubble burning,” he said.Punjab government officials have informed the Centre that they are trying to create awareness in the worst stubble burning-affected districts and also explaining the common link between the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and air pollution. “Both these factors affect lungs. The Punjab government is communicating this common link to the farmers and the public,” Javadekar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-north-western-states-to-adopt-hot-spot-approach/story-5bsq7UdX7a1lTa7DSyV9kM.html
01-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi detained on way to Hathras; says pushed, hit with lathi by cops||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi was hit with a lathi and fell to the ground in a pushback by the Uttar Pradesh police after he, his sister Priyanka Gandhi with scores of party workers were stopped from marching on the Delhi-Noida higway to Hathras to meet the family of 19-year-old Dalit woman who was gang-raped and died in a Delhi hospital earlier this week.The two leaders have been detained. However, the Congress alleges that the Gandhis have been arrested. The police stopped the Gandhis, citing imposition of Section 144, which prohibits assembly of four or more people.Pictures from the scene showed Rahul Gandhi being held back by the cops, in one of the shots he is seen taking a tumble while a policeman is holding on to the leader’s kurta to stop him from falling. In the next snap, the Congress leader is on the ground. The party workers and his security men quickly gathered around to help shore him up.Gandhi said he would peacefully march alone to Hathras as that would not be in violation of Section 144 that prohibits public assembly. He demanded to know under which law he was being stopped. “I am standing here peacefully. I want to march alone to Hathras. Section 144 talks about public assembly. I will go alone to Hathras. On what basis are you detaining me,” asked Rahul Gandhi in Hindi to the cops present on the scene.The Uttar Pradesh Congress has called for a statewide protest against the police action on Gandhis.“The cowardly UP Govt has arrested Shri @RahulGandhi & Smt @PriyankaGandhi for seeking justice & trying to meet the bereaved Hathras victim’s family. I appeal to all PCCs and @INCIndia workers to protest today against the arrest of Rahul ji, Priyanka ji & other party leaders,” tweeted Congress general secretary KC Venugopal.Earlier in the day, Congress workers milled around the two leaders as Rahul Gandhi, his face mask on, led the march, with Priyanka, who was recently retained as general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, right behind him. Scores of reporters and people were seen clicking pictures of the two leaders as they went about their padyatra under the October sun. The 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday a fortnight after she was gang-raped at Hathras while she was out to collect fodder with her mother, was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. हाथरस के पीड़ित परिवार से मिलने दिल्ली से हाथरस निकले श्री @RahulGandhi जी एवं श्रीमती @priyankagandhi जी के काफिले को उप्र की तानाशाह पुलिस ने रोका,राहुल गांधी जी ने शुरू की पदयात्रा, पैदल ही निकले हाथरस की ओर.. pic.twitter.com/YefquJYzK3Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi urged the opposition to not increase the tension through “political tourism”, and said the state government is working to punish the criminals for their “barbarism”. The minister, however, did not name any party.“Those who are trying to increase the tension through political tourism, should not do that. Everyone is saddened and want punishment for the culprits, Uttar Pradesh govt is working towards it. You will see the results soon,” Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, minority affairs minister was quoted as saying by the news agency ANI.Congress workers have blocked five lanes of the Delhi-Noida side of the flyway by squatting on the road. Manoj Chaudhry, Gautam Budh Nagar Congress president, said the party workers have gathered to demand justice for the rape and murder victim.Members of Dalit groups and activists alleged that the early morning cremation was done to prevent any mobilisation or protests in the village. “The whole world is watching how the government and the police together cremated our sister in the absence of her family. I have been taken into custody and put under house arrest in Saharanpur; but we will continue to fight,” said Chandrasekhar Azad, chief of the Bhim Army, who had led protests outside Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday.Amid nationwide outrage and calls for his resignation, state chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday spoke to the family via video-link. The chief minister has said a fast-track court will handle the case for speedy justice. The special investigation team has been constituted to probe the matter and asked to submit its report within seven days. “The CM has spoken to the father of the deceased woman of Hathras. Her father asked for harshest penalty against the accused. The CM assured him that the most stringent action shall be taken against the accused and all possible help shall be provided to the family of the deceased,” Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said yesterday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also spoke to the CM and asked him to ensure strict action against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-sister-priyanka-set-off-on-foot-to-meet-hathras-gangrape-victim-s-family-after-police-stop-them-at-up-highway/story-nQqcABdEsP3u70OZ5VyH0H.html
01-10-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate strategic Atal tunnel on October 3||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Atal Tunnel in Rohtang --at a height of 10,000 feet, the world’s longest tunnel for traffic--in Himachal Pradesh on October 3 at 10 am, the Prime Minister’s Office said on Thursday.As per the reception plan, approved by the cabinet, PM Modi will be accorded a grand welcome upon his arrival at four points as per the traditions of the districts. The PM, who will return to New Delhi the same day, will be accompanied by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur.PM Modi will address two public meetings in Himachal Pradesh after opening the strategic Atal Tunnel Rohtang, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on September 28, asserting all Covid-19 protocols will be followed during the function, according to news agency PTI.Named after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the 9.2 km-long tunnel is the longest highway tunnel in the world, which connects Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley throughout the year. Earlier, the valley was cut off for about 6 months each year owing to heavy snowfall.The tunnel is built with ultra-modern specifications in the Pir Panjal range of Himalayas at an altitude of 3000 mtrs (10,000 Feet) from the Mean Sea Level (MSL). It reduces the road distance by 46 Kms between Manali and Leh and the time by about 4 to 5 hours.Atal Tunnel has been designed for traffic density of 3,000 cars per day and 1,500 trucks per day with max speed of 80 km/hr. It has the state of the art electromechanical system including semi transverse ventilation system, SCADA controlled firefighting, illumination and monitoring system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-atal-tunnel-on-october-3/story-bSGoqCHLZMJMJ1d8A1WtyK.html
01-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Manipur to discharge asymptomatic Covid-19 patients after ten days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Manipur tweaks Covid-19 protocol; asymptomatic patients to be discharged after 10 daysAsymptomatic Covid-19 positive persons will be discharged from Covid care centres after 10 days, according to an updated advisory on Covid-19 treatment protocol in Manipur. “There is no retest before discharge. Persons will self isolate at home for further seven days and self-monitor his/her health,” said a Wednesday press release by Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of the health department. Read moreAshok Gehlot calls for apolitical Covid-19 campaign, Raje, Kataria extend supportRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has appealed to leaders of all parties, MPs, MLAs to actively participate in the mass movement against coronavirus-- being launched on October 2--by rising above the political divide and making it successful. Read moreUS isn’t yet keen on formalising Quad, says state department officialAhead of an upcoming ministerial meeting of the Quad - as a consultative group comprising India, the US, Japan and Australia calls itself - a senior US state department official dismissed talk of formalising the association, saying America wanted to strengthen existing regional architectures, not create new ones. Read moreIPL 2020: Shane Warne provides update on Ben Stokes’ availability for Rajasthan RoyalsEngland all-rounder Ben Stokes is yet to arrive in the UAE to take part in the IPL 2020 for Rajasthan Royals. Amid growing whispers that Stokes might miss the first half of the tournament, Royals’ mentor Shane Warne provided an update on the all-rounder’s availability for this year’s Indian Premier League. Read moreIrrfan Khan’s wife Sutapa has a message for ‘messiah of outsiders’: ‘Irrfan didn’t get cover page for many years, he didn’t get depressed’Actor Irrfan Khan’s wife Sutapa Sikdar has shared a long note on how she looks at the insider-outsider debate that has been raging in the industry for a few years now. Citing her own example as an amalgamation of varied cultures and ethos, Sutapa said her late husband Irrfan did not seek approval of anyone in Bollywood. Read moreMaruti Suzuki continues recovery process, small cars show the way in SeptemberMaruti Suzuki on Thursday informed it had sold 160,442 units in September, a 30.8% growth over the same period in 2019. And once again, a positive demand for its smaller offerings are the main driving force in a market that is gradually recovering from the after-effects of the nation-wide lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19. Read moreWoman’s happy reaction after being hired was secretly caught on camera. Video is as wholesome as it soundsA video of a woman’s reaction after being hired is the wholesome content you didn’t know you needed today but you do. Shared on Instagram, the clip captures how the woman reacted once she walked outside the office building after getting the job. Watch‘I did what corrupt media refused to do’: Trump on first Presidential debateUS President Donald Trump attacked his Democratic challenger Joe Biden after the first presidential debate. While addressing an election rally in Minnesota’s Duluth, Trump said, “Last night I did what the corrupt media has refused to do, I held Joe Biden accountable for his 47 years of lies, 47 years of betrayal and 47 years of failure.” Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-manipur-to-discharge-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-after-ten-days-and-all-the-latest-news/story-IpTHxzN2DxaBTOzONY5rLL.html
01-10-2020||India||India’s 1328th species of butterfly seen in Rajasthan: Wildlife Institute||India’s 1328th species of butterfly was seen and photographed in Rajasthan six years ago. It has been declared so by Bhimtal-based Butterfly Research Centre, and validated by Wildlife Institute of India.There were 1,641 species and subspecies of butterfly in India until 2006. In 2015, the number came down to 1,318 and with 10 more species added since, the number is now 1,328, said senior scientist, Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, VP Uniyal. The 1328th species is new to India, he added.Spialia Zebra, the butterfly species that is normally found in Pakistan, was photographed at Sangwara in Rajasthan’s Dungarpur district on November 8, 2014. Mukesh Panwar, a government schoolteacher with interest in ecology, saw several of these between 1.20pm and 1.57pm. He sent one specimen to Bhimtal for identification and research.Also read: All you need to know about Delhi’s butterfly survey The Bhimtal institute took six years to declare it the 1,328th species. The butterfly species has also found place in a paper in BIONOTES, the journal edited by Dr RK Varshney, a former Zoological Survey of India scientist, and published by Entomological Society of India, New Delhi, and Butterfly Research Centre, in its July-September 2020 issue.“The butterfly is difficult to observe because it is quite small and flies rapidly low over the ground,” the paper said. “The species was first seen in [what is now] Pakistan in 1888. It has been seen for the first time in India,” said Bhimtal centre’s director, Peter Smetacek.He said it was for the first time that S. Zebra had been seen more than 1,000km south of its natural habitat in Pakistan. The centre catalogued 1,318 species of Indian butterflies in 2015. “The one seen in Rajasthan’s Sangwara is 1,328th species, according to our records,” Smetacek said.The butterfly species has been found in Margalla hills in northern Pakistan.Panwar said he has been working on butterflies for over 15 years. “I saw this species at a farmhouse and clicked its pictures, which were sent along with a specimen to Bhimtal for identification,” said Panwar, who has seen and identified 111 species of butterflies so far.The Rajasthan forest department, Rajputana Society of Natural History and Vagad Nature Club organised state’s first butterfly festival in Sangwara in February 2018.The country celebrated the big butterfly month in September for identification of butterflies and raising awareness about conservation of these bio-indicators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-1328th-species-of-butterfly-seen-in-rajasthan-wildlife-institute/story-VXyaxma7IKFIxYqg3A2NwJ.html
01-10-2020||India||Stay in your house, notice to Bhim army chief over UP rape protest. Cops deny||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, who was accompanying the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who died after being gang raped from Delhi to Hathras, said Wednesday that he was detained by Uttar Pradesh police midway and has now been put under house arrest in Saharanpur.“The whole world saw how our sister was cremated at night in the absence of the family and without their consent, in connivance of the government and the police. The morality of these people is dead. I was detained by their police the night before and now I have been put under house arrest in Saharanpur. But we will fight,” Azad tweeted in Hindi.He also shared a picture of the notice issued to him by the Saharanpur police, which stated: “You are being informed that CrPC section 144 is imposed in the district. There are credible inputs that your tours and acts are gathering crowds, which may lead to law and order situation. Any untoward incident may happen. Hence, you are being informed that you will stay in your house only.” The order, issued by the local Fatehpur police station in-charge Manoj Chaudhary, also warned Azad of legal action for violating the instruction.When contacted, Chaudhary told PTI that it was not a “house arrest” but Azad has been asked to remain at his home in view of the law and order situation.“There is no time limit on the order as such,” he added.According to functionaries of the Azad Samaj Party, which was launched by the Bhim Army chief in March, Azad and Delhi unit head Himanshu Balmiki had gone missing after 10 pm on Tuesday while they were on their way to Hathras, accompanying the family of the gangrape victim, who died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday. The Azad Samaj Party and affiliates of the pro-Dalit Bhim Army, among others, had joined the protests outside Safdarjung hospital in the national capital on Tuesday to demand justice for the gangrape victim and her family. “There is no clue about the location of Azad and Balmiki after they reached the Jewar toll plaza to get on the lane to Tappal, Aligarh,” Azad Samaj Party’s core committee member Ravindra Bhati said earlier on Wednesday.He alleged that Azad and Balmiki were detained during the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, but the police were not making it public.The body of the gangrape victim was cremated in Hathras in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family members alleging that the local police forced them to perform the last rites in the dead of the night.Local police officers, however, told PTI that the victim was cremated “according to the wishes of the family”. Around 12.30 pm on Wednesday, dozens of Azad Samaj Party and Bhim Army activists reached the Tappal police station in Aligarh and staged a demonstration.“A delegation of our representatives will be meeting senior police and administration officials to inquire about Azad and Balmiki,” Bhati told the protesters inside the Tappal police station compound. When contacted, a senior Aligarh police official said, “I have no idea about this (detention) claim.” The district police chief and some other senior officers could not be contacted as according to another police official, they have been infected with the coronavirus and are under medication for the last three-four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stay-in-your-house-notice-to-bhim-army-chief-over-up-rape-protest-cops-deny/story-7Qd0Us3jXsEHRxUAaYfZJM.html
01-10-2020||India||Centre should impose President’s rule in UP, says Mayawati over Hathras, Balrampur incidents||Criminals, mafias and rapists are having a free run under the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led Uttar Pradesh government said Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Thursday after a gang-rape case was reported from Balrampur, following closely on the heels of the Hathras incident.She demanded that the Centre impose President’s Rule in the state as the Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath-led government had failed to protect the women in the state.“After Hathras incident, I hoped the Uttar Pradesh government will take action against people committing crimes against women. But a similar crime has been committed against a Dalit student in Balrampur. Under BJP’s UP government, criminals, mafias and rapists are having a free run,” Mayawati told ANI here.The BSP chief said that the incidents had shaken her to the core and therefore she had decided to talk to the media, “in an attempt to wake up the Centre if the UP government isn’t waking up.”She also raised questions on the actions taken against criminals in UP in the past few years.“People also say that the action taken against criminals, encounters, or breaking their houses is due to political benefits and not honesty. If there is any truth in that, then it is indeed very shameful. People across all sections of the society are unhappy with this government, the frequency of all types of crimes have increased but the daughters of UP are not safe,” she said.“Especially the girls coming from the Dalit community are not at all safe,” she added, further condemning the attitude of police and administration with the family members of the Hathras gang-rape victim.“On September 28, I sent a BSP delegation to meet the victim’s family member. When they reached the police team kept them in the police station, they then called the victim’s mother and brother to the police station and the cops stayed constantly by their side while the delegation held talks with them,” she added.The BSP chief said that the administration not handing over the victim’s body to the family members to pay respects and performing the last rites was a very shameful incident. “If this is not jungleraaj, then what is this?” Mayawati said.She further said that the two incidents in Hathras and Balrampur, reminded her of the Nirbhaya case of New Delhi.“In the past few hours there have been several cases of women being exploited in several districts in the state. Not even a day passes when such cases do not happen in the state. I want to remind Yogi Adityanath that you were given birth by a female, you should treat others’ daughters as your own. If you cannot protect them then you should resign on your own,” Mayawati said, further slamming the Yogi government.She also said that financial compensation, jobs being given to the victims’ family would not stop the crimes against the community and women.“I want to tell the Centre that the UP government is not waking up. Yogi Adityanath is not fit to control law and order, therefore, I want to tell the Centre that they might have made him the Chief Minister under pressure from RSS but he is not fit to run the government efficiently in UP,” Mayawati.She said that it would be better if Yogi Adityanath is sent back to the Gorakhpur Math or to Ayodhya, where the Ram Janmabhoomi temple is being constructed, by the BJP.“In his place, a more capable person should be made CM who can give better law and order to the UP residents. I want to tell Prime Minister that he has been chosen (as an MP) from UP only, he should take care of the state. If Yogi can’t handle UP then either make someone else CM, or impose President’s rule in the state,” Mayawati said.The BSP chief further asserted that the leadership needs to be changed immediately in the state.“I am 100 percent sure that the current UP CM is not able to run the government. Therefore, impose President’s rule and show some mercy to the people,” she added.The UP government has faced backlash after another Dalit woman lost her life due to gang rape in Balrampur district, a day after the cremation of the Hathras gangrape victim, who had succumbed to her injuries, was conducted by the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-should-impose-president-s-rule-in-up-says-mayawati-over-hathras-balrampur-incidents/story-7ITZK9LbD7q6HxwpdSWZVP.html
01-10-2020||India||People are seeing true colours of BJP’s rule: Akhilesh Yadav on Hathras incident||Samajwadi Party president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav slammed the government over the death of Hathras gangrape victim on Thursday.“Hathras victim’s family severally beaten on the order of the government. Now the people will ensure the government is brought to justice. People are seeing the way BJP’s misrule is revealing its true colours. The wicked will be unveiled soon,” Yadav’s tweet read (roughly translated from Hindi).The 19-year-old victim died in Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday. She was brought to the hospital on Monday from Aligarh Muslim University Medical College.An official had earlier said that the last rites were performed at the victim’s native place in the wee hours of Wednesday. All the four accused involved in the incident have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-are-seeing-true-colours-of-bjp-s-rule-akhilesh-yadav-on-hathras-incident/story-Rrn92vTbb4XuLKDwe0LsgP.html
01-10-2020||India||SC quashes Gujarat notification exempting factories from payment of overtime wages||The Supreme Court (SC) on Thursday struck down the Gujarat government’s decision to exempt industries in the state from certain provisions of the Factories Act, 1948 relating to the payment of overtime wages and also for fixed working hours between April 20 and July 19 on grounds of public emergency due to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic-induced lockdown restrictions. The apex court observed that right to life of workers is not conditional and their just claims to overtime wages and decent working conditions must not be denied because of the Covid-19 outbreak and massive disruption of economic activities following the 68-day nationwide lockdown restrictions. The lockdown was enforced from March 25 in a bid to contain the contagion. Also read: SC dismisses plea seeking postponement of UPSC civil services prelims 2020An SC bench, headed by Justice DY Chandrachud, held that workers faced unprecedented social and economic challenges during the lockdown and law cannot be used as an affront to their right to life and their just claims against forced labour. The Gujarat government had issued a notification on April 17 to provide relaxation to industries during the lockdown period by exempting them from certain conditions mandated under the Factories Act, 1948.The notification provided that workers in Gujarat can be made to work 12 hours a day with a 30-minute break after every six hours. It also did away with the requirement to pay double the wages for overtime work. The order had stated that normal wages can be paid even for overtime work. The notification was issued under section 5 of the Factories Act, 1948. Section 5 allows a government to exempt industries from the purview of Factories Act, 1948 on grounds of public emergency. Section 5 defines public emergency as a grave emergency, which threatens the internal security of the country whether by war or external aggression or even internal disturbances.The SC held that section 5 cannot be invoked to provide a blanket relief to all factories citing Covid-19 pandemic and the contagion cannot be considered a public emergency threatening national security. Gujarat Mazdoor Sabha and the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), which is affiliated to the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or the CPI (M), had moved the SC, challenging the Gujarat government’s April 17 notification. The petitioners had cited that Section 5 of the Factories Act, 1948, which provides for exemption only in cases of public emergency and that, too, for a factory or a class of factories. It does not provide for a blanket exemption for all factories, the plea had added.The court ordered that overtime wages should be paid to all eligible workers in Gujarat between April 20 and July 19, when the state government’s notification was in operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-quashes-gujarat-notification-exempting-factories-from-payment-of-overtime-wages/story-vMjApnDkxNgvE2FIEJsa5M.html
01-10-2020||India||China’s resurrection of 1959 LAC claim may be first step. India preps for fallout||With Beijing reiterating its claim on 1,597 kilometres of Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh on the basis of November 1959 maximalist cartographical claim, national security planners believe that Chinese Army may use this claim to put pressure on the six other areas of differences in the western sector that have not been impacted in the ongoing standoff between the two countries.The Indian Army has been sensitised to the assessment and is on alert to pre-empt any move by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA), people familiar with the matter said.The 1959 line (defined as Green Line on military maps) was sent by Prime Minister Zhou En-Lai to his Indian counterpart Jawaharlal Nehru on November 7, 1959, appended to Zhou’s letter addressed to heads of African-Asian countries on November 15, 1962.During the inconclusive exercise of clarification and confirmation of the western sector by expert level group, it was found that India and China had 12 areas of differences with significant areas involved. The western sector maps were to be exchanged on June 17, 2002 but the Chinese withdrew at the last moment.HT Editorial: India must keep its guard up on LAC after China’s 1959 claimAccording to China watchers, with six out of 12 areas of differences already in the contest, the PLA may launch an aggression on the remaining six points including Samar Lungpa, Demchok and Chumar to press home its claim which was rejected by Nehru himself. Hence, Indian military commanders have asked troops to be ready to repel any PLA move before heavy snow takes over the theatre of contest in East Ladakh. The polar winds and snow will not only wreak havoc on men but also their equipment. Artillery guns and tank barrels freeze in such cold conditions. From November 15 to May, the top priority of the two armies will be to survive the cold at the heights.While both India and China are engaged at military and diplomatic level to disengage, the PLA commanders of Western Theatre Command only listen to their commander-in-chief Xi Jinping, not the foreign ministry in Beijing as many generals outrank the foreign minister in the all-powerful Central Military Commission (CMC).The situation on the ground in the Ladakh LAC continues to be tense with the PLA realising that the Indian Army means business and has the capacity and capability to repel any aggression, an official said. The PLA troopers have stopped playing Punjabi songs on north of Pangong Tso and psychological warfare messages in the south with the Indian troopers making it clear that any transgression now will invite severe retaliation.The Indian diplomats are unfazed by the 1959 line claim and question their predecessors who thought more about not crossing the Chinese red lines on the LAC rather than defending the Indian LAC claim.“The Ladakh stand-off is an outcome of a 30-year differential between India and China in the infrastructure race. China became Shanghai and India remained Mumbai. It is not good English but strong infrastructure and military that will force China to come to table,” said a serving diplomat.The Chinese 1959 claim is as absurd as India claiming part of Tibet on the basis of Dogra ruler of Jammu, Raja Gulab Singh’s general Zorawar Singh Kahluria’s 1841 Tibet campaign to occupy parts of Ngari prefecture of Tibet, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-ladakh-1959/story-kd4kPfwW5CFwKfh1KcHdmI.html
01-10-2020||India||PM’s new special aircraft, equipped with missile defence systems, lands in Delhi||The first specially modified Boeing 777 aircraft, part of the Air India One fleet for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, landed in New Delhi on Thursday after a 15-hour flight from Worth Airport in Texas, officials aware of the development said.“The Boeing jet landed at 3.11 pm on Thursday,” a top aviation ministry official said. The delivery of the aircraft was delayed by more than a month due to “operational issues”, officials said.“The delivery of the aircraft was scheduled for August 25 but has been delayed due to certain operational issues. It took a few weeks’ time to deliver,” another senior government official said, requesting anonymity.Also Read: New planes to fly PM Modi, President to have self-protection suitesThe Centre had sent a team of senior officials from the Indian Air Force and Air India for escorting the aircraft back to India and assessing the technical requirements, a second official said.Air India had sent a pair of Boeing 777 aircraft to a Boeing facility in Dallas to be refurbished for VVIP travel. The government has planned to procure two such specially modified Boeing-777 aircraft, capable of countering missile threats with their own missile defence system, called the Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) and Self-Protection Suites (SPS).The modified aircraft are set to match the US President’s Air Force One in terms of security measures.Air India One is the call sign of any aircraft with the President or Prime Minister of India on board. The aircraft is operated as a VVIP flight by the Indian Air Force.The new long-haul aircraft will be used exclusively by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu.At present, the three dignitaries fly Air India’s Boeing 747 planes that the state-run airline deploys on commercial flights. These are temporarily reconfigured for the dignitaries when they need to travel, with the call sign changing to Air India One.The Boeing- 747 planes that are chartered from Air India for use by the three dignitaries are two decades old.The modified aircraft will also have ‘Bharat’ and India written on them, along with the Ashoka emblem.The new planes have been configured to provide generous office space, meeting rooms, a wide array of communication systems and a section for handling medical emergencies. The aircraft can fly between the US and India without having to stop for refuelling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-modified-boeing-777-aircraft-part-of-air-india-one-fleet-for-pm-to-arrive-in-delhi-today/story-V1eKOpfrXTGhXq34XNkjRL.html
01-10-2020||India||There should be no political tourism: Union minister Naqvi on rape cases in Uttar Pradesh||Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Thursday said there should be no ‘political tourism’ over recent incidents of rape in Uttar Pradesh, adding that the criminals will definitely be punished for their barbarism.Naqvi’s comment came amid reports Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will visit the family of the Hathras gang-rape victim, who passed away on Tuesday, nearly two weeks after being sexually assaulted and tortured by four men on September 14.“The barbaric criminals will definitely be punished for their barbarism. The probe teams are carrying out the investigation. But I think there should not be political tourism on the same,” he told news agency ANI.“Those who are trying to increase the tension through political tourism should not do that. Everyone is saddened and wants punishment for the culprits, Uttar Pradesh government is working towards it. You will see the results soon,” Naqvi further said. Those who are trying to increase the tension through political tourism, should not do that. Everyone is saddened and want punishment for the culprits, Uttar Pradesh govt is working towards it. You will see the results soon: Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi https://t.co/kmhnlogvjOIn recent days, there have been a string of incidents of rape in Uttar Pradesh. Even as outrage is spiralling over the Hathras case, a near-identical incident was reported from Balrampur.Meanwhile, Hathras DM P Lashkar said borders of Hathras have been sealed and Section 144 imposed in district, adding there was no information about the visit of the Gandhi siblings. He further said only the Special Investigation Team (SIT) will be allowed to meet the victim’s family members. Borders of Hathras are sealed. Section 144 of CrPC has been imposed in the district, more than 5 people are not allowed to gather. We've no information about Priyanka Gandhi's visit. SIT will meet the victim's family members today, media will not be allowed: Hathras DM P Lakshkar pic.twitter.com/bU3MXLre7xThe SIT has been formed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath to probe the case and submit its report within seven days. The case will also be tried in a fast-track court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-should-be-no-political-tourism-union-minister-naqvi-on-rape-cases-in-uttar-pradesh/story-wHuk8q4g0L9UqWCGk5LN7H.html
01-10-2020||India||Manipur tweaks Covid-19 protocol; asymptomatic patients to be discharged after 10 days||Asymptomatic Covid-19 positive persons will be discharged from Covid care centres after 10 days, according to an updated advisory on Covid-19 treatment protocol in Manipur.“There is no retest before discharge. Persons will self isolate at home for further seven days and self-monitor his/her health,” said a Wednesday press release by Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of the health department.Dr Mangang added that medical officers in the CCC will issue a discharge slip to such asymptomatic patients. This protocol, he said, was in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.When a person does not have symptoms and is not infectious, the person is perfectly safe to be discharged and sent home, the press release added.The cumulative number of Covid-19 patients in home isolation in Manipur is 596 including 335 active cases and 261 persons who have been declared recovered.The recovery rate from the disease in Manipur has climbed from 74.80% on Tuesday to 77.02% on Wednesday.Also Read: In Manipur, newly inducted ministers allocated cabinet portfoliosTwo deaths have been registered in the state due to the disease in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 67.The state has recorded a total of 237 new Covid-19 positive cases including 206 from the general population and 31 personnel from the central armed police force (CAPF) in the past 24 hours.Seven of the newly infected are returnees from other states and the rest are local residents without any significant travel history, the release added. They are being shifted to Covid care facilities.Also Read: At least 14 states have less than 5,000 active Covid-19 cases each: Health ministryThe total number of Covid positive cases in Manipur stands at 10,983 on Wednesday while the cumulative number of discharged cases stands at 8,460, the release stated. The total number of active cases is 2,456.As of Wednesday, 3,85,227 people were screened at various entry points into the state, while 2,41,648 individuals were tested for the disease, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-tweaks-covid-19-protocol-asymptomatic-patients-to-be-discharged-after-10-days/story-hXF7S90JvUFsaoeuUWPDwK.html
01-10-2020||India||Will PM Modi hold another ‘Namaste Trump’ rally to honour his dear friend, says Chidambaram||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking if he will hold another “Namaste Trump” rally to honour his “dear friend” after US President Donald Trump clubbed India with China and Russia and accused the three countries of hiding the number of Covid-19 deaths. “Mr Donald Trump clubs India with China and Russia and accused the three countries of hiding the number of Covid deaths. He also accused the three countries for causing the most air pollution. Will Mr Modi hold another ‘Namaste Trump!’ rally to honour his dear friend?” Chidambaram tweeted. “In 47 months I have done more than you have in 47 years--said Mr Donald Trump in the Presidential debate yesterday if the statement reminds you of someone in India, that’s your imagination!” he added. The Congress leader further stated, “No one killed Jessica” was the anguished cry a few years ago, “No one demolished the mosque” is the anguished cry today.“The trial court’s verdict defies logic and common sense, besides denying the conclusions of the Supreme Court!” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-pm-modi-hold-another-namaste-trump-rally-to-honour-his-dear-friend-says-chidambaram/story-ngKUIY6TLhBpHo4pJK86LP.html
01-10-2020||India||Gujarat govt decides to provide fees reduction in private schools||The Gujarat government has decided to provide 25 per cent reduction in fees in all private schools in the state.“Keeping in mind the guardians’ widespread representations, Gujarat Government today decided to provide a 25 per cent rebate in fees in all private schools, including CBSE, IB, ICSE, and CSE, in the larger interest of the people,” the state government said in a press release on Wednesday.As per it, the decision was taken after discussions with parents associations and school management across the state.“The Council of Ministers took into consideration a series of government meetings with both school management and parents associations in the light of Gujarat High Court directives and rulings in the matter. And both parties agreed with the State Government,” it quoted Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasma as saying.The minister also thanked schools for agreeing to provide 25 per cent reduction in fees. Chudasma further urged both the parties to work in the interest of the students and observed that there must be no animosity between the two, the release addedAccording to it, he also urged guardians to deposit 50 per cent of their wards’ fees by October 31. It added that those who had paid full fees will be compensated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-govt-decides-to-provide-fees-reduction-in-private-schools/story-DM5mDd9ZYdtvVqqNewZZRJ.html
01-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape: Have no words to condemn barbaric, shameful incident, says West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday expressed her shock at the Hathras gang-rape and murder case, saying she has no words to condemn ‘the barbaric and shameful incident.’Banerjee further slammed the alleged forceful cremation of the victim by the Uttar Pradesh police. “Have no words to condemn the barbaric and shameful incident at Hathras involving a young Dalit girl. My deepest condolences to the family. More shameful is the forceful cremation without the family’s presence or consent, exposing those who use slogans and lofty promises for votes,” she tweeted. Have no words to condemn the barbaric & shameful incident at Hathras involving a young Dalit girl. My deepest condolences to the family.More shameful is the forceful cremation without the family’s presence or consent, exposing those who use slogans & lofty promises for votes.The 19-year-old girl was sexually assaulted and tortured by four men from her village on September 14. After battling for life for nearly two weeks, she breathed her last at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday.However, there was fresh controversy on Wednesday as family members of the girl alleged that the UP police forcibly cremated her in the early hours of the day, a charge that has been denied by the administration.Under fire over the horrific crime, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has set up a three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the case. The team will submit its report within seven days. The case will also be tried in a fast-track court.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, has spoken to the chief minister and directed that ‘strictest action’ be taken against the culprits.All four accused, meanwhile, have been arrested by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-have-no-words-to-condemn-barbaric-shameful-incident-says-west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee/story-Qfi2F6ktAUjwJm3xFikK4H.html
01-10-2020||India||Babri Masjid demolition case: A look at other high-profile CBI cases that did not stand up in court||The Babri Masjid demolition case isn’t the only one wherein the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has been left red-faced by the courts over its probe—the agency hasn’t been able to cross the hurdle of judicial scrutiny in a number of other high-profile and politically sensitive cases. Having earned the moniker of “caged parrot” from the country’s highest court, CBI often gets slammed for shoddy probes or weak prosecution tactics. The agency has a conviction rate of around 69% in its cases, but it is the high-profile cases where its work is often put to the test. Also Read: Babri Masjid demolition verdict: All 32 accused acquittedHT takes a look at some cases that got CBI a dressing down from the courts 1. 2G scam: In December 2017, special CBI judge OP Saini acquitted former telecom minister A Raja and corporate honchos Sanjay Chandra, Shahid Balwa and others in the case. Saini had remarked that CBI had lost interest in the trial and had failed to provide any evidence against the accused persons. The agency has challenged the judgement in Delhi high court, which recently ordered a fast-track trial. WATCH | Babri Verdict: Why top lawyer says verdict shows ‘CBI collusion’2. Aarushi-Hemraj murders: In October 2017, while acquitting Rajesh and Nupur Talwar in the murders of their daughter Aarushi and servant Hemraj (which took place in May 2008), the Allahabad high court raised questions on the agency’s credibility and stated that the evidence was tampered with and a witness planted by agency. CBI’s appeal against the judgement is pending in the Supreme Court. 3. Coal scam: In May 2013, the Supreme Court questioned the credibility of the CBI probe in the case and called the agency a “caged parrot”, the harshest words ever used for the premier anti-corruption probe agency. Also Read: In 2,300-page judgment, court picks holes in CBI’s evidence4. Haren Pandya murder: In August 2011, the Gujarat high court had acquitted all the 12 persons accused of killing former state home minister Haren Pandya (in 2003). In its judgement, the high court had sharply criticised the CBI for its “botched up” investigation. However, a Supreme Court bench headed by justice (now retired) Arun Mishra overturned the decision and convicted nine persons for the killing. 5. Bofors scam: In May 2005, the Delhi high court quashed all the charges against the three Hinduja brothers—SP Hinduja, GP Hinduja and PP Hinduja—and others in the case pertaining to the supply of 410 Bofors field Howitzer guns in 1980s, in which it was alleged that a Rs 64 crore bribe was involved. The CBI challenged the order in 2018. The Supreme Court dismissed agency’s plea to reopen the investigation citing the delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-masjid-demolition-case-a-look-at-other-high-profile-cbi-cases-that-did-not-stand-up-in-court/story-5fYzR4kjrCScC7AQXtE4cP.html
01-10-2020||India||Scientists identify unique patterns in Covid-19 transmission in India||Researchers, including those from the Government of Tamil Nadu, and Andhra Pradesh, have conducted one of the largest analysis of Covid-19 epidemiology to date, and have found that both cases and deaths due to the disease have been more heavily concentrated in the 40-69 year age group in India than is seen in high-income countries, among other trends.The study, published in the journal Science on Wednesday, assessed the disease transmission patterns in 5,75,071 individuals exposed to 84,965 confirmed cases of Covid-19 in the two states based on data collected by tens of thousands of contact tracers. According to the scientists, including Ramanan Laxminarayan from the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics, and Policy in New Delhi, the findings offer a peek into the pandemic’s trajectory in a low- and middle-income country, where most Covid-19 cases have occurred. Based on the data, the scientists said both cases and deaths in the two Indian states were concentrated in younger cohorts than expected from observations in higher-income countries. The study noted that contacts with the same age were associated with the greatest infection risk -- a pattern, which the researchers said, was strongest among children between 0-14 years of age, and among adults older than 65 years. They said the proportion of deaths to the number of infected people, known as the case-fatality ratio (CFR), spanned 0.05 per cent at ages 5-17 years to 16.6 per cent at ages exceeding 85. The researchers also noted that Covid-19 patients in the two states have a median stay of five days in the hospital before death compared to 13 days to death from the date of hospital admission in the US. Follow-up testing of exposed contacts revealed that 70 per cent of infected individuals did not infect any of their contacts, while 8 per cent of coronavirus positive patients accounted for 60 per cent of observed new infections. The researchers said this finding presents the largest empirical demonstration of superspreading. They said the findings “may indicate the identification of less-severe infections through active case-finding.” Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu are among the Indian states with the largest healthcare workforce and public health expenditures per capita, and are known for their effective primary healthcare delivery models, the study noted. It said 63 per cent of those who died had at least one co-morbidity, and 36 per cent had two or more underlying health conditions that made them more susceptible to the disease. About 45 per cent of those who died were diabetic, the scientists said. Unlike observations in high-income countries, they said the deaths in India are concentrated at ages 50-64 years. In the two Indian states in particular, they said only 17.9 per cent of Covid-19 deaths occurring on or before 1 August, 2020 were among people older than 75, compared with 58.1 per cent of deaths due to the disease in the US. “This study was made possible by the significant contact tracing effort in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, which involved tens of thousands of healthcare workers,”  Laxminarayan said. “The results on disease transmission and mortality have the potential to inform policy to fight Covid-19. The study also speaks to the capacity of research emerging from India to help inform the global response to Covid-19,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-identify-unique-patterns-in-covid-19-transmission-in-india/story-9HKtgkFHMma4rXnHNS2a3N.html
01-10-2020||India||Amit Shah wishes President Kovind on his birthday, hails his dedication to upliftment of poor, underprivileged||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday wished President Ram Nath Kovind on his birthday.Shah said that the President’s dedication towards the upliftment of the poor and underprivileged sections of the society was a source of motivation for all concerned.“Best wishes to President Ram Nath Kovindji on his birthday. We all are motivated by your dedication for the welfare and empowerment of poor and underprivileged sections of the society. Your intelligence and skills have given new strength to the country. I wish for your healthy and long life,” Shah’s tweet read (roughly translated from Hindi).Earlier Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also greeted the President on his birthday, saying that his rich insights and wise understanding of policy matters are assets for the country.Kovind was born on 1st October 1945 at village Paraunkh in Kanpur district of Uttar Pradesh.He was sworn in as the 14th President of India on 25 July 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-wishes-president-kovind-on-his-birthday-hails-his-dedication-to-upliftment-of-poor-underprivileged/story-iOHBSgXHFfkkuE4opHhSqN.html
01-10-2020||India||Analysis of exhaled breath can help detect gastrointestinal diseases: Research||Analysis of the water vapour in the exhaled breath may soon be used to detect various gastrointestinal diseases, including the Helicobacter pylori, a common bacterial infection that causes sores and ulcers and may even lead to gastric cancer.Researchers from the S. N. Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences, Kolkata, under the department of science, have found in the exhaled breath,new biomarkers for bacterial infection, and have developed a patented device to detect H.pylori.Water has four naturally occurring isotopes (variants of an element with different number of neutrons) with different masses. The team was able to quantify the triple isotope signature of water in the exhaled breath, depending on the water consumed by the person. They found that deuterium-rich semi-heavy water is a bio-marker for the H. Pylori infection.The scientists also found that an improper absorption of water -- learnt through changes in the composition of the triple isotopes -- can be indicative of various gastric malfunctions.The study was conducted by Dr Manik Pradhan and his team with Dr Sujit Chaudhuri, gastroenterologist at AMRI Hospital, Kolkata, to demonstrate that the isotopic signatures of unusual water absorption in the gastrointestinal tract can trace the onset of various abnormalities. The study was published in journal Analytical Chemistry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/analysis-of-exhaled-breath-can-help-detect-gastrointestinal-diseases-research/story-zomBULNZmiPb3IHAlAu5EP.html
01-10-2020||India||On President Kovind’s 75th birthday, special praise from PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday wished President Ram Nath Kovind on his 75th birthday, saying he was ‘extremely compassionate towards serving the vulnerable.’“Birthday wishes to Rashtrapati ji. His rich insights and wide understanding of policy matters are great assets for our nation. He is extremely compassionate towards serving the vulnerable. I pray for his good health and long life. @rashtrapatibhvn,” PM Modi tweeted. Birthday wishes to Rashtrapati Ji. His rich insights and wise understanding of policy matters are great assets for our nation. He is extremely compassionate towards serving the vulnerable. I pray for his good health and long life. @rashtrapatibhvnVice President Venkaiah Naidu, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda, Union ministers Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Prahlad Joshi were also among those who wished President Kovind on his birthday.Born on October 1, 1945, in Paraunkh village in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur, Kovind is the 14th President of India, in office since July 25, 2017. He succeeded Pranab Mukherjee, who passed away in August, as the President.He also served as a Rajya Sabha MP for two consecutive terms from 1994 to 2006 and was a member of various parliamentary committees. He was also the 26th Governor of Bihar from August 16, 2015 to June 20, 2017.As the presidential candidate of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA), Kovind defeated former Lok Sabha speaker and United Progressive Alliance (UPA) candidate Meira Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-president-kovind-s-75th-birthday-special-praise-from-pm-modi/story-WuiJkC8DKiPLetpfDvdJWJ.html
01-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6.3 million mark with 86,821 fresh cases, 1,181 fatalities||India on Thursday reported 86,821 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the case tally to 6,312,584 , according to Union health ministry. The country also reported 1,181 new fatalities due to the virus in last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 98,678.India has 9,40,705 active cases in the country, whereas a total of 52,73,201 people have been cured of the disease so far. While the country’s infection rate is at 15.11%, India’s recovery rate currently stands at 83.33%.A total of 7,56,19,781 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till September 30. Of these, 14,23,052 samples were tested on Wednesday, according to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Though the country continues to witness a rise in Covid-19 cases, the Centre on Wednesday issued fresh guidelines for reopening of activities for people. The Centre has given a green flag for partial reopening of movie theatres, schools, colleges and swimming pools among other things. As per the new guidelines, the schools and colleges can reopen from October 15 in a graded manner but only after the states and union territories have taken “consultation with the respective school/institution management, based on their assessment of the situation”. This relaxation comes with a set of its own conditions, one of those being: “Students may attend schools and institutions only with the written consent of parents.”On the other hand, Cinema halls have been permitted to reopen with up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity for which SOP (Standard operating procedure) will be issued by Ministry of Information & Broadcasting (MHA).On Wednesday, Maharashtra extended its lockdown till October 31, while also issuing relaxations on a few services such as restaurants, Mumbai local services bars and hotel. The Centre in its guidelines has also made it clear that all states and UT governments will not impose any lockdown outside the containment zones until a consultation with the government is made.“State/ UT Governments shall not impose any local lockdown (State/ District/ sub-division/City/ village level), outside the containment zones, without prior consultation with the Central Government. No restriction on inter-state & intra-state movement,” the Ministry of Home Affairs had said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-6-3-million-mark-with-86-821-fresh-cases-1-181-fatalities/story-BZUId08zcZTtG4LKGcQVzJ.html
01-10-2020||India||Ravi Kishan gets Y+ security after threat calls post speaking on Bollywood, drugs||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday accorded Y+ security to actor and BJP politician Ravi Kishan as he was getting threatening calls after he spoke about Bollywood and its alleged drug nexus.Taking to Twitter, Ravi Kishan thanked Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for providing security for his ‘family & the people of his constituency’ and said that his voice would continue to echo people’s thoughts. He had said that he would continue to raise his voice for the sake of the youth of this country and for the future of the film industry.“I’ll speak at the right time. I’ve raised my voice for youths & future of film industry. I didn’t think about my life. Desh ke bhavishya ke liye 2-5 goli bhi kha lenge, to koi chinta nahi hai (Will even take a bullet or two for the country. I don’t worry about it),” ANI reported him as saying.Earlier, speaking in the Parliament, Ravi had raised the drug addiction issue in the Lok Sabha. In response, actor and Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan had launched a scathing attack on Ravi. She had said that she completely disagreed with those who called the entertainment industry a “gutter”, referring to a comment made by Kangana Ranaut.“People who have made a name in this industry have called it a gutter. I completely disagree and I really disassociate,” she said. She had added how she was “really embarrassed and ashamed” in a reference to Kishan’s statement in the Lok Sabha on the alleged Bollywood drug cartel. “Jis thali mein khate hai usme chhed karte hai. Galat baat hai ,” she said referring to a popular Hindi proverb that means to bite the hands that feed you.In response, Ravi had hit back at Jaya and said that he was the son of a priest and had worked his way up. “There is a conspiracy to finish our film industry by hollowing it out. As a responsible member of film industry, it is not just my right but my duty to raise it in Parliament and Jaya-ji should respect that. I am just a son of a priest who crawled his way up and has worked in 600 films,” Ravi said while speaking to ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ravi-kishan-gets-y-security-after-threat-calls-post-speaking-on-bollywood-drugs/story-Tys0ZjYdLbYtIM3fXuZTVL.html
01-10-2020||India||Govt yet to appoint members, SC commission headless since May||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has been a headless body for the past four months, as the Union government is yet to appoint office-bearers for the constitutional body set up to safeguard the rights of the marginalised communities. The term of the team, led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and a former Member of Parliament (MP) Ram Shankar Katheria as the chairperson and L Murugan as the vice-chairperson, came to an end in May. Murugan has since been appointed as the president of the BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit.A government functionary aware of the details said no meetings were held to discuss the names for the panel to head the constitutional body.NCSC has the powers to investigate and monitor all matters relating to the safeguards provided for the SCs under the Constitution. It also has the mandate to probe into specific complaints with respect to the deprivation of rights and safeguards of the SCs. “The intervention of the commission is necessary and reassuring, if there is any laxity in probe or registering complaints during actions taken by the Central and state governments in cases involving atrocities against Dalits. The panel also ensures that compensation is paid to the victims,” said a former NCSC functionary, requesting anonymity. The headless NCSC is a stark reminder amid two recent incidents of atrocities against Dalits. The gang-rape and murder of a teenager (19) Dalit in Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Hathras district was followed by reports of another Dalit woman was also brutalised in the state’s Balrampur district on Wednesday. However, this is not the first time that the NCSC has been headless. Katheria was appointed to the constitutional body in May 2017 after PL Punia’s tenure had ended in October 2016. Bhalchandra Mungekar, a former Rajya Sabha (RS) MP from the Congress, said not reconstituting the commission shows “insensitivity and hypocrisy of the Union government”.He said: “Keeping aside the qualitative and quantitative work that the panel did over a period of time, the formation of the commission is a statutory obligation of the government. The commission’s annual reports are tabled in Parliament along with the action taken reports (ATRs) by the government. This insensitivity towards the SCs is contrary to the government’s slogan of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas. SCs are the most deprived sections not only economically, but also socially, culturally, educationally and politically.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-yet-to-appoint-members-sc-commission-headless-since-may/story-XKKdLVHxK0HSoEgbI2MJvJ.html
01-10-2020||India||Land under forest shrunk between 2011 and 2016, contrary to FSI’s findings||The built-up area in the country had increased by 2.39% between 2011-12 and 2015-16, but forest area had declined by 1.09%, according to a report on environmental accounts released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Wednesday.The largest decline in vegetation was observed in case of deciduous and evergreen forests, the report revealed. The area under inland wetlands had dropped by 6.9%. While 14.32% dip was recorded in barren or waste land, including in the Rann of Kutch, during the same period. The report dwells on the state of various environmental assets such as forests, land, water bodies, grasslands, carbon stocks, biodiversity etc and their impact on the country’s economy. Also read: Why farmers are opposing ‘pro-farmer’ reformsThe National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC), under its Natural Resources Census (NRC) project, has produced the land use and land change data sets for 2005-06, 2011-12 and 2015-16.The data sets were utilised by the NSO to conduct an analysis on land use trends for its latest report.However, the NSO’s analysis is at odds with the Forest Survey of India’s (FSI) reports that have shown an increase in the country’s forest cover. The FSI’s report had shown last year that the country recorded a 0.56% improvement in its forest cover, as compared to 2017. But, the NSO’s land use change matrix showed that forest area declined by 1.09%, as compared to a 0.5% increase in forest area shown in the FSI reports between 2013 and 2015.An official from the Union Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MOSPI) said on condition of anonymity that this could be because of the difference in the way the FSI and the NRSC define forests. The NRSC considers land with a tree canopy cover of more than 10% and an area of over 0.5 hectare (ha). It excludes other predominant land uses such as agriculture and certain monocultures, which the FSI doesn’t. Union Minister for Environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javadekar had said last year that India was among few countries to record increasing forest cover while citing the FSI’s data.The NSO land use change matrix shows a reduction in forest area may be because of diversion to built-up area, agriculture and wasteland. Similar reasons can be attributed to the loss in areas under wetland. The NSO report has taken into account forest ecosystem services such as timber, non-timber forest resources and carbon retention and has suggested these economic activities are equivalent to 2.58% of India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The highest economic value per ha from forest ecosystem services during 2017-18 was recorded in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, followed by Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland, according to the analysis by the NSO of the FSI’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/land-under-forest-shrunk-between-2011-and-2016-contrary-to-fsi-s-findings/story-LaFbckJ6sgORZBmqsOfKWP.html
01-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: At least 14 states in India report less than 5,000 Covid-19 cases, says Health Ministry and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.14 states report less than 5,000 Covid-19 cases: Health ministryAt least 14 states in the country currently have less than 5,000 active coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases each, highlighting the need to focus on states with a high case load to cut the transmission cycle of the viral infection, according to government officials. Read moreMinor raped at Azamgarh village in Uttar Pradesh, accused arrestedAn eight-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Azamgarh district was allegedly raped by her 20-year-old neighbour in a village in Jiyanpur police station area on Wednesday, police said, and added that the accused has been arrested. Read moreThree rapes, 126 vehicle thefts per day in Delhi in 2019: NCRBDelhi reported at least three rapes and 126 vehicle thefts every day in 2019 -- the year when overall crime in the national capital went up by 20% compared to the previous year, according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) Report. Read moreFord in dark, literally: 700,000 vehicles recalled for fault with back camFord has recalled close to 700,000 vehicles in the US over a rather peculiar problem with the back camera installed which reportedly starts showing distorted image on the main cabin screen before going dark. Read moreIPL 2020: Won’t be surprised if he leads a franchise in 2-3 years: Simon Doull’s high praise about India batsmanThat Shubman Gill has a truckload of talent is unknown to none but what has been interesting is the fact that noted former cricketers have started to consider him as a future leader. Former New Zealand fast bowler and currently a renowned broadcaster, Simon Doull was the latest to rave about Gill’s leadership qualities. Read moreThis 5-foot-tall telescope made of chocolate is incredible. WatchRemember the talented pastry chef who created a huge gorilla using chocolate? He is back with another mind-blowing creation that will leave you surprised and hungry, all at the same time. Read moreAbhishek Banerjee plays a romantic character for first time in PariWar, fulfils all 3 criteria needed for his mom’s approvalAbhishek Banerjee, the dreaded Hathoda Tyagi of Paatal Lok fame, is back in an entirely different avatar of a male nurse in his latest web show, PariWar. The actor had earlier confessed that his mother and wife had refused to watch his last hit outing due to the blood and gore. He now feels hopeful that his mother may like his latest project as he fulfils her criteria of decent clothes, non violence and no use of abusive language. Read moreGandhi Jayanti: Visiting Sabarmati Ashram; why Mahatma didn’t return after 1930The Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad is a significant milestone in India’s freedom journey. It was set up in 1917 and was home to MK and Kasturba Gandhi for around a decade. The Ashram was meant as a school for satyagrahis, and boasted notable inhabitants like Vinoba Bhave, Madeleine Slade aka Mira, and Maganlal Gandhi. It was from Sabarmati Ashram that Gandhi launched his iconic Dandi March against the British salt law in 1930. Sadly, he never visited the Ashram again. While leaving, the Mahatma had vowed to return only after India attained independence, but he was assassinated months after the country’s liberation. After leaving Sabarmati, Gandhi had set up the Sevagram Ashram in Maharashtra’s Wardha. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-minor-raped-in-uttar-pradesh-s-azamgarh-accused-arrested-and-all-the-latest-news/story-XwmSV1EXN2ApHPDiPBQvhJ.html
01-10-2020||India||After Hathras, another Dalit woman gangraped in Balrampur; UP govt faces backlash||A day after outrage over the death and forced cremation of a Dalit gang-rape victim from Hathras, the Uttar Pradesh government is facing backlash after another Dalit woman died after gang-rape in Balrampur district of the state.Coming down heavily on the Yogi government, Samajwadi Party supremo and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav said, “After Hathras, now a daughter was harassed and gang-raped in Balrampur. The victim died in serious condition. Condolences!” The BJP government should commit no laxity in this case as was done in Hathras and arrest the accused immediately.”Coming down heavily on the Yogi government, Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav said, “After Hathras, now a daughter was harassed and gang-raped in Balrampur. The victim died in serious condition. Condolences!” The BJP government should commit no laxity in this case as was done in Hathras and arrest the accused immediately.”WATCH| Amid outrage over Hathras case, another Dalit girl raped in Balrampur, dies Congress leader Raj Babbar wrote on his Twitter handle, “Now in #Balrampur, a girl from the Dalit society was harassed. A similar incident has also happened in Azamgarh and Bulandshahr. In every case, the victim is waiting for justice. The BJP, which came to power with the promise of women’s security, has forgotten it now.”“In last two days, two Dalit girls were gang-raped in UP and both succumbed to the brutal assault,” the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) tweeted.The 22-year-old woman employed at private firm, according to her family members, did not return home on Tuesday night, police officials said. When she returned home on Wednesday in an autorickshaw, she had intravascular cannula, medically known as Vigo and used for administering injection, glucose or other fluids in the body, inserted in her hand, the police was reported as saying by news agency PTI.According to the family members, the girl looked dazed and in a serious condition, after which she was rushed to the hospital by her kin. She died on her way to the hospital, Balrampur SP Dev Ranjan Verma told PTI.The family has alleged gang-rape after the incident was reported to the police from the hospital.Police officials said that the two accused in the case have been arrested.This is the second incident of gang-rape and death reported just a day after another Dalit victim of gang-rape and brutality from Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras died on Tuesday, sparking angry protests in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-hathras-another-dalit-woman-gangraped-in-balrampur-up-govt-faces-backlash/story-4LiOIw6SbEQLnmW51invmN.html
01-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape: NHRC issues notice to UP govt, state police chief||The NHRC has issued notices to the Uttar Pradesh government and the state’s police chief in connection with the gang rape of a 19-year-old Dalit women in Hathras district, officials said on Wednesday.The woman, who was battling for her life after the assault, died at Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday.The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has taken suo motu cognisance in connection with the “gang rape and brutality of a 19-year-old women belonging to the Scheduled Caste in Hathras district”, the rights panel said in a statement.According to reports, she had gone missing on September 14 and was found in a badly injured condition on September 22, and was subjected to gang rape and brutality in Hathras over two weeks ago, it said.The Commission has sent notices to the chief secretary of the state government and the Director General of Police of Uttar Pradesh, the officials said.On September 14, the young woman had gone to the fields with her mother and went missing soon after. She was found later, beaten and tortured, her tongue cut as she bit it when the accused attempted to strangle her.She was first admitted to Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital and then shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi on Monday.The commission said the responses from the state authorities are expected within four weeks.The NHRC observed that the young woman belonging to the Scheduled Caste community was subjected to sexual harassment and brutality. “It is apparent that the police was not able to take timely action to trace and save the victim due to which she could not be saved from being subjected to grave cruelty,” it said.“The way the perpetrators have acted shows that they had no fear of law in their mind. The family has suffered an irrevocable loss. A young and a precious human life has been lost,” the rights panel added.Not only this, there are also allegations made by the family that the “police forcibly took away the body of the deceased for cremation” as have been reported in the media, the statement said.“Then incident has raised many questions about the law and order situation in the state. Many such incidents have occurred in the state of Uttar Pradesh where the members of the Scheduled Community have been subjected to discrimination and harassment by the people belonging to upper castes,” it said.There have been a number of instances of allegations of inaction against the police authorities and the administration. This is a serious issue of violation of human rights, the NHRC added.The commission said it has further directed the state government “to provide adequate protection to the family of the deceased” keeping in view the gravity of the matter and the aspect of the witness protection as there is apparent rift between the two communities and there may be danger to the family of the deceased.The DGP is expected to “look personally into the matter to ensure a speedy trial so that the culprits could be punished by the competent court without any further delay,” the statement said.In the current scenario, it is necessary that family of the deceased as well as other members of the SC community residing in the village are provided proper protection by the police. Both the authorities are expected to submit their report, within the stipulated time, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-nhrc-issues-notice-to-up-govt-state-police-chief/story-VdgrlMiHf6udpKqNiTC8PL.html
01-10-2020||India||New devices developed for effective Covid-19 testing||A glucometer-like device that can detect the level of antibodies against Covid-19, another that uses magnetic nanoparticles to collect virus fragments or antibodies from a sample within minutes, and a third the size of two stacked laptops that can perform molecular Covid-19 tests without trained manpower have all been developed in three to four months by startups supported under the department of science and technology’s CAWACH initiative.Also Read: Superspreaders led to 60% Covid-19 cases: StudyThe three are being sent for validation to the Indian Council of Medical Research to see how they perform against existing tests. The Centre for Augmenting War with Covid-19 Health Crisis (CAWACH) was created in April, with a corpus of Rs 56 crore, for scouting, evaluating, and supporting innovations that can help in the government’s fight against the pandemic.“In just three or four months, many of the startups supported by us have developed effective technologies to fight Covid-19 including ventilators, PPE kits and diagnostic kits that are now available in the market. This shows the power of collaboration. Through the CAWACH programme we were able to connect the dots in a timely manner and look at the big picture,” said Dr Anita Gupta, head of innovation and entrepreneurship at DST.Also Read: Covid-19: Data dilemma after third serological surveyOne startup, PathShodh has developed an antibody testing device that can not only tell whether a person has antibodies against Covid-19 but also measure the concentration of the antibodies, something currently possible only in large laboratories.“The test uses a small amount of blood that needs to be put on a paper strip just like in a glucometer. The strip then needs to be put in a small mobile phone-sized device that gives a digital reading of whether a person has antibodies against Covid-19 as well as the concentration of the antibodies within a few minutes,” said Dr Vinay Kumar, co-founder and director of PathShodh. The kit also detects the level of both IgM (the first antibody produced to fight off a new infection) and IgG (a specific antibody produced about 10 days later). Most antibody strips available in the market test only for the long-lasting IgG antibodies. The mobile phone like machine will also help in maintaining records of the patients that can be linked to their Aadhaar card or even Arogya Setu, the government’s contact tracing App.The machine will cost about Rs 50,000 and the per test cost will be just Rs 450-500, Dr Kumar said.Another portable device developed by Prantae Solutions OC uses magnetic nanoparticles to separate Covid-19 antibodies from a blood sample or the viral antigen (for current infection) from a swab sample. A reader then uses absorption spectrometry – a method that observes the absorption of radiation by the sample– to give results within a few minutes. “We are focusing more on the antibody testing that would be needed more and more as people start travelling and going to offices. It will tell them whether they have already had the infection, and currently re-infection is thought to be rare. The device will cost about Rs 20,000 and the per test cost will come to about Rs 300,” said Sumona Karjee Mishra, founder director of Prantae Solutions OC.The Omix AMP test developed by the OmiX research and diagnostic laboratory uses a small portable device the size of two stacked laptops to carry out molecular test just like the gold standard RT PCR ones in small laboratories that might not have the expensive RT PCR machines. The results can be given in 1.5 hours. The test has been designed keeping in mind small neighbourhood laboratories and those in some primary health centres.“The device we have developed eliminates the need for the expensive RT PCR machine, which very few labs across India have. All the reagents needed for the test also come in a dried form inside a test tube in which the extracted RNA and a solution has to be added. For the RT- PCR test, this mix of reagents has to be prepared by a trained person. The reagents needed for RT PCR also have to be transported at -20 degrees C as compared to our format which is stable at 35 degree C,” said Sudeshna Adak, founder and CEO of Omix research and diagnostic laboratory. The test is likely to have a sensitivity of over 95% and specificity of over 99%, meaning it can detect 95% of all positive cases and 99% of all negative samples correctly,Adak said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-devices-developed-for-effective-covid-19-testing/story-AYKYPRwGLoimfx7ILRxs5J.html
01-10-2020||India||Encouraged G20 members to enhance strategies to produce renewable energy, says BJP MP Suresh Prabhu||BJP MP Suresh Prabhu on Wednesday took part in the third G20 Sherpas’ virtual meeting and encouraged members to enhance strategies to produce renewable energy.“We focussed on the need of renewable energy and encouraged G20 members to enhance their renewable energy strategies considering national circumstances, needs and priorities for implementation and encourage increased investment and financing in renewable energy production,” Prabhu wrote on Twitter after attending the second day of the G20 Sherpas’ virtual meeting.“Took part in the Third G20 Sherpas’ Virtual Meeting, under the presidency of Saudi Arabia on 2nd marathon day attended by more than 30 participants including 20 countries along with many other organisations,” he said.He further said that the world is faced by the growing challenge of water shortage and water resource management has become the need of the hour.“When the world is faced by the growing challenge of water shortage, water resource management has become the need of the hour. We must focus on strengthened mechanisms for Zoonosis control, in line with the One Health approach.”The third G20 Sherpa Meeting is being held under Saudi Arabia’s presidency, with participation from G20 members, invited countries, and international and regional organizations.G20 Sherpas have already met under the Saudi presidency to address the Covid-19 pandemic. More meetings are expected to take place in preparation for the 2020 G20 Leaders’ Summit, which will be held virtually from November 21 to 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encouraged-g20-members-to-enhance-strategies-to-produce-renewable-energy-says-bjp-mp-suresh-prabhu/story-mol6cf0zxvdWPncNqjy6WI.html
01-10-2020||India||India has culture of living in harmony with nature: Prakash Javadekar at UN||Since time immemorial, India has a culture of not just conserving and protecting nature, but living in harmony with it, Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar said on Thursday.Speaking at the Biodiversity Summit at United Nations, he said, “the emergence of Covid-19 has emphasized the fact that unregulated exploitation of natural resources coupled with unsustainable food habits and consumption patterns lead to destruction system that supports human life.”“As enshrined in our Vedic scripts ‘Prakriti Rakshati Rakshita’ that is if you protect nature, nature will protect you,” he added.Javadekar said that India has enhanced the forest and tree cover to 24.56 per cent in the last decade.“In the course of last decade, India has enhanced the combined forest and tree cover to 24.56 per cent of the total geographical area of the country,” he said.India has the highest number of tigers in the wild and the number has doubled ahead of the 2022 deadline, the Union Minister stated.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15 this year had announced two projects, Project Lion and Project Dolphin, to preserve the biodiversity of the nation.He further said India aims to restore 26 million hectares of degraded and deforested land and achieve land-degradation neutrality by 2030. “India has operationalized a system for access and benefit-sharing provisions of the Convention on Biological Diversity through a national network of 250,000 Biodiversity Management Committees across the country involving locals and 170,000 Peoples Biodiversity Registers for documentation of biodiversity,” he said.The post-2020 global biodiversity framework that will be adopted at the 15th Conference of Parties to the CBD in 2021 provides a good opportunity to enhance efforts to conserve and protect nature, the Union Minister said.“India has already taken a leadership role in order to conserve biodiversity by organizing two Conference of Parties (CoPs) within a span of less than a year,” he said. “We organized CoP 14 of UNCCD during September 2019 in New Delhi, followed by CoP 13 of the Convention on Migratory Species (CMS) in Gandhinagar during February 2020.” Javadekar said that India has been championing the cause of “climate action” through conservation, sustainable lifestyle, and green development model.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-culture-of-living-in-harmony-with-nature-prakash-javadekar-at-un/story-MDhWmEYLqA6edWqmjBSxeJ.html
01-10-2020||India||India moves terrain-hugging Nirbhay missiles with 1,000-km range to defend LAC||India will formally induct the Nirbhay subsonic cruise missile into the Indian Army and Navy after the seventh trial scheduled next month but has already moved a limited number of the missiles to the Line of Actual Control where Indian soldiers are locked in a tense standoff with China’s PLA.The 1,000 km range solid rocket booster missile has a single shot kill ratio of more than 90 per cent. It has been developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times hours after India test-fired an extended-range BrahMos surface-to-surface supersonic cruise missile that can hit targets 400 km away.The Defence Acquisition Council headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh has cleared the formal induction of the Nirbhay subsonic missile. The military, however, did not wait for the formality to deploy the new missile and has already moved some of them to defend the LAC against China.The missile, which travels at a speed of 0.7 Mach, has both terrain-hugging and sea-skimming capability that helps it avoid detection and counter-measures.At the LAC, the PLA’s western theatre command has deployed stand-off weapons up to 2,000 km range and long-range surface-to-air missiles in Tibet and Xinjiang after the Ladakh stand-off started in May this year. The Chinese deployment is not limited to occupied Aksai Chin but is located in depth positions from Kashgar, Hotan, Lhasa and Nyingchi along the 3,488 km Line of Actual Control (LAC).Officials said Wednesday’s testing of the 400-km range BrahMos missiles with an indigenous airframe and booster is significant since it clears the decks for India to have the next class of supersonic long-range tactical cruise missile.  The Brahmos has a liquid-fuelled booster capable of ranges over 500 km.These new-age weapons will be based on solid-fuelled ducted ramjet (SFDR) technology that can be used for air-to-air missiles as well as long-range supersonic cruise missiles. The technology has been tested by the DRDO twice - on 30 May 2018, and 8 February 2019.“The new class of cruise missile will have a solid rocket booster along with supersonic speed using SFDR technology. The range of missiles can be decided on the basis of mission objectives,” said an Indian missile expert.It is understood that the new class of cruise missiles (yet to be named) will have a better circular error of probability than the BrahMos with a heavy conventional warhead to target airbases and ships of the adversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-moves-terrain-hugging-nirbhay-missiles-with-1-000-km-range-to-defend-lac/story-yf5IrC1IhjVjbVv1aOJWSO.html
01-10-2020||India||Dalit woman gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Balrampur dies; two arrested||A 22-yr-old Dalit woman died after she had allegedly been gang-raped by two youths in a Balrampur village in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday, said police. The victim was cremated on Wednesday night itself after post-mortem by a panel of four doctors.The incident occurred on Tuesday when the girl had gone to take admission in a college near her village but did not return home till late evening, superintendent of police of Balrampur, Dev Ranjan Verma, said. The girl later returned on a rickshaw with glucose drip inserted in her hand while family members were searching for her.Also read: Hathras cops cremate rape victim by stealthVerma said the family members stated that the girl’s condition was not good so they rushed her to a nearby hospital and later to the Balrampur district hospital where she succumbed to her injuries.While the family has alleged that the girl’s hands and legs were fractured, police officials state that no such injuries were confirmed in the post-mortem examination. The accused have been arrested after an FIR was registered following a complaint filed by the victim’s brother, officials said. Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 376-D for gang rape and 302 for murder have been slapped against the two accused and further probe is on, the police official quoted above added. Also read: More outrage, protests after Hathras victim’s cremationThe SP said the case will be sent to a fast track court and strictest action will be taken against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-dalit-woman-gang-raped-dies-in-uttar-pradesh-s-balrampur/story-FtusJgBsVM54oKr2u4YMoL.html
01-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The past two weeks have seen the world come full circle in terms of its views on how Sweden has handled the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In March, Sweden’s no-lockdown, minimal-restrictions, people-know-best approach was a novelty. In April, as the lockdown took its toll on other economies, it was touted as a success. In June and July, the sentiment turned. The country’s Scandinavian neighbours even closed their borders with Sweden, and the country was criticised for not doing enough to protect lives even as livelihoods suffered. Now, over the past two weeks, Sweden’s approach, which hasn’t changed at all, has come in for praise again.I’ve long been a critic of Sweden’s approach. On April 30, in Dispatch 42, I wrote: “The death rate (as a proportion of those infected) in Sweden is over 12%; per million of population it is 230. Yet, because it did not lock down (even school terms continued) — it did issue guidelines on social distancing, but left the enforcement to its people and businesses — the country likes to see its response to Covid-19 as a success (and indeed, this is evident in some of the coverage regarding Sweden’s strategy in dealing with the pandemic). At this point in time, at least to this writer, those numbers do not indicate a success at all; in the trade-off between lives and livelihoods, Sweden seems to have swung too much towards the latter.”WATCH | ‘In Covid parameters, India faring better than many countries’: Harsh Vardhan That column was written at a time when a lockdown seemed to be the best strategy to counter the spread of the virus. The death rate has come down (it is now 6.3%). And as countries around the world have opened up, are opening up even more, or not locking down despite a surge in cases, Sweden’s strategy is being examined again, and finding several endorsers. There’s been talk of Sweden’s immunity and the concept of herd immunity. Some countries seem to be telling themselves that if lockdowns are not an option, there could be things they can learn from Sweden. That must be music to the ears of Anders Tegnell, the epidemiologist in charge of managing the pandemic in Sweden who was initially celebrated, then vilified, for the country’s Covid-19 response. In a late June podcast on Swedish radio, he called for an honest assessment of the country’s strategy. Tegnell has always maintained that Covid-19 isn’t going to go away miraculously, and that the best way to deal with it is to keep things open, but educate people on social distancing guidelines (Sweden wasn’t big on masks until recently and has just started talking about their use in public places).India announced its own its fifth round of reopening guidelines on Wednesday, paving the way for the conditional reopening of schools (online classes are to continue, though, and are preferred, the home ministry said), and multiplexes.I remain unconvinced about Sweden’s approach at two levels. One, the numbers do not show the strategy as being the success it is claimed to be. Sweden, according to the latest data on worldometers.info, has 582 deaths per million, compared to Norway’s 50, Finland’s 62, and Denmark’s 112. India has 71. The UK has 619, and the US 636. Many of Sweden’s dead were older people in care homes which were ravaged by the disease. The Swedish economy is expected to shrink by 4.6% this year, which makes it better off than some European and American nations, although not Norway, whose economy is expected to shrink by 4.2% this year.Two, the Swedish approach assumes that people know best, and will always act with their best interests in mind. There’s enough evidence on how this has played out in other countries — some researchers say that the US’s third wave can be directly correlated with how people behaved during Labour Day weekend. And, during the coming festive season (there has already been some lobbying to allow celebrations, and new reopening guidelines do allow social and religious gatherings to be held in open air, with precautions such as the wearing of masks and social distancing), it’s easy to see how this will play out in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-bd3TZFtTWeMiVegKmkiFQJ.html
01-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Data dilemma after third serological survey||The prevalence of Sars-Cov-2 virus antibodies in Delhi dropped by over four percentage points in a month, officials told the Delhi high court citing the recent serological survey, throwing up an epidemiological finding that now distorts estimates of how many people may have been exposed to Covid-19 in the national capital.The presence of antibodies, which develop after a person has had an infection, is only expected to grow within a population with an outbreak. WATCH | Covid update: Mumbai orders 72,000 injections; new Unlock 5 rules; UK spikeBut it was 29.1% among the 15,000 people sampled in August, dropping to 24.8% among the 17,197 people sampled in September, according to the Delhi government’s submissions. The decrease may be due to a change in sampling method to represent of socio-economic conditions of the people, the researchers who designed the survey said. “The sampling method that we have used this time is more representative; samples were collected based on where people lived -- planned colonies, unauthorised colonies etc,” said Pragya Sharma, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC), who was part of the team that designed the survey, led by MAMC dean Nandini Sharma.Also Read: Plea wants end to pasting posters outside homes of Covid-19 patients, HC seeks Delhi govt replyIf this is the right hypothesis, it means that the exposure level is one and four individuals, and the 29.1% projected in the previous survey was incorrect due to lopsided sampling.Experts said the change in sampling criteria meant comparing the last two surveys was similar to comparing “apples and oranges”. “Ideally, seroprevalence should not go down, especially when lockdown is happening and more and more cases are being reported. The pattern will become clear after a couple of more rounds of sero survey,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor, centre for infectious diseases at Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. The latest survey sampled people based on whether they lived in five accommodation types – planned colonies, resettlement colonies, urban slums and JJ colonies, urban and rural villages, and unauthorised colonies. It found prevalence of antibodies was lower among those in planned colonies – 22.9% as compared to 25.9% in other areas. This could be because it may be easier for people living in planned colonies to maintain social distance and hygiene, the survey states. Some researchers added that the other reason for the dip could be a drop in antibodies among people who may have been infected a longer time ago.“The August seroprevalence was based on the infections that had happened a month ago; Delhi had seen a surge in cases in June end and July. This could be the reason for high antibody prevalence in August and then dissipating antibodies resulted in lower prevalence in September,” said Dr Sharma.Also Read: Delhi reports 3,390 fresh Covid-19 cases, 41 related deathsHowever, studies on immune responses, have not borne out this trend conclusively over the period of time the three sero surveys were carried out in. “There are some data – not very robust – that shows the antibodies go down after three or four months, but it wouldn’t explain a 4% dip,” Singh said. Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), too said “there should not be a dip in the seroprevalence”. “We need to look at the minutae of how the samples were collected and how the data was analysed,” she added. A Delhi government spokesperson said the second survey sampling was done at the district level while for the third samples were selected from 280 divisions - 272 MCD wards and four divisions each of NDMC and Delhi Cantonment Board. “Hence, the third sero survey was much more representative of the antibodies prevalence at population level,” he said. Officials in Delhi’s health departments earlier said, while asking not to be named, that the September sampling showed that the prevalence of antibodies have increased to close to 33%. The Delhi high court pulled up the government for disclosing these findings. “Why is the Delhi government so eager to give the survey report to the media and not to the court? Don’t show the press as unreliable. Don’t play games with the court like this…Have you issued a clarification,” a bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said. The Delhi surveys have consistently shown that more women than men have had exposure to Covid-19, which is opposite of what the national-level survey has found. In the current round of surveys, 30.4% of the women participants had antibodies as compared to 27.3% men. The highest seroprevalence was among women from Northwest Delhi at 33.1%. The study authors recommended that the rounds of sero surveillance needs to be held at longer intervals – currently it is conducted during the first week of each month – as per resource constraints. “Any future rounds of the sero survey should have an enhanced focus on ensuring representativeness of the sample in terms of settlement type and socioeconomic status,” the study said. The court’s admonition came while hearing a plea filed by advocate Rakesh Malhotra who had sought ramping up of tests in the city. On the last date, the court had asked the Delhi government to submit the results of the 3rd sero survey in the court and not give it out to the media. During the hearing, the Delhi government also submitted a status report stating that the Geospatial Delhi Limited (GSDL) was requested to map out fixed testing sites to ensure easy access to the residents of Delhi. The government told the court that the final map has been shared with Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) with request to put it on display at prominent locations/sites at major metro stations (at entry/exit points and others as found appropriate) for the information of general public. On the issue of providing testing access through Mohalla Clinics and Community centres, the government told the court that the need for more testing sites is a constituent of the overall testing paradigm under consideration of the Expert Committee and a decision shall be taken in accordance with what the panel decides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-s-recent-serological-survey-shows-drop-in-antibodies-data-dilemma-after-third-serological-survey/story-uBHMYNufnRcPPFR9HIjcKP.html
01-10-2020||India||Hathras gangrape: BJP MP Hans Raj Hans wants strict actions against officials responsible for hasty cremation||Delhi BJP MP Hans Raj Hans on Wednesday demanded that the Uttar Pradesh government led by his party leader Yogi Adityanath take “strict action” against officials responsible for the hasty cremation of the Hathras gangrape victim.In a letter to UP Chief Minister Adityanath, Hans also requested that his government should ensure that justice is provided to the victim and that no one would dare to commit such an act in future.“Clarification should be sought from those officers who without consent of the family cremated their daughter in a hasty manner at 2 AM (Wednesday). If any officer is found guilty, strict action should be taken against them,” he wrote.Hans, who represents the north-west Delhi reserved constituency, also said in the letter the Hathras gangrape “shocked” him and the entire country, and he hoped the culprits will be “taught a lesson” so that a message is sent across the nation that any injustice to women will not be tolerated.The 19-year-old Dalit woman died at a Delhi hospital on Tuesday morning, days after being raped by four men in Hathras.The woman was shifted to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi from Aligarh on Monday after her condition showed no signs of improvement.She was gangraped on September14 and received severe injuries, following which she was admitted to the AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh.The four accused have already been arrested.The woman’s body was cremated in Hathras in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging that the local police “forced” them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night.Local police officers, however, told PTI that the cremation was carried out “as per the wishes of the family”.The Uttar Pradesh Police took the victim’s body and her family members back to the state from the hospital on Tuesday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gangrape-bjp-mp-hans-raj-hans-wants-strict-actions-against-officials-responsible-for-hasty-cremation/story-3VE1Kaoi7J7MAVSlftVKUK.html
01-10-2020||India||India tests missile with target range of 400km||India on Wednesday test-fired an extended-range BrahMos surface-to-surface supersonic cruise missile that can hit targets 400km away, amid military tensions with China in the Ladakh sector, officials familiar with the development said. The range has been increased from the existing 290km. The extended-range variant was tested from the Integrated Test Range at Balasore in Odisha. The test has cleared the decks for India to induct a second class of supersonic, long-range tactical cruise missiles, propelled by a liquid-fuelled booster capable of hitting targets over 500km away . “The missile featuring an indigenous booster and air-frame section along with many other ‘Made in India’ sub-systems was successfully flight tested for designated range at 1030 hours on Wednesday…It is one more major step in enhancing the indigenous content,” the defence ministry said. The missile was tested for the second time. The missile cruised at a top speed of Mach 2.8 (nearly three times the speed of sound). The configuration of the existing missile -- the world’s fastest supersonic cruise missile -- has been tweaked to enhance its range, the officials said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated scientists for the successful launch, saying the country has achieved “yet another milestone”. Brahmos Supersonic Cruise Missile has achieved yet another milestone with successful test launch showcasing enhanced operational capabilities and additional indigenous technologies. Congratulations to all the scientists and engineers. @DRDO_India @BrahMosMissileDefence minister Rajnath Singh also congratulated the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and BrahMos Aerospace for the successful flight testing. “This achievement will give a big boost to India’s #AtmaNirbharBharat Pledge,” he tweeted. According to experts, the next class of Indian cruise missiles will be based on solid-fuelled ducted ramjet (SFDR) technology, which can be used for air-to-air missiles as well as long-range supersonic cruise missiles. The technology has been tested by the DRDO twice -- on May 30,2018, and February 8, 2019.The significance of the BrahMos test from a mobile launcher was that the cruise missile reached 75% indigenisation with India now having the capability to design the airframe as well as an indigenous liquid-fuelled booster. BrahMos missiles are already deployed in the Ladakh theatre along with a limited number of 1,000km range Nirbhay subsonic cruise missiles to counter the missiles and rockets deployed by the Chinese army in Tibet and Xinjiang. The two armies are locked in a tense standoff in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “The new class of cruise missile will have a solid rocket booster along with supersonic speed using SFDR technology. The range of the missile can be decided on the basis of mission objectives,” said an Indian missile expert, requesting anonymity.The Nirbhay will be formally inducted into the army and the navy after the seventh trial next month. The solid rocket booster missile has a single shot kill ratio of more than 90%. According to experts, the Nirbhay subsonic missile has been cleared for induction by the Defence Acquisition Council. The missile travels at a speed of 0.7 Mach and has both terrain-hugging and sea-skimming capability to avoid detection and counter-measures. Wednesday’s successful launch has paved the way for the serial production of the indigenous booster and other indigenous components of the powerful weapon system, the defence ministry said in a statement. The missile, which has land, air and naval variants, is an Indo-Russian joint venture. India is also working on a hypersonic missile, BrahMos-II (K), capable of taking out hardened targets such as underground bunkers and weapon storage facilities at seven times the speed of sound (Mach 7) or 8,575 kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tests-missile-with-target-range-of-400km/story-uRjusnneNNQ5bdowdpOIOJ.html
01-10-2020||India||In latest easing of Covid-19 curbs, graded restart for schools, cinemas||More than six months after the Centre imposed a hard lockdown due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Union home ministry moved closer to unlocking almost all activities by allowing a graded restart of schools, partial reopening of movie theatres, and large gatherings including political and religious events. The latest easing of curbs permitted more activities in areas outside the containment zones including opening up cinemas, theatres and multiplexes with up to 50% of their seating capacity from October 15. The government also allowed flexibility to states and Union Territories to decide on reopening schools and coaching institutions from mid-October in a phased manner.The guidelines said that the decision for opening schools and coaching institutions in a graded manner can be taken by the states/UT after October 15 “in consultation with the respective school/institution management, based on their assessment of the situation”.WATCH | Covid update: New Unlock 5 rules; Mumbai orders 72,000 injections; UK spikeHowever, if students preferred to attend online classes, they would be permitted to do so. The guidelines said attendance must not be enforced, and must depend entirely on parental consent.Officials of the Delhi government’s education department will hold a meeting on Thursday to discuss the rules issued by the Centre. “(We will) go through the guidelines, consult stakeholders, and take the decision on the reopening of schools in the national capital. We will hold a meeting on Thursday,” a senior official from Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s office said on condition of anonymity.Also Read: ‘Are all swimming pools open? When will schools reopen compulsorily?’: FAQs answeredAnother key decision taken during the latest unlocking exercise — which is the fifth in a series of such decisions since June 1 but with a changed nomenclature (earlier, the reopening process was called “Unlock”) — allows political, religious, social, cultural, and sports gatherings in “open spaces” with no limit, provided people wear masks, observe social distancing and there are adequate provisions to observe such rules from mid-October. With the Bihar elections scheduled in October and the first week of November, allowing political gatherings in open spaces could pave the way for parties to hold rallies. The decision will also allow larger marriage functions, and other social and cultural activities during the upcoming festive season. In closed spaces, however, gatherings with a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity and with a ceiling of 200 people have been allowed. Till now, the number of people allowed at such gatherings was capped at 100. The guidelines, which come into effect from Thursday, said that state governments will issue their own detailed standard operating protocols (SOPs) for such gatherings in open spaces and halls. Also Read: Re-opening guidelines out: MHA lets states reopen schools from 15 October. Conditions applyThe government imposed strict curbs on activities and travel across the country on March 25. After 68 days of a hard lockdown, the government began implementing a graded plan to reopen businesses and bring economic activities, hit hard by the pandemic and the restrictions that followed, back on track in June. It was then that the “Unlock 1” phase guidelines came into place. Shops, malls, hotels and restaurants, offices and religious places have been allowed to open in a phased manner over the past few months. Restrictions on interstate and intrastate travel too have been lifted. Some train services and flight operations, including limited flights to and from abroad, have resumed.The home ministry said in the order that “latest guidelines, based on feedback received from states and Union Territories, and extensive consultations held with related central ministries and departments, are aimed at reopening more activities outside containment zones, but strict lockdown will continue in containment zones till October 31.” For theatres, multiplexes and stand-alone cinema halls, allowed at 50% capacity, as well as entertainment parks, SOPs will be issued by the Union health ministry, while the sports ministry will issue SOPs for reopening of swimming pools for sportspersons from October 15, according to the guidelines. Cinema hall owners have been demanding for a long time that they be allowed to run movie shows with limited capacity as they are facing huge losses. The ministry of information and broadcasting is expected to issue detailed SOPs in this regard in a few days.Also Read: Cinemas to reopen from Oct 15: From Sooryavanshi to Tenet, 8 films that will get a big screen releaseBusiness to business (BZB) exhibitions, which were banned since March 22, have also been allowed. International flights and railways will continue to operate as per existing guidelines. Currently, international flights are operating in air bubbles and under the Vande Bharat scheme. The guidelines said that regular international flights will remain suspended till October 31. For domestic flights, 60% capacity has been currently allowed by the government.The railways will continue to operate about 300 special trains, with regular trains suspended indefinitely. For higher education, the ministry of education will decide on the timing of the opening of colleges based on the assessment of the situation.“However, higher education institutions only for research scholars (Ph.D) and post-graduate students in science and technology stream requiring laboratory/experimental works will be permitted to open from October 15,” the Centre said.It reiterated that states and UTs shall not impose any local lockdowns or restrict any inter-state or intra-state movement of goods and individuals.Like the previous guidelines on easing restrictions, the home ministry has advised vulnerable persons (people above 65 years of age, those with comorbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years) to stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes. It said that the use of the Aarogya Setu mobile application should be encouraged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/graded-restart-for-schools-cinemas/story-kuUKIYZ0V1EYS4koVcsABM.html
01-10-2020||India||‘Spontaneous act’: All 32 acquitted 28 years later||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Wednesday acquitted all 32 persons accused of conspiring to demolish the 16th century Babri Masjid on December 6, 1992 -- an event that sparked a deadly cycle of riots and communal violence across India, leaving thousands dead.The verdict by judge Surendra Kumar Yadav ended a 28-year-long legal fight, and brought relief to senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti, but raised serious questions about the investigation into a high-profile case by pointing out that several pieces of evidence were either inconclusive or unauthenticated.The 2,300-page judgment ruled out any criminal conspiracy behind the razing of the disputed structure and said it was a “spontaneous act”.WATCH | ‘Welcomed Babri verdict with Jai Shri Ram chant’: LK Advani on acquittal“The incident was not pre-planned,” Yadav said, reading out his verdict in open court in Lucknow. “The leaders present there actually tried to control and pacify the mob... anti-social elements brought the structure down.”Twenty-six of the accused were present in the court, while six -- Advani, Joshi, Bharti, Kalyan Singh, Ram temple trust chief Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, and former Shiv Sena leader Satish Pradhan-- followed the proceedings on video conference. Though 49 people were accused in the case, 17 died during the litigation process.Opposition parties criticised the verdict, describing it as a “black day” for justice. Experts said the decision showed the judge was not convinced of the evidence given by the CBI. And All-India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) member Zafaryab Jilani said the verdict will be challenged in high court.Yadav said in his judgment that CBI could not produce any conclusive evidence against any accused and refused to accept newspaper reports, documents and video cassettes as evidence. It was Yadav’s last working day in judicial service after being on extension for a year.Also Read: Babri judgment sharpens political divideReading out the operative part of the verdict at 12.15pm, the judge said he did not accept newspaper reports as evidence as their original copies were not produced and proved. He also did not rely on the photos of the incident as their negatives were not produced. “The video cassettes were not sealed and even the videos were not clear and as such the same cannot be relied (on),” he observed, adding that they were not certified by any forensic laboratory to ascertain authenticity. The CBI produced 351 witnesses and 600 pieces of document in court.“Even VHP (Vishwa Hindu Parishad) leader late Ashok Singhal was trying to stop the kar sevaks from demolishing the disputed structure because the idol of Lord Ram was also inside the structure,” the judge wrote, concluding that the event suggested that the demolition was not planned in advance.As soon as the judge cleared the accused of all charges, chants of “Jai Shri Ram” filled the courtroom. Outside, celebrations began as Hindu groups distributed sweets and flowers.Supreme Court senior advocate Sanjay Hegde said there were various instances in which conspiracy charges had been applied when, at the spontaneous call of one person, others have joined in to injure a person or beat another to death.“We do not know on weighing of the evidence, how the judge has approached the task. But in other normal conspiracy and unlawful assembly cases, we have many times seen that when one person gives a call and three or fours other persons use sticks and somebody dies, then they all get roped in under criminal conspiracy read with Section 149 of Indian Penal Code (which makes every member of an unlawful assembly guilty of an offence committed in pursuance of a common object by one person of that). But that standard does not seem to have been applied here,” said Hegde.The verdict comes roughly 11 months after the Supreme Court last November paved the way for the construction of a Ram temple at the 2.77 acre site in Ayodhya and ordered that land for a mosque be given to the Muslim parties at an alternative spot. The ground-breaking ceremony for the temple was performed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5.CBI said it will decide on filing an appeal after consulting the legal department. “After a copy of today’s verdict is received, it would be sent to the CBI headquarters where it would be studied by the legal department and a decision on filing an appeal would be taken as per its suggestion,” CBI counsel Lalit Singh said.Senior lawyer and AIMPLB member Zafaryab Jilani said the verdict will be challenged in high court. “The special CBI court says that there is no evidence which prove that Babri Masjid demolition was a conspiracy but we say there is plenty of evidence,” he said.The verdict was welcomed by the accused persons, who said their faith in religion and Ram was vindicated.“The judgment vindicates my personal and the Bharatiya Janata Party’s belief and commitment towards the Ram Janmabhoomi movement,” said Advani, who joined the proceedings via video conference. Joshi said truth has triumphed.Another accused, BJP leader Vinay Katiyar who was present in court, said: “We never had any role in the demolition. We were actually on stage that was away from the site where the demolition took place.”Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and defence minister Rajnath Singh hailed the verdict. “I welcome the acquittal of all the 32 accused in the case. This shows, that though delayed, justice eventually triumphed,” said Singh.The Congress expressed its disappointment with the verdict. “The decision of the Special Court to acquit all the accused in Babri Masjid demolition case runs counter to Supreme Court judgment as also the Constitutional spirit,” the party said in a statement.All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen chief Asaduddin Owaisi called the judgment “obnoxious” and said it contradicted the Supreme Court’s observations in its verdict on November 9 last year that the demolition of the Babri mosque was a violation of law. “This verdict will mark a black day in history,” he added.A key Muslim litigant in the title suit case, Iqbal Ansari, welcomed the verdict. “The entire world saw what happened in Ayodhya…I respect the court’s verdict.”On December 6, 1992, tens of thousands of kar sevaks, or Hindu religious volunteers gathered in Ayodhya – the result of a months-long political and religious mobilisation programme. As the day progressed, the crowd swelled, and shortly after noon, the kar sevaks broke through the police barricades and charged towards the three domes of the mosque.Armed with pickaxes, shovels and ropes, many young men scaled the domes. By evening, the structure was rubble and the state government had been dismissed. The criminal case originates from two police complaints lodged at 6.15pm and 6.25pm against unnamed kar sevaks and senior political leaders, respectively, at the Ram Janmabhoomi police station.Dispute over the structure, built on what Hindus believe as the birth place of Ram, dates back to the late 19th century. For roughly two decades, two separate criminal trials ran – one against unnamed kar sevaks in Lucknow, and another against political leaders in Rae Bareli – until the apex court clubbed the two in 2017.Allahabad high court lawyer Anurag Dixit said he thought that the prosecution failed to substantiate the evidence charges against the accused. “Moreover as we saw it, most of the evidence was in the form of newspaper reports which clearly was not a strong point,” Dixit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spontaneous-act-all-32-acquitted-28-years-later/story-mNFB5t9FKCnOwtKezT4zqI.html
01-10-2020||India||In 2,300-page judgment, court picks holes in CBI’s evidence||The 2,300-page verdict by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) special court, which acquitted all 32 persons accused of conspiring to demolish the Babri Masjid in 1992, largely focused on the lack of credible evidence provided by the probe agency.Judge Surendra Kumar Yadav determined that in the absence of this, it could not be proved that there was prior conspiracy to raze the disputed structure. Interestingly, the report of the 1992 Liberhan Commission set up to look into the demolition concluded that there was one.  WATCH | Babri Demolition Verdict: What next? Yug Mohit Chaudhry | On The Record In court, CBI argued that the provocative speeches given by senior leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Vishwa Hindu Parishad provoked kar sevaks (Hindu religious volunteers) who gathered in Ayodhya for several days before December 6, 1992. Also Read: ‘Babri demolition verdict an inspiration for temple in Mathura’: Karnataka ministerTo bolster its claim, it presented newspaper reports, photographs, video recordings of the demolition, 351 witnesses and the police complaints that were lodged hours after the mosque was razed. But it ran into problems from the start. During the trial, BJP veteran LK Advani and MM Joshi’s lawyer MP Ahluwalia pointed out that in two FIRs filed on December 6, 1992, the time of the demolition was recorded differently, and raised questions about the veracity of the proof.The first FIR (197/92) lodged by station house officer Priyamwadnath Shukla at Ram Janmabhoomi police station mentioned the time of the demolition as 12pm. This FIR blamed unnamed kar sevaks.The second FIR (198/92), also filed at Ram Janmabhoomi police station, by sub-inspector Ganga Prasad Tewari recorded the time of the demolition as 10am. This FIR blamed Advani, Joshi and other leaders. Ahluwalia argued that the two FIRs, filed in the same police station, were incongruent because the second FIR – naming the politicians -- was an afterthought filed to falsely frame persons. “During trial of the case, Priyamwadnath Shukla (then SHO) failed to justify why this was done,” said the judgment.Also Read: Muslim, Left leaders decry verdict on Babri Masjid demolitionThe second problem turned out to be voice samples. During the trial, the prosecution alleged that Advani and Joshi, along with others, were present on a stage and raising slogans that ultimately provoked the mob into demolishing the disputed structure. But the prosecution failed to submit recordings in court of any slogan raised by them or their voice samples – and the defence lawyers were able to argue that the recordings were muffled and it was not proven that the speeches were indeed delivered by the accused. The court observed that this could have been a valuable proof.The third problem for the prosecution was the evidence presented in the form of newspaper articles, videos and photographs.Yadav said in the judgment that newspaper articles were not submitted in their original form, videos were not certified from a forensic lab, and photographs were given without negatives.What also went against the prosecution was that none of the local residents of Ayodhya testified against any of the accused to prove that they incited the mob.“During investigation, no person came and testified that he was involved in the demolition of the disputed structure and this is also correct to state that nobody said during the probe that he got excited from the speeches of leaders and took part in the demolition,” the verdict noted.The court also observed there were intelligence reports at the time indicating some “anti-social elements” might indulge in some “unwarranted act”. The court said that witness Anju Gupta had given a statement in court that some ‘dacoits and criminals’ were part of the crowd. Gupta was additional superintendent of police, posted in Ayodhya during the demolition. She testified in court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-2-300-page-judgment-court-picks-holes-in-cbi-s-evidence/story-8quralH5fCz6kUi4Kl4P8K.html
01-10-2020||India||EC removes Bihar excise commissioner||The Election Commission on Wednesday removed state excise commissioner from his post for failing to present an effective action plan to check the illegal flow of liquor ahead of the three-phase assembly elections in Bihar. An ECI team, led by chief election commissioner Sunil Arora, is on a three-day visit to Bihar to review poll preparedness. The team held meetings with officials from 26 districts and enforcement agencies, including the excise and income tax departments on Wednesday.Also Read: Bihar assembly polls: Nothing less than 70 seats agreeable, Congress tells RJDFollowing the meeting, Bihar chief electoral officer, HR Srinivasa, said that excise commissioner B Karthikey Dhanji was removed from the post with immediate effect. “Election Commission has removed Shri B Karthikey Dhanji, IAS (BR:2008) from the post of Excise Commissioner with immediate effect for non –presentation of effective action plan for preventive measures and grossly inadequate preparedness during the review of Enforcement Agencies located in /having headquarters in Bihar today (Wednesday),” a statement issued by Srinivasa said. Also Read: BJP appoints Fadnavis as Bihar election in-charge, seat sharing talks beginPeople familiar with the matter said that the EC’s action is indicative that the poll panel is unhappy with the reports of illegal flow of liquor into the state from neighbouring states like Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and also states like Haryana. Also Read: Bihar Assembly Election 2020: State faces flood challenge in run-up to pollsThere have been reports of seizures of contraband items and drugs in East Champaran and adjoining district in the last one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-removes-bihar-excise-commissioner/story-nHJ9OXmns6X2EJ3MypypbP.html
01-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt strengthens community check protocols to check spread||A little over 4 million people, mostly in containment zones, and comprising asymptomatic high risk groups, such as the elderly (above 60 years of age), children under the age of 10 , and pregnant women are now routinely being monitored on a daily basis as part of the government’s strengthened community surveillance strategy. In zones where population density is high such as slums, these high risk groups are moved to a quarantine centre to be kept under observation, according to Union health ministry’s containment and surveillance plan that was revised earlier this month. “The phase of pandemic that we are in currently demands robust surveillance mechanism in place so that infected individuals are identified and isolated in time before they further spread the disease within the community. About 80% of contacts are successfully traced within 72 hours of the process having started,” said an official familiar with the matter and who works at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). A list of 100 households is assigned to each team that screens everyone in the household, and takes readings of their temperature and oxygen saturation; those found with fever or low oxygen saturation levels are isolated for testing and further necessary action. Any temperature of 100.4 F or greater is considered as fever, and oxygen saturation level below 95% will warrant monitoring under medical supervision. The surveillance teams are formed by state authorities based on the requirement. Community surveillance is one of the mainstays of the government’s strategy to fight coronavirus disease (Covid-19) transmission in the country. The Union health ministry is focusing on strengthening surveillance further by way of contact tracing and testing in collaboration with State governments. The 4.2 million people currently under community surveillance, have been identified as high risk contacts of confirmed cases, according to the government data. The plan is active at the district and block level to ensure no infected individual is missed. Contacts put under surveillance are individuals who have been exposed to an infected person (confirmed by a laboratory) from 2 days before to 14 days after the onset of illness. According to the plan, high risk contacts include those who live in the same household as the patient; were in close proximity (within 1 meter) of the confirmed case without precautions (mask) for more than 15 minutes; had direct physical contact with the body of the patient including physical examination without personal protection equipment; or shook hands or hgged or kissed an infected person. Contacts that need special focus are largely family members, visiting relatives and domestic help among household contacts; neighbours, friends, milk and vegetable vendors etc. among contacts within community; co-travelers and drivers in flights, trains, buses, taxis and auto rickshaws etc. in the travel category; and those who attended a marriage, party, funeral , religious meeting, conferencs etc. among social gatherings. “There is a large section of workers who have been adequately trained to execute community surveillance measures. The plan has been broken down to the block level and there are dedicated supervisors who are trained in monitoring and handholding the workers wherever required,”added the official.The integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) network in states is a dedicated unit that is responsible for executing surveillance measures, in collaboration with other state health bodies that have been pressed into action. As a result of strong monitoring mechanisms and improved awareness levels the infections reported per positive case have dropped significantly. From 81-130 in May this year, the number has come down to 26-32 in August, according to the data shared by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “It highlights the importance of effective testing, tracking and treating strategy in fighting the pandemic, and that we need to strengthen it further to keep the momentum going,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR. Experts in the field of community medicine say that for effective community surveillance workers need to be trained adequately in interpersonal and communication skills. “It is not only about what is communicated to members of the community but also about how it is communicated that makes the difference,” said Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-strengthens-community-check-protocols/story-GBv7igRpvWGaduxmdGJkFI.html
01-10-2020||India||India successfully tests longer range BrahMos supersonic cruise missile||India on Wednesday test-fired an extended-range BrahMos surface-to-surface supersonic cruise missile that can hit targets 400 km away, amid military tensions with China in the Ladakh sector, officials familiar with the development said. The range has been increased from the existing 290 km. The extended-range variant was tested from the Integrated Test Range at Balasore in Odisha.“The missile featuring an indigenous booster and air-frame section along with many other ‘Made in India’ sub-systems was successfully flight tested for designated range at 1030 hours on Wednesday…It is one more major step in enhancing the indigenous content,” a defence ministry spokesperson said. The missile was tested for the second time. The missile cruised at a top speed of Mach 2.8 (nearly three times the speed of sound). The configuration of the existing missile --- the world’s fastest supersonic cruise missile --- has been tweaked to enhance its range, the officials said. Increasing the missile’s range became possible after India’s induction into the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) in June 2016.Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the Defence Research and Development Organisation and BrahMos Aerospace for the successful flight testing of the missile. “This achievement will give a big boost to India’s AtmaNirbharBharat Pledge,” the minister tweeted. The existing BrahMos missile is deployed in the eastern Ladakh theatre where India and China are locked in a border row, the officials said. The successful launch has paved the way for the serial production of the indigenous booster and other indigenous components of the powerful weapon system, the defence ministry said in a statement. The missile, which has land, air and naval variants, is an Indo-Russian joint venture. India is also working on a hypersonic missile, BrahMos-II (K), capable of taking out hardened targets such as underground bunkers and weapon storage facilities at seven times the speed of sound (Mach 7) or 8,575 kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-tests-longer-range-brahmos-supersonic-cruise-missile/story-SpmSG7IEpzwR1fIOkYRLtJ.html
01-10-2020||India||First batch of houses for migrant workers likely to be ready by April||The first lot of houses under the central government’s affordable rental housing scheme, targeted at migrant workers in the cities who returned home in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown, may be ready by April 2021 and construction of new units will likely take two years, officials said.Nearly 75,000 vacant, government-funded housing complexes have been identified that would be converted into affordable rental housing complexes, or ARHCs, in the first phase of the scheme. These have been built under initiatives such as the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) and Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) during the term in office of the United Progressive Alliance; and the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government. ARHCs mark a “huge, paradigm shift in the housing rental market,” said Amrit Abhijat, joint secretary, Housing For All. “It focuses on providing comfort and utilising government’s unutilised stock. These vacant government accommodations had an investment of nearly Rs 2,000 crore and were lying useless hence it is an important utilisation of the nation’s resources. We have also decided that these houses, given to the migrants, will not be affected by existing rental laws,” Abhijat added.According to data from the ministry of housing and urban affairs, states having the most number of unoccupied houses built under the JNNURM and RAY include Maharashtra (32,202); Delhi (29,245), Gujarat (8,654), Rajasthan (7,045), Uttar Pradesh (5,923) and Haryana (2,545).At least 10.6 million migrant workers left the cities and returned to their homes in the villages of states such as West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh during the coronavirus lockdown that was enforced on March 25, according to Centre’s estimate, as many factories and business establishments in urban centres shut.The AHRC scheme was approved by the Union cabinet in July, with the expenditure estimated at around Rs 600 crore. The scheme aims to cover nearly 300,000 beneficiaries.“Under model one of the scheme existing houses will be retrofitted and leased out. Around 1.8 lakh houses have been identified. These maybe in poor, dilapidated condition and are mainly identified in states like Delhi, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, UP, Tamil Nadu etc. It would take at least six to seven months for them to be ready. They will be the first ones to be ready and should be taken up by March to April 2021. We have identified 75,000 beneficiaries,” an official in the ministry of housing and urban affairs said.“Under model two we will look at construction of new complexes, but that would take another two years depending on the funding available, land availability, local surveys etc. The construction time should be around 12-14 months. To begin with 2.25 lakh houses have been planned. We have also added a clause for technology innovation for the contractors and will provide them a grant for six to seven months,” the official added, requesting anonymity.According to a request for proposal finalised by the ministry seeking applications from potential concessionaires, local authorities will fix the initial rent of ARHCs, based on surveys. Rent may be enhanced biennially by a maximum of 8%, subject to a maximum increase of 20% in aggregate over a period of five years effective from the date of signing a contract. The same model shall be followed over the entire concession period of 25 years.“There has been reverse migration of workers/ poor in the country due to Covid-19 pandemic. Urban migrants/ poor consisting of workers in manufacturing industries, domestic/ commercial establishments, health sector, service providers, hospitality industry, construction or other such sectors play an important role in urban economy. They come from rural areas or small towns for seeking better employment opportunities in urban areas. … Provision of rental housing options closer to workplace will improve their productivity. Therefore providing ease of living through access to dignified affordable housing close to their workplace is an imperative,” the RFP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-batch-of-houses-for-migrant-workers-likely-to-be-ready-by-april/story-y3FqOl8JGsZN8pO76VZbAL.html
01-10-2020||India||OFB dismisses army’s report on faulty ammo||The Ordnance Factory Board on Wednesday said it did not accept the figures given out in an internal army assessment that flagged concerns about faulty ammunition supplied by the board causing casualties and bleeding the exchequer --- the army note said 403 accidents over the last six years had resulted in the deaths of 27 soldiers and a loss of Rs 960 crore An OFB spokesperson said the board was not in possession of the army report, contents of which were widely reported in the media, including Hindustan Times. Also Read: India tests missile with target range of 400km“A number of newspapers have carried articles referring to accidents involving ammunition manufactured by OFB. The articles are allegedly based on an internal report of the Indian Army. OFB is not in possession of this report,” OFB deputy director general (corporate communication) Gagan Chaturvedi said in a press release issued on Wednesday. When HT reached out to Chaturvedi on Tuesday for comments on the army’s internal assessment, he said it was not factually correct and the board would issue a statement on Wednesday. Also Read: BrahMos supersonic missile with longer range successfully test fired“For the accidents that occurred in the period between January 2015 and December 2019, where defect investigation has been completed, only 19% of the cases are attributable to OFB,” OFB said, adding that accidents are complex phenomena and can have multiple causes such as poor gun maintenance, faulty firing drill, un-validated design changes in the weapon and faulty ammunition design. The army note said 159 soldiers were injured in accidents attributed to OFB-supplied ammunition and armament between 2014 and 2020. “Out of the total number of accidents where defect investigation has been completed, only 2% of the cases where casualties have been reported are attributable to OFB. In 98% of the cases where there have been casualties, these are not attributable to OFB. Between 2011 and 2018, there have been more than 125 accidents involving ammunition procured from sources other than OFB, both domestic and foreign. It is, however, seen that only cases where OFB ammunition is involved are selectively reported in the press,” the OFB statement said. The four-page army note, reviewed by Hindustan Times on Tuesday, said that army could have bought 100 medium artillery guns with Rs 960 crore that was lost due to poor quality production.  OFB said that logic that the amount expended on the allegedly faulty ammunition involved in the highly inflated figure of 403 accidents could have financed 100 artillery guns is specious at best. “The same logic, if applied to the faulty Krasnopol ammunition imported during the Kargil war amounting to Rs 522.44 crore could have financed another 55 artillery guns,” the OFB said. The government has set a one-year timeline for the corporatisation of OFB. It announced on September 11 the setting up of an empowered group of ministers (EGoM) under defence minister Rajnath Singh to oversee the corporatisation of OFB, which controls 41 ordnance factories. Thefactories controlled by the board employ at least 80,000 people who are against the corporatisation move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ofb-dismisses-army-s-report-on-faulty-ammo/story-KVmcppBHTbDVNJITYneucP.html
01-10-2020||India||MP tiger reserve now a Maoist stronghold: Police||Bhopal: Kanha National Park, known for high density of tigers, spread across Balaghat and Mandla districts of Madhya Pradesh is now virtually under the control of Maoists, according to a police officer who asked not to be named. Kanha is considered one of the finest tiger reserves in the country . It has at least 130 tigers and the highest density of the big cats after Corbett National Park, Kaziranga National Park and Ranthambore tiger reserve. The park was doing well till about two years ago when Maoists facing pressure from security forces in Mahrashtra and Chhattisgarh decided that the dense and difficult terrain of Kanha was a safe haven. Police said that in 2017 the rebels formed a platoon to increase their influence in the region and started inducting locals. Abhishek Tiwari, superintendent of police (SP), Balaghat, said Maoists’ influence was earlier restricted to just buffer of Kanha tiger reserve, which they used as a route to and from Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra.“Now Maoists of Vistar Dalam (the platoon) have shifted to the core area of the reserve in Mandla and Balaghat districts and are using it as a gateway to enhance their reach to other parts of MP including the Vindhya region,” he added.The SP said this was revealed by Maoist leader Badal Singh Markam, who was arrested by Balaghat police after an encounter on September 18. On basis of his interrogation, the police recovered three troves of arms, ammunition and essential items from the core area of Kanha.A tiger reserve is divided into buffer and core zones with the latter being the most carefully protected one on account of being home to the most animals. An officer of Madhya Pradesh’s anti-Naxal wing said Maoists’ presence in core area of the tiger reserve is a new and different type of challenge as movement of people is restricted in the core area, which has poor mobile connectivity.“The forest guards can help but they are scared and are providing dry ration to Maoists,”this person added, asking not to be named. Balaghat police have issued an advisory to forest officers of Kanha Tiger Reserve asking them to provide them information about the presence of rebels.“Forest department officials should cooperate with police as it is their fundamental duty,” said inspector general of police, Balaghat, KP Venkateshwar, who has issued the advisory. He added that the police have assured the forest guards of security if they provide information or action would be initiated against them.Kanha forest department officials refused to speak on record on the advisory. A deputy ranger at the reserve, who asked not to be named, said the forest guards have no option.“Armed Maoists come to patrolling camp located at every 8-10 sq km of core area and ask for ration from the guard. Our guards are unarmed and they have no option but to give them the ration. They can’t put their life at risk by challenging the Maoists.” MP’s additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), JS Chauhan, said: “Earlier, movement of Maoists was in the buffer zone so it was easy for police to take action but now their movement has shifted to dense core zone and it is difficult for forest authorities to locate them. The unarmed guards, who are protecting wildlife in the core area and living in camps can’t resist Maoists and take risk of their life by sharing information with police.”He, however, added that all possible help was being provided to the police. Police officials said Maoists movement increased in and around Kanha, especially during lockdown, when surveillance in the forest areas was low.The anti-Naxal wing office cited above said a senior Maoist leader, special zone secretary for Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh (MMC) zone Deepak Teltumbde alias Jeeva has been spotted in Mandla and Balaghat regions. Maoists allegedly killed a 30-year-old migrant labourer in June this year in Balaghat on the suspicion of being a police informer. As many as 800 personnel of anti-Naxal Force have been deployed in Balaghat division to combat the Maoists, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-tiger-reserve-now-a-maoist-stronghold-police/story-0OavM2CeTnrQWoERI8eUPP.html
01-10-2020||India||Plea seeks CBI probe; NHRC issues notices||A social activist filed a petition on Wednesday with the Supreme Court seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a special investigation team (SIT) into the Hathras rape-murder, including the possible inaction by Uttar Pradesh (UP) authorities. The petition came even as the National Human Rights Commission issued notices to the UP government and the police, and members of the National Commission for Women and the Delhi Commission for Women sought action. “Police personnel after getting the dead body of deceased cremated the same without the consent of the family members of the deceased. Police authorities have not performed their duties towards the victim and (are) trying to shield the accused persons. Grave injustice had been done to the victim and the system is silent on the issue,” the petition by social activist, Satyama Dubey and two lawyers Vishal Thakre and Rudra Pratap Yadav said. The NHRC asked the Uttar Pradesh government and the state’s police chief to explain their position on the incident, taking suo motu cognizance of the matter. Delhi Commission For Women chairperson Swati Maliwal on Wednesday wrote to the Chief Justice of India demanding action against officials who were allegedly involved in what she described as a cover-up.Maliwal also demanded a high court-monitored investigation and a trial to ensure the strictest and swiftest possible punishment to the accused in the letter which was also addressed to the Supreme Court’s judges.“Immediate suspension and punitive action against all erring police and administrative officials including the senior-most officials who tried to coverup the incident. Setting in place definite mechanisms to ensure that no other daughter has to suffer the same fate,” the letter said, listing out her demands.The NCW too condemned the manner in which the Hathras gang-rape victim was cremated, saying it will seek explanation from the UP Police on it.“In UP Gang-Rape Tragedy, 2.30 am Cremation By Cops, Family was Kept Out. @NCWIndia condemn it strongly. Why the family wasn’t allowed in Cremation? Why at night?@Uppolice @hathraspolice,” NCR chief Rekha Sharma tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-seeks-cbi-probe-nhrc-issues-notices/story-2BFaVM2K35B5otSQIgsILK.html
01-10-2020||India||108% rainfall recorded as monsoon withdraws||The monsoon officially ended on Wednesday with the country recording rainfall that was 108.7% of the long period average (LPA) according to India Meteorological Department, although there were significant regional and temporal variations. For instance, August received the most rains in 44 years. This is considered an ‘above normal’ monsoon. In June, IMD forecast ‘normal’ monsoon rain of 102% of LPA with error margin of +/-4% for the season.Rainfall range of 96 to 104% of LPA is considered normal and 104% to 110% is considered above normal. Last year India recorded ‘above normal’ rain of 110% of LPA making 2019-20 consecutive years of above average monsoon. This season (June 1 to September 30), northwest India recorded 84% of LPA; central India, 115%; the southern peninsula, 129%; and east and northeast India, 106%. Since a +/- 19% band is considered normal this means rains in northwest India were not deficient, ahtough those in the southern peninsula were excess. Also Read: Monsoon retreats from DelhiLPA is the average of monsoon rain recorded between 1961 and 2010. This year 95.8 cm rain was recorded against long period average of 88.0 cm for June, July, August and September.Out of 36 meteorological subdivisions in India, two recorded large excess rain ( 60% over LPA ) -- Rayalseema (82%) and Saurashtra and Kutch (126%); 12 recorded excess rain (20% to 59% over LPA); and 17 subdivisions received normal monsoon rainfall (-19% to 19% of LPA) ; and only five subdivisions received deficient rainfall. These are Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura (- 32%), West Uttar Pradesh (-37%), Uttarakhand (-20%), Himachal Pradesh (-26%), and Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh (-33%). IMD’s map shows extremely heavy rainfall spells of over 20 cm were concentrated along the west coast; central India and northeast India.On Wednesday, the monsoon withdrew from most parts of Rajasthan, parts of Punjab, the entire western Himalayan region, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and some parts of Uttar Pradesh. The withdrawal line is passing along Lakhimpur Kheri, Shahjhanpur, Alwar, Nagaur etc in northwest India according to IMD. Complete withdrawal of monsoon from the entire country is expected by October 15.Also Read: Monsoon ends 70mm short of all-time high in Mumbai; 67% excess rain over four monthsCyclone Nisarga which formed over Arabian Sea helped with timely monsoon onset over Kerala on June 1; it pulled the monsoon winds inland along the west coast. The monsoon advanced well and covered the country by June 26 but July rains were inadequate. The weak monsoon in July was mainly due to absence of any major monsoon disturbance formation over Bay of Bengal. The monsoon trough lay to the north of the normal position near the Himalayan foothills leading to prolonged and intense flooding in the north-eastern states and Bihar. Central and northwest India remained deficient in July.In August, there were back to back formations of low-pressure systems over the north Bay of Bengal and they moved mainly towards Gujarat and south Rajasthan. Five low pressure systems formed over Bay of Bengal which caused higher than normal rainfall over central and western parts of the country. The Arabian Sea was very active with stronger winds reaching up to 50-60kmph . There were two to three spells of riverine floods over Odisha, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, south Gujarat and south Rajasthan according to IMD. August recorded 127% of LPA, the highest in 44 years and the fourth highest in the last 120 years, said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at National Weather Forecasting Centre.The monsoon started withdrawing from the western parts of northwest India on September 28, delayed by 11 days compared to the normal date for commencement of monsoon withdrawal.“We are analysing the monsoon data and will soon release a comparison with our long range forecast ,” said IMD chief Mrutyunjay Mohapatra.The all India average of monsoon rainfall was normal as per definition. However, that doesn’t give much insight into the regional manifestation of the monsoon. “Extreme rain destroyed crop in many places. In Andhra and Telangana there were two spells of extremely heavy rain which destroyed vegetables, groundnut and pulses in many places. The market price for pulses now is 30 to 40% higher than MSP which is a huge problem for farmers. Another issue is that both Telangana and Andhra farmers dont have insurance this time because the states plan to launch their own insurance company soon. So it’s a really worrying situation,” said G V Ramanjaneyulu, executive director, Centre for Sustainable Agriculture, Hyderabad||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/108-rainfall-recorded-as-monsoon-withdraws/story-cYXEwrX9sz2W3HnLy9qNkL.html
01-10-2020||India||Superspreaders led to 60% Covid-19 cases: Study||A tenth of all patients infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) become “superspreaders” and account for 60% of new infections, while 70% of infected patients do not pass the disease to anyone else, shows a study on transmission patterns of Sars-CoV-2 published in the journal Science — the first time numbers are being put to axioms that most people accept. The contact tracing study, perhaps the largest Covid-19 epidemiological analyses conducted in the world, looked at disease transmission patterns in at least 575,000 people who were exposed to nearly 85,000 confirmed cases of Covid-19 in two Indian states — Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.WATCH | Covid vaccine: Covaxin phase 3 trials on 3,000 people in UP, says ministerThe study also established that children are “active transmitters” of Covid-19. A group of researchers, led by Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Washington-based Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy (CDDEP), also found that the case fatality rate (CFR) is higher in the age group of 40 to 69 years in India than in other severely hit countries and that close proximity travel is one of the biggest high-risk behaviours for Covid-19 transmission.Also Read: Covid-19: Data dilemma after third serological surveyThe trend in the CFR, however, drops off after the age of 80, where India stands in line with other countries — a phenomenon experts said was because of selections bias, as Indians who live past that age tend to be healthier and can thus fight off the disease better.The study, ‘Epidemiology and transmission dynamics of COVID-19 in two Indian states’, published in Science, also found that the median hospital stay before death due to the Covid-19 in the two states was around five days, compared to 13 days in the United States.Transmission factorsOne of the key findings of the report was that there was a wide variance in the number of people to whom infected people passed on the virus — while many were not infecting anyone, a handful of “superspreaders” were responsible for a majority of new infections. Of the 88,616 index patients studied in the report, 70.7% did not go on to infect anyone else, the researchers found.At the other end of the spectrum, follow-up testing of exposed contacts revealed that 8% of index patients accounted for 60% of observed new infections, what researchers said was the largest recorded demonstration of “superspreading”.“Superspreading is often mistaken to be just an event. In our study we find that some people, about a tenth of the population of infected individuals are far more likely to transmit the virus than others. This probably plays a big role in all countries, not just in India,” said Laxminarayan, the study’s lead author.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayIndeed, most experts have come to accept the role of superspreaders, though, until now, no study has quantified their impact. The analysis classified all contact into high- and low-risk incidents. If people shared a house and had close-range or direct physical contact with the index case, they were deemed as high risk contact. Low risk contacts were those who shared the same space (e.g. room) as the index case without meeting the high-risk exposure criteria. It also looked at interaction types and setting that caused Covid-19 transmissions. Close proximity travel (sharing a closed space in a car or a bus), the study showed, carries the highest risk of people infecting others, and had a ‘secondary attack rate’ (SAR) – the proportion of all tested contacts, who test positive — of 79.3%.Also Read: BMC releases stricter containment zone rules; more Covid-19 tests for MumbaiIt also found high prevalence of infection among children who were contacts of cases around their own age, with children in the age group of five to 17 years as a proportion most likely to infect others. For every 100 index patients among the five to 17 year age group, 15.4 of their contacts tested positive, the highest proportion among the age groups analysed. Those between the ages of 18 and 39 years, were at the second spot, both infecting 12.3% of their contacts.“This likely reflects the higher prevalence of diabetes, hypertension and other co-morbidities in the Indian population,” Laxminarayan said.Also Read: BMC plans special study of Covid-19 trends in MumbaiThe report also found that men were 62% more likely to die from Covid-19 than women and that 3. 63% of those who died had at least one co-morbidity.Experts echoed Laxminarayan’s finding and said co-morbidities such as diabetes, in particular, is more common in India and may influence the CFR for people above 40 years of age.“The age group of 40 to 70 years in India would tend to have quite high number of co-morbidities because Indians anyway are genetically predisposed to diabetes. This would heavily cause the weighing down of the CFR in that age group,” said Dr Jacob John. “Add to this that Indians tend to have to see live in a more polluted environments, so our lungs take years of damage by the time we are in our 40s. So that can be a factor as well,” he said.“The interesting thing is that people who are above 65 have a lower CFR than abroad. This may be caused by a selection bias because in India our life expectancy is on an average 10 or so years lower than the western world. So those of us who survive are generally people who are in good health, so they end up fighting off the disease more effectively,” Dr Jameel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/superspreaders-led-to-60-cases-study/story-SjFFxsAYAnBNeMDAVTYSYP.html
01-10-2020||India||India, China hold one more round of talks||Indian and Chinese diplomats held another round of dialogue on the border standoff on Wednesday with little to show beyond a commitment to implement decisions made at the last round of military talks about maintaining stability along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The latest virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs provided both sides an opportunity to review the situation along the LAC and to hold “frank and detailed discussions” on developments since the body’s last meeting on August 20, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. Also Read: India, China discussing foreign ministers’ 5-point agenda to ease border situation: Chinese officialBoth the Indian statement and a readout in Mandarin from China’s foreign ministry said the two sides “positively evaluated” the outcome of the sixth military commanders’ meeting on September 21. “They emphasised the need to implement the steps outlined in the joint press release issued after the last meeting of the senior commanders so as to avoid misunderstandings and to maintain stability on the ground,” the Indian statement said. “In this context, the need to strengthen communication, especially between the ground commanders, was emphasised by both sides,” it added. WATCH| ‘Current situation at India-China border uneasy’: IAF Chief RKS BhadauriaAlso Read: Imran Khan faces pushback over Gilgit-Baltistan move. China ties his hands | AnalysisThe Chinese readout spoke about following up on decisions made by the military commanders, including properly handling the remaining local issues and jointly maintaining peace in the border areas while maintaining dialogue. The military commanders, at their last meeting, agreed to “stop sending more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground, and avoid taking any actions that may complicate the situation”. They had also agreed to implement the consensus reached by the leaders of India and China, strengthen communication, and avoid misunderstandings and misjudgements. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that both sides were focused on ensuring there were no more flare-ups in the aftermath of several incidents earlier this month that saw Indian and Chinese troops firing warning shots – the first time guns were used along the LAC since 1975. Both sides have mobilised some 50,000 troops each in the Ladakh sector and the soldiers are now preparing to dig in for the harsh winter, when temperatures can dip as low as minus 40 degrees Celsius. Asked about the WMCC meeting at a regular news briefing in Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said: “The main topics discussed are how to implement the five-point consensus reached in Moscow (on September 10) by the two foreign ministers to resolve outstanding issues on the ground and to ease the situation along the border.” The WMCC meeting, co-chaired by joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry and Hong Liang, director of the boundary and oceanic department of China’s foreign ministry, attached importance to the meetings of the two defence ministers and the two foreign ministers in Moscow earlier this month. “They also noted that the agreement between the two foreign ministers should be sincerely implemented to ensure disengagement at all the friction points along the LAC,” the Indian statement said, referring to a five-point roadmap the two ministers had agreed on. Both sides further agreed to continue close consultations at the diplomatic and military levels, and that the seventh meeting of the military commanders should be held at an early date so that the two sides “can work towards early and complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC in accordance with the existing bilateral agreement and protocols, and fully restore peace and tranquillity”, the Indian statement added. The Chinese readout said the two sides would implement the five-point roadmap reached by the two foreign ministers, strictly abide by border affairs agreements and take practical measures to improve and further cool down the situation and avoid any actions that may complicate it. The five-point roadmap agreed on by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi includes dialogue aimed at quick disengagement, maintaining proper distance between troops of the two sides and easing tensions, abiding by all agreements and protocols on border management, continuing dialogue through the Special Representatives mechanism and the WMCC, and working on new confidence-building measures once the situation eases. This was the WMCC’s sixth virtual meeting since the standoff in the Ladakh sector emerged in the open in May. The sharp differences that persist between New Delhi and Beijing became public this week, with India dismissing China’s contention that it abides by a 1959 definition of the LAC, the notional alignment dividing the two countries. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said: “It is the stalemate which is doing the talking. This is about both sides wanting to continue the negotiations but knowing that they won’t budge from their stated positions. “It’s somewhat akin to what used to happen under the Special Representatives mechanism – both sides would meet every year to take stock of the situation and agree to meet again. If there is no movement from the Chinese side, India can’t offer anything, and that is another sign of the stalemate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-hold-one-more-round-of-talks/story-sYDg8odgiaTjvz0U7ZRGwJ.html
01-10-2020||India||India records 1.6% rise in crimes in 2018-19: NCRB data||India recorded a 1.6% rise in the number of cognizable crimes between 2018 and 2019, according to the latest Crime in India report released by the National Crime Records Bureau of the Ministry of Home Affairs this week.Nearly 5.2 million cognisable crimes were reported across India in 2019. These cognisable crimes include those covered under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) as well as those covered under various Special and Local Laws (SLL). While the first category saw a rise of about 3%, the number of cases under the second decreased by 0.6%.Also Read: Most cases of murder with rape recorded in Maharashtra: DataData from previous annual Crime in India reports compiled by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy shows that the number of cases registered under both these categories increased by nearly 13% in the last six years.Nearly every third case registered under the IPC in 2019, or about 1.1 million, was regarding offences affecting the human body such as murder, rape, causing death, kidnapping, etc. Offences against property, such as theft and criminal breach of trust, comprised about 26% or 0.9 million cases.Also Read: Maharashtra only state to see 6 crimes worth over ₹100 crore: NCRB Between 2018 and 2019, the number of IPC cases under each category of offences increased, with the sole exception of cases registered in offences against public tranquility, which includes crimes such as unlawful assembly and rioting. Offences against property increased by 6.5% -- it includes theft which increased by 8% and was the single most committed crime in India comprising 21% of all IPC crimes.The crimes against women, children, senior citizens, and people belonging to the scheduled caste and scheduled tribe communities increased between 2018 and 2019 at varying degrees. Crimes against women increased by 7.3%. Cruelty by husband or his relatives was the single most committed crime against women in 2019, comprising 31% of all crimes against women. Also Read: Mumbai records maximum crime against senior citizens: NCRBRape comprised about 8% of crimes against women. Among crimes against children, kidnapping and abduction, and sexual offences were the two most committed crimes. Simple hurt, theft, forgery, cheating and fraud comprised about half of all crimes among senior citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-1-6-rise-in-crimes-in-2018-19-ncrb-data/story-MUXfeNGYiMxdMVwMh8aebN.html
01-10-2020||India||Govt to buy more kharif crops amid stir||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government has approved plans to step up procurement of kharif or summer-sown crops, especially pulses and oilseeds, at minimum support prices (MSPs), at a time when farmers are protesting against a new set of laws they fear may weaken the MSP regime and the procurement mechanism.The Centre will launch a special procurement drive to buy nearly 1.4 million tonnes of pulses and oilseeds from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana and Haryana under its “price support scheme” at MSP prices, according to an order of the agriculture ministry.The approval for procuring pulses and oilseeds came after a proposal from these five states, a ministry official said, requesting anonymity. “The government is open to approving more requests for procurement of pulses and oilseeds from other states,” the official said.Also Read: Haryana farmers protest as stalemate over paddy procurement continuesAmong non-food crops, the government is also preparing for procurement of cotton for the 2020-21 season. “Cotton Corporation of India will start purchase of FAQ (fair and average quality) grade cotton from 1st October 2020 onwards,” the official said.The National Cooperative Development Corporation, the apex financing organisation of the agriculture ministry, has sanctioned, in the first instalment, funds worth ₹19,444 crore to Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Telangana for paddy procurement at MSP rates, the official said.Also Read: SAD asks Rahul Gandhi to tell farmers why he supported abolition of APMC ActAccording to the first advance estimates of food production released by the agriculture ministry on September 23, output from the country’s kharif crops is likely to touch a record 144.5 million tonnes. The estimates are marginally higher than the 143.4 million tonnes produced during the kharif season of 2019-20. WATCH | ‘Farm laws are like dagger through farmers’ heart’: Rahul Gandhi attacks CentreThe increase in food output is largely due to higher estimated production of pulses at 9.3 million tonnes, up 20% year-on-year from 7.7 million tonnes last year. Production of rice, the main staple, is estimated to be 102.4 million tonnes, slightly higher than last year’s.“The government will buy pulses and oilseeds outside the five states under the price support scheme if the market rate dips below MSP during the notified harvesting period,” the official quoted above said.According to data from the agriculture ministry, the Union government, through its nodal agencies, has procured 46.35 tonnes of moong with an MSP value of ₹33 lakh, benefitting 486 farmers in Tamil Nadu. Similarly, 5,089 tonnes of copra having an MSP value of ₹52.40 crore has been procured, benefitting 3,961 farmers in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu against the sanctioned quantity of 123,000 tonnes for Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala.Also Read: ‘Delhi farmers to get free chemical to tackle stubble’: CM KejriwalThe procurement of paddy started from September 26 in Haryana and Punjab. Up to September 28, 3,164 tonnes of paddy in Haryana and 13,256 tonnes in Punjab, totaling 16,420 MT, with an MSP value of ₹31 crore. had been procured from 1,443 farmers in the two states.Big farmers’ groups, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, are protesting three laws . The reforms have cost the BJP one of its oldest allies, the Shiromani Akali Dal, which has quit the ruling alliance.“Given higher production, wholesale prices of many commodities are expected to fall. It would be interesting to see if government agencies end up procuring substantially more than in usual years, especially pulses and oilseeds. It will send a political signal to protesting farmers that the government is committed to the MSP regime,” said R Mani of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-buy-more-kharif-crops-amid-stir/story-ssDt3zA9i8254Xq3fe9g2L.html
01-10-2020||India||Ayodhya celebrates with sweets, diyas, slogans||Ayodhya erupted in joy as news of the acquittal of the 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case reached the temple town on Wednesday. People came out of their houses, greeted one another, distributed sweets and raised ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans. After sunset, houses were lit with candles and diyas (earthen lamps). Earthen lamps were also lit at the Ram Janmabhoomi complex. WATCH: Babri Demolition Verdict: What next? Yug Mohit Chaudhry | On The RecordDevotees thronged the historic Hanuman Garhi temple where the priest, Raju Das, led celebrations and conducted a special puja ceremony. Also Read: Babri Masjid judgment: Experts point to inconsistent reading of conspiracy lawsPeople also distributed sweets at Karsevakpuram, which was the nerve centre of the Ram temple movement, and Mani Ram Das Chhavni Peeth, the ashrama from where all activities of saints in Ayodhya are regulated.“The verdict proves that there was no conspiracy on December 6 (1992). It was a spontaneous act (demolition) by kar sevaks for which no individual is responsible,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor designate to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust. Also Read: LK Advani, acquitted in Babri case, says ruling vindicates ‘my and BJP’s belief in Ram Janmabhoomi movement’Paramhans Das at Tapasvi Ji Ki Chhavni too distributed sweets. BJP MP from Faizabad (Ayodhya) Lallu Singh, who was also acquitted, went to Hanuman Garhi temple after reaching Ayodhya from the special CBI court in Lucknow and offered prayers there. Singh, along with a large number of people took part in the Saryu aarti later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-celebrates-with-sweets-diyas-slogans/story-NOF83WDMc3MJU32FCW2uEM.html
01-10-2020||India||Muslims will challenge Babri order: Jilani||The All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) said on Wednesday that the acquittal of 32 people in the Babri Masjid demolition case was “far from justice” and a key member of the body assured that the verdict will be challenged in high court. In a statement, the body urged the Central Bureau of Investigation to appeal the judgment in the high court. “It is neither based on evidence and not in accordance with the law,” said an AIMPLB statement issued soon after the special CBI court’s verdict around noon. Also Read: Babri demolition verdict: Shiv Sena happy, but cautious“Whatever may be the reason for acquittal but this is also a fact that many of us have seen the videos and photos of demolition. Who all was part of this conspiracy is an open secret,” said Maulana Mohammed Wali Rahmani, general secretary, AIMPLB. A key member of the board, senior lawyer Zafaryab Jilani, also said that the verdict will be challenged in high court. “The special CBI court has given its verdict ignoring the evidence and so Muslims will challenge it in high court,” he added.“There were hundreds of statements by the witnesses and in criminal cases these are very important, Jilani said, adding that among those who gave their statements were IPS officers and journalists who had said that the accused persons were sitting on the dias and inflammatory speeches were being given.Also Read: Babri judgment sharpens political divideIn the statement, the body said said that a 500-year-old-structure that was defenceless and whose safety was in the hands of the state government was demolished. “And its demolition was followed by the wave of communal violence in the country and now in the verdict no accountability for demolition has been fixed,” it added. “In 1994, a five judges’ bench of the Supreme Court had stated that the demolition was a ‘national shame’ and it shook the faith in the rule of law and the constitutional process.” Also Read: Muslim, Left leaders decry verdict on Babri Masjid demolitionShia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawad Naqvi registered his disagreement towards the Special CBI Court’s judgment acquitting all 32 accused. “Though the Supreme Court had considered Babri Masjid demolition as a criminal act and a violation of law to which government officials and police remained a mute spectator, I wonder why proper evidences and witnesses were not produced before the court to prove the guilt,” said Jawad. “Now since all the accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case have been acquitted, the question that who demolished Babri Masjid remains unanswered,” he added while advising Muslims to file an appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslims-will-challenge-babri-order-jilani/story-2Zbd8uV6S2hkcL2A3NVDHP.html
01-10-2020||India||Babri Masjid judgment: Experts point to inconsistent reading of conspiracy laws||The conspiracy angle in the Babri Masjid demolition case was keenly followed after a Supreme Court judgment in 2017 said conspiracy charges against the accused Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders could not be dropped. The special court on Wednesday acquitted all the accused -- including former Deputy PM LK Advani and former Union ministers Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti -- of conspiring to bring down the mosque.Top experts weigh in on the grounds, evidence and yardsticks that go into establishing a conspiracy case.WATCH | Babri case: Court acquits Advani & 31 others; says ‘demolition not pre-planned’“Essentially, for a conspiracy prosecution to succeed, there has to be a proven meeting of minds and action in pursuance of the conspiracy. We do not know whether or not the prosecution managed to prove that the crowd had assembled at the call of the leaders, that the leaders had instructed or instigated them to bring with them tools of destruction and that the destruction was carried out pursuant to an incitement or a signal from the accused. The judge seems to have believed that part of the assembled crowd turned into a mob which could not be controlled by the leaders who, in fact tried to ask them not to destroy the building,” senior counsel Sanjay Hegde told HT.Also Read: Babri Masjid demolition case: Verdict counter to SC judgment, says CongressOn the nature evidence and yardstick applied for judging conspiracy, Hegde said that there have been various instances in which conspiracy charges have been applied when at the spontaneous call of one person, others have joined in to injure a person or beat him to death. “We do not know on a weighing of the evidence, how the judge has approached the task. But in other normal conspiracy and unlawful assembly cases, we have many times seen that when one person gives a call and three or fours other persons use sticks and somebody dies, then they all get roped in under criminal conspiracy read with section 149 of Indian Penal Code (which makes every member of an unlawful assembly guilty of an offence committed in pursuance of a common object by one person of that). But that standard does not seem to have been applied here,” said Hegde. Also Read: Babri demolition verdict: Shiv Sena happy, but cautiousThe inconsistent application of yardsticks to determine “conspiracy” has also been a subject of recent discourse.“Ever since the Supreme Court’s Watali judgment (NIA v. Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali), lower courts have been applying broader and broader yardsticks to judge ‘conspiracy’. An example of this was the Safoora Zargar order denying bail, where Zargar was neither present at the scene of the roadblocking, nor had at any point called for violence, but was nonetheless denied bail on the basis that “if you play with embers, the wind can take the fire anywhere.” The Babri demolition judgment seems to suggest that this extremely broad definition (in itself a problem) is also applied selectively,” legal academic and lawyer Gautam Bhatia said.Supreme Court lawyer Kanu Agrawal, however, said that standard of proof required at the stage of conviction is very high and charges of conspiracy are not easy to prove.“Legal practitioners must, before making any sweeping statements, remember that it is a 2,300-page judgment which will have to be read with the legal position in mind that the standard of proof required at the stage of conviction is ‘proof beyond all reasonable doubts’. In law, the cases of conspiracy are as difficult to prove as they are easy to allege,” Agrawal said.Hegde, meanwhile, was critical of the fact that Congress government at the time of the demolition did not take sufficient steps to bring the case to a swift conclusion.“The government of that day did not take effective steps for investigation or constitution of a special court. The government of that day probably wanted tempers to die down more so in anticipation of the elections which were due in 1996. Thereafter, the NDA government was in power for six years with Mr LK Advani as Deputy Prime Minister and the prosecution did not take off. But for the Supreme Court order of 2017 ordering a day to day trial, we would not have even seen this end,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-point-to-inconsistent-reading-of-conspiracy-laws/story-mpxSeZmXAbGfNKcyrhOc8N.html
01-10-2020||India||Babri judgment sharpens political divide||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday hailed as a “victory of justice and truth” the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court’s verdict acquitting all 32 people accused of conspiring to demolish the16th Century Babri Masjid.The opposition Congress claimed the ruling ran counter to the Supreme Court’s November 9 judgment, which paved the way for the construction of a Ram temple on the disputed site where the mosque stood, and the Constitutional spirit.The Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) also urged the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government to file an appeal against the special CBI court’s decision to acquit all the accused, including senior BJP leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti, for lack of evidence.WATCH | Babri Demolition Verdict: What next? Yug Mohit Chaudhry | On The RecordAddressing reporters at the party headquarters in Delhi, Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala noted that the five-judge bench of the Supreme Court, in its judgement on November 9 last year, which held that the demolition of the Babri Masjid was a “clear illegality and egregious violation” of the rule of law. “But the special court exonerated all the accused. It is clear that the decision of the special court runs counter to the decision of the Supreme Court.”Surjewala said the entire nation witnessed a “deep-rooted political conspiracy” by the BJP-Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh and its leaders to destroy the country’s communal amity and brotherhood through the December 6, 1992 demolition of the Babri Masjid, which Hindu groups believe marks the birthplace of the god Ram and claim that the mosque had been built during Mughal rule on the ruins of a temple.The Congress had hailed the Supreme Court judgement on the construction of the Ram Temple at the disputed site at Ayodhya and also the foundation stone laying ceremony on August 5 this year, signalling a major shift in its stand on the issue.Wednesday’s verdict, which came weeks ahead of the Bihar assembly polls, and by-elections in a clutch of states, including Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, is expected to give the BJP campaign a shot in the arm. Construction of a Ram Temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya has been a long-standing electoral promise of the BJP.Soon after the verdict was announced, Advani and Joshi welcomed the decision. but chose to be measured in their response. Uma Bharti is in hospital being treated for Covid-19.Advani, who watched news of the verdict on television with his daughter Pratibha and staff, said the judgment vindicated his personal and the BJP’s belief and commitment towards the Ram temple movement.“I also feel blessed that this judgement has come in the footsteps of another landmark verdict of the Supreme Court given in November 2019, which paved the way for my long-cherished dream of seeing a grand Shri Ram Mandir at Ayodhya.”Joshi said the verdict proved that there was no conspiracy to bring down the mosque. The octogenarian leader said the verdict should also put to rest the controversy over the issue and the entire country should be ready for the construction of a grand Ram temple.Calling the judgement “obnoxious”, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi said, “This verdict is a black day in the history of Indian courts...was masjid sacrificed on December 6 (1992) by any magic ?... Were the locks opened when Rajiv Gandhi was prime minister by magic? That’s why I say that today’s judgement came in contradiction to what the SC said.”CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said, “Yet another verdict but not justice. It will blemish the image of India as a secular-democratic country governed by the Constitution. The CBI must immediately appeal against this judgment.”RSS affiliate, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, which has been on frontline of the Ram temple movement, said the judgment was a vindication of truth and justice. “Sadly, it has taken 28 years for the Courts to deliver justice...,” said VHP’s international president Alok Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-judgment-sharpens-political-divide/story-toGsu7M4DxT6ZWAnvGRt8K.html
01-10-2020||India||BrahMos supersonic missile with longer range successfully test fired||Amid tensions with China in the Ladakh sector India on Wednesday successfully test-fired an extended-range BrahMos surface-to-surface supersonic cruise missile from the Integrated Test Range at Balasore in Odisha that can hit targets 400 km away, officials familiar with the development said. The range has been increased from the existing 290 km. “The missile featuring an indigenous booster and airframe section along with many other ‘Made in India’ sub-systems was successfully flight tested for designated range at 1030 hours on Wednesday…It is one more major step in enhancing the indigenous content,” a defence ministry spokesperson said. The missile was tested for the second time. The missile cruised at a top speed of Mach 2.8 (nearly three times the speed of sound). The configuration of the existing missile --- the world’s fastest supersonic cruise missile --- has been tweaked to enhance its range, the officials said. Increasing the missile’s range became possible after India’s induction into the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) in June 2016.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the BrahMos missile has achieved another milestone. “Brahmos Supersonic Cruise Missile has achieved yet another milestone with successful test launch showcasing enhanced operational capabilities and additional indigenous technologies. Congratulations to all the scientists and engineers. @DRDO_India @BrahMosMissile,” Modi tweeted.Defence minister Rajnath Singh also congratulated the Defence Research and Development Organisation and BrahMos Aerospace for the successful flight testing of the missile.“This achievement will give a big boost to India’s #AtmaNirbharBharat Pledge,” the minister tweeted. The existing BrahMos missile is deployed in the eastern Ladakh theatre where India and China are locked in a border row, the officials said. The successful launch has paved the way for the serial production of the indigenous booster and other indigenous components of the powerful weapon system, the defence ministry said in a statement. The missile, which has land, air and naval variants, is an Indo-Russian joint venture. India is also working on a hypersonic missile, BrahMos-II (K), capable of taking out hardened targets such as underground bunkers and weapon storage facilities at seven times the speed of sound (Mach 7) or 8,575 kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brahmos-supersonic-missile-with-longer-range-successfully-test-fired/story-caeMInKNFJj9LkvgMk0m0J.html
01-10-2020||India||Centre keeps borrowing limit unchanged for FY21||The Union government has kept its borrowing limit unchanged at Rs 12 lakh crore for 2020-21, which also factors in the possibility of a second stimulus package, a top finance ministry official said on Wednesday.The government has already borrowed Rs 7.66 lakh crore, about 64% of the limit in the first half of current financial year at a borrowing cost of 5.82% and plans to borrow remaining Rs 4.34 lakh crore via bonds by January 2021, economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj said.Referring to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement regarding a possible second stimulus, Bajaj said in Hindi: “If any such requirement comes, we have factored it in.”Also Read:New ATM card, credit card rules to be effective from October 1: All you need to know“I am open to one more support if necessary. We are constantly exchanging a lot of thoughts with industry... One more may be needed is what we are hearing from the people who interact with us, and we are trying to see what it is that we can do. There’s no point in me hurriedly getting something out,” Sitharaman told HT in an interview published on Tuesday.Many want a second stimulus to boost the sagging economy immediately. The first stimulus of Rs 20.97 lakh crore was announced by the government through a series of announcements between March and May that included fiscal and monetary incentives and a Rs 1.7 lakh crore relief package for the poor. The latest edition of consultancy firm EY India’s Economy Watch said that a second stimulus is a must. “It is clear that in order to reverse the adverse growth trend in sectors such as public administration, defence and other services, and construction, a second round of stimulus is immediately called for.”India’s gross domestic product (GDP) growth in the first quarter of 2020-21 contracted steeply to 23.9% mainly because of a sharp decline in various economic activities such as mining [-23.3%], manufacturing [-39.3%], construction [-50.3%], trade, hotels, transport and communication [-47%] , financial, real estate and professional services [-5.3%] and public administration, defence and other services [-10.3%].Also Read: Dearness allowance: Has DA hike suspension order been withdrawn? Centre clarifiesIn May this year the government already raised its gross market borrowing target for FY-21 to Rs 12 lakh crore from Rs 7.8 lakh crore budgeted in February. The borrowing limit was increased to combat sudden outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent 68-day hard lockdown since March 25. DK Srivastava, chief economist at EY India said, “The borrowing limit [Rs 12 lakh crore] is about 5.8% of GDP. Given the shortfall in tax and non-tax revenues due to unprecedented economic slowdown because of the pandemic, additional resources will be required to boost the economy.”“Powerful stimulus is required else recovery will be delayed,” he said adding that even state governments are spending less. “There is a significant contraction in expenditure,” he added.In the interview with HT, the finance minister also pointed at available fiscal space with states. “Even as we speak, not even one state has exceeded the 3% of GSDP [gross state domestic product] limit available to them in a normal year. Of course, we have another six months to go for the end of the year. Over and above, we have allowed them to borrow another half a percent more unconditionally; another 1% with conditions; and another half percent contingent on certain reforms,” she explained.The industry called for some extra borrowing this fiscal year especially after a weak GDP numbers in Q1. “Here is a strong feeling that we would need a second round of stimulus. In such situation it is prudent this fiscal deficit to go up. So, it would be a very difficult situation for the government if they do not go for the much higher borrowing than Rs. 4.34 lakh crore to stimulate the economy,” said DK Aggarwal, president, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry.Indeed, ahead of Bajaj’s comment, the expectation on the street was that the government would borrow at least Rs 1 lakh crore more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-keeps-borrowing-limit-unchanged-for-fy21/story-2pBEQQgOjH2XfhNKYxWCBL.html
01-10-2020||India||States, UT govts will not impose any local lockdown outside containment zones: Centre in new guidelines||The Centre in its new guidelines of re-opening issued on Wednesday said that the states and union territory (UT) governments will not impose any local lockdown outside the containment zones without consulting first. “State/ UT Governments shall not impose any local lockdown (State/ District/ sub-division/City/ village level), outside the containment zones, without prior consultation with the Central Govt. No restriction on inter-state & intra-state movement,” the Ministry of Home Affairs said in a statement. In a detailed guidelines for the new relaxations, which will be implemented from October 1, the government has reopened several activities such as movie theatres, schools and colleges among other things.In the new guidelines, Centre also said that international travel will stay shut except those permitted by MHA.Here’s are the new guidelines issued by the Centre on Wednesday:- International air travel of passengers, except as permitted by MHA.- Entertainment parks and similar places will remain closed.- Lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in the Containment Zones till 31st October, 2020.Also read | Movie theatres, swimming pools: What’s new in Centre’s guidelines for re-opening- Containment Zones shall be demarcated by the District authorities at micro level after taking into consideration the guidelines of MoHFW with the objective of effectively breaking the chain of transmission. Strict containment measures will be enforced in these containment zones and only essential activities will be allowed.Within the containment zones, strict perimeter control shall be maintained and only essential activities allowed.These Containment Zones will be notified on the websites of the respective District Collectors and by the States/ UTs and information will also be shared with MOHFW.Also read | Re-opening guidelines out; multiplexes, swimming pools to partially open from October 15- States not to impose any local lockdown outside Containment ZonesState/ UT Governments shall not impose any local lockdown (State/ District/ sub-division/City/ village level), outside the containment zones, without prior consultation with the Central Government.- No restriction on Inter-State and intra-State movementThere shall be no restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-5-states-ut-govts-will-not-impose-any-local-lockdown-outside-containment-zones-centre-in-new-guidelines/story-8Oq2vIWGlvd74VmKYm1H2M.html
