02-10-2020||India||Will not rest until Hathras family gets justice: Priyanka Gandhi||: A day after former she and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi were stopped by the Uttar Pradesh Police on their way to Hathras to meet the family of Dalit woman who was gang raped and murdered, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attended a prayer meeting for the victim at a Valmiki temple in the Capital. The UP Police has been accused by the victim’s family of forcibly cremating her in the middle of the night earlier this week, and access to the town and the family have been cut off for the media and opposition leaders. District officials have contended that they have consent from the woman’s family, but the manner in which the developments took place have raised questions over the conduct of the administration and law enforcement. Priyanka Gandhi joined hundreds of people, including Congress leaders PL Punia, Sushmita Dev, Anil Choudhary and BV Srinivas, in solidarity with the 19-year-old woman. Priyanka Gandhi told reporters that she was at the event to express her condolences and offer prayers for the deceased. “We are all here to ensure that the girl gets justice. We will pressure the government to get her justice,” she said. “Her family has got no help from the state government. They must feel they are all alone. We are holding the prayer meeting for them. They should know that they are not alone and fight the injustice being done to them. We will put political pressure and every woman in this country must put moral pressure on the government,” she added. All India Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev said it is the women of this country who will take down the National Democratic Alliance government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “As the Mahila Congress, we have to take the lead and protest against this injustice,” Dev said.Delhi Congress chief Choudhary said that the party will work relentlessly to ensure the family gets justice. “Every day, there are at least 10 incidents of rape in UP. Why are Rahul ji and Priyanka ji not being allowed to meet the family? They are silencing democracy and we will not stand for it.” Youth Congress chief BV Srinivas said that the PM and the UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) must resign. “They have not said a word all this time, they must take responsibility and be held accountable.”“It is unfortunate that a humanitarian issue is being politicised. The government is already taking action that is needed,” said Sanjay Mayukh, national spokesperson of the BJP.On Thursday, Priyanka Gandhi and her brother Rahul Gandhi were briefly arrested as they tried to visit Hathras on the grounds that there was a ban on public assembly in the town. The UP Police took them to a guest house at the Buddh International Circuit in Greater Noida before escorting them back to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-rest-until-hathras-family-gets-justice-priyanka-gandhi/story-HOuQ74jOQIndOe1gP2QasI.html
02-10-2020||India||Thakur mahapanchayat held in Hathras||AGRA: Members from Brahmin and Thakur communities held a mahapanchayat or mega gathering on Friday roughly two kilometres from the village in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district where a Dalit teenager was gangraped and murdered, and demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the high-profile incident.Despite prohibitory orders in the area, members of the upper-caste communities gathered at Baghna village and claimed that all four accused men -- Sandip Singh, Ramu, Lavkush Sikarwar and Ravi -- were innocent. The four men, who all belong to the dominant Thakur caste, have been arrested. At the gathering, members threatened to launch an agitation unless hte accused were released. The members also referred to comments by the Uttar Pradesh additional director general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar and Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar, who had cited the forensic lab report to reject charges that the 19-year-old Dalit woman was raped . “There was representation of all in the mahapanchayat. We demand a CBI probe into the matter, besides narco test of members of the accused and the victim’s families so that the actual culprit gets punishment. The forensic science lab has not confirmed gang rape, thus all four (accused) should be released,” said Sumant Kishore Singh, the representative of chief of Hasayan block. Singh went from door to door to gather support of the upper castes on the issue.“We will meet members of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Saturday and apprise them of the truth. If we do not get justice even then, a bigger agitation will be called,” said an upper caste member who attended the mahapanchayat, which began on Friday morning. The state government has formed a three-member SIT to probe the case and the district administration has claimed that the matter will be heard in a fast- track court.The victim belonged to the Valmiki (Dalit) community and had named four accused for brutalising and gang raping her.She was gang raped and brutalised on September 14. After battling for life at JN Medical College in Aligarh, she was shifted to New Delhi on September 28 and died at Safdarjung Hospital the next day.Initially, a case under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code (attempt to murder) was registered against only one accused. Thereafter, Section 354 (attempt to outrage modesty) was added. Finally, a case of gang rape (376D) was registered against the four accused, all of whom are in custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thakur-mahapanchayat-held-in-hathras/story-FbgQWs89QTBGJf3KiX0nbJ.html
02-10-2020||India||UP CM Yogi Aditynath appoints Vineet Jaiswal as new Hathras SP||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday appointed Vineet Jaiswal, Superintendent of Police (SP) of Shamli, as the new Hathras SP.The moves comes as Adityanath gave directions to suspend SP, DSP, inspector and some others officials based on the first report of SIT which is probing the torture and alleged gangrape case of a 19-year woman in Hathras who later succumbed to her injuries in a Delhi hospital.According to chief minister’s office (CMO), Hathras SP Vikrant Vir, Circle Officer (CO) Ram Shabd, Inspector Dinesh Kumar Verma, Sub-Inspector Jagveer Singh and head constable Mahesh Pal have been suspended for the negligence in duty based on the first report submitted by the Special Investigating Team (SIT).According to the chief minister’s office, narco polygraph tests will also be conducted of SP, DSP and other concerned officials.The UP government had formed an SIT to probe the incident and said that the matter will be heard in the fast track court.The chief minister had said earlier in the day that the government was committed to ensuring the safety of women.“Those who even think of damaging the honour of our mothers and sisters will be destroyed. They will be given such punishment that it will serve as an example in future. Your UP government is committed to the safety and security of every mother and sister. This is our promise, our determination,” Adityanath said in a tweet in Hindi.The 19-year-old woman died at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital on September 29. All the four accused in the incident have been arrested.An uproar has erupted over the incident with the opposition also raising questions over the manner in which the last rites of the woman were performed. The police has said that consent of family was taken for cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-yogi-aditynath-appoints-vineet-jaiswal-as-new-hathras-sp/story-MzbRLA0WBJQ1ZghKVOJBeK.html
02-10-2020||India||Following CM Jagan’s call, lakhs of people participate in ‘clapping programme’||Lakhs of people, YSR Congress party leaders, cadre and official functionaries in Andhra Pradesh on Friday evening clapped their hands to applaud the services being rendered by village secretaries in carrying out the benefits of government schemes to the doorsteps of the beneficiaries.The programme was taken up at 7 pm following a call given by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to mark the completion of one year of the concept of Village Secretariats launched on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti last year.The programme drew inspiration from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call on March 22 wherein he urged the citizens to clap their hands for five minutes to extend solidarity with the frontline warriors fighting the Covid-19 pandemic.CM Jagan took part in the “clapping” programme at his Tadepalli residence in Amaravati. Minister for municipal administration Botsa Satyanarayana, chief secretary Neelam Sawhney, director-general of Police Gautam Sawang, MLA Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy and other senior officials also joined Jagan in clapping for five minutes.Also read: India encourages indigenous vaccine production, says PM ModiAll YSRC MPs, MLAs, party leaders and government officials from village level to the state level, besides common people, came out of their respective offices and residences to take part in the clapping programme.In his message to the people in the afternoon, Jagan called upon the people to display their symbolic appreciation to the village secretaries and volunteers by clapping their hands on the occasion of completion of one year of the village secretariat concept.State panchayat raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy said the symbolic gesture of clapping would give a big boost to the village secretariat employees and village volunteers who have been rendering selfless services to the people.He said the concept was launched to bring the administration to the doorsteps of the common man. As many as 543 services were being provided through these village secretariats as part of providing corruption-free administration in the state.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Central cabinet secretary also lauded the village secretariat concept,” the minister claimed.Around 1.26 lakh village secretaries have been appointed to administer these 11,158 village secretariats and 3,786 ward secretariats (as they are called in urban areas), besides, the government also appointed over 2.8 lakh village and ward volunteers to take the services to the doorsteps of the beneficiaries.While each village secretary is paid a monthly salary of Rs 15,000, each village volunteer appointed on an outsourcing basis is given a monthly remuneration of Rs 5,000. In all, each village/ward secretariat comprises 10-12 employees working under various wings of the government including panchayat raj and rural development, revenue, medical and health, animal husbandry, power, agriculture and social welfare in rural areas and municipal services in urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/following-cm-jagan-s-call-lakhs-of-people-participate-in-clapping-programme/story-IrYJJhAaflyoXCUWhCuu5K.html
02-10-2020||India||India, Germany to hold talks on October 6 on resumption of flights||Germany said on Friday it will hold talks with India on October 6 on how to resume passenger flight operations between the two countries. “We have received signals that India is also interested in a quick and satisfactory solution for both sides,” the German Ministry of Transport and Digital Infrastructure (BMVI) told PTI. On Tuesday, Lufthansa had announced cancellation of all “planned flights” between India and Germany from September 30 to October 20 because of an “unexpected rejection” of its flight schedule by the Indian authorities. Air India on Thursday cancelled all 12 flights between Frankfurt and India till October 14 because Germany withdrew its permission to operate them. In response to queries sent by the PTI, the BMVI stated it and the Indian Ministry of Civil Aviation are “confirmed to hold bilateral talks on October 6 through video conference”. “The aim is to find a solution on how to restore civil air transport between Germany and India in the spirit of the existing air transport agreement between our two countries,” it added. In response to question on what is the way forward to resolve the situation, the BMVI said it “does not want to anticipate the bilateral talks”. “In the light of our long history of good aviation relations, we are convinced that we can reach a mutually beneficial solution. We have received signals that India is also interested in a quick and satisfactory solution for both sides,” it added. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus lockdown. However, special flights have been permitted under “air bubble” arrangements India has formed with 16 countries, including Germany. Few hours after Lufthansa’s announcement on Tuesday on the cancellation of flights, Indian aviation regulator DGCA had said there are restrictions in place for Indian nationals desiring to travel to Germany which was putting Indian carriers at a significant disadvantage resulting in inequitable distribution of traffic in favour of Lufthansa. “As against Indian carriers operating 3-4 flights a week, Lufthansa operated 20 flights a week. In spite of this disparity, we offered to clear 7 flights a week for Lufthansa which was not accepted by them. Negotiations continue,” the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) noted. Asked to comment on DGCA’s observation about “inequitable distribution of traffic”, the BMVI said on Friday that the German authorities, like Indian authorities, have adopted special entry requirements due to the coronavirus pandemic and they are applicable regardless of which airline is carrying passengers into Germany. “German airlines and their passengers must also comply with the regulations. Even in the crisis situation, the German authorities have in principle not restricted the frequencies approved for the 2020 summer flight schedule,” the BMVI added. Lufthansa said on Tuesday it had applied for continuation of the special flights it was allowed to operate until the end of September but would now have to cancel them because of the “unexpected rejection”. The German carrier said it “sincerely urges” Indian authorities to work together with the German government to establish a temporary travel agreement between both countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-germany-to-hold-talks-on-october-6-on-resumption-of-flights/story-wNFKmOZMXfERhCaLDeKvRN.html
02-10-2020||India||End crisis of justice: Kailash Satyarthi tweets to PM Modi amid Hathras protests||Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi called upon Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lead the war on rape and end ‘crisis of justice’ amid outrage over Hathras gang-rape.“What is happening to our daughters is a matter of national shame. I humbly appeal to Hon’ble PM @narendramodi- the nation looks to you to end this crisis of justice for our women & children. I implore you to lead the war on rape. Our daughters need you and we are all with you,” Kailash Satyarthi tweeted.The social reformer’s tweet came in the wake of protests against the gang-rape and torture of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’ Hathras. The victim succumbed to her injuries in New Delhi’s Safdarjang Hospital on Tuesday.Meanwhile, a day after PM Modi sought strict action against the gang-rape culprits, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered the suspension of Hathras superintendent of police Vikrant Vir and two other police officials for their handling of the case. “Narco-analysis polygraph tests” would also be conducted on everyone involved in the case, he said.Opposition parties have called upon PM Modi to break his silence over the brutal rape of the woman. “The PM washes the feet of Dalits before elections but remains quiet when a Dalit daughter of Uttar Pradesh is brutally raped. We will organise a protest at India Gate at 5pm today. The PM will have to give us answers,” Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad said in a video message on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobel-laureate-kailash-satyarthi-urges-pm-modi-to-end-crisis-of-justice-amid-outrage-over-hathras-case/story-ZNhq0h8lHjsGQyDtdAijIL.html
02-10-2020||India||Hathras, Bhadohi incidents bolster TMC’s agenda to win back BJP’s Dalit votes in Bengal||Back to back killing of Dalit women in Uttar Pradesh has added a twist to caste politics in West Bengal with the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) seeing an opportunity to reach out to backward class voters who supported the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in several of the 18 Lok Sabha seats the party won in 2019. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will hit the streets in Kolkata on Saturday to raise the issue and target the BJP. This will be her first rally since the Covid-19 pandemic began in March. TMC leaders will hold protests in every community block in the districts. The campaign started on Friday afternoon when the TMC’s media cell in Bengal crowded the social media with videos of its four MPs grappling with policemen about a kilometre away from the Hathras victim’s village. The team was led by TMC Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien and included Lok Sabha MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar. Also read: Yogi Adityanath suspends Hathras SP, wants narco-analysis testsHowever, it was the presence of the Joynagar Lok Sabha MP Pratima Mondal and former Bongaon Lok Sabha MP Mamata Bala Thakur and their heated exchange with the UP police that had a political significance in West Bengal. While Mondal belongs to the scheduled caste community, Thakur is a member of the Matua community, which is part of Bengal’s Dalit population. Both alleged that they were manhandled. “The team was sent by our leader Mamata Banerjee,” said a senior TMC leader who did not want to be named. Once treated as untouchables, the ancestors of the majority of the Namasudras (Dalits) in the state originally hailed from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) and migrated to West Bengal after 1947 to escape religious persecution. There are about 10 million people from the Namasudra community in Bengal. During the 2011 census, Bengal’s population stood at 91.3 million. Part of this Dalit population is the Matua community which is headed by its supreme body, All India Matua Mahasangha. The Mahasangha played host to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rally at Thakurnagar in North 24-Parganas district before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Contesting on a BJP ticket, the sect’s young face, Shantanu Thakur, defeated his aunt, TMC’s Mamata Bala Thakur, at the Bongaon seat. After Partition, the Matuas relocated to West Bengal and became the state’s second-most influential scheduled caste community with an estimated population of more than three million. Also read: Allow politicians in Hathras, tweets ‘elder sister’ Uma Bharti to YogiAccording to estimates by ruling and opposition parties, the Dalit communities can influence poll results in more than 50 of the states’ 294 assembly seats. Most of these seats are located in districts along the India-Bangladesh border.  Horrors continue, yet the "CHOWKIDARS" are asleep. Now, Bhadohi witnesses a vicious act of violence with another young-dalit girl, ironically on the eve of Non-violence day.This is @BJP4India’s Uttar Pradesh — where the rule of law ends & the rule of upper-caste savages begins. pic.twitter.com/SS2Mob4eDqChief minister’s nephew and Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee took the lead in targeting the BJP even before the TMC team tried to reach Hathras. “Horrors continue, yet the “CHOWKIDARS” are asleep. Now, Bhadohi witnesses a vicious act of violence with another young-dalit girl, ironically on the eve of Non-violence day. This is @BJP4India’s Uttar Pradesh — where the rule of law ends & the rule of upper-caste savages begins,” he tweeted. “What a shame @narendramodi ji that an @AITCofficial Lok Sabha MP & representative of the SC community Pratima Mondal was manhandled by male officers of @Uppolice. HAS IT BECOME A TREND IN UP TO DISRESPECT SC WOMEN @myogiadityanath? #ShameOnYogi #HathrasHorror #DalitLivesMatter,” tweeted the TMC. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh refused to give any importance to the TMC’s agitation. “This is drama. Hundreds of women are raped and murdered in Bengal but no TMC leader cares to visit their homes,” Ghosh said at a rally held in support of the farm bills. The BJP leader, however, condemned the Hathras incident, saying the culprits should be punished. The backward class vote bank is crucial for both the TMC and the BJP in the run-up to the assembly polls, a ruling party leader said on condition of anonymity. Before the Lok Sabha polls, the BJP, which always had a refugee cell, carried out an extensive campaign on the then proposed citizenship law in Bengal to reach out to Hindus who left Bangladesh as refugees. Realising the importance of this vote bank, the TMC too launched its refugee cell in January this year. The cell now has units in all districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-bhadohi-incidents-bolster-tmc-s-agenda-to-win-back-bjp-s-dalit-votes-in-bengal/story-qUwHZfXOPyEwqqBrJTe30K.html
02-10-2020||India||PM Modi running his govt in atmosphere of ‘fear’, says Sonia Gandhi||Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi on Friday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, alleging he is running his government in an atmosphere of “fear”.On Gandhi Jayanti, she also invoked the Father of the Nation, to assail the government which, she claimed, swears by his name but demolishes his ideals through its actions.The Congress leader also accused the Centre of having weakened laws like MNREGA and Right to Information (RTI) Act which her party’s government had enacted to protect the interests of common people.“Some people swear by Gandhi jis name but demolish his ideals and principles through their actions. Anarchy, atrocity and mistreatment prevail everywhere. An environment of discrimination has been created in the society where atrocities are being inflicted on innocent people,” she said.She was virtually addressing a ‘Gandhi Chetna Rally’ at Congress party office in Motihari, the headquarters of East Champaran district in Bihar, to mark the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.It was in Champaran where Gandhi had experimented with ‘Satyagraha’ for the first time in India. It would later become his most potent weapon in the fight against the British rule.“Enough is enough. I would like to say that some people are running the government by creating an atmosphere of emotion, confusion and fear (bhavna, bhram aur bhay). You (people) need to remain alert and cautious and take the right decisions, she said.“We have to fight it out together and that will be our real tribute to Gandhi ji.” The Congress leader also unveiled a life-size statue of the Mahatma, and asserted his ideals are the “soul and spirit” of her party.In her speech, which many saw as the launch of her party’s campaign for the Bihar elections, the process of which has already started, Sonia Gandhi said the common man was always at the centre of Congress’s welfare programmes.“But whenever the Congress tries to work for the development of the poor, certain forces stand up against the party for their vested interest,” she alleged.She said the Modi government first ridiculed the MNREGA, the UPA government’s rural livelihood scheme, but later continued with it.“Just imagine what could have happened if there was no MNREGA during the Covid pandemic? People in large numbers would have starved,” she asserted.She also drew a parallel between the times when Mahatma Gandhi launched Champaran Satyagraha for the farmers, who were being forced by the British to grow indigo, and now when agriculturists were up in arms against the new farm laws.“A handful of people are getting richer, while millions are losing their livelihood,” she said.The Congress leader said lakhs of youth were losing jobs as small industries were closing down and big public sector undertakings being privatised.The RTI Act introduced by the previous Congress government for bringing in greater transparency in governance has been diluted, she alleged.“You keep asking questions through RTI but will not get suitable replies,” she said.She said several laws enacted by the UPA governments for the welfare of women, workers, the health and education sectors, have been “weakened”.“The weakening of these laws has deprived people of their rights,” she asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-running-his-govt-in-atmosphere-of-fear-says-sonia-gandhi/story-otN9G6OiPGPKmRb9QEvwwK.html
02-10-2020||India||Odisha fisherman catches exotic fish, sells it for Rs 1.56 lakh||A fisherman in Odisha made a small fortune for himself today after a 19.5-kilogram male fish that he caught off the Dhamra coast in Bay of Bengal fetched him around Rs 1.56 lakh in auction.On Thursday, fisherman Govind Mandal of Talchua in Kendrapara district caught the Ghol fish, known for its medicinal properties from the high seas. Minutes after Mandal put it up for auction at Chandinipala fish auction centre of Chandbali in Bhadrak district, an agent of a Mumbai-based a pharmaceutical company bought it at Rs 8,000 per kilogram.“As it was a male Ghol fish, the auction value went up to Rs 8,000 per kg. For female variety, fishermen get around Rs 6,000 per kg. The agent of the company bought it for its medicinal value,” said Ashok Jana, president of Dhamra Trawler Owners Association, Bhadrak.A huge crowd had gathered around the auction site to see the fish and participate in the bidding process for its possession. The initial minimum bid for the fish was Rs 6,000 per kg, reaching up to Rs 8,000.Also read: Tesla may make India debut in 2021 as CEO Elon Musk makes biggest revelation yetGhol, also commonly known as the black-spotted croaker and locally called Telia, is a species of fish native to the Indo-Pacific region. The heart of this fish is known as the ‘Sea Gold’, which is said to have medicinal properties and is an important ingredient in a variety of medicines.“The fish has iodine, iron, taurine, magnesium, fluoride, selenium. It is also known as ‘fish with a heart of gold’. Its fins are used by pharmaceutical companies to manufacture soluble stitches. Its skin contains a good source of high-quality collagen and is used to make cosmetic products and medicines,” said Basant Kumar Dash, deputy director of fisheries (marine) of Odisha fisheries department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-fisherman-catches-exotic-fish-sells-it-for-rs-1-56-lakh/story-baK4q0ejG3npdwkkfmOShP.html
02-10-2020||India||Flood waters recede further in Assam; over 2.41 lakh in 4 districts hit||Flood waters in Assam further receded on Friday and remained in four districts affecting a population of over 2.41 lakh, though the deluge claimed one more life, a government bulletin said here.With the death of one person in Morigaon district, the total number of people who lost their lives in flood-related incidents this year rose to 121, Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said in the bulletin.It said that 2,41,825 people of 379 villages in four districts are now affected, while the number of people hit by the calamity on Thursday was 2.70 lakh in seven districts.Flood waters receded from three districts since Thursday and the districts of Goalpara, Morigaon, Hojai and Nagaon remained submerged now.ASDMA said that 22,802 hectare of crop areas are under water now.Nagaon is the worst-hit district with more than 1.79 lakh people reeling under the flood, followed by Morigaon (34,424), Goalpara (26,127) and Hojai (2,067).The Brahmaputra river is flowing above the danger level at Dhubri, while the Kopili is flowing above the red mark in Nagaon, the ASDMA said.Relief centres have been opened in Nagaon and Morigaon districts where 117 people have taken shelter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-waters-recede-further-in-assam-over-2-41-lakh-in-4-districts-hit/story-8L7PYTOKdFZwYRYS0jKqSI.html
02-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi inaugurates VAIBHAV Summit and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘VAIBHAV Summit’ celebrates science and innovation from India and the world: A look at PM Modi’s top quotesPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the Vaishvik Bhartiya Vaigyanik (VAIBHAV )Summit on Friday through video conferencing. The summit aims to bring overseas and resident Indian researchers and academics under a common platform. Read more.I am like your elder sister, Uma Bharti tweets to Yogi Adityanath on Hathras incident, asks him to let politicians meet familySenior BJP leader Uma Bharti urged Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to allow politicians and media personnel meet the family members of the Dalit women who was allegedly gangraped in Hathras and later succumbed to her injuries in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital. Read more.Khaali Peeli movie review: Ishaan Khatter, Ananya Panday take you back to Bollywood’s mindless masala yearsCongratulations! You have found your way to an actual review of ‘nepo kids’ Ananya Panday and Ishaan Khatter’s Khaali Peeli, amid a sea of 0 star Google reviews by ‘justice warriors’. Unlike what those reviews would have you believe, no, I did not think it is the worst thing to happen to humanity. Read more.Elon Musk responds to Indian fans on Twitter, says Tesla is coming to India “next year for sure”Whether it will or it won’t remains to be seen, but Tesla CEO Elon Musk has told Indian fans that Tesla is coming to next year for sure. Tesla Club India asked Musk on Twitter - “Hey Elon , just thought we’d put this out here. We wait and hang on to hope wrt ‘hopefully soon’ for India Tesla entry. Would love to hear of any progress in this regard”. Read more.IPL 2020: MS Dhoni breaks world record in CSK vs SRH match, goes past Suresh Raina to become most-capped player in any T20 leagueAs MS DHoni walked onto the field against Sunrisers Hyderabad on Friday, he broke a huge record. The CSK captain became the player with most caps in any T20 league in world cricket. The Chennai Super Kings captain also became the player with most IPL appearances in the history of the tournament. He surpassed his teammate Suresh Raina, who is missing IPL 2020 due to personal reasons. Read more.Hathras case: Kejriwal, Supriya Sule target UP govt, CM Yogi breaks silenceUttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath continues to face fire from opposition parties over the Hathras case. Delhi Chief Minister lashed out at the UP government and said that while the crime in itself was heinous enough, the treatment meted out by the administration to the family of the victim was shameful. Watch full video here.Period Red: Pantone launches bold new red to destigmatize taboo around menstruation, promote period positivityWe may be living in modern times, talking about body positivity, equality, feminism and proclaiming self-love, but when it comes to menstruation, no matter how openly one tries to talk about it, there is no denying that the stigma and taboo attached to the subject prevails. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-inaugurates-vaibhav-summit-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZfmYeq4yFqPELRG0z7VkmJ.html
02-10-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath suspends Hathras SP, wants narco-analysis tests to be conducted||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday evening ordered the suspension of Hathras superintendent of police Vikrant Vir and three other police officers for their handling of the case relating to the alleged gang-rape and murder of a Dalit woman that has shocked the country. The chief minister took the decision on the basis of an initial report of the special investigation team set up to look into the case, a statement by the Uttar Pradesh government said.Also Read: Hathras gang-rape case: UP cops barricade village to stop media, Oppn from meeting familyThe government also decided that “narco-analysis polygraph tests” would be conducted on everyone involved in the case. This decision is expected to include the rape victim’s family as well, particularly in context of the state government’s autopsy report that contradicted the victim’s allegation that she had been gang-raped on 14 September.Watch | Hathras case: UP CM Adityanath suspends SP, ordered narco-analysis tests The 19-year-old died on Tuesday and according to her family, she was cremated past midnight under alleged pressure from the district administration. This allegation had provoked the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court to take cognisance of the case. The judges will hear the case on 12 October.Also Read: Uma Bharti tweets some advice on handling Hathras case to Yogi AdityanathThe UP government’s statement said the Hathras police chief Vikrant Vir was being placed under suspension for “negligence and tardy investigations”. Also to be suspended are the circle officer Ram Shabd, inspector Dinesh Kumar Varma, senior sub-inspector Jagvir Singh and head constable Mahesh Pal.The chief minister had earlier ordered the special investigation team led by home secretary Bhagwan Swarup to submit its probe report within seven days. But the SIT appears to have been told to come up with a preliminary version in face of escalating protests after the woman’s rushed cremation.The action against the police officers handling the investigation is seen as an expression of the government’s displeasure at the police officers letting the situation get out of hand and signal that the administration was responsive to the many concerns expressed around the probe.Also Watch| Hathras case: UP CM Adityanath suspends SP, ordered narco-analysis tests The announcement was preceded by Yogi Adityanath’s tweet earlier in the day that pledged to ensure exemplary punishment for the guilty in crimes against women.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party promptly praised the chief minister for the action. “I welcome the suspension of senior #Police officials from #Hathrus,” BJP spokesperson Gopal Krishna Agarwal tweeted.There is some concern within the BJP over the opposition’s strident campaign over the Hathras incident to build a narrative that projects the BJP to be anti-Dalit but the party is expected to tread carefully so that it does not alienate its traditional support base.Also Read: 2 km from Hathras village, mahapanchayat demands release of accused and a CBI probeThe narco-analysis on all parties concerned including the police officers involved in the probe is seen to be part of this balancing act.The opposition is unlikely to tone down its attacks on the government after the suspensions. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted a fresh attack at Yogi Adityanath soon after news of the suspensions emerged, wondering what would change by suspending “a few pawns”. The Congress leader, who along with brother Rahul Gandhi had been prevented from reaching the Hathras village where the victim’s family lives, said the chief minister was trying to shift blame and the government must reveal the phone records of the district magistrate and SP to ascertain who had been issuing instructions to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-suspends-hathras-sp-2-others-after-sit-report/story-xNRjVQpmXAaZvhDsO1lxTP.html
02-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape case: Mahapanchayat presses for CBI probe, demands release of accused||Members from Brahmin and Thakur communities, among others, attended a mahapanchayat at Baghna village - two kilometres from the Hathras gang rape and murder victim’s village Boolgarhi - on Friday and said all the four accused in the case were innocent. They also demanded a CBI probe. The accused have been arrested and all of them belong to the so-called upper castes.The mahapanchayat threatened to launch an agitation if the accused are not released and also referred to the report of the Agra Forensic Science Lab. On Thursday, additional director general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar and Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar had quoted the report of the forensic science lab to deny the gang rape. “There was representation of all in the mahapanchayat. We demand a CBI probe into the matter, besides the narco test of the accused and the victim’s families so that the actual culprit gets punished. The forensic science lab has not confirmed gang rape, thus all four (accused) should be released,” said Sumant Kishore Singh, representative of Hasayan block. Also read: Allow politicians in Hathras, tweets ‘elder sister’ Uma Bharti to Yogi“We will meet the members of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Saturday and apprise them of the truth. If we do not get justice even then, a bigger agitation will be called,” said an upper caste member who attended the mahapanchayat. The state government has formed a three-member SIT to probe the case and the district administration has claimed that the matter will be heard in a fast-track court. The victim belonged to the Valmiki (Dalit) community and had named four accused for brutalising and gang-raping her.She was allegedly gang-raped and brutalised on September 14. After battling for life at JN Medical College in Aligarh, she was moved to New Delhi on September 28 and died at Safdarjung Hospital the next day.Initially, a case under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code (attempt to murder) was registered against an accused. Thereafter, Section 354 (attempt to outrage modesty) was added. Finally, a case of gang rape (376D) was registered against four accused, all of whom are in custody. Victim’s village out of reach As for Boolgarhi village, it became inaccessible to the media on Friday with barricading and police personnel deployed at all possible locations. Officials said the ongoing SIT probe was the reason for the restrictions.“The three-member Special Investigation Team is conducting the probe in the village. Till then, entry of the media is to remain restricted. We are also maintaining law and order. Hence, no political delegations and individuals are allowed inside the village,” said additional superintendent of police (ASP) Prakash Kumar in Hathras. Also read: Hathras protest latest updates - ‘No politics on this issue’, says Arvind Kejriwal at Delhi protestAll through the day, journalists tried in vain to enter the village for an interaction with the victim’s family. There were allegations that the cell phones of the family members were taken. But the police denied such charges.“We are simply asking for permission to meet the family members which is being denied. We are not allowed to enter the village,” said a journalist.Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) has been imposed to ensure law and order. Section 144 prohibits the assembly of four or more people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-case-mahapanchayat-presses-for-cbi-probe-demands-release-of-accused/story-lfQzyOF2MTR7My0CyaOD7L.html
02-10-2020||India||Bungee jumping, other adventure sports kick-off in Rishikesh after 6 months||After being shut for more than six months amid the Covid-19 pandemic, adventure sports activities like bungee jumping, flying fox and giant swing have started again in Uttarakhand’s Rishikesh from Friday. The operators of these activities have started taking bookings followed by the ease of restrictions on the incoming of tourists in the state under Unlock-5. Excited with the queries and bookings, the operators say that the response from the tourists after reopening was more than expected. Devendra Gosain of Jumpin Heights adventure sports in Rishikesh said, “We are happy to reopen for the tourists after a gap of about six months in the pandemic.” Gosain said that on the first day of reopening on Friday they received 30 bookings for bungee jumping which was “more than expected”. “We had thought that if we get 10 bookings on Friday it will be enough for us considering the present situation in the pandemic. However, till Friday evening we got 30 people enjoying the bungee jumping sport. We are happy with the start,” said Gosain. Gosain, however, added that not many people know that adventure sports have restarted in Rishikesh. “After the ease in restrictions, people are coming to visit the town which is the capital of adventure sports in India. But not many know that bungee jumping and other adventure sports have restarted. Most of our customers came to know about it from the locals,” said Gosain adding that they are following all the Covid-19 precautions - like social distancing and sanitising of the safety harness and other equipment. Also read: Covid-19 vaccine alone won’t curb spread of virus, report warns“We are hopeful that the business will gather pace with people gradually coming to know adventure activities have restarted,” he said. Yogendra Singh Gangwar, deputy director, Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board too seemed optimistic on the number of tourists and adventure sports enthusiasts coming to Rishikesh. “We have issued the directions to the operators to follow all the required Covid-19 precautions while restarting adventure sports like bungee jumping and rafting which are a great attraction in Rishikesh,” said Gangwar. He said, “Like a few days ago, water rafting was also restarted and is getting good response from the visitors, we are hopeful for these aforementioned adventure sports also.” “Friday was the first day but we hope the numbers will increase with time as the government has eased the restrictions on tourism activities in the state,” he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bungee-jumping-other-adventure-sports-kick-off-in-rishikesh-after-6-months/story-ZzJ7BVBdbkwguSDtD4VPNJ.html
02-10-2020||India||‘For me acting was always a passion…’||Trained dancer and actor Nikki Sharma feels thrilled at finally getting an opportunity to play the lead in her upcoming show. “Coming from an academic background, I had to persuade my mother to let me try auditioning for dance and talent shows that actually made me carve my niche and made me realize that showbiz is what I really enjoy being a part of. Finally, in 2015 my acting break came in a mini-series, ‘Kabhi Aise Geet Gaya Karo’ and then there was no looking back,” she said. With TV shows like ‘Dahleez,’ ‘Krishnadasi,’ ‘Sasural Simar Ka’ and web series ‘Mind the Malhotras’, Nikki believes be it TV or web, an actor’s job is to live his or her character to its best. “For me acting was never a course. Instead it was my passion and I have learned it all live on sets under big names I was working with. So I enjoy both web and TV and want to be part of projects that have interesting stories to tell,” she said. With her maternal side in Najeebabad, UP, Nikki is a frequent flyer to the state. “I love my nani’s hometown. It helps unwind me after my exhausting work life. That’s a reason me and my mother visit the place almost every year.” Talking about her upcoming show, she said, “My show ‘Brahmarakshas’ will bring a unique and compelling narrative inspired by folklores. The show depicts the journey of an ordinary young girl, Kalindi whose life takes interesting twist and turns.” Other than acting, Nikki plans to pursue her graduation too and complete her studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/for-me-acting-was-always-a-passion/story-N74HNVroetu9cji51NtDdO.html
02-10-2020||India||No rape claim before SIT report in Hathras case raises doubts, say experts||The Uttar Pradesh police’s claim that forensic sampling and post-mortem examination of the 19-year-old Dalit woman of Hathras did not establish rape has raised questions about the authenticity of the two reports as the assertion has been made before completion of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probe, said forensic and legal experts. The deadline for the SIT probe ends on October 7.The Hathras woman was allegedly gang-raped and brutally tortured on September 14. She succumbed to her injuries at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital on Tuesday.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday had set-up the three-member SIT to probe the Hathras incident, they have been asked to submit the report in seven days. The SIT is headed by home secretary Bhagwan Swaroop. Its two other members are deputy inspector general Chandra Prakash and Commandant, PAC Agra, Poonam (who goes by one name).Social activist and lawyer Nutan Thakur said it was highly objectionable that police officials were denying rape when the investigation was still underway. It showed the premeditated attitude of the police investigators, she alleged.Thakur said senior police officials should properly analyse the facts before jumping to any conclusion during the course of the investigation in such a serious offence. She also questioned the delay in collecting samples for forensic examination as it could change the line of investigation.“Moreover, the victim’s statement recorded before death, during which she had alleged sexual assault, is crucial to the investigation,” she said.The statement denying rape also suggested that the police were trying to put pressure on the victim’s family, she alleged.A Lucknow-based senior forensic expert, requesting anonymity, questioned whether the victim’s sample was collected within a certain time period to ascertain whether she had been subjected to sexual assault.He asked whether the police preserved other evidence, like the clothes that the victim was wearing at the time of the crime and samples of her nails, as there was the maximum possibility that these could establish if she had been sexually assaulted or not.It is not yet confirmed whether the police preserved other evidence, like clothes and samples of her nails.“The state police have always lacked in forensic evidence of sexual assault,” he stated, questioning the police efficiency in handling such serious cases.He said DNA of semen would not be detected if the vaginal swab was collected a week after the rape or sexual assault. In this particular case, the sample was collected 10 days after the alleged rape on September 14, he added.He said the presence of semen on clothes could be detected lifelong.Additional director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar had stated that the samples for forensic examination were collected when the victim spoke about sexual assault at an Aligarh hospital and they (the samples) were sent to the Agra forensic science laboratory on September 25.On Thursday, ADG Kumar and Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar had denied rape on the basis of post-mortem examination and the report from Agra forensic science laboratory (FSL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-rape-claim-before-sit-report-in-hathras-case-raises-doubts-say-experts/story-5RbyeAmlDB012e2n2XlISI.html
02-10-2020||India||AAP MP Sanjay Singh’s wife, other leaders arrested in Uttar Pradesh||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Member of Parliament Sanjay Singh’s wife Anita Singh, along with over three dozen party leaders and workers, were arrested on Friday while they were observing a fast on Gandhi Jayanti at Subhash crossing in Prayagraj against incidents of rapes in Uttar Pradesh. AAP leaders alleged that cops misbehaved with them and used force on women leaders and workers. “There have been a series of brutal rapes and murders across the state which shows that the BJP government has failed to protect women. Instead of protecting women, police are used for harassing women protesting against rapes,” Anita Singh said.The government was using force to suppress peaceful protests but AAP will not bow down, she further said.AAP district president Altaf Ahmad said police misbehaved with Anita Singh and other women workers. Cops dragged and pushed AAP members inside a police van, he claimed.  Also read: Hathras protest latest updates - ‘No politics on this issue’, says Arvind Kejriwal at Delhi protestप्रयागराज: "हर गली हर चौराहे पर बेटियाँ लाचार हैं, कहाँ गये वो? जो कहते थे हम भी चौकीदार हैं" @AAPUttarPradesh का ज़ोरदार प्रदर्शन सानिया मिर्ज़ा शिमला श्री सर्वेश यादव प्रदेश महासचिव @amrishsingh6 को घसीटती काले अंग्रेज योगी की पुलिस। pic.twitter.com/uPbzitmi06AAP district general secretary Sarvesh Yadav said around 40 party leaders were taken to police lines.Station house officer (SHO) Civil Lines inspector Ravindra Pratap Singh said AAP leaders and members were arrested as they were not following social distancing norms and creating disorder at a busy market place. An FIR will be lodged against them under section 188 and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, he added. He denied all charges of misbehaviour with Anita Singh and other AAP workers by police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-mp-sanjay-singh-s-wife-other-leaders-arrested-in-uttar-pradesh/story-Jhmqw11O3K0Vyr7wFlfUEK.html
02-10-2020||India||‘Won’t stop until justice done’: Priyanka Gandhi at prayer meet for UP woman||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Friday attended a prayer meet at the Valmiki temple in Delhi for the 19-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras. The woman succumbed to her injuries and died at a Delhi hospital earlier this week.The UP police are accused by the family of forcing the cremation of the woman in the dead of the night. District officials contended that they had consent from the woman’s family, but the manner in which the developments took place raised questions over the conduct of the administration and law enforcement. Priyanka joined hundreds of people, including senior Congress leaders PL Punia, Sushmita Dev, Anil Choudhary and BV Srinivas, who showed up in solidarity with the woman at the temple in the national capital. The Congress leader told those present that while she was there to express her condolences to the family, she would not rest until justice is done. “We are all here to ensure that that girl gets justice,” Priyanka said. “We will pressure the government to get her justice.” “Her family has got no help from the government. They must feel they are all alone. We are holding the prayer meeting for them. They should know that they are not alone and fight the injustice being done to them. We will put political pressure and every woman in this country must put moral pressure on the government,” she added. Priyanka also highlighted that the family has received no help from the government. “They weren’t even allowed to light the funeral pyre. It is not the culture of our country that the father and the brother don’t conduct the last rites. It is not the tradition of our country to cremate any one after sunset,” she said. “We have come here to offer our condolences, but more than that we are all here to ensure that the family and our sister gets justice. We will not stop until we get justice,” Priyanka asserted. All India Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev told Hindustan Times that it is the women of this country who will take down Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “As the Mahila Congress under the aegis of Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi, we have to take the lead and protest against this injustice,” Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev tells Hindustan Times. “It is the women of this country who will bring down Narendra Modi.” Delhi Pradesh Congress chief Choudhary told HT that the party will work relentlessly to ensure the victim’s family gets justice. “Priyanka ji has constantly been highlighting the problems faced by the people of Uttar Pradesh. Her suggestions have fallen on deaf ears. Every day there are at least 10 incidents of rape in that state. Why are Rahul ji and Priyanka ji not being allowed to meet the family? They are silencing democracy and we will not stand for it.” Youth Congress chief BV Srinivas said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the UP chief minister Yogi Aditynath must resign. “They have not said a word all this time, they must take responsibility and be held accountable,” he told HT. On Thursday, Priyanka Gandhi and her brother Rahul, the Congress says, were briefly arrested as they tried to visit Hathras. The UP police escorted them back to Delhi. Back in the village, scores of police personnel in and around the area have been deployed to prevent the entry of opposition leaders and the media. It is being seen as an attempt to scuttle the growing anger over the administration’s handling of the woman’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-stop-until-justice-done-priyanka-gandhi-at-prayer-meet-for-up-woman/story-x1JjKxaY9Fui8OQJ9JIRGJ.html
02-10-2020||India||‘Have no knowledge about sexual harassment case lodged against me in 2013’: Jharkhand CM||Reacting to BJP parliamentarian Nishi Kant Dubey’s allegations, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has said that he had no knowledge of the ‘sexual harassment’ case filed by a woman against him in Mumbai’s lower court back in 2013. The CM’s disclosure came in his Rs 300 crore defamation suit filed against Dubey and two others in a Ranchi court.Godda parliamentarian, Dubey, in a series of tweets between July 27-29, had levelled sexual assault allegations against Soren. He had highlighted the seven-year-old ‘sexual harassment’ case lodged by a woman against Soren in Mumbai and alleged that Soren had then misused his office to settle the case.Dubey alleged that such an allegation against the chief minister was a shame on democracy. “Mumbai police should re-investigate the matter,” Dubey had tweeted on July 28.Reacting to Dubey’s comment, on July 29, Soren had tweeted that he would give a befitting reply to Dubey within 48 hours.Also read: Once a protege of KCR, retired professor wants to try his luck in MLC pollsFollowing this, Soren filed the aforesaid defamation suit in a Ranchi court on August 4 against Dubey, Twitter and Facebook, seeking compensation of Rs 100 crore from each of the defendants.Soren, in his plaint, disclosed that he had not entered into any settlement or compromise with the lady who had allegedly filed the complaint against him.“In fact, the plaintiff (Soren) was not aware of the purported complaint till the defendant (Dubey) tweeted and posted about the same,” Soren said in his plaint.He stated that he had instructed his lawyer in Mumbai to carry out a search of the court records. Due to the limited functioning of the court in prevailing pandemic situation and during religious holidays, the lawyer has not been able to provide any information to him, the chief minister said.He stated that he would bring on record the facts in relation to the woman’s complaint whenever these come to his knowledge in future.Soren said that it transpired from Dubey’s tweets and Facebook posts that the woman had withdrawn her complaint out of her own volition within few days of filing the complaint and that too before the first date of hearing.“Defendant number 1 (Dubey) knows well that the plaintiff (Soren) has not entered into any settlement with the lady... He has made the tweets and posts with actual malice. In order to further disseminate his malicious statement, he has published the same by tagging popular name and widely followed persons...,” Soren said.He argued that the derogatory statements, amounting to an attack on his moral character, were made to lower his reputation in public estimation and excite adverse opinion against him.The Ranchi court, which had issued notices to Dubey and others admitting Soren’s defamation suit, is likely to hear the plaint on Saturday.“We have received the court’s notice and we will present our defence on the next date of hearing tomorrow,” said Dubey’s lawyer Diwakar Upadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-no-knowledge-about-sexual-harassment-case-lodged-against-me-in-2013-jharkhand-cm/story-zs1qbLdm5APsOr6921e5pO.html
02-10-2020||India||Jantar Mantar protests: DMRC opens Janpath Metro station after closing it for a few hours||As protesters demanding justice for the Hathras gang-rape victim assembled at Jantar Mantar on Friday evening, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) re-opened the Janpath Metro station after closing it for few hours as a pre-emptive measure. The exit gates at Rajiv Chowk and Patel Chowk metro station have also opened after they were closed for a brief period.Protests demanding justice are being held by several political parties, including Aam Aadmi Party and Dalit rights organisation Bhim Army. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad has said  he will visit Hathras and further urged the Supreme Court to take cognizance of the incident. Earlier, Azad through a video message said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi needs to break silence over the brutal rape of the 19-year-old. In the evening, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal joined the protest. “The entire country wants that the culprits should be given stringent punishment. Some people feel that attempts are being made to save them. At this time, the victim’s family needs all the possible help,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-protest-janpath-metro-station-shut-exit-gates-at-rajiv-chowk-patel-chowk-stations-will-not-be-open-says-dmrc/story-BBPP7b1noMPxcK0mSo2iHO.html
02-10-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: AIIMS may release statement on its forensic report||The forensic team of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences that analysed the autopsy report of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput who was found dead on June 14 at his Mumbai residence is likely to issue a statement soon. The team has already handed over its findings to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which sought AIIMS assistance in this case.Here is what we know so far1. Dr Sudhir Gupta, the head of the forensic team, earlier said the report will not be made public as the case is sub-judice.2. “AIIMS & CBI are in agreement on the Sushant Singh Rajput death case but more deliberations are needed. There is a need to look into some legal aspects for a logical legal conclusion,” Sudhir Gupta said.3. Vikas Singh, lawyer of the Rajput family, complained of the slow pace of CBI investigation. The attention has been diverted to drug probe, the lawyer alleged.4. “The Central Bureau of Investigation is conducting professional investigation related to death of Shri Sushant Singh Rajput in which all aspects are being looked at and no aspect has been ruled out as of date,” the CBI said in a statement, countering all allegations of diverting the probe.5. Reports said the AIIMS team didn’t find traces of organic poison in Sushant Singh Rajput’s body.6. That there has been no metion of the timing of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in the autopsy report has been raised by the AIIMS team, reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-aiims-may-release-statement-on-its-forensic-report/story-J1NYKlxdTi5dCQU21bQu0L.html
02-10-2020||India||‘VAIBHAV Summit’ celebrates science and innovation from India and the world: A look at PM Modi’s top quotes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the Vaishvik Bhartiya Vaigyanik (VAIBHAV )Summit on Friday through video conferencing. The summit aims to bring overseas and resident Indian researchers and academics under a common platform. Earlier, Modi had tweeted, “Looking forward to tomorrow’s Vaibhav Summit, which brings together scientists as well as researchers from the Indian diaspora. Do join at 6:30 PM on 2nd October”.A statement from the Prime Minister’s Office read, “The aim of the summit is to bring Indian-origin luminaries in academic institutes and research organisations across the world and resident counterparts on a single platform to debate upon collaboration mechanisms to strengthen academic and science and technology (S&T) base in India for global development.’’The summit is being organised by around 200 academic institutes and S&T departments, led by the Principal scientific advisor, Government of India.Here are the top quotes from the Prime Minister’s address: 1. The Prime Minister began his virtual address by thanking the scientists who offered their suggestions & ideas today. “You have brilliantly covered many subjects. Most of you highlighted the importance of greater collaboration b/w Indian academic & research ecosystem with their foreign counterparts,” he added. 2. The Prime Minister said that the government has taken numerous measures to boost scientific research and innovation adding that science is at the core of the efforts towards socio-economic change. 3. “In 2014, four new vaccines were introduced in our immunisation programme. This included an indigenously developed Rotavirus vaccine. We encourage indigenous vaccine production,” PM Modi said. 4.The Prime Minister highlighted, “We want top-class scientific research to help our farmers. Our agricultural research scientists have worked hard to ramp up our production of pulses. Today, we import only a very small fraction of our pulses. Our food-grain production has hit a record high.”5. The need of the hour is to ensure more youngsters develop an interest in science, Modi said adding that one must get well-versed with the science of history and the history of science. 6. “India’s call of an Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), includes a vision of global welfare. To realise this dream, I invite you all & seek your support”, PM highlighted. 7. Modi also said that ‘VAIBHAV summit’ celebrates science and innovation from India and the world. He called it a it a true ‘sangam’ or confluence of great minds. (With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-vaibhav-summit/story-EB26TY8pMNZvhDFPeKMdYN.html
02-10-2020||India||Once a protege of KCR, retired professor wants to try his luck in MLC polls||After failing to make his presence felt in the last assembly elections in Telangana in December 2018, former Osmania University (OU) professor and Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) president M Kodandaram is planning to try his luck in the ensuing elections to state legislative council under graduates’ quota.The elections to the two MLC seats under graduates’ constituencies – one comprising Nalgonda, Warangal and Khammam districts and another encompassing Rangareddy, Mahbubnagar and Hyderabad districts - are scheduled to be held in February and March. The process for the conduct of elections for the two seats began on Thursday with the enrolment of graduate voters. Though there is still four months’ time for the elections, all the political parties including the Congress, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and the Bharatiya Janata Party have already commenced the exercise for the selection of candidates, inviting applications from the aspirants.Also read: ‘Ready to fight even with God’ - KCR on river water dispute with AndhraKodandaram, once a protégé of Telangana Rashtra Samithi president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, has announced his intentions to contest the MLC elections from Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam graduates’ constituency. For the last few weeks, he has been extensively touring these districts to mobilise support for his candidature.“There is a need to have a strong opposition voice in the legislative council that can represent the people’s voice. At present, there is hardly any representation of the opposition in the council. That is why there have been requests from all sections of people that I should contest the elections to represent the voice of the oppressed,” Kodandaram told Hindustan Times.Kodandaram was a powerful leader with a huge mass appeal before 2014 when he spearheaded the movement for separate Telangana state as the chairman of Telangana Joint Action Committee (TJAC) comprising all political parties, workers, employees and students.However, he refused to join hands with the TRS in post-Telangana scenario but wanted to continue the TJAC as a watch-dog of the people. This resulted in differences between KCR and Kodandaram and the latter turned a bitter critic of the TRS government.Before 2018 elections, he floated a separate political party Telangana Jana Samithi as an alternative voice of the people of Telangana. “There was an anti-establishment atmosphere in 2018 too but we could not succeed in capitalising on it for various reasons,” Kodandaram said.The TJS leader is hoping to get support from other opposition parties, particularly the Congress with which his party had joined hands to form grand alliance along with the Telugu Desam Party and the CPI. However, the Congress party is planning to go alone and has received applications from aspirants for the two MLC seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-a-protege-of-kcr-retired-professor-wants-to-try-his-luck-in-mlc-polls/story-lJZHfYQ9gBk3wWltrBJT6M.html
02-10-2020||India||Hathras protest latest updates: ‘No politics on this issue’, says Arvind Kejriwal at Delhi protest||Followers of Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supporters gathered at Jantar Mantar on Friday evening to protest against the gang-rape of the 19-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras.Azad said that he will visit Hathras and urged the Supreme Court to take cognizance of the incident.“I will visit #Hathras. Our struggle will continue till the time UP CM doesn’t resign, & justice is served. I urge SC to take cognizance of the incident,” he said.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, CPM General Secretary Sitaram Yechury and CPI leader D Raja also joined the protests.  “The UP government has no right to stay in power. Our demand is that justice should be served,” Yechury said.Here are the latest updates:- Narco polygraph tests of the SP and DSP are also to be conducted, UP Chief Minister’s Office has said.- Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered the suspension of Hathras superintendent of police Vikrant Vir and three other police officers for their handling of the gang-rape case.- Entry and exit gate of Janpath metro station have also been opened now, says DMRC.- DMRC has opened exit gates of Rajiv Chowk and Patel Chowk metro stations now.- “The entire country wants that the culprits should be given stringent punishment. Some people feel that attempts are being made to save them. At this time, the victim’s family needs all the possible help,” says Kejriwal.- “This is a fight for justice for the family of the victim.There should be no politics over this issue. Such a crime should not have happened in any state in the country. No matter where it happens, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, West Bengal, or any city, Bangalore, Kolkata, or Delhi, the victim will always be one of India’s daughters. We have to ensure that rapes do not happen at all anywhere in the country,” says CM Arvind Kejriwal.- Delhi CM Kejriwal leads a candle light vigil on Jantar Mantar Road, flanked by AAP leaders including Aatishi, Saurabh Bharadwaj and Durgesh Pathak.- Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has joined the protest at Jantar Mantar- In view of the protests, Janpath metro station has been shut and exit gates at Rajiv Chowk and Patel Chowk stations will not be open, DMRC said.- In a video message released earlier during the day, Azad said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi needed to break his silence over the brutal rape of the woman. “The PM washes the feet of Dalits before elections but remains quiet when a Dalit daughter of Uttar Pradesh is brutally raped. We will organise a protest at India Gate at 5pm today. The PM will have to give us answers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gangrape-protest-latest-updates/story-T0EZGuiq5luuDzlhga9tlO.html
02-10-2020||India||‘No respect for democracy, women’: TMC delegation stopped from meeting Hathras victim’s family||A four-member delegation of the Trinamool Congress, led by the party’s Rajya Sabha MP, Derek O’ Brien, was prohibited from meeting the family of the gang-rape victim in Boolgarhi village of Hathras on Friday morning.O’ Brien was allegedly manhandled by the police and not allowed to cross the barricading. Subsequently, TMC leaders sat on a ‘dharna’ to protest the treatment meted out to the elected representative.Meanwhile, the police blocked all passages to the village and were not allowing the media to meet the victim’s family.“Why were we not allowed inside the village to meet the family members of the victim? We just came to express condolences. The BJP has no respect for democracy and women are unsafe under their rule,” complained O’ Brien.The party’s delegation comprised Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, Pratima Mandal, both TMC MPs, and Mamata Bala Thakur, former MP. They were wearing masks and carrying posters bearing messages of atrocities against women.Also read: UP cops barricade Hathras village to stop media, Oppn from meeting familyThe leaders alleged that they were stopped around 1.5 kilometres before the house of the victim.“We wanted to meet the family members of the deceased and extend condolences as directed by our party leader Mamta Banerjee. But we are not allowed to meet the family,” Pratima Mandal who condemned the UP police for not even allowing a “respectful cremation for the victim.” “Dalits in Uttar Pradesh are subjected to atrocities and voters will give a reply against the UP government’s dictatorship in the next election,” she said.There were reports that TMC leaders were staging a protest and planning to lodge a complaint at the police station against the treatment meted out to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-respect-for-democracy-women-tmc-delegation-stopped-from-meeting-hathras-victim-s-family/story-B1MJ3w5JKa0knFWlLBpKhN.html
02-10-2020||India||Justice for Hathras gang-rape victim: Struggle to continue till Uttar Pradesh CM resigns, says Chandrashekhar Azad||Thousands of protesters took to the streets on Friday evening demanding justice for the gang-rape victim of Hathras — an incident that has shaken the conscience of the nation. On Thursday night, Delhi Police clarified that no assembly would be permitted at the India Gate as CrPc section 144 has been imposed barring gathering of more than four people. However, gathering is permitted at Jantar Mantar. Accordingly, the Aam Aadmi Party changed the venue of their pre-scheduled protest rally from the India Gate to Jantar Mantar. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is also likely to join the protest. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury and CPI leader D Raja have already joined the protest. “The UP government has no right to stay in power. Our demand is that justice should be served,” Yechury said.Watch | Hathras case: Kejriwal, Bhim Army chief join Delhi protesters demanding justice “I will visit Hathras. Our struggle will continue till the time UP CM doesn’t resign and justice is served. I urge the Supreme Court to take cognisance of the incident,” Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad said. Security has been tightened around the India Gate as the protests are in the vicinity. #JantarMantar 5pm onwards today! #JusticeForIndiasDaughters #JusticeForHathrasHorror pic.twitter.com/RlNux4efs1Apart from the AAP, Bhim Army too had a scheduled protest at the India Gate on Friday. Instead of gathering at the India gate at 5pm, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad asked his supporters to assemble at Jantar Mantar. “Like a dictator, the police has closed down the entire India Gate, showing dictatorship. But we will not let the demand for justice be weakened. Modi ji will have to answer ,” the Bhim Army chief tweeted. Let's raise our voices for our daughters. Let's stand together against injustice.Date - 2nd October Time - 5 PMVenue - Jantar Mantar #JusticeForManisha#ShameOnYogi pic.twitter.com/jxgOb2cRYBIn a video message posted earlier in the day, Azad said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi needed to break his silence over the brutal rape of the woman. “The PM washes the feet of Dalits before elections but remains quiet when a Dalit daughter of Uttar Pradesh is brutally raped. We will organise a protest at India Gate at 5pm today. The PM will have to give us answers,” he said.The Bhim Army chief had also led a protest at Gate Number 5 of Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday, soon after the victim was declared dead. On Wednesday, Azad was put under house arrest by local police in Saharanpur, where he started a “dharna”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-protests-in-delhi-bhim-army-aap-supporters-gather-at-jantar-mantar/story-13qogMAzd59wSKfegg21rO.html
02-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand Congress starts signature campaign against farm bills||On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, Uttarakhand Congress on Friday started its signature campaign against the recently passed three agriculture laws by the government. The campaign kicked-off at the party state headquarters in Dehradun. The campaign was initiated by state unit head Pritam Singh by signing a letter addressed to the President to direct the Centre to repeal the laws or bring a new bill ensuring that the MSP mechanism will not be ended. Singh said, “The three laws brought by the Centre are absolutely anti-farmer. The Centre, under PM Modi, is working against the welfare of the farmers while promoting crony capitalism.”“Lakhs of farmers are protesting against them and Congress will continue to support them. We request the President through the signature campaign to direct the Central government to repeal the three laws or bring a new bill to ensure that the MSP will not be ended,” said Singh. Also read: BJP leader wanted to give Mamata Banerjee Covid hug, tests +ve for virusMeanwhile, the ruling BJP termed the campaign as a farce. Bansidhar Bhagat, party state president, said, “This is a farce and not more than a political gimmick. In all these years when they ruled the country, they never thought of working for the farmers, and now when PM Modi is working for them, they can’t tolerate it.”“This signature campaign against the agriculture laws only shows their anti-farmer mindset,” said Bhagat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-congress-starts-signature-campaign-against-farm-bills/story-dp3HaTsQGCecs7kFWT6HyL.html
02-10-2020||India||Two lynched, beheaded, set on fire over witchcraft suspicion in Assam||Two persons, including a woman, have been lynched, beheaded and set on fire by an angry mob over suspicion of practising witchcraft in Assam’s Karbi Anglong district, a senior police officer said on Friday.The mob had accused the duo of performing ‘black magic’, causing the death of a teenaged girl in Rohimapur village in Dokmoka police station area, he said.The incident came to light on Thursday after some locals reported it to the law enforcers, following which nine persons have been arrested, district Superintendent of Police Debajit Deuri said.A day before her death on September 29, Rashmi Gour, a teenaged girl from Rohimapur, had named two persons from the village and claimed she had fallen ill due to ‘black magic’ performed by them, he said.On the third day after Gour’s death, another girl in the village headman’s house also accused the duo of performing ‘black magic’ on her, causing her illness.“The villagers then lynched the duo identified as Ramawati Halua and Bijoy Gour and took their bodies to a nearby hill. They beheaded the bodies near the burial site of Rashmi Gour and set them on fire,” Deuri said.Senior police officers and Executive Magistrate Jintu Borah have visited the site and collected the remains from the pyre, besides soil samples, he said.A case has been registered and nine persons, including two women, have been arrested and weapons seized, the officer said.A manhunt has been launched to nab the remaining accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-lynched-beheaded-set-on-fire-over-witchcraft-suspicion-in-assam/story-2OqrnHYZZ2a3uYrrftWq8H.html
02-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Not being allowed to meet media, claims Hathras gang-rape victim’s family member and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Hathras gang-rape case: They are not letting us meet media, claims family memberOne of the family members of the Hathras gang-rape’s victim on Friday said that the family was being stopped from speaking to media as the administration has imposed Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc) in the Bul Gargi village located in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras. Read moreBihar Assembly Election 2020: Sonia Gandhi urges people to fight against fear and anarchyCongress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday exhorted the people of poll-bound Bihar to be extra cautious against concerted efforts to mislead them by using fear, emotions and rumour-mongering to create an atmosphere of distrust. Read moreNon-teaching staff of Pune varsity resume work as strike put on hold till October 17The strike of non-teaching staff at various universities across the state, including Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has been temporarily put on hold till October 17 after representatives met deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar in Mumbai, on Thursday. Read moreCovid-19: Inflation slump in Europe could presage more stimulusAnnual inflation in the 19-country eurozone sagged further below zero in September, bolstering expectations that the European Central Bank will add to its emergency stimulus efforts to help cushion the impact of the pandemic on the economy. Read moreIPL 2020 off to great start as viewership increases by 15 per centIPL viewership in its first week saw a 15 percent growth from last year, with total viewing minutes of 60.6 billion, as per a first-week-viewership report released by tv measurement body BARC. There was a 21 percent growth in average impressions per match (39 million) compared to last year. Read moreTesla may make India debut in 2021 as CEO Elon Musk makes biggest revelation yetTesla Inc chief executive Elon Musk indicated on Friday that the US electric carmaker will make a foray into India in 2021.“Next year for sure,” Musk said on Twitter in reply to a post with a photograph of a T-shirt with the message: “India wants Tesla”.“Thanks for waiting,” Musk said. Read moreAlia Bhatt calls Akshay Kumar a ‘show off’ as he gets ready to watch Laxmmi Bomb with Kiara Advani, Yuvraj Singh, Rohit Sharma, KunalAkshay Kumar has shared a new promo ahead of the release of his film, Laxmmi Bomb on Disney+ Hotstar. The fun video also features actors Kiara Advani, Alia Bhatt, Kunal Kemmu and cricketers Yuvraj Singh and Rohit Sharma. Read moreFounder of sari recycling project wins Goldman Sachs and Fortune Global Women Leaders awardRayana Edwards, the South African who started a project to empower women to recycle saris into internationally-acclaimed fashion garments, has been named as a joint winner of this year’s Goldman Sachs and Fortune Global Women Leaders award. Read moreFrench ‘Spider-Man’ climbs 545-foot-high building, act lands him in troubleGerman police say French urban climber Alain Robert faces a criminal investigation and fine after scaling one of Frankfurt’s tallest buildings on Thursday. Robert, known as “Spider-Man” for his daring stunts, clambered to the top of rail company Deutsche Bahn 166-meter-high (545-foot-high) office building in Germany’s financial capital, untethered and wearing a silver suit and cowboy boots. Read moreWatch: Derek O’Brien led TMC team ‘roughed up’ by cops, Hathras visit halted||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-not-being-allowed-to-meet-media-claims-hathras-gang-rape-victim-s-family-member-and-all-the-latest-news/story-SWVm13YqL27v6SZJRdTuhP.html
02-10-2020||India||‘Conviction in cases of crime against women highest in Uttar Pradesh’: Police||The incidents of rape in Uttar Pradesh were fewer than in twenty-five other states of the country in 2019, the state police claimed on Friday amid the outcry over the Hathras rape and murder case.The police quoted the ‘latest crime data and rate of crime across 75 districts of the state’. Overall, the situation of crime against women was better in UP than in 14 other states, the police said.Additional director general (ADG) of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar said the state was in top position in taking strict action against people accused of crime against women as conviction was ensured from courts in 15,579 cases “through effective investigation and pursuance”.Also read: Committed to women’s safety, tweets CM Adityanath amid Hathras protestsThe latest crime data and rate of crime commission was released by the National Crime Record Bureau recently.The ADG stated that the data clarified the crime rate in the state and other parts of the country. He said the state ranked 15th in crime against women with around 59,853 cases reported in 2019. The state ranked 26th in rape incidents with around 3,065 cases reported during 2019, he added.Besides, the state ranked 23rd in sexual crime against children with a total of 7,594 cases reported under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act during the same period, he added.“In other crimes against women, like outrage of modesty and dowry harassment, the state ranked 18th and 5th with around 11,988 and 3,833 cases reported respectively,” Kumar said.Also read: UP cops barricade Hathras village to stop media, Oppn from meeting familyHe said the state ranked fifth in atrocities on Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) with around 11,829 cases in the same category reported in 2019.Sharing further details, the ADG said the state ranked 15th in registration of all cases reported under different sections of the Indian Penal Code and acts with a total of 6,28,578 cases all through the year in 2019. He said it included 3,806 incidents of murder and 4,596 incidents of attempt to murder, putting the state in the 28th position on both counts.He also said the state ranked 28th in dacoity incidents with around 124 cases and ranked 23rd in loot with 2,241 cases reported in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conviction-in-cases-of-crime-against-women-highest-in-uttar-pradesh-police/story-nSN3HU6z9Ra92lqG1vozvO.html
02-10-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi attends prayer meet for Hathras victim at Delhi temple||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Friday attended a prayer meet at the Valmiki temple in Delhi for the 19-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras. The woman died earlier this week.The UP police is accused by the family of forcing the cremation of the woman in the dead of the night. District officials contended that they had consent from the woman’s family, but the manner in which the developments took place raised questions over the conduct of the administration and law enforcement.“We have come here to offer our condolences, but more than that we are all here to ensure that the family and our sister get justice. We will not stop until we get justice,” said Priyanka Gandhi at the prayer meeting.The Congress leader urged every woman in the country to raise her voice against this injustice.“The family has received no help from the government. Instead, they weren’t even allowed to light the funeral pyre. It is not the culture of our country that the father and the brother don’t conduct the last rites. It is not the tradition of our country to cremate any one after sunset,” she added.A tribute for the victim of the brutal gangrape victim in Hathras has been organised by the temple trust. Senior Congress leaders PL Punia, Sushmita Dev and Anil Choudhary have already offered a floral tribute and are sitting in solidarity.“As the Mahila Congress under the aegis of Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi, we have to take the lead and protest against this injustice,” Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev tells Hindustan Times. “It is the women of this country who will bring down Narendra Modi.”On Thursday, Priyanka Gandhi and her brother Rahul, the Congress says, were briefly arrested as they tried to visit Hathras. The UP police escorted them back to Delhi. Back in the village, scores of police personnel in and around the area have been deployed to prevent the entry of opposition leaders and the media. It is seen as an attempt to scuttle the growing anger over the administration’s handling of the young woman’s death.Earlier today, Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien reached the district with some party leaders but was stopped 1.5 km from the young woman’s house in Boolgarhi village. Derek O’Brien, who still insisted on meeting her family, was pushed to the ground by a police team.A teenager who emerged from the village on Friday morning alleged the police had seized mobile phones of the rape victim’s family and the family wanted to make a statement to the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-arrives-at-valmiki-temple-in-delhi-to-attend-prayer-meet-for-hathras-victim/story-LGr9jV5ubhQ7yhpSsMh07O.html
02-10-2020||India||Covid-19: UP willing to reopen schools, other states to keep them shut until October end||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) had issued guidelines on Wednesday for Unlock 5.0 for the opening up of more activities in areas outside the containment zones. In the new guidelines, the ministry has allowed the reopening of schools outside of the containment zones in a graded manner from October 15.But the final decision has been left on states and Union territories. The states will make a decision based on their assessment of the pandemic situation. They have been advised to encourage online classes and students will be allowed to attend classes only with the written consents from parents. Attendance will not be considered necessary.All the states and Union territories have been directed to prepare their own standard operating procedures (SOPs) suiting to the local requirements. Schools which will be allowed open will have to follow the SOPs issued by the states and Union territories. The SOP will be issued after consultation with the officials of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE).Many states have decided against reopening schools till the end of this month, considering the rising numbers of Covid-19 infections. Uttar Pradesh is the only state which is ready to reopen schools in a graded manner from October 15 in response to Unlock 5.0 guidelines.Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home) said district administrations will assess the situation in their respective jurisdictions and decide in consultation with the management of schools and other educational institutions when to reopen. He, however, said online education would be encouraged.If students preferred to continue their studies online instead of physically attending classes, they would be allowed to do so, Awasthi added. Students would be able to attend school only with the written permission of their parents or guardians, he also said.Maharashtra, which has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 infections in the country, has decided against opening any educational institutions at least till October 31. West Bengal has postponed the decision to reopen schools till mid-November.The governments of Delhi, Rajasthan and Kerala have decided to continue keeping schools shut till October 31. The Delhi government has issued an order on Wednesday to maintain the “status quo” for all prohibited activities in Delhi until October 31.Andhra Pradesh has decided to defer the reopening of educational institutions till November 2.Some of the states— Assam, Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir which had earlier decided to call students to schools for guidance — are puzzled on whether they should re-open the schools from October 15. Many states, including Haryana, Gujarat, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, are also yet to come up with re-opening plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-up-willing-to-reopen-schools-other-states-to-keep-them-shut-until-october-end/story-YbCEZL18sPBWjaoFReodwM.html
02-10-2020||India||Amazing character of dramatics: UP minister on Derek O’Brien, roughed up by police||Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Siddharth Nath Singh on Friday said Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Derek O’Brien ‘is an amazing character of dramatics,’ adding that he has finally ‘found a place in Hathras to exhibit his skills.’Singh’s remarks came after a TMC panel led by O’Brien, as well as the MP himself, was roughed up by the police while trying to enter the village of the 19-year-old Hathras gang-rape victim who died on Tuesday, nearly two weeks after being sexually assaulted and tortured by four men from her village.“The entire issue is being politicised and people are simply touring Hathras. Mr Derek is one of my good friends. He is an amazing character of dramatics and has finally found a place in Hathras to exhibit his skills,” Singh told news agency ANI. The entire issue is being politicised & people are simply touring Hathras. Mr Derek is one of my good friends. He is an amazing character of dramatics & has finally found a place in Hathras to exhibit his skills: SN Singh, UP Minister, on TMC members pushed by police in Hathras pic.twitter.com/oNh1i1tm3aEarlier, in a clip that has gone viral on social media, the police can be seen pushing O’Brien to the ground.  #WATCH: TMC delegation being roughed up by Uttar Pradesh Police at #Hathras border. The delegation, including Derek O'Brien, was on the way to meet the family of the victim of Hathras incident. pic.twitter.com/94QcSMiB2kThe TMC delegation, which was stopped from entering the village, also had the party’s women Lok Sabha MPs, Kakoli Ghosh-Dastidar and Pratima Mondal, as well as former lawmaker Mamata Thakur.The female lawmakers have further accused male constables of touching them, a charge which the Hathras district administration has refuted.“The allegations are totally false. Women constables requested them to go back as no one is allowed to enter the village. When they tied to enter forcibly, women constables stopped them,” Hathras Sadar SDM Prem Prakash Meena said.This latest controversy comes barely 24 hours after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, too, was caught on camera being manhandled by the police while trying to march from Greater Noida to Hathras to meet the victim’s kin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amazing-character-of-dramatics-up-minister-on-derek-o-brien-roughed-up-by-police/story-xL6OmhiQMzjjYFW4dNMC5H.html
02-10-2020||India||Peasant leader Akhil Gogoi’s KMSS launches party ahead of 2021 Assam polls||A day after its leader Akhil Gogoi was granted bail by a special court, Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), an Assam organization working for farmers’ rights, announced the formation of a new political party ahead of next year’s assembly polls in the state. Called Raijor Dal or peoples’ party, the new outfit is the fourth political party to be formed in the state in the past few months - all maintaining a strong regional stance and opposition to the Citizenship Amend Act (CAA). One of the new parties, United Regional Party, Assam (URPA) founded by advocate Arup Borbora, and nearly 70 other organizations have vouched support to Raijor Dal, which aims to promote regional interests and oppose the ruling BJP-led coalition and Congress-All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) alliance. Gogoi, the founder of the KMSS, has been in jail since December last year on charges of inciting violence during the anti-CAA stir. He was granted bail by a National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Thursday but he is still in jail as his bail application in connection with another case filed by the agency is pending. Also read: Fever, body aches after Covid-19 vaccine trial - All you need to know“The new party is the outcome of the fight against the CAA by the KMSS and 70 other organisations since October 2018. Our fight against the CAA continues and Raijor Dal will stand for uncompromised regionalism. We aim to overthrow the BJP regime as well the Congress-AIUDF combine,” said KMSS president Bhasco De Saikia. There’s fear among indigenous communities in Assam that the CAA, which grants Indian citizenship to Hindus, Jains, Sikhs, Buddhists, Christians and Parsis from Bangladesh, Afghanistan and Pakistan, will lead to an influx of illegal immigrants to the state from Bangladesh. Two of Assam’s biggest student bodies - All Assam Students Union (AASU) and Assam Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) - have formed Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP). Journalist-turned-Rajya Sabha MP Ajit Bhuyan has floated Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM) and URPA was formed by Dutta and eminent filmmaker Jahnu Barua. “All groups, communities and organizations need to come together to protect the interest of Assam and its indigenous populations. It is a good thing that so many organizations have come together to form Raijor Dal,” filmmaker Jahnu Barua said at the launch event of the new party. Arup Borbora of the URPA hoped that all new regional parties would come together and contest the next assembly polls scheduled in March-April next year from one platform. “Anyone is free to form a political party and contest elections in a democratic country. But we are not bothered by the new parties. Our party has 42 lakh members in Assam and even if each one of them brings an extra vote, we would get 84 lakh votes and retain power,” BJP Assam president Ranjeet Kumar Dass said recently. Opposition Congress, which has formed an alliance with the AIUDF for the next polls, has been asking all parties to join forces against the BJP-led government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peasant-leader-akhil-gogoi-s-kmss-launches-party-ahead-of-2021-assam-polls/story-32Tj5tSkwNVTtYHbu3k5pK.html
02-10-2020||India||Goof-up post-delivery: DNA test to settle parenthood of 2 newborn babies||The conflict between two couples laying claim over a newborn male child, due to an alleged goof-up by a nurse in the district hospital of Bhopal, will be resolved through a DNA test based on the recommendation of an inquiry committee, as per the hospital administration. According to the hospital known as Government Jai Prakash district hospital, a woman delivered a male child at 10.35 am on Thursday through a caesarean section (C-section), while another woman was to undergo a C-section (on another table in the same operation theatre) and who later gave birth to a female child at 10.53 am. While families of both the women were waiting outside the operation theatre, a contractual nurse at the hospital came out of the operation theatre and handed over the child to the family of the woman who was yet to undergo the C-section.The nurse realised her mistake soon after returning to the operation theatre and rushed back outside to tell the family that it was not their child, leading to a ruckus by the family holding the infant. Also Read: 2 arrested for rape and murder of 2-year-old in MP“A three-member inquiry committee was constituted on objections raised by the relatives. The committee arrived at the conclusion that the woman who gave birth to the female child (at 11.53 am), operated upon by Dr Shraddha Agrawal, was immediately told about the gender of the baby. The woman too confirmed this before her family and also a police officer. But given the objections raised by her family, a DNA test has been recommended by the committee. The nurse Surekha Wilson has been shifted to another ward,” said an official communication by the hospital. Also Read: MP Congress claims credit for fall in rape cases in 2019, BJP has different theoryA doctor at the hospital said, “Since both the women are to remain in the hospital for about a week for post-surgery care, the DNA test will be conducted on both the babies during the period and the issue will be resolved scientifically, most probably before they are discharged from the hospital. However, both the women have their babies with them and are breastfeeding them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goof-up-post-delivery-dna-test-to-settle-parenthood-of-2-newborn-babies/story-MPhJBg4gGsKK5LXFyg0GUO.html
02-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape case: UP cops barricade village to stop media, opposition from meeting family||The Uttar Pradesh police has deployed scores of personnel in and around the Hathras village where a 19-year-old Dalit woman  was allegedly gang-raped last month that sparked off national outrage at the gruesome crime and has led a barrage of criticism over the woman’s rushed cremation past midnight. She died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, a fortnight after she was gang-raped at Hathras while she was out to collect fodder with her mother.The decision to seal off the village to prevent entry of opposition leaders and the media is seen as a continuing effort to scuttle the growing public anger over the administration handling of the young woman’s death. Officials had yesterday spoken of a plan to declare the village a Covid-19 containment zone on suspicions that some policemen may have contracted the coronavirus infection.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was detained on the Yamuna Expressway an hour’s drive from national capital Delhi on grounds that he had violated prohibitory orders that barred assembly of more than four people.Also Read: UP cops contradict victim’s statement, say she was not rapedOn Friday, Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien reached the district 200 km from Delhi with some party leaders but was stopped 1.5 km from the young woman’s house in Boolgarhi village. Derek O’Brien, who still insisted on meeting her family, was pushed to the ground by a police team.A teenager who emerged from the village on Friday morning alleged the police had seized mobile phones of the rape victim’s family and the family wanted to make a statement to the media. He also alleged that the victim’s father was assaulted by the police and he had consequently, briefly passed out. But the administration wouldn’t let journalists past the barricades.Also Read: First handle UP’s jungle raj, Maharashtra home minister taunts Yogi AdityanathReporters who tried to slip into the village were also stopped by police teams. One television channel played clips of a journalist trying to reach the young woman’s house through the fields stopped by a police team. Another was seen squatting on the road, demanding to know under which law the police could stop journalists from meeting the family. The police officer said he had his instructions to stop outsiders from entering.District magistrate Praveen Kumar and superintendent of police Vikrant Vir were not available for comments.Praveen Kumar had landed in the middle of a fresh political row after he was seen in a 22-second video, possibly leaked by the victim ‘s family, where the official is telling the woman’s father that the media would not be around forever.“It is we who would stand with you and thus it is your wish if you want to change your statements or not. Do not harm your credibility, else we might also change,” the district magistrate allegedly says in the video.Praveen Kumar didn’t respond to questions on the video but later put out a statement via news agency ANI.“I met with six family members of the victim yesterday and we spoke for about an hour and a half. I met with them again today (Thursday) to see their point of discontent. I deny the negative rumours which are rife about my interactions with them,” Praveen Kumar said, according to ANI.Praveen Kumar and district police chief Vikrant Vir are among the UP officials who have been summoned by the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on October 12 to report on the facts of the case. In an 11-page order that took a dim view of the alleged violation of the rights of the victim’s family, justices Rajan Roy and Jaspreet Singh observed that the events after the death of the woman had “shocked our conscience”.The judges have also summoned the Dalit family of the victim so that the court could ascertain the facts and their version of the incidents on the woman’s cremation. The state government has been told to ensure that no coercion, influence or pressure is exerted upon the family members of the deceased in any manner, by anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-case-up-cops-barricade-village-to-stop-media-opposition-from-meeting-family/story-XeHzLFmvP6qthteo6bePMI.html
02-10-2020||India||Committed to women’s safety, tweets CM Adityanath amid Hathras protests||Amid nationwide outrage against the lawlessness of Uttar Pradesh that witnessed back-to-back incidents of atrocities against women in Hathras and Balrampur, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said exemplary punishments will be given to those who even think of disrespecting women.“The UP government is committed to protect every mother and sister of the state,” the chief minister tweeted. “This is our promise,” the CM added. उत्तर प्रदेश में माताओं-बहनों के सम्मान-स्वाभिमान को क्षति पहुंचाने का विचार मात्र रखने वालों का समूल नाश सुनिश्चित है।इन्हें ऐसा दंड मिलेगा जो भविष्य में उदाहरण प्रस्तुत करेगा।आपकी @UPGovt प्रत्येक माता-बहन की सुरक्षा व विकास हेतु संकल्पबद्ध है।यह हमारा संकल्प है-वचन है।The opposition chorus demanding the resignation of Yogi Adityanath became louder after Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi on Thursday were detained on their way to Hathras. On Friday, a Trinamool delegation which was going to Hathras to meet the family members of the deceased Dalit woman was manhandled by UP Police.Also Read: Hathras gang-rape case: UP cops barricade village to stop media, opposition from meeting familySlamming the Yogi government, BSP chief Mayawati demanded resignation of the CM. “I urge the Central government to send him to his place - Gorakhnath Math. If he doesn’t like the temple, he should be given the task of Ram Temple construction,” Mayawati said. The Opposition has been demanding President’s Rule in the state.On September 14, a Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men. After being initially treated at Aligarh Medical College and Hospital, she was brought to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital where she succumbed to her injuries on September 29. Hathras police insisted on a hurried funeral and the last rites were done at 2.30am without the consent of the family. Close on the heels of the Hathras incident, another Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Balrampur died after being allegedly raped by two men. On September 30, a group of men forcibly put the victim in their car, injected her and reportedly raped her. Then they sent her home in a rickshaw. She was rushed to a local hospital which advised the family to take her to Lucknow. The woman died on the way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-committed-to-women-s-safety-tweets-cm-yogi-adityanath-amid-outrage-over-hathras-horror/story-B57VaVSVzLDhXklM0N8urO.html
02-10-2020||India||Gujarat Congress leader Bharat Solanki recovers after 101-day long battle against Covid-19||After a more than three-month-long battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Congress leader Bharat Solanki has recovered. After leaving the hospital, the 66-year-old Solanki thanked his well-wishers and doctors.“I am very happy to tell all of you that because of the strength of your love, blessings and best wishes, I have recovered from Covid-19 and am going home today after 101 days. My heartfelt thanks to the CIMS team and all well-wishers,” Solanki tweeted in Hindi.Solanki was greeted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi after being discharged from the hospital. “Spoke to @BharatSolankee Ji and enquired about his well-being. He has shown remarkable courage during his 100-day long battle against COVID-19. I wish him good health in the times to come,” the Prime Minister tweeted.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also enquired about the health of the former president of the Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee, Solanki said. “Humbled and overwhelmed by the kind gesture of Rahul Gandhi Ji to call and inquire about my well being. I have assured him that I will be back in the service of people and the party at the earliest. Thank you @RahulGandhi Ji!” Solanki tweeted. @BharatSolankee कोरोना से संक्रमित हुए थे,102 दिनों के लंबे संघर्ष के बाद कोरोना को हराकर स्वस्थ हुए हैं,आज हॉस्पिटल से डिस्चार्ज होकर दुनियामें कोरोना वायरस के खिलाफ जीत की मिसाल कायम की है। जनकल्याण के कार्यो में फीर से कार्यरत हो जाये ऐसी ईश्वर से प्रार्थना। pic.twitter.com/9El7cn3TzJGujarat Pradesh Congress Committee chief Amit Chavda shared a video of Solanki leaving the hospital after recovering from the coronavirus disease. Solanki has set the example of victory against coronavirus in the world, Chavda wrote on Twitter in Hindi along with the video. He added that he was “praying to God that you work again in the works of public welfare.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-congress-leader-bharat-solanki-recovers-after-101-day-long-battle-against-covid-19/story-zihgSW9TLrE1vTxVyZWZ2M.html
02-10-2020||India||‘What about law and order in UP?’: TMC minister’s swipe at Guv Dhankhar||A Trinamool minister’s anarchy jibe with the West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar standing barely a few feet away at the state government’s Gandhi Jayanti programme on Friday has given rise to another political face-off between the two - already at loggerheads over several issues. Last week, Governor Dhankhar had alleged that chief minister Mamata Banerjee was turning Bengal into a police state. In a letter to the top-most police officer in the state, Governor Dhankhar demanded he be provided with a report on the law and order situation. After the officer failed to reply, the Governor wrote to CM Banerjee, who, he says, questioned his authority to do so.Taking a swipe, West Bengal science and technology minister Bratya Basu sought to know from the Governor as to what he thought about the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh. Recently, a spate of rape cases have been reported from Uttar Pradesh, with the police action in Hathras to cremate the body of a Dalit woman in the dead of the night without the family’s consent led to howls of protest. “Why doesn’t the governor take a look at the law and order problem in Uttar Pradesh? He constantly criticises the democratically elected government in West Bengal and raises questions. What has he got to say about UP? Ask him if he is trying to become a noirajyapal from a rajyapal (governor)?” Basu told reporters on the sidelines of the event. Dhankhar was standing barely 10 feet away and talking to the home secretary. In Bengali, noirajya means anarchy and pal means protector or custodian in Sanskrit, Hindi and Bengali. Basu, Dhankhar and senior state officials were attending the programme at Gandhi Ghat in Barrackpore in North 24 Parganas district. Journalists present at the event approached Dhankhar for his comment on what the minister said. “This is an insult to the sanctity of the Raj Bhawan. As the constitutional head of the state, I will not tolerate this. This government should look at what is happening in the state instead of targeting the Raj Bhawan every day,” said Dhankhar. The BJP targeted the Trinamool minister for disrespecting the Constitution. “He may hold a number of degrees and can be a known playwright but he does not know how to respect the Constitution. This is contempt of the Constitution. Basu has shown disrespect to Gandhi as well,” said BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-about-law-and-order-in-up-tmc-minister-s-swipe-at-guv-dhankhar/story-PCui4fvDgnsqHBZd5d10KN.html
02-10-2020||India||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad to protest against Hathras gang-rape at India Gate||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad said he will organise a protest at 5pm on Friday in front of India Gate in Delhi against the gang-rape of the 19-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras.In a video message, Azad said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi needed to break his silence over the brutal rape of the woman. The victim died in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday, a fortnight after she was gang-raped by upper-caste men while she was out with her mother to get fodder.“The PM washes the feet of Dalits before elections but remains quiet when a Dalit daughter of Uttar Pradesh is brutally raped. We will organise a protest at India Gate at 5pm today. The PM will have to give us answers,” he said.The Bhim Army chief had also led a protest at Gate Number 5 of Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday, soon after the victim was declared dead. He urged all members of the Dalit community to take to the streets and demand the death penalty for the culprits. “The government should not test our patience. We won’t rest until the culprits are hanged,” he said.On Wednesday, Azad was put under house arrest by local police in Saharanpur, where he started a “dharna”.Incidents of rapes were being reported in many districts in UP, he said and demanded that President’s rule be imposed in the state. “Hathras, Azamgarh, Bulandshahr, Meerut, Balrampur… every district in Uttar Pradesh is being embarrassed with incidents of rape. The constitutional machinery has failed completely. Yogi Adityanath cannot handle the government. The president should announce President’s Rule as soon as possible,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.“I am sitting at my house on a dharna, injustice will not be tolerated. In Uttar Pradesh, Dalits are being meted out with injustice. The DM and the SSP of Hathras who have been protecting criminals and performing inhuman acts have not been removed yet. How can one expect justice from such unworthy people?” he asked in another tweet.Azad reached Delhi along with supporters of his Bhim Army on Thursday.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhim-army-chief-chandrashekhar-azad-to-protest-against-hathras-gangrape-at-india-gate-at-5pm/story-dNuvvngH4EUppssB99W0FI.html
02-10-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Fever, body aches common symptoms. All you need to know||Amid rising concerns over the efficacy of the Covid-19 vaccines under development, several participants in the human trial programme of Moderna and Pfizer reported high fever, body aches, headaches and exhaustion. However, these are common for any vaccine shots and not a reason to raise alarm, experts have said.Here are the latest developments of Covid-19 vaccine from across the world1. The clinical trials of Astrazeneca and Oxford University’s vaccine have resumed in Japan after it was halted following Astrazeneca’s acknowledgement of severe illness in two cases. Trials are already going on in the UK, Brazil, India and South Africa 2. The United States is yet to allow Astrazeneca to resume its trial in the US.3. No adverse impact of the Astrazeneca vaccine shots has been reported in India. Also Read: Moderna says Covid-19 vaccine unlikely to be ready before US election: Report4. Some participants may develop fever just after receiving a vaccine shot, but that is considered to be a mild reaction, experts have said.5. One participant of Moderna’s trial developed “a grade three fever, which is classified as 102.2 degrees Fahrenheit (39°C) or above, after receiving the lower vaccine dose”, Reuters reported. Another developed fatigue so severe that it hampered daily activities, but these side effects are staying only for a day.Antisera as Covid-19 vaccineThe Indian Council of Medical Research in collaboration with a Hyderabad-based biopharmaceutical company has developed “highly purified antisera” by injecting inactivated SARS-CoV2 in horses, which can be a potential treatment for COVID-19. Antisera are blood serum high in antibodies against specific antigens and are injected in humans to help kickstart the immune system to fight specific infections.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-fever-body-aches-common-symptoms-all-you-need-to-know/story-1TKtwrLar3nV5I7ErtzLYN.html
02-10-2020||India||Pentagon okays $90 million sale of spares, support for C-130J Super Hercules aircraft to India||The Pentagon has approved India’s request to buy $90 million worth of equipment, spare parts and logistical support for its fleet of C-130J Super Hercules cargo aircraft. In its notification to the Congress, the Defence Security Cooperation Agency said the proposed sale will support the foreign policy and national security of the US by helping to strengthen the US-India strategic relationship and improve the security of a major defence partner, which continues to be an important force for political stability, peace, and economic progress in the Indo-Pacific and South Asia region. The items ordered by India are aircraft consumable spares and repair/return parts; ground support and equipment; Cartridge Actuated Devices/Propellant Actuated Devices (CAD/PAD) fire extinguisher cartridges; flare cartridges; BBU-35/B cartridge impulse squibs. India has also ordered for one spare AN/ALR-56M Advanced Radar Warning Receiver shipset; spare AN/ALE-47 Countermeasures Dispenser System shipset; ten Lightweight Night Vision Binocular (F5032); ten AN/AVS-9 Night Vision Goggle (NVG)(F4949); GPS and Electronic Warfare. It is also seeking instruments and lab equipment support; joint mission planning system; cryptographic device spares and loaders; software and software support; publications and technical documentation; personnel training and training and training equipment; contractor engineering, technical and logistical support, and other related elements of programme support. According to the notification, the proposed sale ensures that the previously procured aircraft operates effectively to serve the needs of the Indian Air Force, Army and Navy transport requirements, local and international humanitarian assistance and regional disaster relief. This sale of spares and services will enable the Indian Air Force to sustain a higher mission-ready status fleet, it said. India will have no difficulty absorbing this additional sustainment support, it said, adding that the proposed sale of this equipment and support worth $90 million will not alter the basic military balance in the region. Notification of such major sales is mandatory under the Arms Export Control Act. Lawmakers have 30 days to review the proposed sale. The sale would be executed by defence major Lockheed-Martin. India is one of the 17 countries to whom the US has sold its C-130J Super Hercules aircraft. The Indian Air Force currently operates a fleet of five C-130J-30s. India has placed order for additional six C-130J-30s Super Hercules aircraft. “From the highest landing strip in the world to austere runways almost destroyed by natural disasters, the C-130J goes where other airlifters can’t, won’t or don’t go. It’s a workhorse that’s in operation around the world, flying in every environment and mission scenario required every day and everywhere,” Lockheed says on its website. In the summer of 2013, Indian Air Force performed the highest landing of a C-130J at the Daulat Beg Oldi airstrip in Ladakh at the height of 16,614 ft. The aircraft was used extensively by the US in Afghanistan and Iraq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pentagon-okays-90-million-sale-of-spares-support-for-c-130j-super-hercules-aircraft-to-india/story-5bg8H2ChL9LuLSe355X9sM.html
02-10-2020||India||BJP leader wanted to give Mamata Banerjee Covid hug, tests +ve for virus||BJP leader Anupam Hazra, who had threatened to hug West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee if he got infected with Covid-19, has tested positive for the disease, health officials said.Hazra, who has recently been appointed as a national secretary of the BJP, was admitted to a private hospital in Kolkata, they said.Also Read: Police complaint against BJP national secretary for ‘Covid hug’ remark on Bengal CMHe had complained of uneasiness and his samples were tested for coronavirus, the report of which returned as positive, the officials said.After his controversial statement, the Trinamool Congress had lodged a police complaint against Hazra for maligning a public figure, who is a woman, thus violating the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-wanted-to-give-mamata-banerjee-covid-hug-tests-ve-for-virus/story-p19exKPZlEAWbfRXVIeG9H.html
02-10-2020||India||Demand for high-security registration plates hots up: All you need to know about HSRP||The Delhi government last week urged vehicle owners to upgrade their vehicle number plates to high-security registration plates (HSRPs) to avoid fines.The ministry of road transport and highways had in 2018 made it mandatory for vehicle manufacturers to provide HSRPs from April 2019.It was formalised by the HSRP Order, 2018 that laid down the guidelines for the number-plate rule. With the state government’s notice last week, demand for HSRPs has shot up. Under the motor vehicles law, transport department and traffic officials can fine a vehicle owner between ₨ 5,000 and ₨ 10,000 for not having an HSRP and colour-coded stickers.There are around 3.2 million vehicles in Delhi — including 1.9 million two-wheelers and 1.1 million four-wheelers.Here is everything you need to know about HSRPs:What are HSRPs?HSRPs are hologram plates made with a laser-branded permanent identification number, which cannot be copied. The colour-coded stickers are meant to identify vehicles based on their fuel type. The stickers also include details such as the registration number, the registering authority, a laser-branded PIN, and the engine and chassis numbers of the vehicle.How can you upgrade your registration plates?You can contact vehicle dealers authorised by the government. The lists are available on the state transport departments’ website. Or, one may book an appointment with the chosen dealer.How do things stand?13,966 Registries between September 23 and 26.Rule applies to all commercial and non-commercial motor vehiclesThe rule applies to all commercial and non-commercial motor vehicles. The rule applies largely to vehicles registered before April 1, 2019.Also Read| 4 days, 14,000 applications: Demand for HSRPs hots upWhat is the deadline?The deadline to upgrade to HSRPs had not been specified, as of Sunday.Charges for upgrading the number plate₨ 300-400 for two-wheelers₨ 600-1,100 for other vehicles₨ 100 charge for only a sticker||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demand-for-high-security-registration-plates-hots-up-all-you-need-to-know-about-hsrp/story-JXQdewjZGJuk1FOi9Y42KO.html
02-10-2020||India||Manipur Unlock 2: Reopening of schools, colleges, cinemas, entertainment parks allowed||The Manipur government issued Unlock 2 guidelines allowing the reopening of educational institutions including schools and colleges along with cinemas and entertainment parks and said that detailed and separate guidelines containing standard operating procedures for the reopening will be released by various concerned government departments.The state authority released the Unlock 2 guideline on Thursday stating that no lockdown outside the containment zones shall be notified without prior consultation with the state government.Among the newly permitted activities, the use of swimming pools has been cleared from October 15 but only for training sportspersons and subject to adherence to SOPs-- to be issued by the ministry of youth affairs and sports.The guidelines further stated that cinemas, theatres, multiplexes will be allowed to reopen up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity and the SOP to be issued by ministry of information and broadcasting in this regard will be binding for resumption of their operation.“Entertainment parks and similar places will also be permitted to open, for which the SOP will be issued by ministry of health and family welfare,” the guidelines added.The guidelines also permit business to business (B2B) exhibitions and reopening of all financial institutes, private banks, insurance companies etc.Also Read: Manipur tweaks Covid-19 protocol; asymptomatic patients to be discharged after 10 daysIt has also allowed social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations made up of more than 100 persons after October 15 subject to restricting the attendance to 50% of the hall capacity but not exceeding 200 persons in closed spaces. It also makes wearing of face masks and adherence to social distancing measures mandatory for organising the above listed functions.The number of people permitted for gatherings in open spaces will depend upon the size of the ground, the guidelines said.“Organisers of these functions shall be responsible to ensure that the space/area is adequate to ensure social distancing among the participants,” it said.Locality based retails shops dealing with essential commodities have been permitted to remain open from 7am to 6pm on all days. Similarly, wholesale shops in Thangal Bazar, Dharamsala, Paona Bazar and Masjid Road have also been allowed to stay open for the same duration on all days except Sunday.The state authority has notified the continuation of the roster system for opening of shops, divided into two groups instead of the earlier three groups, from 8am to 6pm in Thangal Bazar and Paona Bazar except for the shops located in by lanes between buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-unlock-2-reopening-of-schools-colleges-cinemas-entertainment-parks-allowed/story-wr25z9nYGumqRIJStHkVBN.html
02-10-2020||India||‘Been 1.5 months. Did Sushant die by suicide or murder?’: Anil Deshmukh to CBI||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday trained guns on the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, saying people have been waiting for results of the agency’s inquiry into the case.“Did #SushantSinghRajput die by suicide or was he murdered? Mumbai Police was investigating very well when suddenly case was handed over to CBI. They should tell us the result at the earliest,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The central agency took over the investigation from the Mumbai Police in late August on the directions of the Supreme Court after a brief period of a war of words between the Maharashtra and Bihar governments over the actor’s death in June.Also Watch | Amid politics over Sushant’s death, actor’s father meets Bihar CM Nitish Kumar “The Central Bureau of Investigation is conducting a professional investigation related to the death of Shri Sushant Singh Rajput in which all aspects are being looked at and no aspect has been ruled out as of date,” CBI spokesperson RK Gaur had said earlier this week. Gaur’s remark came days after Rajput’s family expressed displeasure over the pace of the probe into the 34-year-old’s death.The Mumbai Police were earlier probing the death. It had lodged an Accidental Death Report (ADR) and had said that the actor died by suicide. However, Rajput’s family was not satisfied with their investigation following which the actor’s father KK Rajput filed a complaint against Rhea Chakraborty and her family members accusing them of driving his son to suicide.A Bihar team then arrived in Mumbai to investigate the case which led to a war of words between the two state governments.CBI has till now questioned several people including Chakroborty, her brother Showik, Rajput’s cook Neeraj Singh, his roommate Siddharth Pitani and his former manager Samuel Miranda. The agency also made several visits to the late actor’s apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra where he was found dead on June 14.It also sought assistance from All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) in the case following which a five-member forensic team was constituted to look into the autopsy files related to Rajput’s death.The CBI is probing the actor’s death while the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) are investigating the money laundering and drug-related angles in the case respectively. Rhea Chakraborty, her brother and several others have been arrested by NCB in connection with its probe into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/been-1-5-months-did-sushant-singh-rajput-die-by-suicide-or-murder-maharashtra-home-minister-questions-cbi/story-bu1aTL6VSBViBZ9AblZiZO.html
02-10-2020||India||Hathras gangrape: TMC’s Derek O’Brien pushed to ground; woman’s family alleges harassment by cops||Trinamool Congress’s (TMC) Rajya Sabha (RS) member Derek O’Brien was pushed to the ground by a Uttar Pradesh (UP) Police team on Friday afternoon when he and some other lawmakers had tried to visit the Bul Gargi village in Hathras, where a 19-year-old Dalit woman had died earlier this week after she was allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men in September.Kakoli Ghosh-Dastidar, who represents the Barasat constituency in the Lok Sabha and was a part of the TMC delegation, was also allegedly roughed up by the UP Police.Also read: AAP leaders to protest at India Gate todayThe TMC delegation had landed on the outskirts of the woman’s village early Friday afternoon. But they were asked to stay behind the barricades, which have put up around one and a half kilometres from the village, which has emerged as the centre of a political controversy since the crime was first reported.O’Brien had urged the UP Police Ghosh-Dastidar be allowed to visit the aggrieved family members of the deceased woman. However, the police turned down his request. “I am sick and tired of UP,” O’Brien said.“The arrogant police are mishandling the situation. They have pushed Ghosh-Dastidar to the ground for trying to comfort the victim’s family members. We wanted to offer solidarity to her family,” he said.“It is an atrocity against Dalits and women by the government. Can’t I even meet and comfort the family members of the victim?” asked Ghosh-Dastidar.The situation between the media persons and the UP Police outside the village remained tense for the second consecutive day amid allegations that the woman’s family members were being harassed.A youth, who claimed to be a cousin of the victim, emerged from the village to the main road on Friday morning and alleged that the police had taken control over her family members.He alleged that the victim’s father had passed out on Wednesday after the police thrashed him with a stick. “They have seized our mobile phones,” he alleged.He further alleged the police had occupied the woman’s house and personnel were deployed in the streets of the village and even on adjoining farm lands. He said that he managed to sneak out of the village through a secret route.He ran as soon as the police came towards him while he was speaking to the media persons. The police personnel, who was deployed at the spot, did not respond to the allegations. However, they conceded that restrictions were imposed in the entry and exit to the village.Vikrant Vir, superintendent of police, Hathras, was unavailable for his comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hathras-gangrape-tmc-s-derek-o-brien-pushed-to-ground-woman-s-family-alleges-harassment-by-cops/story-DMbTTUYZ6HLtmsosMS4ZUL.html
02-10-2020||India||Anurag Kashyap gave cops proof he was in Sri Lanka at the time of alleged sexual assault: Lawyer||Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap has denied allegations that he sexually assaulted a 30-year old actor at his Mumbai flat in August 2013, during his questioning by Mumbai police, and said that he was busy shooting one of his films in Sri Lanka, while the incident is alleged to have happened in Mumbai.Kashyap, who was questioned by the Mumbai police officials for close to eight hours on Thursday, provided documentary proof of his claim, according to a statement released by his lawyer Priyanka Khimani on Friday.“Kashyap has provided documentary proof of the fact that throughout August, 2013, he was away in Sri Lanka in connection with the shooting of one of his films. Kashyap has categorically denied that any such alleged incident ever took place and has also denied all allegations levelled against him,” the statement said. The statement further alleged that the allegations of sexual abuse levelled against Kashyap were meant to vilify him in public.“These sudden, belated allegations of an alleged incident of August, 2013, have been widely publicised by the complainant for the purpose of vilifying Kashyap, irrespective of the outcome of the judicial process,” Khimani said in the statement. “Kashyap is apprehensive that now that the falsity of her allegations in the FIR has been established, she will alter her version of events in the investigative process as well. Kashyap is distressed with the false and reckless allegations made against him that have caused pain to him, his family and his fans. Kashyap intends to vigorously pursue the legal remedies available to him,” added the statement.Also Read: Sexual assault case: Mumbai Police question Anurag Kashyap for 8 hoursThe actor had recently alleged that Kashyap had called her to his place and behaved inappropriately. Her FIR states that Kashyap called her to his flat located at Yari road in Andheri (West) in August 2013 on the pretext of having a discussion about casting her in one of his upcoming films and then ended up sexually assaulting her. Also Read: Mumbai police summons Anurag Kashyap to record statement in alleged sexual assault caseThe actor has filed a case against Kashyap under sections 376 (1) (rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with an intent to outrage her modesty), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Versova police station on September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anurag-kashyap-gave-cops-proof-he-was-in-sri-lanka-at-the-time-of-alleged-sexual-assault-lawyer/story-4bqmqJ92AfrqYWjLpTbGiI.html
02-10-2020||India||‘Man bludgeons daughter to death, takes body to hospital’: Police||A 20-year-old girl was allegedly bludgeoned to death by her father with a cricket stump because he did not take kindly to her relationship with a boy, the police said. The accused, who later took her daughter to the hospital, was arrested on Friday afternoon.The incident that took place in Sanquelim, a town around 30-km north of the state capital Panaji. The man has been identified as Sunilkumar Rajan.“Enraged that his daughter was in a relationship without his consent, he struck her multiple times. He later himself brought his daughter to the hospital,” Mahesh Gadekar, the police inspector in charge of Bicholim police station said. The victim was admitted at around 1:30 pm on Thursday but succumbed to her injuries at around 7pm. “The father has been arrested for her murder,” Gadekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-bludgeons-daughter-to-death-takes-body-to-hospital-police/story-JfSiXFKoGOOpG9U6awjLsK.html
02-10-2020||India||5.74 crore e-way bills generated in Sept; signs of economic growth: Finance Secy||Finance Secretary Dr Ajay Bhushan Pandey on Thursday said more than 5.74 crore e-way bills have been generated in September and these are affirmative signs of economic growth as the business activities are unlocking gradually and despite the adverse impact of Covid-19.“In this September, more than 5.74 crore e-way bills have been generated. These are affirmative signs of economic growth as the business activities are unlocking gradually and despite the adverse impact of Covid-19, there are indicators of economic recovery,” Pandey said.The Finance Secretary said that there is positive revenue growth in September this year over the corresponding period last year as the Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection has shown not only a growth of 4 per cent year-on-year with Rs 95,480 crore collections but also there is a record generation of e-Way bills on any single day since the facility was provided.“On September 30, 2020, almost 26.19 lakh e-way bills were generated, which is the highest ever count so far in a single day. This is the third day in this year when the e-way bills have been generated to mark a record count. Before September 30, on February 29 this year 25.19 lakh e-way bills were generated while on January 31 around 24.74 lakh e-way bills were generated,” he added.The Finance Secretary said that this is a very affirmative sign of economic recovery with increased business activities since the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic six months back.“The number of e-Way bills generated on this month was 9.3 per cent more than those generated on an average in the month of September previous year, with a record hike on a single day with 26.19 lakhs on September 30, 2020,” Pandey said. He said that the GST revenues gross collections of Rs 95,480 crores are 4 per cent higher in this September than the GST revenues in the same month last year.“Some major industrial states have shown very positive growth percentage in GST collection which is indicative of the process of economic recovery being on track. With the festive season coming in the next month, we are confident of better recovery in GST collection,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-74-crore-e-way-bills-generated-in-sept-signs-of-economic-growth-finance-secy/story-eu2keNd39cylPSwQj8EBzL.html
02-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: At least 500 doctors have succumbed to Covid-19 says IMA and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.At least 500 Covid-19 doctors have lost their lives, says IMAAt least 500 doctors have succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country so far, according to the updated list of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Friday, which is nearly half of the number of claims either settled or under process of being settled by the government to compensate Covid-19 doctors who have lost their lives due to the viral infection. Read moreHathras gang rape: AAP senior leaders to protest at India Gate todayThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday said that senior party leaders and members of the Delhi legislative assembly (MLAs) would gather at the India Gate in the evening to protest against the gang rape and murder of a Dalit teenager (19) by four upper caste men in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district earlier this week. Read moreKim Jong Un’s sister reported in public for first time since JulyThe sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un made her first appearance in state media since July, an absence that had fuelled speculation her power was clipped after she led a contentious pressure campaign against South Korea. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘They have not taken a replacement for him,’ Irfan Pathan explains why CSK is strugglingThree-time Indian Premier League champions Chennai Super Kings are struggling to find consistency at the moment in the ongoing season of IPL in the UAE. The MS Dhoni-led side started off on the right note, picking up a win over the defending champions Mumbai Indians in the season opener. Read moreAnurag Kashyap ‘vehemently denies’ sexual misconduct charges, provides proof that he wasn’t in India at time of incidentA day after filmmaker Anurag Kashyap appeared for questioning in the sexual assault case filed against him by a female actor, he has denied all accusations in a statement by his lawyer Priyanka Khimani.“Mr Anurag Kashyap has denied all wrongdoing in the matter and has provided his statement to the police,” the lawyer wrote. Read moreMaruti S-Presso finds 75,000 takers in one year since India launchMaruti Suzuki on Friday announced that it had sold over 75,000 units of S-Presso in India in a year since it was launched here back on September 30 of 2019. The car is positioned as a mini SUV and while this may only be a way of wooing new buyers, Maruti has been able to strongly position the product in the entry-level segment. Read moreHow Covid-19 has gripped India’s urban centresHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far; September GST revenue; how Covid gripped India’s urban centres; vaccines in the US and other news. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-least-500-doctors-have-succumbed-to-covid-19-says-ima-and-all-the-latest-news/story-FdeYn5Uwns5rscOf8ZsdYK.html
02-10-2020||India||‘He is a national leader’: Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut condemns police action against Rahul Gandhi||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday criticised the Uttar Pradesh police over the manhandling of Congress’ Rahul Gandhi at the Yamuna Expressway. Gandhi was on his way to Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras to meet the family of the 19-year-old gangrape victim, who died earlier this week.“Rahul Gandhi is a national political leader. We may have differences with Congress but nobody can support police’s behaviour with him. His collar was caught and he was pushed to the ground, in a way it is gangrape of country’s democracy,” Raut was as quoted saying by news agency ANI.Rahul Gandhi was marching towards Hathras along with his sister and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Thursday when he was stopped by the police citing imposition of Section 144 in the area. During the scuffle between the Congress supporters and the police, Gandhi could be seen falling in videos.Later, the Gandhi siblings were then taken away in a police jeep and kept in a guest house for some time. They were then released and escorted back to Delhi by the UP police.A first information report (FIR) has also been filed against Rahul, Priyanka and other supporters for violating Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) under which the gathering of more than four people is not allowed as well as the violation of the pandemic act.The 19-year-old gangrape victim had succumbed to her injuries in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday. The incident has triggered a massive outrage across the country. Activists and opposition parties have planned protests across the country, including in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, over the handling of the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-is-a-national-leader-shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut-condemns-police-action-against-rahul-gandhi/story-UVapPcbhv5imhQA3cXfwVO.html
02-10-2020||India||TMC delegation, including Derek O’Brien, on way to meet Hathras rape victim’s family stopped at district border||A four-member delegation of the Trinamool Congress, led by senior party leader Derek O’Brien, was on Friday stopped by the police from going to the village of the 19-year-old gang-rape victim in Hathras of Uttar Pradesh to meet her family.The woman was allegedly raped by four dominant-caste men on September 14 when she had gone to the fields in her village to gather cattle fodder. She was left partially paralysed and admitted for treatment in the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College of Aligarh Muslim University and then shifted to New Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital when her condition did not improve. She died on Tuesday morning. The woman’s family has said she was forcibly cremated late in nightThe Mamata Banerjee-led party said in a statement later that the delegation was stopped by police around 1.5 kilometres from the victim’s home. The delegation included O’Brien, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Pratima Mondal and former member of Parliament Mamata Thakur.A 29-second clip tweeted by ANI showed a woman leader of the party being physically turned away by a person in plains clothes as O’ Brien comes into the frame. He is seen being pulled away by the person and falling to the ground as a number of police personnel surround him. He is then seen helped get up as other leaders are also pushed away.“He was pushed to the ground. Maybe he is injured too. He was attacked. How can they do it?” Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, another TMC leader who was a part of the delegation, was quoted by ANI as asking. #WATCH: TMC delegation being roughed up by Uttar Pradesh Police at #Hathras border. The delegation, including Derek O'Brien, was on the way to meet the family of the victim of Hathras incident. pic.twitter.com/94QcSMiB2k“A delegation of Trinamool MPs have been stopped by UP Police from entering Hathras. The delegation had travelled about 200 kms from Delhi. The Trinamool MPs were on their way to the village in Hathras, travelling separately, to express solidarity with the grieving family and convey their condolences,” the TMC said in the statement.“At this moment, we are just 1.5 kms from the victims home in Hathras, explaining to police officials that we will walk the 1.5kms to the victim’s house in Hathras,” the statement said quoting one of the lawmakers.Also read | Senior AAP leaders to protest at India Gate todayOne of the MPs, who was stopped, said, “We are peacefully proceeding to Hathras to meet the family and pay our condolences. We are travelling individually and maintaining all protocols. We are not armed. Why are we stopped? What kind of jungle raj is this that elected MPs are prevented from meeting a grieving family.”This comes a day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were stopped and briefly detained while going to the meet the woman’s family. The Congress has criticised the Uttar Pradesh government for its handling of the case and has been demanding justice for the victim.Also read | Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut condemns police action against Rahul GandhiThe Gandhis were later released. Both the Congress leaders alleged they were manhandled and roughed up by police personnel while they were marching towards Hathras to meet the victim’s family. However, Noida’s additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Ranvijay Singh said that there was “no lathi charge” on anyone.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-delegation-including-derek-o-brien-on-way-to-meet-hathras-rape-victim-s-family-stopped-at-district-border/story-JFh4PLyq4hIHmZdVa1dZgO.html
02-10-2020||India||Travellers resume long weekend trips, travel portals see 40% increase in bookings||There has been around a 40% increase in bookings on travel portals ahead of the long weekend starting Friday and brought rare cheer to the industry that has been among the worst-hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, people aware of the matter said. Travellers have begun to opt for homestays and travelling to nearby places since the government began easing restrictions imposed on movement to check the pandemic spread, they added. This has reflected in the number of bookings made since September. More bookings were expected as people are slowly moving from essential to leisure travel.Over the years, long weekends have been the most lucrative for the travel industry. While 2020 has had more long weekends compared to 2019, travel had come to a standstill due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally surges past 6.39 million, death toll nears 1 lakhAccording to online travel agency yatra.com, there has been a demand for homestays and cottages this weekend beginning with Gandhi Jayanti on Friday. Travellers are preferring holidaying in secluded areas at drivable distances.“In the Unlock [easing of restrictions] phase, more travellers are looking for short-haul destinations having proper safety and sanitisation,” said yatra.com co-founder Sabina Chopra. She added ahead of this weekend, they have seen a 32% increase in booking inquiries and growth in demand for accommodation like homestays, 4-star, 5-star hotels, cottages, etc. She added with customer confidence going up, they expect better demand.Travellers from Delhi were preferring to drive to places like Jaipur, Nainital, Rishikesh, Manesar, Mussoorie and Lansdowne while those from Mumbai were heading to Panchgani, Lonavala, Alibaug, Lavasa and Mahabaleshwar.Goibibo’s chief operating officer, Vipul Prakash, said over the past few weeks, they have noticed a significant increase in bookings for weekend getaways. “Over the coming long weekend, we expect over 40% higher check-ins in comparison to bookings made for weekend getaways in August. Within this segment, over 70% of the bookings are for drivable destinations or to places within 400 km.”Goibibo bookings suggest Goa, Shimla, Mussoorie, Nainital, Manali, Coorg and Rishikesh have been the most popular destinations this weekend.Cleartrip’s corporate strategy head, Aditya Agarwal, said since September, bookings are in the range of 20%-30% of last year levels for Rajasthan and Kerala and around 18% for Goa. “...which signal the return in confidence to travel.” Agarwal said Cleartrip expects this trend to continue over the last quarter. “We saw a substantial increase in traffic volumes on our platform two to seven days prior to the long weekend and therefore this duration contributes to a higher share of bookings. Additionally, we are also seeing an increase in metro to non-metro travel over the long weekend indicating that people have headed back home to spend time with their families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travellers-resume-long-weekend-trips-travel-portals-see-40-increase-in-bookings/story-LELgKx5224xiUSpaZBp4MP.html
02-10-2020||India||FIR can’t be quashed on ground of delay, says HC while hearing molestation case||Observing that first information reports (FIRs) cannot be quashed only on the ground of delay, the Bombay high court last week dismissed a petition filed by a Khar resident seeking the quashing of a case of molestation of his minor daughter registered against him.“The FIR cannot be quashed merely on the ground of delay,” said the bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik while rejecting the Khar resident’s contention that there was an inordinate delay in reporting the alleged crime to police and the FIR was registered about five years after the purported incident.He was booked by Khar police in February 2019 on the complaint of the mother of the victim under sections 354 (assault or use of criminal force against a woman with an intent to outrage her modesty) 354A (assault or use of criminal force to a woman with an intent to disrobe her) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 8 (sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and also under relevant sections of the IPC.The woman alleged that her husband used to bath naked with their daughter when she was 5/6 years of age, and also used to touch her inappropriately.The husband had moved HC for quashing of the FIR also on the ground that the allegations levelled against him were utterly false and the FIR was registered at the behest of his estranged wife out of vengeance. He submitted that the child was very comfortable with him and also presented his photographs and videos with the child.Advocate Aditya Pratap, who represented the complainant woman, strenuously opposed the petition. He pointed out that if allegations in the FIR were read in entirety and taken at face value, it disclosed commission of offence, which needed further investigation.He further submitted that the statement of the child under Section 164 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was recorded and unless the statement was tested before the trial court, it would not be appropriate to accede to the prayer for quashing of the FIR.HC accepted Aditya Pratap’s submissions. The bench said that a perusal of allegations in the FIR made it clear that the relevant sections of IPC and of the POCSO Act were “clearly attracted and consequently alleged offences have been disclosed”.The bench added that it could not, at this preliminary stage, go into the veracity of the allegations and examine whether allegations were true or false.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-can-t-be-quashed-on-ground-of-delay-says-hc-while-hearing-molestation-case/story-o3ibVStD7X9Y9BCBIJ0b3I.html
02-10-2020||India||At least 500 Covid doctors have lost their lives, says IMA||At least 500 doctors have succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country so far, according to the updated list of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Friday, which is nearly half of the number of claims either settled or under process of being settled by the government to compensate Covid-19 doctors who have lost their lives due to the viral infection.“Our latest figures say 515 doctors treating Covid-19 patients have been martyred in the country so far. And these are all allopathic doctors that we have identified through our various branches of IMA -- there are 1,746 branches functional across the country. The number could actually be much higher,” said Dr Rajan Sharma, president, IMA.Also read: India set to cross 100,000 Covid-19 deaths todayAccording to IMA database, the doctor patient ratio is 1:194. A majority of doctors (201) were in the age group of 60 and 70 years, followed by 171 killed in the age bracket of 50 to 60 years. Above 70 years of age were 66 doctors, and 59 doctors were between 35 and 50 years of age. At least 18 doctors who died were less than 35 years of age.The government, however, has maintained that there is no central database to provide exact number of doctors who lost their lives on line of duty. The minister of state for health, Ashwini Kumar Choubey, also recently said in Parliament that public health and hospitals came under states, so the Centre wasn’t maintaining any such database.The only record that is being maintained is the number of compensations being processed under government’s insurance scheme for healthcare workers in this pandemic— Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana package.On the Covid-19 media briefing on September 22, the Union secretary for health, Rajesh Bhushan, had mentioned that 242 claims under the scheme had either been processed or were under process.“We are closely monitoring the data under PM’s pandemic response package. There is an insurance cover amounting to ₹50 lakh for all frontline health care workers , and this has recently been extended till March 2021. Under this package, 62 claims have been settled, more than 130 claims are being processed… and above 50 claims that are yet to come from states,” Bhushan had said.Even that number is half of the number published by IMA.“How can the Centre wash their hands of their responsibility. How is it possible that they cannot maintain a database at the central level when you need an Aadhar Card to get tested for Covid-19 through reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. How difficult can it get then?” said Dr Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-500-covid-doctors-have-lost-their-lives-says-ima/story-ZNOr9Q2XoSpxEstJTGgYOP.html
02-10-2020||India||Road to Indian envoys’ appointments to neighbourhood countries goes through PMO||With Vikram Doraiswami taking over as the high commissioner to Bangladesh on Monday, it is quite evident that the road to high-profile ambassadorial assignments in the neighbourhood goes through the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).Last week, Rudrendra Tandon went to Kabul to take over as the Indian ambassador to strife-torn Afghanistan. Both Doraiswami and Tandon have served in the PMO as private secretary to the Prime Minister and PMO’s director.While the ministry of external affairs (MEA) will never publicly admit it but the key diplomatic assignments in the neighbourhood are given to foreign service officers with inter-ministerial experience which goes beyond diplomacy. Indian envoys to neighbourhood countries are now rigorously selected and given to those who have big picture experience.The Indian ambassador to Nepal is Vinay Mohan Kwatra, who was joint secretary to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and so was the Indian high commissioner to Sri Lanka, Gopal Bagley. The last Indian high commissioner to Pakistan Ajay Besaria had served in the PMO and the current ambassador to Myanmar Saurabh Kumar has served in National Security Council Secretariat, an adjunct of PMO vis National Security Advisor. The only exception to this rule is the Indian ambassador to Bhutan, Ruchira Khamboj, as Indian envoy to Beijing Vikram Misri has significant PMO experience.While the neighbourhood is a top priority for the Modi government, the envoy selection by South Block for the Indian sub-continent has taken a different meaning after Beijing has started posting non-diplomats as ambassadors in South Asia, particularly those having direct links with PLA intelligence or United Front Works Department (UFWD) directly under President Xi Jinping. The current Chinese ambassadors to Islamabad and Dhaka belong to UFWD, while the envoy to Nepal has intelligence background.Although the ambassadorial assignments are at present the domain of senior-most Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officers, a number of India’s key allies post non-diplomat specialists as their envoys to Delhi. At least eight of India’s close allies have posted non-diplomats with expertise in electoral politics, trade and economics as ambassadors to Delhi. They are Kenneth Juster (USA); Ron Malka (Israel); Barry O’ Farrell (Australia); Nadir Patel (Canada); Nilamber Acharya (Nepal); Austin Fernando (Sri Lanka); Saud bin Mohammed Alsati (Saudi Arabia) and Ahmed Abdul Rahman Al Banna (UAE). All these envoys have rich experience and present a wholesome view of the country they represent. If Juster is an expert in trade and commerce, Malka has headed Tel Aviv Stock Exchange and O’ Farrell has served as the Prime Minister of New South Wales.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/road-to-indian-envoys-appointments-to-neighbourhood-countries-goes-through-pmo/story-x15T8gUSTGs08CxiqB114J.html
02-10-2020||India||On Gandhi Jayanti, Congress signals prolonged protests against Modi government||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday invoked Mahatma Gandhi on the Father of the Nation’s 151st birth anniversary to declare that he is not afraid of anyone in this world. “I will not fear anyone in the world … I will not bow down to anyone’s injustice. I will win the untruth with the truth and I can bear all the sufferings while opposing the untruth,” Rahul quoted Gandhi.On Thursday, UP Pradesh (UP) Police had held Rahul along with his sister and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi when they had tried to enter Hathras, which grabbed the headlines following the gang-rape and murder of a Dalit teenager (19) by four upper caste men. Also Read: Hathras gang-rape: Lawyers demand president’s rule in Uttar PradeshRahul’s comment also underlined his intentions about his next round of agitations against the Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government. He will visit Punjab on Saturday to participate in a few programmes against the newly enacted farm bills that the opposition parties claim will only benefit traders and corporate entities in the agribusinesses.Congress president Sonia Gandhi, too, in her message on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, announced that the party would continue to fight against the farm laws. “The Congress’s agitation against three black (farm) laws will continue. I want to emphasise that this movement of farmers and the Congress will be successful and the farmers will win.” According to Rahul’s aides, Punjab chief minister Amrinder Singh has organised a raft of protest programmes, including a tractor rally, on Saturday. Rahul is expected to participate in a few of those programmes. Also Read: Akhilesh Yadav, Mayawati, Mamata slam UP govt over Hathras gangrapeHis aides said though many state units of the party have requested Rahul to attend their regional protest programmes, a final call on his participation in the upcoming events would be taken after factoring in the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak across the country. On Thursday, the Uttar Pradesh administration had sealed off Hathras and the UP Police arrested Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra.The Gandhis’ visited Hathras amid the Dalit victim’s family members’ allegations that the UP Police hurriedly cremated her at the dead of night at around 2:30 am on Wednesday in a bid to contain the public outcry against the heinous crime.Sonia in her message also spoke about the “injustice” meted out to farmers, labourers and the working class, signalling that the Congress will continue its protests against the Modi government. “Today is the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the greatest sympathiser of farmers, labourers and working people. Gandhiji used to say that the soul of India resides in India’s villages, fields and barns. Today is also the birth anniversary of our former PM, Lal Bahadur Shastri, who gave the slogan of ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’,” she said. “But today the farmers and farm labourers of the country are agitating on the streets against the three anti-black laws. The Modi government is crying tears of blood to the donor farmer who grows grains for the country by sweating his blood,” she said. She reminded the public that the Congress has “always made every law with public consent” and before the enactment of the law, “the interests of the people have been kept at the top”.She added: “Democracy also means that every decision of the country has the consent of the countrymen. But does the Modi government believe it? Perhaps, the Modi government does not remember that it was not able to change the ‘Right Compensation Law of the Land’ for the rights of farmers through ordinance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-gandhi-jayanti-congress-signals-prolonged-protests-against-modi-government/story-NHYwf1KdNm9LsHqFoMBEwM.html
02-10-2020||India||Kerala imposes prohibitory orders amid rising Covid-19 spread: All you need to know||In view of the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Kerala, the state government has imposed Section 144 under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). It will come into effect from Saturday, October 3, and will be in force until the end of the month.“Public congregations and gatherings pose an impending danger of a super spread of the infection. Hence, an assembly or gathering of more than 5 people at a time can not be permitted,” the government said in a statement.Here is what you need to know:* Under the order, assembly of more than five people is prohibited.* Magistrates have been directed to assess the Covid-19 situation in their respective districts and impose the relevant provisions under Section 144 accordingly.* People commuting to their offices, businesses, and markets are exempted from the restrictions.* The latest restrictions will only be implemented in the containment zones or the areas more prone to the spread.* Existing relaxations for categories like weddings, funerals etc will be continued.* Kerala is witnessing a rise in the Covid-19 spread since the last week. On Thursday, the state recorded a grim milestone as the total number of infections crossed the 200,000-mark.* As of Thursday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state stood at 203,241. * On September 11, the state had crossed one lakh mark, seven months after India’s first case was reported from the state, when a Wuhan returned medical student tested positive. The state’s death toll due to Covid-19 is 771.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-imposes-prohibitory-orders-amid-rising-covid-19-spread-all-you-need-to-know/story-hP97VwdRs6Um58YCIJstUL.html
02-10-2020||India||PM Modi wishes ‘friend’ Trump, first lady Melania quick recovery from Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday wished a quick recovery and good health to his ‘friend,’ US president Donald Trump and first lady Melania, after the couple tested positive for coronavirus.“Wishing my friend @POTUS @realDonaldTrump and @FLOTUS a quick recovery health,” the prime minister tweeted just minutes after the US president announced he and his wife had tested positive for Covid-19. Wishing my friend @POTUS @realDonaldTrump and @FLOTUS a quick recovery and good health. https://t.co/f3AOOHLpaQEarlier, Trump had tweeted, “Tonight, @FLOTUS and I tested positive for Covid-19. We will begin our quarantine and recovery process immediately. We will get through this TOGETHER!”The US first couple had undergone Covid-19 tests after one of Trump’s closest advisers, Hope Hicks, tested positive for the disease. The two returned positive result for the infection.Praising Hicks, Trump had posted, “Hope Hicks, who has been working so hard without even taking a small break, has just tested positive for Covid-19. Terrible! The First Lady and I are waiting for our test results. In the meantime, we will begin our quarantine process.”Trump’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic has emerged as a major issue ahead of November’s presidential polls. During the first presidential debate on Tuesday, he was severely criticised by his Democratic Party rival, Joe Biden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-wishes-friend-donald-trump-first-lady-melania-quick-recovery-from-covid-19/story-hvSL2gvD65JEpKFnDpIDjI.html
02-10-2020||India||Odisha Unlock 5: Schools, cinema halls, religious places to stay shut till October 31||The Odisha government has decided to keep all schools, colleges, universities and anganwadis as well as religious places and cinema halls in the state shut till October 31 despite the Centre’s latest Unlock 5 guidelines provisioning for reopening of these and more if the states so desired.Odisha’s latest Unlock guidelines came on the day the state saw 17 deaths due to Covid-19 infection, the highest single-day toll so far. Till now, 859 persons in Odisha have succumbed to Covid-19 while another 53, who had tested positive for the disease, died of other comorbidities. So far, 2.22 lakh people in the state have been infected by the pandemic.Also Read: Odisha: Man tries to stab mother in front of Assembly; overpoweredThe special relief commissioner, in an order this evening, said all kinds of social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions as well as large religious congregations will remain prohibited in the state till October end. According to the order, all cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment complexes, theatres, auditoriums, assembly halls and other similar places of mass gatherings would continue to be shut till October 31. However, swimming pools, owned by the government, would be allowed to open for training of sportspersons from October 15, following the release of SOPs by the Union ministry of youth affairs and sports.Also Read: Ahead of Wildlife Week, carcass of tusker with bullet wounds found in OdishaCentre’s latest guidelines have allowed cinema halls to open from October 15 with only 50% seating capacity.The state government’s order said open air theatres and similar places would be allowed to open subject to compliance of safety protocols such as mandatory wearing of face masks, physical distancing. The state government, however, allowed congregations of not more than 100 persons for political activities including the campaign for bypolls for Tirtol and Balasore assembly seats, scheduled next month, subject to wearing of masks and adherence to social distancing measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-unlock-5-schools-cinema-halls-religious-places-to-stay-shut-till-october-31/story-IF19JKc7rQ4S73GGgAa8cK.html
02-10-2020||India||On Gandhi Jayanti, Rahul Gandhi quotes the Mahatma to say he won’t bow down before injustice||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday shared Mahatma Gandhi’s thoughts on the prevalence of truth and principle of never bowing down before injustice on the 151st birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation.Gandhi’s tribute came a day after he was detained along with Priyanka Gandhi, his sister and party general secretary, by the police in Uttar Pradesh while trying to reach Hathras, where a woman was allegedly gang-raped and murdered.“I will not fear anyone in the world ... I will not bow down before anyone’s injustice, I will win the untruth with the truth and I can bear all the sufferings while opposing the untruth,” the Congress leader tweeted in Hindi.Also Read: The Mahatma’s life was his message, writes President Ram Nath KovindCongress president Sonia Gandhi also spoke in her message on Gandhi Jayanti about the “injustice” meted out to farmers and labourers, in an indication that her party will continue to protests against the Centre.The grand old party also paid tribute to Gandhi with a video on Twitter alongside a verse in Hindi that roughly translates to, “Gandhi’s education has shown the way to the world. Followed by their values, then got freedom. Today Gandhi wants the same values of Gandhi. The country is relieved of dictatorship and arrogance.”Also Read: Becoming a Gandhian“India, stand against tyranny undeterred, relentless, non-violence your weapon. #CongressKeVichaar #GandhiJayanti,” the Congress party said in another tweet.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind also paid tribute to the Mahatma, who was born in Gujarat’s Porbandar in 1869 and led India’s freedom struggle on the principles of truth and non-violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-gandhi-jayanti-rahul-gandhi-quotes-the-mahatma-to-say-he-won-t-bow-down-before-injustice/story-LAcHdAEGBl8xctUbgIFkhP.html
02-10-2020||India||On Gandhi Jayanti, Sonia Gandhi says farmers protesting farm laws will be successful||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday expressed confidence that protests by her party and farmers against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws will be successful as she issued a video message on the birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri.“Today, when we are observing the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri, farmers are protesting against the three anti-farmer laws. I believe that the agitation by farmers and Congress will be successful and farmers will emerge victorious,” Gandhi said in her message in Hindi.Farmers across the country have taken to streets against the three laws, which, they say, will lead to the dismantling of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.Congress has been at the forefront of protests against the farm laws. In fact, Gandhi had asked Congress-ruled states to explore ways to ‘bypass’ the three new laws. The Modi government, on its part, has hailed the three laws as ‘pro-farmers’ and ‘revolutionary’. Prime Minister Modi has repeatedly assured farmers that MSP will not be withdrawn.However, farmers have continued to protest, with the northern states of Punjab and Haryana being the epicentres of the stir. In Punjab, farmers have been holding a ‘rail roko’ agitation since September 24.Opposition parties, including the Congress, have thrown their weight behind the protesting farmers. Punjab’s Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) was forced to break its ties with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-gandhi-jayanti-sonia-gandhi-says-farmers-protesting-farm-laws-will-be-successful/story-zIKf613mwKfFnwvzxQNobN.html
02-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally surges past 6.39 million, death toll nears 1 lakh||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surged to 6,394,068 after 81,484 fresh infections and 1,095 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry’s data showed on Friday.The number of active cases of the coronavirus disease stands at 942,217 as India sustained its trend of maintaining active cases below the 1 million mark for the 11th successive day. The death toll has gone up to 99,773, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am.India posted 78,877 recoveries between Thursday and Friday morning from across the country. The country’s recoveries stand at 5,352,078 on Friday, taking the national recovery rate to 83.70%.Also read | With fewer admissions, 61% of Covid-19 beds in Delhi vacant“The rise in total recovered cases has been steep. The last 10 lakh recoveries were added in just 12 days. 77% of the total recovered cases are recorded in 10 States/UTs,” the health ministry said in a release on Thursday.Maharashtra has contributed the highest number to the total recovered cases followed by Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, it had said.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe ministry had said on Thursday that 76% of the active cases are in 10 states and Union territories. “As on date, the active cases contribute only 14.90% to the positive caseload of the country,” it has said.Also read | MP saw more Covid cases in September than first 5 months of outbreak combinedAccording to the ministry on Thursday, 76% of the new cases are concentrated in 10 states. Maharashtra contributed more than 18,000 to the new cases. Karnataka and Kerala, both contributed more than 8,000, it said. It also said that 82% of new deaths are reported from 10 states and Union territories. On Thursday, 40% of deaths reported were from Maharashtra with 481 deaths followed by Karnataka with 87 deaths.India remains the second worst-hit country in the world after the United States as more than 34 million people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronvirus disease, and 1,021,765 have been killed so far, according to Johns Hopkins University’s tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-surges-past-6-39-million-death-toll-nears-1-lakh/story-mkjctTyRK5P0v93YPb4EwL.html
02-10-2020||India||‘Lal Bahadur Shastri Ji was humble and firm’: PM Modi pays tribute||Prime Minister Narendra Modi remembered Lal Bahadur Shastri on his 116th birth anniversary on Friday as someone who “epitomised simplicity and lived for the welfare of our nation.”“Lal Bahadur Shastri Ji was humble and firm. He epitomised simplicity and lived for the welfare of our nation. We remember him on his Jayanti with a deep sense of gratitude for everything he has done for India,” PM Modi said.Also Read | ‘We bow to beloved Bapu’: Tributes pour in as country marks Mahatma Gandhi’s 151st birth anniversaryHe also visited his memorial Vijay Ghat in Delhi to pay his respects to Lal Bahadur Shastri.Born in Uttar Pradesh in 1904, Lal Bahadur Shastri shares his birthday with Mahatma Gandhi. He was the second prime minister of India and served from 1964 to 1966.Lal Bahadur Shastri died in Tashkent on January 11, 1966, at the age of 61, soon after signing the Tashkent Pact with Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lal-bahadur-shastri-ji-was-humble-and-firm-pm-modi-pays-tribute/story-Vt3rzK8bNSwaSuqugFdh4K.html
02-10-2020||India||Gandhi Jayanti 2020: Ayush minister to launch naturopathy hospital for tribals in Pune||On the occasion of the 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, Shripad Yesso Naik, Union Minister for Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy), will virtually inaugurate a naturopathy hospital for tribals at Gohe Budruk near Pune, Maharashtra. The hospital aims to serve as a naturopathy and yoga treatment centre for tribal patients and also as a training unit for the tribal youth for these two Ayush streams.It will study tribal health practices and develop a repository in the long run. Also read: Tributes pour in as country marks Mahatma Gandhi’s 151st birth anniversary“This health facility is the result of a memorandum of agreement signed between director, National Institute of Nutrition (NIN), and the project officer, integrated tribal development project, Godegaon, Pune, under which the handing over of the premise of a tribal school for the setting up of a yoga and naturopathy hospital was envisaged. This project has the special mandate of using naturopathy and yoga treatment for tribal patients and managing their immune deficiency disorders. This hospital-cum-training centre is expected to serve as a model unit for the rest of the country,” said the Ayush ministry in a statement. The 20-bed hospital includes separate wards for men and women, a yoga hall, a diet centre and an array of natural therapies. It will also have an outdoor patient department (OPD) facility.It will concentrate primarily on nutritional needs of the tribals through the locally available resources and provide a self-sustainable healthcare model using natural therapeutics. “Besides serving as a healthcare centre, it will also provide training to the young tribal men and women to deliver simple naturopathy treatments, which will benefit the entire community in the long run. It will empower them to become self-employed. It will also help them in getting employment in yoga centres, wellness and spa industry, where there is a growing demand for workforce,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-gandhi-jayanti-ayush-minister-launching-naturopathy-hospital-for-tribals-in-pune/story-L4huY6YWwFm0cj7zFJKi9N.html
02-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Trump, Melania to quarantine after top aide tests positive for Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Trump, Melania to quarantine after top aide tests positive for Covid-19US President Donald Trump and the first lady Melania will go under quarantine after his top aide Hope Hicks tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease on Friday. Read moreRs 7,800 crore border network system cleared by govtThe Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) has approved the creation of a secure communication system for the army at a cost of Rs 7,800 crore, a significant move that will enhance network coverage in forward areas including the contested Line of Actual Control. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘We will hear a lot about him,’ Madan Lal identifies ‘long-term prospect’ for Team IndiaKolkata Knight Riders are riding on two consecutive wins, defeating Sunrisers Hyderabad and Rajasthan Royals in the wake of climbing up the Indian Premier League 2020 points table. Read moreSerious Men movie review: Furious and fabulous, Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s new Netflix film is one of the finest of 2020While Netflix India has been busy projecting Radhika Apte as some sort of mascot, it should really have been paying attention to Nawazuddin Siddiqui, an actor who has consistently delivered top-tier content for the streamer. Read moreBMW, Mini cars to cost more in India from NovemberBMW on Thursday announced that it will increase pricing of its model range in India by up to 3% from November’20. Read moreGandhi Jayanti 2020: Inspiring quotes by Mahatma GandhiOn October 2 every year, Indians around the world commemorate the birth of the Father of Our Nation, Mahatma Gandhi. Read moreIPL 2020: Rohit Sharma, bowlers shine as Mumbai Indians beat KXIP by 48 runsRahul Chahar and Jasprit Bumrah were among the wickets after Rohit Sharma top-scored with 70 and Kieron Pollard (47* off 20) and Hardik Pandya (30* off 11) hit a flurry of sixes as Mumbai Indians registered a comprehensive 48-run win against Kings XI Punjab in Abu Dhabi. Read moreTimelapse video created using pictures shows a supernova fading away. Seen it yet?There is something extraordinary about the various images and videos of the space which grace the Internet. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-trump-melania-to-quarantine-after-top-aide-tests-positive-for-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-V7CtRHdhatNa3aP5txLSBI.html
02-10-2020||India||Financial markets closed as India observes public holiday||India’s currency, debt and equity markets are closed on Friday for a public holiday.Financial markets will resume trading on Monday, Oct. 5.The NSE Nifty 50 index ended 1.5% higher at 11,416.95 on Thursday, while the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex closed 1.7% higher at 38,697.05.The 10-year benchmark bond yield ended at 5.994%, while the rupee settled at 73.17 to the dollar. (Bangalore Newsroom)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/financial-markets-closed-as-india-observes-public-holiday/story-vEHUVnAMwUQvOLIQGBr7FO.html
02-10-2020||India||Covid-19: India set to cross 100,000 deaths today||India will cross the 100,000-mark for deaths due to Coronavirus disease (Covid-19), today.With 1,093 new deaths recorded on Thursday, the death toll due to the highly infectious viral disease has touched 99,824 so far in the country, according to the government data.At least 80% Covid-19 deaths are reported from 10 states, of which nearly 40% deaths are reported from the state of Maharashtra with 394 deaths reported on Thursday alone, followed by Karnataka with 130 deaths. As on date both the states have recorded a total of 37,056 and 9,013 Covid-19 related deaths respectively.The first Covid-19 death was reported on March 12, from south India. Even though the country is reaching 0.1 million deaths in 7 months, India’s Covid-19 death rate is among the lowest in the world. Country’s current case fatality rate, which is the proportion of people who die of a disease among total number of patients diagnosed with the disease, stands at 1.56%. The figure is nearly half of the global CFR that is about 3% at the moment. On average, close to 0.8 million cases are being reported daily from across the country over the past one month, taking the total number of people infected with Covid-19 in the country to date to 6.4 million.First sample returned positive for Covid-19 in India on January 30. Comorbidities, or underlying medical conditions, result in death in almost 70% of the total Covid-19 positive patients, according to the government data.Chronic medical conditions that have been commonly observed in Covid-19 patients include hypertension, diabetes, liver disease, heart disease, asthma, chronic renal disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), low immunity, malignancy, bronchitis and chronic neuromuscular disease among others.Hypertension and diabetes are the two most common comorbidities that lead to the disease progressing to severe levels among covid-19 patients.Fever, cough and sore throat are the most common three symptoms that Covid-19 cases experience, followed by breathlessness.“Fever and cough are quite common symptoms that Covid-19 positive cases get. There are other symptoms also such as diarrhoea, weakness, breathlessness etc. that some patients complain of,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, department of pulmonology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-set-to-cross-100-000-deaths-today/story-rkre7Ti3B3pkicnny0a0JN.html
02-10-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate global summit on artificial intelligence on October 5||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate a global virtual summit on Artificial Intelligence (AI), RAISE 2020 - ‘Responsible AI for Social Empowerment 2020’ on October 5, according to the ministry of electronics and information technology.The summit is scheduled to be held from October 5 to 9, 2020 and is being organised by the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) and NITI Aayog. The inauguration event will take place in the presence of minister of electronics & IT, communications and law & justice, Ravi Shankar Prasad, eminent global AI expert Professor Raj Reddy, Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani, IBM CEO Arvind Krishna among others.According to the ministry of electronics & IT, Reddy will hold a session about developing voice-enabled AI that removes linguistic barriers on October 6, the second day of the summit. Former Infosys CFO Mohandas Pai, and Brad Smith, president & legal head, Microsoft Global will also participate in sessions.RAISE 2020 will have a dedicated session on building inclusive AI that empowers one billion-plus Indians. The session will have Jenny Lay Flurrie, Chief Accessibility Officer of Microsoft sharing her views.Anita Bhatia, assistant secretary-general, deputy executive director, UN Women shall also deliver a keynote in this session, which will have an all-women panel and is being curated by UN Women.The ministry said that more than 15,000 stakeholders so far from across academia, the research industry and government representatives from across the world have registered to participate in RAISE 2020.Industry analysts predict that AI could add up to $957 billion to India’s economy by 2035, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-global-summit-on-artificial-intelligence-on-october-5/story-NzFJ8hTLtB6DBoxkqkY50H.html
02-10-2020||India||After 61 years, India records two consecutive years of ‘above normal’ rain||Fewer weather stations reported extremely heavy rainfall this monsoon, as compared to last year. But the corresponding figure was higher than in 2017 and 2018, which is in keeping with the trend of a rise in extremely wet weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its analysis of the monsoon season on Thursday.Officially, the monsoon season ended on Wednesday (September 30).High variation in rainfall received in each of the four monsoon months since June 1 was unique this year, according to IMD.The IMD data showed that 341 weather stations reported extremely heavy rainfall, measuring above 20 centimetres (cm) this year, as compared to 554 in 2019; and 321 and 261 in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Very heavy rainfall, measuring between 11 and 20 cm, was recorded by 2,253 weather stations this year, as compared to 3,056 in 2019; and 2,181 and 1,824 in 2018 and 2017, respectively.The total rainfall recorded this monsoon at 108.7% of the long period average (LPA) is the third-highest since 1990.In 1994 and 2019, 112% and 110% of the LPA, respectively, were recorded. This and the previous monsoon are the two consecutive years with above normal monsoon rainfall since 1958 and 1959, IMD said in its analysis.In June, IMD had forecast normal monsoon rainfall of 102% of the LPA with error margin of +/-4% for the season. Rainfall range of 96% to 104% of the LPA is considered normal and 104% to 110% is considered above normal. India had recorded above normal rainfall of 110% of the LPA last year. “Considering month to month rainfall variation over India, the season is very uniquely placed in the historical record for its distinct and contrasting monthly variation. The rainfall over the country was 118%, 90%, 127% and 104% of the LPA during June, July, August and September, respectively,” IMD said.IMD said that its region wise LPA forecast was off the mark. In May, IMD had forecast 107% of the LPA for north-west India; central India (103%); east and north-east India (96%); and southern peninsula (102%).But, the recorded rainfall over these regions was 84%, 115%, 107% and 129% of the LPA, respectively. “Thus, the forecasts of season rainfall over central, north-east and southern peninsula regions were an underestimate to the actual rainfall, while the forecast for north-west India was an overestimate. The forecast for the second half of the monsoon season (August – September) for the country was 104% against the actual rainfall of 118% of the LPA,” IMD said.“Long range forecast for a four-month period and that, too, for various regions often leads to variation. It cannot be accurate. The longer the period, forecasting becomes trickier,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre (NWFC), IMD.“The all-India average of monsoon rainfall was normal as per definition. However, that doesn’t give much insight into the regional manifestation of the monsoon. This year, the two cyclones during the onset, the low-pressure systems in the Bay of Bengal, and the occasional strong westerlies influenced the monsoon variability. The Arabian Sea temperatures were high throughout the season, enhancing the moisture supply, triggering some of the heavy rainfall events that led to regional floods,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in Pune.Though officially the post-monsoon season has started from October 1, widespread and heavy rainfall is expected over Odisha, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal during the next four-five days. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely in these states. This is mainly due to the influence of a low-pressure area over west central Bay of Bengal, off north Andhra Pradesh (AP) and southern Odisha coasts. Very heavy rainfall is also likely over Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura for the next five days.“Monsoon withdrawal cannot be declared from these regions until rain stops completely. The withdrawal parameters have to be met. It’s difficult to say when the monsoon will withdraw completely,” added Devi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-61-years-india-records-two-consecutive-years-of-above-normal-rain/story-VZXoL0iupT5YCZUBRM9I1L.html
02-10-2020||India||Ready to sell Navy’s former aircraft carrier INS Viraat for Rs 100 crore: Mumbai firm||The new owner of decommissioned warship INS Viraat has sought Rs 100 crore from a Mumbai-based firm which is making last ditch efforts to save the warship from being dismantled and to convert it into a museum.INS Viraat, the aircraft carrier which was inducted into the Indian Navy in 1987 and decommissioned in 2017, was purchased by Shree Ram Group for a sum of Rs 38.54 crore at an auction in July this year.The warship, which is the symbol of India’s rich maritime heritage, reached the ship-breaking yard at Alang on Gujarat coast last week.Since the ship was bought as scrap in an auction, aspiring buyers would also need to procure a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the Ministry of Defence to buy the ship now, Shree Ram Group Chairman Mukesh Patel told PTI on Thursday.“I bought this warship just out of my love for my country. Now, a Mumbai-based company wants to convert this ship it into a museum. Since they are also doing it out of patriotism, I agreed to sell the ship to them,” he said.“But, they need to first procure NOC from the defence ministry, without which I can’t re-sell the ship,” he said.Patel also said he first demanded Rs 125 crore and then agreed to sell it for Rs 100 crore considering that the company’s cause is noble.Patel also said it is a limited period offer and he would wait only till next week.“I am told the interested firm is trying hard to get the NOC. But, I can’t wait forever. I will wait for another week. After that, I will start the dismantling process,” he added.V K Sharma, the managing director of Envitech Marine Consultants Pvt Ltd, has shown interest in buying the warship.He had earlier expressed confidence of getting an NOC from the Centre so that INS Viraat can be converted into a museum.Sharma had claimed he received support from the Goa government in this patriotic endeavour.“We are trying our best to get the NOC and we are confident of getting it soon. I had personally met Mukeshbhai and we both agreed on a price of the ship,” Sharma said.Viraat, the world’s longest serving warship that was decommissioned by the Indian Navy three years ago, arrived at Alang in Gujarat from Mumbai last week for dismantling.It is the second aircraft carrier slated to be broken down in India. In 2014, INS Vikrant was dismantled in Mumbai.The 70-year-old aircraft carrier, in its earlier avatar, had won the Falklands War against Argentina in 1982 for the Royal British Navy.It weighs about 27,800 tonnes and served the British Navy as HMS Hermes from November 1959 to April 1984 and after refurbishment, was commissioned into the Indian Navy in 1987.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-sell-navy-s-former-aircraft-carrier-ins-viraat-for-rs-100-crore-mumbai-firm/story-NHZS2jSooliu9EEuYXyiaN.html
02-10-2020||India||Gandhi Jayanti 2020: PM Modi bows to ‘beloved Bapu’, hails his principles||Paying homage to Mahatma Gandhi on his 151st birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished that the ideals of the Father of the Nation remain a guiding force helping in building a compassionate India.“We bow to beloved Bapu on Gandhi Jayanti. There is much to learn from his life and noble thoughts. May Bapu’s ideals keep guiding us in creating a prosperous and compassionate India,” the Prime Minister wrote on Twitter. Also Read: The Mahatma’s life was his message, writes President Ram Nath KovindHe also shared a video hailing the principles of Gandhi and how he always said his life was his message. In the two-minute clip with Modi’s voiceover, he can be heard saying “Gandhiji never tried to create his influence through his life, however, his life became an inspiration in itself.”  We bow to beloved Bapu on Gandhi Jayanti. There is much to learn from his life and noble thoughts.May Bapu’s ideals keep guiding us in creating a prosperous and compassionate India. pic.twitter.com/wCe4DkU9aIModi said Gandhi guided the nation on his principles of satyagraha, non-violence and truth and also accorded cleanliness the highest priority. “Gandhi dreamt of a self-reliant and self-confident India,” Modi said and hoped that the path he paved through his principles would lead to world’s welfare.Also Read| Covid-19: There are answers that lie in Gandhi’s Hind SwarajModi also took part in a prayer meeting at Rajghat, the memorial to Gandhi in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhi-jayanti-2020-pm-modi-bows-to-beloved-bapu-hails-his-principles/story-ZZBPU78ROC0z8uAchgWxfN.html
02-10-2020||India||‘We bow to beloved Bapu’: Tributes pour in as country marks Mahatma Gandhi’s 151st birth anniversary||Several political leaders, including President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, paid their tributes to Mahatma Gandhi as the country observed his 151st birth anniversary. President Kovind and Prime Minister Modi were among those who took to Twitter to pay homage to the Father of the Nation.“We bow to beloved Bapu on Gandhi Jayanti. There is much to learn from his life and noble thoughts. May Bapu’s ideals keep guiding us in creating a prosperous and compassionate India,” PM Modi said in a tweet.President Kovind also expressed gratitude on behalf of the country and said, “his message of truth, non-violence and love infuses harmony in society and paves the path to the welfare of the world.”Also Read | The Mahatma’s life was his message, writes president Ram Nath Kovind“On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, on the behalf of the nation, I pay homage to the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi. His message of truth, non-violence, and love infuses harmony in society and paves the path to the welfare of the world. He is a source of inspiration for humanity,” the President wrote on Twitter.“Come, on the auspicious occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, all of us again make this resolution to follow the path of truth and non-violence, will always be devoted to progress of the country and we will fulfill Gandhi’s dreams by creating more inclusive, clean, strong and prosperous India,” he added.Also Read | Becoming a GandhianCongress leader Rahul Gandhi also tweeted on Gandhi Jayanti. “I will not fear anyone in the world ... I will not bow down to anyone’s injustice, I will win the untruth with the truth and I can bear all the sufferings while opposing the untruth. Happy Gandhi Jayanti,” Gandhi said.Born on October 2 in 1869, Mahatma Gandhi is one of the most revered leaders in India and across the world. He is known as the “Father of the Nation” for his role in the country’s fight against the British, which led to India gaining freedom in 1947. Throughout his life, Mahatma Gandhi gave a message of non-violence and inspired people around the world to follow the path of truth.The leaders also visited Rajghat, his memorial, in Delhi and paid their respect to Mahatma Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-bow-to-beloved-bapu-tributes-pour-in-as-country-marks-mahatma-gandhi-s-151st-birth-anniversary/story-bw9iNQuWjPGX2QGNAXr8eI.html
02-10-2020||India||Gene mutation behind different Covid-19 death rates among Indian states, study finds||Variation in a genetic mutation among Indians may be the main reason behind the difference in the death rates due to Covid-19 across various states of the country, says a study that could inform new policies for controlling the novel coronavirus pandemic. An international team, led by researchers at Banaras Hindu University (BHU) in Uttar Pradesh, analysed mutations in the gene responsible for the expression of the Angiotensin Converting Enzyme 2 (ACE2), a protein on the surface of cells which is believed to act as a gateway for the novel coronavirus into the human body. Recent studies have effectively demonstrated that the ACE2 is encoded by a gene located on the X chromosome. In the journal Frontiers in Genetics, the researchers looked at the frequency of this mutation described as rs2285666 haplotype among various states of India. Their spatial analysis showed that in India, frequency of this haplotype, or a combination of mutations, varied between 33-100 per cent across different regions. The researchers, for the first time, also ascertained a significant positive correlation for the mutation with the lower infection and case-fatality ratio (CFR) among Indian populations. Gyaneshwer Chaubey, Professor at the Department of Zoology, BHU said the variations identified reduce the susceptibility of a person against the novel coronavirus. “If in a region more people with this haplotype will be present, the infectiousness of the virus would likely be lesser,” Chaubey, who led the study, told PTI. For example, he noted that statewise Maharashtra and Gujarat have the lowest frequency of the gene mutation of about 30-40 per cent while the Northeastern region with a 75-100 per cent mutation in the gene has the highest frequency. “People in Western India are more susceptible to the disease than those in Central India or East India or South India or Northeast India,” Chaubey added. The study adds important potential implications to understanding the transmission patterns of SARS-CoV-2 in various world populations, said Anshika Srivastava from BHU, who was also a part of the research team. The researchers noted that as far as policies to control the pandemic are concerned, the study suggests a single rule may not be effective in all the states. They also observed that in India as well as in Bangladesh, the tribal populations have a higher frequency of this haplotype than the caste populations. “If we look at casts vs tribals, tribals have higher frequency than the caste groups,” said Chaubey, adding it is likely that the tribal populations will be less susceptible than the caste populations to the viral disease. Additionally, he noted that the virus strains present in India may also be responsible to contribute to the higher death rates, adding that the team is working on the infectiousness of various virus strains present in India in an ongoing study. Since the beginning, it has been hypothesised, and later observed that coronavirus is affecting people differently. In their previous research, published in the journal PLOS ONE, the team analysed the whole genome data of the ACE2 gene from various world populations, focusing on South Asia. They found that Indians were more closer to East and Southeast Asians, whereas from the ancestry point of view, Indians usually remained closer to Europeans than East and Southeast Asians. “This unexpected info helped us to explore more about the mutations and haplotypes present among Indians. We found out that the rs2285666 associated haplotype increases the ACE2 expression,” he said. “In other words this mutation reduces the susceptibility against coronavirus,” said Chaubey. Noting that the mutation among Indians is 60 per cent and 20 per cent in Europeans, Chaubey said this implies that the Indians are less susceptible to Covid-19 than Europeans and Americans. “Surprisingly, we found out that the geographic distribution of this haplotype was highly correlated with the number of cases as well as CFR (death rate),” said Chaubey. “Where frequency of this genetic factor was high, the cases and CFR were less and vice versa,” he noted. Although data have been accumulating, the expression of ACE2 gene variation affecting host susceptibility among the various world populations is not yet known. “Genetically, most South Asians are more related with West Eurasian populations rather than with East Eurasians, whereas for this gene the result is contradictory,” Professor George van Driem of University of Bern in Switzerland, a co-author on the previous study, added. The researchers said there are a few studies on the ACE2 gene by other groups, but all of them have looked at the frequency differences of various mutations, whereas the team has used more powerful haplotype based analysis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gene-mutation-behind-different-covid-19-death-rates-among-indian-states-study-finds/story-pL7SSvyKyXQa2cMojGcAeP.html
02-10-2020||India||Gandhi Jayanti 2020: President Kovind says Mahatma remains a source of inspiration for humanity||On the 151st Gandhi Jayanti, President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday urged the country to “rededicate” itself to the welfare and progress of the nation and follow the path of truth and non-violence. He also urged citizens to contribute to realising Mahatma Gandhi’s dream of building a “clean, capable, strong and prosperous India”.“On this auspicious occasion of #GandhiJayanti, let us resolve to rededicate ourselves to the welfare and progress of the nation, to follow the mantra of truth and non-violence, and to build a clean, capable, strong and prosperous India, and to make Gandhiji’s dreams come true,” Kovind tweeted.The President paid his tribute to Gandhi, saying his message of truth, non-violence and love paves the way for the world’s welfare. “On behalf of a grateful nation, I pay homage to Bapu on #GandhiJayanti. His message of truth, non-violence and love paves the way for the welfare of the world by bringing about harmony and equality in the society. He remains a source of inspiration for all the humanity,” the President said in another tweet.Also Read| Gandhi: The chroniclerIn his article in HT, Kovind said Gandhi is the best example of realising the maximum human potential.“He (Mahatma Gandhi) himself never claimed to be a great soul — indeed, he went out of his way to tell the world about his vulnerabilities. Yet, he is the best example of realising the maximum human potential. If anything, his achievements seem superhuman to us,” the President wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhi-jayanti-2020-president-kovind-says-mahatma-remains-a-source-of-inspiration-for-humanity/story-vOguxdgEkLvhAB6vcTGQfK.html
02-10-2020||India||SAD’s Sukhbir Singh Badal, Harsimrat Kaur briefly detained over farm laws protest||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, his wife and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Prem Singh Chandumajra and other senior Akali leaders were detained by the Chandigarh police on Thursday night while they were going towards the residence of the Punjab governor to protest the contentious new agri laws.The police even used water cannons and resorted to cane charge to disperse the Akalis at the Chandigarh-Mullanpur and Chandigarh-Zirakpur borders, party leaders said.Also Read: Spotlight turns on protest hotspots in Punjab as farmers intensify stir against agriculture lawsThere was heavy police deployment, including jawans of the Rapid Action Force, along the two borders. Barricades were put up to stop the Akalis going towards Chandigarh.The SAD leaders wanted to hand over a memorandum to Governor V P Singh Badnore, seeking revocation of the three new farm laws.The Chandigarh administration had imposed Section 144 of CrPC, banning assembly of five and more people at one place.Also Read: To protest farm laws, Rahul Gandhi will hold tractor rallies in Punjab from October 3 to 5The police wanted only a few leaders to meet the Punjab governor to submit the memorandum but the SAD leadership demanded that all Akali members be allowed.“We detained them (Akali leaders) for a brief period and they were later released,” Chandigarh Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Chahal said.Among the leaders who were detained were Bikram Singh Majithia, Parambans Singh Romana, Daljit Singh Cheema, Manjinder Singh Sirsa and a few others.Sukhbir Singh Badal was leading a ‘Kisan march’ from the Akal Takht in Amritsar, while Harsimrat Kaur Badal was leading another procession from Takht Damdama Sahib at Talwandi Sabo in Bathinda.A third procession was led by senior Akali leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra and Daljit Singh Cheema from Takht Keshgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib.The march led by Sukhbir Badal was joined by the one led by Bikram Singh Majithia, Chandumajra, Jagir Kaur and Cheema and it reached the Chandigarh-Mullanpur border at around 9:30 pm.From there, the police took Sukhbir Badal, Majithia, Chandumajra and Jagir Kaur into preventive custody as they tried to enter Chandigarh.“We wanted to hand over a memorandum to the governor but it is sad he did not meet us. We were lathi-charged which we strongly condemn. It is an injustice. They tried to suppress the voice of farmers,” Sukhbir Badal said.The procession led by Harsimrat Kaur reached the Chandigarh-Zirakpur around 8 pm.When the police stopped the Akalis from going towards Chandigarh, Harsimrat Badal and MP Balwinder Singh Bhunder sat on a dharna on the road. They were later detained by the police.The Akali leadership was taken to the Chandigarh sector 17 police station and released around 10:45 pm.Meanwhile, Akali stalwart Parkash Singh Badal strongly condemned the use of force on “peaceful” Akalis by the Chandigarh Police and said that the “brutal” lathicharge made this a “painful and dark day” for democracy in the country’s history.Last week, the SAD had announced to part ways with the NDA, the third major party to walk out of the BJP-led coalition in the last couple of years.On September 17, Harsimrat Kaur Badal had quit the Union Cabinet after the SAD chief strongly opposed the farm bills in Lok Sabha, claiming the legislations will “destroy” the agriculture sector in Punjab.President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave assent to the three contentious bills -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sad-s-sukhbir-singh-badal-harsimrat-kaur-briefly-detained-over-farm-laws-protest/story-ZDePMWXvOTTJDBSDlBEwuN.html
02-10-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Vaishwik Bharatiya Vaigyanik Summit today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate Vaishwik Bharatiya Vaigyanik (VAIBHAV) Summit on Friday at 6:30 pm.The VAIBHAV summit is a global virtual summit of overseas and resident Indian Researchers and Academicians and is being organized from October 2 to October 31, according to a Press Information Bureau release. “Looking forward to tomorrow’s Vaibhav summit, which brings together scientists as well as researchers from the Indian diaspora. Do join at 6:30 pm on October 2,” Prime Minister Modi wrote on Twitter. The aim of the summit is to bring Indian origin luminaries in academic institutes and research and development (R&D) organizations across the world and resident counterparts on a single platform to debate upon collaboration mechanisms to strengthen academic and a Science and Technology (S&T) base in India for global development.The inauguration will be followed by online deliberation sessions. The initiative involves multiple levels of interactions among overseas experts and Indian counterparts over a month-long series of webinars, video-conferences, etc. More than 3,000 overseas Indian origin academicians and scientists from 55 countries and more than 10,000 resident academicians and scientists are taking part in the summit, the release stated.About 200 academic institutes and S&T departments, led by Principal Scientific Advisor, Government of India, are organizing the summit running through October.Over 1,500 panelists from 40 countries, 200 leading Indian R&D and academic institutions will virtually deliberate in 18 different areas and 80 topics in more than 200 deliberation sessions. The concluding session will be held on October 31, on the occasion of Sardar Patel Jayanti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-vaishwik-bharatiya-vaigyanik-summit-today/story-5NDLMuiJSx6CblzGBB6GEO.html
02-10-2020||India||Denying overtime wages affront to worker’s right to life: SC quashes Gujarat govt’s order||The Supreme Court on Thursday struck down the Gujarat government’s decision to exempt industries from paying overtime wages and increasing the working hours of employees by citing the public emergency and economic downturn caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. In a strongly worded order, a three-judge bench headed by justice DY Chandrachud said that a worker’s right to life cannot be deemed conditional on the mercy of the employer or the government and the right to overtime wages and decent working conditions under the Factories Act of 1948 cannot be curtailed citing such grounds.“The notifications (exempting factories from the purview of Factories Act), in denying humane working conditions and overtime wages provided by law, are an affront to the workers’ right to life and right against forced labour…Financial losses cannot be offset on the weary shoulders of the labouring worker, who provides the backbone of the economy,” the bench, which also comprised justices Indu Malhotra and KM Joseph, said.The state cannot permit workers to be exploited in a manner that renders the hard-won protections of the Factories Act illusory and the constitutional promise of social and economic democracy into a paper tiger, the court added.It also alluded to the hardships faced by workers and migrant labourers due to Covid-19 and the lockdown imposed by the government. “The Covid-19 pandemic in India was accompanied with an immense migrant worker crisis, where several workers (including workers employed or contracted with factories) were forced to abandon their cities of work due to the halt in production which cut off their meagre source of income. The notifications in question legitimize the subjection of workers to onerous working conditions at a time when their feeble bargaining power stands whittled by the pandemic,” the judgment said.The labour and employment department of Gujarat had issued a notification on April 17 under Section 5 of the Factories Act to exempt all units registered under the Act “from various provisions relating to weekly hours, daily hours, intervals for rest etc. for adult workers”. The stated aim of the notification was to provide “certain relaxations for industrial and commercial activities” from April 20 to July 19. Another notification was issued on July 20 extending the relaxation until October 19.The notifications allowed factories to increase the daily limit of working hours from 9 to 12 with a 30-minute break after every 6 hours as opposed to every 5 hours before the notification. It also did away with the requirement to give double the wages for overtime work and provided that wages proportionate to the ordinary rate can be paid even for overtime work. The notification was issued under section 5 of the Factories Act, which allows the government to exempt industries from the purview of Factories Act on grounds of a public emergency. Section 5 defines public emergency as one that threatens the internal security of the country whether by war or external aggression or even internal disturbances. Gujarat Mazdoor Sabha and the Trade Union Centre of India had moved the top court challenging the notifications. The apex court held that section 5 cannot be invoked to provide a blanket exemption to all factories citing the Covid 19 pandemic and the contagion cannot be considered a public emergency threatening national security. “The pandemic has put a severe burden on existing, particularly public health, infrastructure and has led to a sharp decline in economic activities. However, it has not affected the security of India, or of a part of its territory in a manner that disturbs the peace and integrity of the country. The economic hardships caused by Covid–19 certainly pose unprecedented challenges to governance. However, such challenges are to be resolved by the State Governments within the domain of their functioning under the law, in coordination with the Central Government,” the court said.Unless the threshold of an economic hardship is so extreme that it leads to disruption of public order and threatens the security of India or of a part of its territory, recourse cannot be taken to such emergency powers, which are to be used sparingly under the law, the court added.The petitioners had argued that Section 5 of the Factories Act provides for exemption only in cases of public emergency and that too for a factory or class of factories and it does not empower the state to provide a blanket exemption for all factories.The court accepted this argument, ruling that section 5 of the Factories Act could not have been invoked to issue a blanket notification that exempted all factories from complying with humane working conditions and adequate compensation for overtime, as a response to a pandemic that did not result in an “internal disturbance” of a nature that posed a “grave emergency.”“We accordingly allow the writ petition and quash the notifications dated April 17 and July 20. We direct that overtime wages shall be paid, in accordance with the provisions of Section 59 of the Factories Act, to all eligible workers who have been working since the issuance of the notifications,” the court ruled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/denying-overtime-wages-affront-to-worker-s-right-to-life-sc-quashes-gujarat-govt-s-order/story-NzFjdRqRR1Ds2GVW1doN1M.html
02-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape: Lawyers demand president’s rule in Uttar Pradesh||Amid the widespread outrage over the alleged gang-rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras and her forcible cremation subsequently, scores of Ghaziabad lawyers on Thursday demanded imposition of President Rule in Uttar Pradesh. The lawyers demanded the dismissal of the Yogi Adityanath government and imposition of President Rule, saying that the gang-rape of a Dalit woman and her brutalization amid a spate of crime against women in Uttar Pradesh has tarnished the image of the country and would flatten its progress graph.Also Read: Hathras victim’s father demands CBI probe alleging pressure from cops, administrationThe lawyers sought imposition of President Rule in a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind that they gave to District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey.The agitating lawyers reached the district collectorate in a march from Civil Court under the banner of Adhivakta Sangharsh Samiti. During the march, the lawyers raised anti-government slogans and burnt effigies of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, accusing him of having failed in controlling the “soaring” crime graph against women in the state. Addressing reporters after leading the lawyers’ march, the advocates’ body convener Nahar Singh Yadav said the Yogi government has “totally failed in controlling the crime in the state, more so against women”.Also Read| Hathras gangrape: Police stifle protests after forcibly cremating victim“And the police, in turn, try to eliminate evidence in haste to hide the soaring crime graph as happened in the case of the gang-rape of the Dalit woman in Hathras who was forcibly cremated overnight by police,” said Yadav.“The gang-rape of the Dalit woman and her brutalization amid a spate of crime against women in Uttar Pradesh has tarnished the image of the country and would flatten its progress graph,” he added.The advocates’ body also Samiti demanded an impartial probe in the case under the supervision of a retired judge of the high court or the Supreme Court.“The case should be transferred in the fast track court of any other state,” said Yadav, adding the government must provide protection to the rape victim’s family.Also Read: No gathering permissible around India Gate area, says DCPThe lawyers’ body also demanded a government job, a house in Delhi and a compensation of Rs 2 crore for the Hathras gang-rape victim’s family. In addition to the demonstration by lawyers, a Balmiki Samaj outfit held a protest march from Balmiki Park of Navyug Market to the collectorate and raised slogans against the Yogi government and blocked the traffic at many crucial traffic junctions. They condemned the alleged forcible funeral of the rape victim by the Hathras police without her parents’ consent and demanded the termination of the Hathras police officials responsible for this.The Balmiki Samaj also called for the suspension of the sanitisation and cleaning work in Ghaziabad on October 3, city president of Balmiki outfit, Anil Kalyani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-lawyers-demand-dismissal-of-yogi-adityanath-govt-president-rule-in-up/story-1HJDIhfk0gFqF37kEvvrvN.html
02-10-2020||India||Akhilesh Yadav, Mayawati, Mamata slam UP govt over Hathras gangrape||Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav, Bahujan Samaj Party ‘s Mayawati and Trinamool Congress’s Mamata Banerjee lashed out at Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday as anger and protests grew across the state and beyond over the gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman from Hathras.Condemnation also came in from the chief ministers of Kerala and Punjab, while protests were held by cadres of SP, in addition to those by Congress workers, across multiple cities in UP. In Aligarh, SP workers lodged a protest when they were stopped from moving towards Boolgarhi village in Hathras on Thursday. The SP workers were stopped on way to the village. They blocked the Agra-Aligarh road for an hour and were arrested by police which cleared the roadblock.  Congress leader Upendra Singh, along with others, moved from Agra towards Boolgarhi village in Hathras but were stopped at the border.The Valmiki (Dalit) community remained on strike in protest against the Hathras incident.“In the Hathras incident, the manner in which the BJP government delayed medical treatment to save some of its people and also postponed filing the FIR, has angered the families across the country...Instead of protecting the government through its spokespersons and through WhatsApp messages, it should get the matter investigated through the Supreme Court sitting judge,” Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. The woman, who was gang-raped on September 14, died in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday where she was brought on Monday from Aligarh Muslim University Medical College. A senior Uttar Pradesh police officer on Thursday said the forensic report has revealed that the woman was not raped. Meanwhile, yet another Dalit woman died in Balrampur district after two men raped her.BSP chief Mayawati on said, “In the wake of the law and order situation in the state and the flood of crimes against women, the central government should replace Yogi Adityanath with some ‘kaabil’ (capable) person and if this is not possible, president’s rule should be imposed in the state.” West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and said, “If a crime takes place, action has to be taken within 72 hours, as we have done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-mayawati-mamata-slam-up-govt/story-3m9YFmtxIhUlbXISj1LmXM.html
02-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Science published a paper based on one of the world’s largest contact tracing exercises on Wednesday. The study, covering 85,000 primary cases, was conducted in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu by a team of researchers led by Ramanan Laxminarayan of the Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy. The study tracked the spread (or non-spread) of the infection in around 575,000 contacts of the 85,000 to come up with some really interesting findings. HT reported those findings on Thursday. Still, given the magnitude of the exercise – I’d take any study with a sample as large as this one seriously – and the fact that it answers some very basic questions about the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), some of the findings bear repetition in this dispatch. 1) Not everyone infected with the Sars-CoV2 virus, which causes Covid-19, passes it on We have known this for some time – but anecdotally. Previous instalments of this column have referred to the fact that not everyone who comes in contact with an infected person gets infected (or not every infected person passes the infection along; essentially, two ways of looking at the same event), and of how the majority of infections are caused by so-called superspreaders. The Science study quantifies these. For instance, it found that 70.7% of the 85,000 index patients (or primary cases) did not pass it on to any of their contacts, including close ones living in the same household. The reasons for this aren’t known. WATCH | Covid update: Germany flights cancelled; New York’s positivity rate rises2) Some of those infected with the Sars-Cov2 virus pass it on to far too many people These are the superspreaders referred to above, and the study found that 8% of the index patients were responsible for 60% of secondary infections. This means that around one in 12 people infected by the disease has a chance of becoming a superspreader (we still do not know why, although it is likely to be a combination of physiological, social and environmental factors). If only there was any way of identifying potential superspreaders… But here is where the study begins to get interesting. We have known all along that there are risks involved in coming in contact with an infected person, or being seated next to one on a long flight. The Science study quantifies these too. This is the kind of information actuaries could use to construct a risk matrix for daily activities. 3) The secondary attack rate – an index patient passing on the infection to a contact – is 10.7% If we were playing jeopardy, the question to this answer would be: What is the risk of a person contracting Covid-19 when exposed to someone already infected with the virus? And this too is in the case of “high-risk contacts”, according to the study – people who have had close physical and social contact with the infected individual, and without masks or other protective measures. For low-risk contacts, this probability is 4.7%. 4) The secondary attack rate is the highest for those sharing conveyance with an index patient for at least six hours – 79.3% This makes rail and (medium-duration) air travel the most risky. Most daily interactions outside the house (including in the workplace) fall under the study’s definition of low-risk criteria, something that should reassure those of us who have already returned to offices. Interestingly, while studying instances of like-infecting-like, the researchers found that “enhanced transmission in similar pairs” were the highest among children below the age of 14 and senior citizens over the age of 65 – findings that could have a bearing on school-opening strategies and also explain why care- and old-age homes in some parts of the world were ravaged by Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-TaexGwXb8o41S1iocQdYgM.html
02-10-2020||India||4 months on, Govt to name members to SC/ST panel||The national commissions mandated to safeguard the rights of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and sanitation workers have been headless for months because the Union government is yet to appoint new office bearers to steer the three bodies.The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) and National Commission for Scheduled Tribes (NCST) are constitutional bodies and the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (NCSK) was constituted as a statutory body by an Act of Parliament. NCSC has been headless for the past four months; the top positions have been vacant in NCST and NCSK for longer. The term of the NCSC team led by its chairperson, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former MP Ram Shankar Katheria ended in May. Its vice-chairperson L Murugan has since been appointed as the president of the BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit. BJP’s Nand Kumar Sai’s term as chairperson of NCST came to an end in February. BJP Gujarat leader Manhar Valjibhai Zala’s term as the chairperson of NCSK ended in April. A government functionary aware of the details said no meetings have been held to discuss potential replacements to head the constitutional bodies that have the powers to investigate and monitor all matters relating to the safeguards provided for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes under the Constitution. NCSC and NCST also have the mandate to inquire into specific complaints with respect to the deprivation of the rights of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. “While the state governments and the Centre take action against atrocities against Dalits; the intervention of the commission is necessary and reassuring in case there is any laxity in probes or registering complaints. The commission also follows up with ensuring compensation is paid to the victims,” said a former NCSC functionary, requesting anonymity. Two recent acts of sexual assault and violence against Dalits have been reported from Uttar Pradesh -- an alleged gang-rape of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras on September 14, who died in a New Delhi hospital on Tuesday; and the death of 22-year old Dalit girl from Balrampur on Wednesday, after being raped and brutalised. This is not the first time that NCSC has been without a chairperson. After the term of PL Punia as its chairperson ended in October 2016; Katheria was appointed to the constitutional body only in May 2017. Bhalchandra Mungekar, a former Rajya Sabha MP from the Congress, said, “...the formation of the commission is a statutory obligation. Their annual reports are tabled in Parliament along with the action taken reports by the government. Insensitivity to issues confronting the schedule castes is contrary to the {government’s} slogan of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas.’ SCs are the most deprived sections not only economically but also socially, culturally, educationally and politically.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-months-on-govt-to-name-members-to-sc-st-panel/story-HiouWUrauAl1e4v6JpIHlM.html
02-10-2020||India||Man electrocuted in Dehradun while urinating near electric pole||A 37-year-old labourer was allegedly electrocuted in Dehradun on Thursday evening while urinating near an electric pole, police said. This is the second case of electrocution in the state in a week. Amarjeet Rawat, in-charge Raipur police said the deceased identified as Rajveer Singh, was a labourer. “Around 6 pm, we got information that one labourer had died due to electrocution. We immediately rushed there and came to know that he had gone to urinate near an electric where he got electrocuted and died on the spot,” he said. Rawat said the deceased hailed from Moradabad in Uttara Pradesh and used to work in Dehradun as a labourer. “We have sent the body to the mortuary. Post mortem of the body will be conducted on Friday,” he said. Rajneesh Aggarwal, chief engineer Garhwal zone of Uttarakhand Power Corporation Ltd (UPCL) said he has directed superintending engineer (SE) of the area concerned to submit a report to him by Friday. “The SE has himself gone to the spot and by morning he will apprise me regarding what actually happened there and what led to the electrocution of the labourer. Based on his report, further action will be taken in the matter” On September 25, a man was electrocuted when a high-tension wire fell on him in Haldwani area of Nainital district. On September 27, taking cognisance of the incident, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat ordered an inquiry into the matter. Following the inquiry, the state government on September 30 issued orders for suspension of five officials of UPCL for dereliction of their duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-electrocuted-in-dehradun-while-urinating-near-electric-pole/story-bSiCuLimJMBGbOSuV3DatI.html
02-10-2020||India||Hathras gangrape: Police stifle protests after forcibly cremating victim||The Uttar Pradesh administration sealed off Hathras and the UP Police arrested Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra after scuffles with party workers on Thursday, as protests escalated over the alleged gang rape and murder of a woman whose family said she was forcibly cremated in the dead of the night to scuttle growing public anger.The former Congress president and his sister, who is also the general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, were on their way to meet the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, where the administration enforced restrictions against public assembly of five or more people and barred the entry of media persons.Watch: Rahul & Priyanka Gandhi Vs UP cops over march to Hathras; duo arrestedThe Congress has sought chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s resignation over the Hathras incident, as have several other rivals of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said on Thursday that Adityanath must be replaced or the Centre should put the state under President’s rule. Also Read: ‘Media will go, we’ll still be here’: Top official on visit to Hathras familyMeanwhile, UP cabinet minister Siddharth Nath Singh accused the Congress of “politicising the incident”.On the Yamuna Expressway, roughly an hour’s drive from the national capital, a Congress convoy was stopped by the state police, forcing Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and their party colleagues to walk. A group of policemen attempted to physically stop them, resulting in scuffles with party workers. At one point, Rahul Gandhi fell to the ground as a policeman attempted to stop him from moving forward. Video footage showed a messy scuffle, with, at one stage, the policemen pushing Gandhi and later body tackling him. Also Read: In photos: Rahul Gandhi, sister Priyanka detained by UP Police“Shri Rahul Gandhi, Smt Priyanka Gandhi and senior Congress leaders have been arrested by the UP police,” the party said on its official Twitter handle in the afternoon. The party leaders, who were arrested at 3.40pm, on the Yamuna Expressway, were taken to a facility at the Buddh International Circuit close by before being driven back to the national capital, accompanied by UP Police. The two were later booked for violating provisions of the epidemic diseases act that is in place for fighting the Covid-19 pandemic.The BJP called the Gandhis’ attempt to visit Hathras “political tourism”. Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the suspects arrested for the alleged gang rape and murder would be punished. “The probe teams are carrying out the investigation, but I think there should not be political tourism...,” he said.The woman was allegedly raped and brutalised by four dominant-caste men on September 14 when she had gone to the fields in her village to gather cattle fodder. Left partially paralysed and admitted for treatment in the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College of Aligarh Muslim University, she was shifted to New Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital when her condition did not improve. She died on Tuesday morning.Police on Thursday, however, contended that there was no rape — and referred to the first charge sheet filed in the matter that did not mention rape — contradicting a statement given by the victim in the Aligarh hospital days before she died. Conflicting videos did the rounds, increasing the murkiness around the crime (a young woman’s death, at the least), and highlighting efforts to spin the narrative. Anger has mounted since the predawn cremation of the woman on Wednesday that her family said had been forced by the Uttar Pradesh authorities. Protests took place in Hathras, where the police were deployed in strength. Elsewhere in UP and in major metropolitan cities such as Delhi and Mumbai, political party workers and ordinary citizens held demonstrations for a second consecutive day on Thursday.Priyanka Gandhi alleged that the police used “lathis” on Congress workers and that many of them were injured. “The sticks of an egotistical government cannot stop us. I wish these lathis were used by this police while standing in defence of Hathras’s Dalit daughter,” she tweeted in Hindi.Rahul Gandhi was seen asking the UP Police under which law he was being stopped and insisted that he would proceed alone towards Hathras to meet the rape victim’s family, given that section 144, which prohibits large gatherings, had been imposed. “Can you tell me under which law can you stop me from marching towards Hathras? I want to go alone to Hathras and on what basis can you arrest me,” he asked, to which police officials replied that he had violated section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for disobeying orders promulgated by the government during the Covid-19 pandemic. Love Kumar, additional commissioner of police of Gautam Budh Nagar, said section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) had been enforced in the district. “Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and about 50 party workers were booked under section 188 of IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). They were released on personal bond in the evening,” he said. Kumar said the police used mild force to disperse the crowd and denied there was a lathi-charge.Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav, BSP‘s Mayawati and Trinamool Congress’s Mamata Banerjee lashed out at Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Condemnation also came in from the chief ministers of Kerala and Punjab, while protests were held by cadres of SP, in addition to those by Congress workers, across multiple cities in Uttar Pradesh. In Aligarh, SP workers lodged a protest when they were stopped from moving towards Boolgarhi village in Hathras on Thursday. Azad Samaj Party chief and Bhim Army founder Chandrashekhar Azad too demanded President’s Rule in Uttar Pradesh, saying the constitutional machinery in the state failed to curb crimes against Dalits. Azad said he has started a “dharna” at his home in Saharanpur where he is put under a “house arrest”, which was ordered by the local police on Wednesday.The Dalit activist was accompanying the family of the 19-year-old woman, who died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, a fortnight after she was allegedly gang-raped in UP’s Hathras, to their home but was detained midway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-stifle-protests-after-forcibly-cremating-victim/story-IxbvcTnsIjATUd4rU8TBbO.html
02-10-2020||India||UP reported 25% of crimes against people from SC communities||Uttar Pradesh accounted for a fourth of all crimes against Scheduled Castes in 2019, and pendency of cases across India in which the marginalised caste was the victim was nearly 94%, showed a report by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).The report recorded 45,852 crimes against SCs – or one every 12 minutes – across India in 2019, representing a rise of 7.3% from the previous year. This came amid growing outrage over the alleged gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman whose body was forcibly cremated by the Police in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras. Also Read: 4 months on, Govt to name members to SC/ST panelUttar Pradesh (11,829) reported the highest cases, followed by Rajasthan (6,794) and Bihar (6,544). The next two states in the list are Madhya Pradesh (5,300) and Maharashtra (2,150). These top five states accounted for 71% of cases of atrocities against Scheduled Castes. WATCH | ‘Hathras girl wasn’t raped; bid to stir caste tension’: UP ADG Prashant KumarTo be sure, Uttar Pradesh is the most populous state in India.The crime rate – which is a measure of crime cases relative to the population of SC – was highest in Rajasthan, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. The pendency rate in cases in which the victims were SCs was significantly higher than the national pendency rate of 88.9%.Also Read: Hathras gangrape: Police stifle protests after forcibly cremating victimIn 2019, 204,191 cases involving SCs were up for trial in India, and only 6%, or 12,498, saw the trial completed. Of this, only 32% of cases led to a conviction and 59% to an acquittal. Less than 10% of the registered cases on crimes against SCs were found false. Simple hurt constituted the highest proportion of total crimes against Scheduled Castes (28.89%), and rape of SC women made up 7.59% of the total registered crimes. Activists said the figures pointed towards the vulnerability of SCs.“Every day, nine Dalit women are raped in this country, this just shows the total lawlessness in this country! In the Hathras case, even in death, she was not treated in a dignified way! What can we expect from a state that has the highest crimes against Dalits?” asked Beena Pallical of the National Campaign for Dalit Human Rights. Raja Bagga, a senior officer at the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, pointed out that police filed charge sheets in 78% cases of crimes against SCs nationally. “Abysmal charge sheeting rates of 34% and 49% in Jharkhand and Rajasthan respectively is a reflection of how the police investigates caste atrocity cases. The most curious case is of Rajasthan where the police in 2905 cases ( 40% of the 7374 cases under investigation) of crimes against SC submitted a final report, i.e closed the case as false,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-reported-25-of-crimes-against-scs/story-13sLTLV0JXhI0vJnGqFaOP.html
02-10-2020||India||Hathras case: Cops contradict victim’s statement||The Uttar Pradesh Police cited forensic reports on Thursday to deny that the 19-year-old Dalit woman, whose death and forced cremation sparked nationwide outrage, was raped, contradicting statements by the victim and her mother. Additional director general (ADG) of UP police, Prashant Kumar, said forensic examination revealed that the woman, who succumbed to her injuries at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital on Tuesday, was not raped. WATCH | Hathras horror: UP cop cites forensic report, says no rape“The samples did not have sperm and thus makes it clear that no rape or gang rape took place with the girl,” he said. Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar also denied gang-rape charges. Experts pointed to lapses in the medical examination procedure, which occurred eight days after the alleged rape, and said it violated national and international guidelines that say the scrutiny must be done at the earliest in cases of sexual assault. Also Read: Hathras gangrape: Police stifle protests after forcibly cremating victim“For India, guidelines laid down by the Union ministry of health and family welfare say the medical examination must happen within four days of the assault. However, internationally, countries also collect samples up to seven days. After seven days, chances are usually bleak of finding any evidence of consequence,” said a senior forensic expert from a government hospital on condition of anonymity. Activists said the rape allegations notwithstanding, the murder of a young Dalit woman needed to be strictly punished. “The death of the girl points to the impunity enjoyed by the Thakur caste in the region. The strictest punishment is needed in this heinous case,” said Sumedha Boudh of the Rashtriya Dalit Mahila Adhikar Andolan. The woman, who hailed from the Valmiki caste, was allegedly gang-raped by four men from the Thakur caste on September 14. She was first moved to the district hospital in Aligarh, where her statement was recorded on September 22, and finally shifted to Delhi on September 28. Also Read: ‘Media will go, we’ll still be here’: Top official on visit to Hathras familyShe succumbed to her injuries on Tuesday, triggering protests by Dalit groups in Delhi and elsewhere in the country. In the early hours of Wednesday, police drove the victim’s body and family back to Hathras, where the woman was forcibly cremated at 2.30am, sparking anger and allegations from opposition parties that the authorities were trying to bury evidence. Also Read: Rahul Gandhi, sister Priyanka detained; not allowed to march to Hathras to meet UP woman’s familyOn Thursday, Safdarjung hospital issued the woman’s death summary and autopsy report, which mentioned strangulation, cervical injuries, sepsis and cardiopulmonary arrest as the final diagnosis. The private parts showed healed tears and wounds, said the postmortem report. Citing a report by Agra’s Forensic Sciences Laboratory, Kumar said some people misrepresented the facts to disturb social harmony and create caste violence. “Police took immediate action in the case and now we will identify those who tried to disturb social harmony and law and order,” he said. Also Read: Under fire for supporting actors, Ramdas Athawale to meet Hathras victim’s familyKumar said the woman in her first statement to police didn’t mention rape initially. The case FIR filed at Chandpa police station on September 14 also initially mentioned attempt to murder, and sections concerning rape were added eight days later. On Thursday, unverified videos showing the mother and the daughter making these statements did the rounds as the battle of narratives heated up. But the victim’s family pointed to statements by the woman in hospital and her mother that alleged rape. In a declaration recorded before the magistrate on September 22, the woman named all four men -- Sandip Singh, Ramu Singh, Ravi Singh and Lavkush Singh, who have been arrested – and said she was raped by them. “She said she was afraid to leave the house because she was harassed for six months by the men,” said a person who was present when the statement was being recorded.Also Read: Govt may declare Hathras village a Covid containment zone, says DMThe statement of the mother, also recorded at the same time, mentioned that the upper-caste families had been hostile to them for years. The victim’s grandfather had, in 2001, filed cases against the families of Ramu and Sandip of criminal intimidation, hurt and under the SC/ST Atrocities Act. That case was settled in 2015. These declarations, experts said, should be treated by police as important pieces of evidence. “The dying declaration is the most important piece of statement. Such a statement made in front of a magistrate is enough to land a person in jail for life,” said former UP director general of police Vikram Singh. Lucknow-based legal expert Rohit Kant said when the woman alleged rape in her statement before death, then all FSL and postmortem reports became irrelevant. “The victim’s word should be given priority,” he said. At the village, a three-member special investigation team visited the family and questioned them while authorities imposed prohibitory orders and barricaded all entry points. Earlier in the day, local police said three constables on duty in the village had displayed Covid-like symptoms and that the entire area may be categorised as a containment zone (something that would effectively make it off limits to visitors) but by evening the Hathras chief medical officer said no such zone had been set up at the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-cops-contradict-victim-s-statement/story-ZZLwQAdckGVk2jZAWcAmyL.html
02-10-2020||India||Anti-CAA stir: NIA court gives bail to Akhil Gogoi||A National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court here on Thursday granted bail to peasant leader Akhil Gogoi in a case related to the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) stir in Assam last year.NIA special judge Pranjal Das granted the bail on a surety of Rs 30,000 and other conditions like non-tampering of evidence and influencing witnesses. He will, however, have to stay in jail as he is yet to get bail in connection with another NIA case.“The court granted bail to Gogoi in connection with the NIA case filed in Chabua. He was denied bail in connection with the case in Chandmari in August this year. The bail application in that case will come for hearing on October 13,” Santanu Barthakur, counsel for Gogoi, said.The leader of Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), Gogoi was arrested on December 12 last year for allegedly inciting violence during the anti-CAA stir. He was later handed over to NIA and a court here sent him to 10 days custody of the agency on December 17. He was taken to New Delhi the same day for questioning.Gogoi was brought back to Guwahati on December 25 and has been in judicial custody ever since.The Gauhati high court, in July, granted him bail in connection with three separate cases filed by the Assam police for inciting violence during the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-caa-stir-nia-court-gives-bail-to-akhil-gogoi/story-9Bz1Xj3hhz7elMK4ymfYiI.html
02-10-2020||India||How Covid-19 has gripped India’s urban centres||In the first six months of the Covid-19 outbreak in India, three cities – Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai – were the main urban epicentres of the disease. But a massive spike in cases in Bengaluru through September has propelled the southern city to the second spot ahead of Mumbai and Chennai. While one in every seven cases in the country can be traced to just these four metropolitan hotspots, they have fared much worse in terms of death – one in every five deaths in India has been in these cities. A look at four factors that explain how the pandemic has gripped India’s urban centres.Cases still rising alarmingly in Mumbai and BengaluruDelhi remains, by a large margin, the country’s worst-hit city (279,715 infections as of Sept 30), but it appears to have started bringing under control its daily case trajectory for the second time. At its peak (so far), the seven day average of daily cases in the city touched 4,174 on September 17.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todaySince then, this number has dropped to 3,275 (Sept 30). Bengaluru, meanwhile, saw a massive spike in cases in the past few weeks and is now the city with the second highest number of cases in India.In Mumbai, the case trajectory has touched new highs in September, and appears to be rising still. Chennai is the only city among the four metros that has seen a big drop from its peak – average daily cases have dropped 40% from the peak recorded in early July.Mumbai’s CFR significantly worse than othersBy a large margin, Mumbai has been the country’s worst-hit city in terms of deaths due to Covid-19. As on Wednesday, out of the 205,268 infections reported in the city, 8,929 people have lost their lives — the highest number of deaths of any city. This also translates to a case fatality rate (CFR) – the proportion of deaths to the total number of confirmed cases – of 4.3%, again the worst among the metropolitan cities listed here. Chennai has reported 3,207 deaths from 167,376 cases till Wednesday. While it has the second-worst CFR (2.6%), in absolute numbers it has the lowest deaths among these cities. In fact, in terms of total deaths, Pune has more fatalities than Chennai and Bengaluru. The average CFR across the country is 1.6%, Bengaluru (CFR of 1.3%) is the only city that has so far performed better.Bengaluru’s active cases alarmingly highActive cases is a statistic that does not paint a good picture for Bengaluru. The IT hub (47,145 active cases as on Wednesday) has 43% more active cases than Delhi (26,908), which is on second spot. To be sure, Bengaluru’s case outbreak is a lot more recent than other metros listed here, and the daily recoveries are yet to catch up to the spike in cases.Watch | Covid update: Germany flights cancelled; New York’s positivity rate rises Active cases – those still under treatment – is a key metric because it directly reflects the pressure on the health care system in any region. It is calculated by subtracting the number of recovered patients and deaths from the total tally. With 26,663 active cases, Mumbai is close on the heels of Delhi. Pune (16,545 active cases) is the city with the fourth-highest number of active cases in the country , ahead of Chennai (11,323).The district of Pune (57,298 active cases) is the one with the highest number of active cases in the country, followed by Bengaluru and Thane. Out of the seven districts with the highest number of active cases, five are from Maharashtra – a statistic that highlights the sheer magnitude of the outbreak in the worst-hit state in the country.By districts, Pune worst-hit by a large marginWhen looking at the country’s worst-hit districs, we see Pune is country’s worst-hit region with 293,064 confirmed cases as of Wednesday. Delhi with 279,715 total infections comes close . Most major metropolitan cities in the country are districts by themselves – with the exception of Delhi, which consists of 11 revenue districts, but has been taken as a single unit as the state government does not release district-wise data. Similarly, district wise breakup of cases was not available for some states such as Telangana and Assam.One out of every four cases reported in the country can be traced to the 10 worst-hit districts. The four metropolitan cities — Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai and Chennai — all feature in this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-covid-has-gripped-india-s-urban-centres/story-KK9AzPfHqQD6augurJ90uO.html
02-10-2020||India||A review of economy in 1st half of FY 2020-21||The first high-frequency economic indicator released in October has brought good news on the economic front. The Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for manufacturing clocked a value of 56.8 in September. This is the highest reading in over eight-and-a-half years, according to IHS Markit, the agency that conducts the survey. September is the second consecutive month PMI manufacturing has been above the neutral threshold of 50. The revival in August and September is in keeping with an improvement in the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) during the period. NIBRI improved from around 70 to above 80 between July and September. These improvements notwithstanding, experts maintain that the economy continues to face significant headwinds on the road to sustained growth revival. While the September quarter GDP numbers will only be released in November, other high frequency indicators will give a better picture of the economy in the next few days. PMI manufacturing rose to a record 56.8 in September. A PMI value above 50 signifies expansion in economic activity. Average PMI manufacturing in the quarter ending September was 51.6, a sharp rise from the average value of 35.1 in the June quarter. The revival in PMI, however, has not been able to prevent job losses – on account of the difficulty in hiring workers as well as social distancing norms for the coronavirus disease, leading to a reduction in the workforce – and employment fell for six consecutive months. “While uncertainty about the Covid-19 pandemic remains, producers can at least for now enjoy the recovery”, said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. PMI revival need not translate into actual growth in manufacturing. “The improvement in PMI for September was expected and corresponds to the Unlock process that is prevalent in the economy. While the PMI at 56.8 does reflect significant improvement over August and the other preceding months, it does not present a picture on the year-on-year numbers which will be out when the IIP {Index of Industrial Production} numbers are announced, which will be in the negative zone”, said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at CARE Ratings. Also Read: September’s GST revenue best of this fiscal as business activity picks upExperts advise caution in reading too much into PMI numbers. “PMIs are a sluggish measure and managers end up comparing the current month to the last few months rather than just the last month, bringing in some inertia. As such, PMIs may not be ideal for tracking turning points”, a research note by Pranjul Bhandari and others from HSBC Securities and Capital Markets India Private Ltd pointed out in July. Recent statistics support this argument. For example, the index of eight core sector industries contracted (on an annual basis) 8.5% in August compared to 8% in July. However, PMI manufacturing improved from 46 in July to 52 in August. As rising Covid-19 infections cloud consumer and business sentiment, investment demand remained weak. According to the capital expenditure database of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), both new investment announcements and investment projects paint a grim picture. New investment announcements (by value) contracted by 82% in the quarter ending September, the highest since June 1996, the earliest period for which data is available. Annual contraction in the value of investment projects completed recovered from its all-time high of 72.9% in the June quarter, perhaps a result of the unlocking of the economy. Yet, it saw the second highest contraction of 62.9% in the September quarter. Also Read: India’s fiscal federalism crisis is not the pandemic’s creationIn another development on the capex front, cumulative central government capital expenditure in the current fiscal year fell below last year’s levels in August after having remained high until July. According to figures released by the Controller General of Accounts(CGA), which works under the ministry of finance, total capital expenditure in April-August was Rs 1,34,447 crore against Rs 1,36,176 crore in the same period last year. With state finances confronting a crunch, capex by state governments is unlikely to keep up with last year’s levels. In an interview to HT, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said she was open to the idea of a second fiscal stimulus. While the Atmanirbhar Bharat package announced in the month of May was to the tune of 10% of India’s GDP, its fiscal component was much smaller, at just over 1% of GDP. To be sure, there is little clarity on how the centre will finance a second stimulus. CGA numbers show that all revenue heads except union excise duties had lower realisations than last year until August. The government has kept its borrowing limit for 2020-21 unchanged at Rs 12 lakh crore, a figure which was decided in May. At least two set of numbers will be required for greater clarity on the nature of the ongoing economic recovery. The first is PMI services (to be released in the next couple of days) for September. The second set of numbers, which should have been released on October 1, are the trends from Reserve Bank of India’s bimonthly forward-looking surveys, especially the consumer confidence survey (CCS). Also Read: Retail inflation grew at 6.7% in AugustPMI services has contracted for six consecutive months now. The service sector has a bigger share in both output and employment than manufacturing. Unless there is a broad-based revival in services, aggregate demand would continue to remain tepid. The fact that the latest Unlock guidelines announced on Wednesday have allowed resumption of most economic activity except international flights should give a boost to normalisation of service sector activity. Whether the tailwinds from Unlock will be overpowered by headwinds from infections remains to be seen. With rising cases of Covid-19, weakness in labour markets and continuing economic uncertainty, consumer behaviour might have shifted towards increasing precautionary savings. Consumer sentiment on key metrics such as the current economic situation, employment and spending on non-essential items had plummeted to an all-time low in July. If the Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee meeting had not been postponed from Tuesday to Thursday, the results of the consumer confidence survey would have been out on Thursday. The CCS numbers will indicate whether consumers will go out and spend during the coming festive season or save as much as they can for fear of worse times ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-review-of-economy-in-1st-half-of-fy-2020-21/story-P0P6edDmsT29FHThv4XQjI.html
02-10-2020||India||Govt assessment shows village adoption, rural housing schemes falling short of targets||Two key flagship rural schemes of the union government are far behind their targets, raising concerns of slow rate of completion of critical infrastructure in Indian villages. According to the union rural development ministry’s internal assessment, the village adoption scheme by MPs (SAGY) and the rural housing scheme (PMAY) have both have seen tepid start in their current phases. SAGY, in which MPs select villages in their constituencies for development, has seen only around 400 villages being identified by Parliamentarians for the current phase that will run till 2024. The internal note says “this was far below the targeted identification” . Also Read: A review of economy in 1st half of FY 2020-21In the rural housing programme, the Centre is worried about the low rate of sanction of houses and an even lower rate of disbursement of funds. The rural ministry has stated, “Out of the total target of 12.1 million (houses) allocated to the States/UTs in Phase-II, only 64 % houses have been sanctioned and 54 % beneficiaries have received the first instalment.” “Many States had not issued targets to districts even though clear directions were issued by MoRD (ministry of rural development) to speed up issuance of sanctions,” the report added. While SAGY helps in targeted development of individual villages the rural housing programme helps creating permanent houses for homeless poor in Indian villages. Also Read: Unused rural funds hint migrants may be back at work in citiesThe report also said that in states including Assam, Bihar, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Nagaland, Mizoram, Tamil Nadu, Jammu & Kashmir and Meghalaya “the performance in Phase-II was below National Average of 39% completion of houses against the target” even as there is no shortage of funds. In a recent review meeting on key flagship schemes, special measures were suggested to speed things up.The states will be asked to “encourage” remaining MPs to adopt villages, organize orientation programmes for lawmakers, and keep SAGY as a regular agenda item in all reviews. For the rural housing scheme, States/ UTs have been requested to expedite the release of the first instalment to all the sanctioned houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rural-schemes-falling-short-of-targets/story-fK2acYvaYgeBoK7G9curRO.html
02-10-2020||India||Rs 7,800 crore border network system cleared by govt||The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) has approved the creation of a secure communication system for the army at a cost of Rs 7,800 crore, a significant move that will enhance network coverage in forward areas including the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) and provide a major boost to the operational preparedness of the army “especially keeping in view the current operational situation at the LAC,” the defence ministry said on Thursday. Separately, the ministry inked a Rs 409-crore contract with a private company for the first time to supply a million hand grenades to the army to replace a World War-II vintage design currently in use, in what will provide a boost to the Make in India initiative, officials said. Also Read: ‘No war, no peace in Ladakh,’ says IAF chief RKS BhadauriaWatch: India made laser-guided anti-tank guided missile successfully test-firedThe CCS cleared the long-pending proposal for establishing the Army Static Switched Communication Network (ASCON) Phase IV, with the project to be implemented by Indian Telephone Industries Limited --- a public sector firm under the department of telecommunication, ministry of communications --- under a Rs 7,796-crore contract signed on Thursday. The communication network will be functional in three years. “The project will provide better survivability, responsiveness and high bandwidth in any operational scenario and enhance the communication coverage of network closer to the International Border, Line of Control and Line of Actual Control,” the defence ministry said in a statement. The army had been pursuing the project for a few years to upgrade its communication facilities in remote areas. Also Read: China’s resurrection of 1959 LAC claim may be first step. India preps for falloutThe network will extend the high bandwidth communication to the remote operational areas in central and eastern sectors and enhance communication reach to the forward locations in the western border too, officials said. The statement said the project would augment the army’s communication network in sensitive operational areas and provide a major boost to its operational preparedness, especially keeping in view the current situation at the LAC, where India and China have been locked in a border row for more than five months and both sides have made arrangements for the long haul in the eastern Ladakh theatre. Also Read: India moves terrain-hugging Nirbhay missiles with 1,000-km range to defend LACExperts welcomed the move to set up the network. “The ASCON Phase IV has been in the offing for quite some time now and it’s good that the government has approved it now. It will provide modern communication facilities and enhance the army’s network coverage in different sectors,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). The project marks a significant communications technology upgrade. “The project is a strategic and theatre area communication network which will upgrade the existing Asynchronous Transfer Mode Technology to Internet Protocol (IP)/Multi Protocol Label Switching (MPLS) Technology. Optical fibre cable, microwave radio and satellite will be used as the communication media,” the statement said. The ASCON Phase IV project is expected to provide a boost to the local industry as it has an indigenous content of almost 80%. It will involve several activities including execution of civil works, laying of optical fibre cable and tower construction, and generate employment in remote border areas, the statement said. “The project is also a big opportunity for the public sector to showcase its capability and provide impetus to the Indian economy and will be a step in the direction of achieving the goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat,” it added. In another move expected to provide thrust to the goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat {Self-Reliant India), the defence ministry signed a contract with Nagpur-based private firm Economic Explosives Ltd (EEL) for supplying 1 million multi-mode hand grenades to the army. These will replace a World War-II vintage hand grenade design being used by the army, the ministry said in another statement. EEL will deliver the new grenades over two years. The multi-mode hand grenade has been designed by the Chandigarh-based Terminal Ballistic Research Laboratories (TBRL) --- a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) laboratory --- and will be produced by EEL. “This is a flagship project showcasing public-private partnership, enabling ‘AtmaNirbharta’ in cutting edge ammunition technologies and accomplishes 100% indigenous content,” the statement added. Multi-purpose grenades figure on the list of 101 types of weapons and ammunition whose import India will ban progressively over the next five years. The government published the negative import list in August to give a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India Movement).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7k-cr-border-network-system-cleared-by-govt/story-FpII48duUnzHNa7OCGEbKL.html
02-10-2020||India||Becoming a Gandhian||Mahatma Gandhi, as this newspaper’s editorial said on October 2, 2019, to mark the beginning of his 150th birth anniversary celebrations, was the greatest Indian ever.The breadth and transparency of his public engagements; the quality and duration of his public life where he extensively dealt with all the big questions of modern times; his core values of freedom, democracy, non-violence, truth, Hindu-Muslim unity, and individual dignity; his empathy, including for those who opposed him; his ability to construct an umbrella coalition of remarkable freedom fighters; and his belief in pluralism and peace has helped make India what it is today. Also read: Gandhi: The chroniclerAs we remember the Mahatma this year, it is time to return to the core ideas which made him what he was. To rediscover these, Hindustan Times returns to a set of sparkling essays published last year as a part of a series titled Gandhi: 150 Years On. In her essay on Gandhi and modern political thought, academic Karuna Mantena wrote that Gandhi was “both a man of action and a philosopher” and the “originality and depth of his political thought was closely connected to action”. It was a philosophy for “popular politics in the street, maidan and village”. Gandhi’s key innovation was, of course, the idea of satyagraha, which according to Mantena, “was means for generating opportunities for persuasion and realignment rather than retrenchment and polarisation”. It was central to his belief in the importance of means, and a way to build strength through deeds and action.But what did satyagraha entail? The scholar David Hardiman wrote of how Gandhi disliked the term passive resistance — which is, all too often, mistakenly used to describe Gandhi’s methods since it suggested passivity. Satyagraha — drawn from Satya (truth) and agraha (seizing or laying hold of) — was soul force, an “attitude of mind”. Gandhi fused this with ahimsa, non-violence — arguing not just for its ethical nature but also pointing to its tactical value, for violence would invite a draconian response from a vast, coercive imperial machinery. Gandhi’s movements saw this dialectic between mass participation in peaceful movements with occasional bouts of violence, which also led him to withdraw the movement altogether in some cases such as the Non-Cooperation Movement after the violence at Chauri Chaura. But Hardiman wrote, “Gandhi’s method succeeded because of the relentless pressure it put on rulers — forcing them to give in to mass demands.” This, then, became an example for other political and civil liberty movements across the world. In a separate essay, David Arnold wrote of how Gandhi “stole Britain’s moral fire”. “Gandhi punctured the moral balloon of British rule in India and it never recovered from that spectacular deflation.” But Gandhi was engaged with not just the external battle with the colonial rulers, but the internal nature of Indian society, from the question of religion to caste, from an economic vision to the constructive work needed in Indian society. Take three examples.Caste, economy, environment Caste was a central preoccupation of Gandhi’s life. His views evolved on the issue — but it fundamentally came from a position of seeking reform in social attitudes, creating enabling conditions to encourage exchanges between members of different castes, taking on occupations seen as only the task of the “lower” castes, and striving for harmony — but within the broad Hindu social order. This is where his clash with BR Ambedkar, who saw it as a political issue and recognised the indispensability of representation, became most acute. Dhrubo Jyoti, in his essay, wrote of the Poona Pact where Amebdkar pushed for separate electorates for Scheduled Castes as formalised by the British after the second round-table conference — on the grounds that a joint electorate will rob the community of independent leadership. Gandhi resisted it through a fast, criticising their “statutory separation even in a limited form, from the Hindu fold”. Ambedkar finally had to relent, albeit reluctantly, acutely aware of the implications on Dalits if Gandhi’s life was compromised. The architecture of reservations for Dalits remains a legacy of this pact. Also read: When Gandhi stood trial for seditionHow did Gandhian ideas extend to the economic realm? In a thoughtful essay, Niranjan Rajadhyakhsa wrote of how Gandhi offered a radically different path. “He argued for an India of household production for local consumption...Independent India rejected the Gandhian option, while paying polite tributes to it.” The roots of his economic ideas could be traced to ethical concerns, scepticism of modern technology, and belief in decentralised production as a way to offer dignity. While his economic model may not have the same resonance, his views on the environment are perhaps more critical today than ever before — and there is a close linkage between the two in Gandhi’s views, as the world realises now in the midst of the climate crisis as a product of the relentless quest for growth. Venu Madhav Govindu in his essay acknowledged that Gandhi did not use the vocabulary of modern day environmentalism, but says, “his way of living reflected environmental concerns”. This was most clearly reflected in his ashrams in Ahmedabad and Sewagram, but it went beyond that, for Gandhi understood “the devastating economic consequences” of the global commodity trade under colonialism. Over the decades, Gandhian activists have been at the forefront of some of India’s key environmental issues.From the internal emotional and psychological drivers of human action to the community-building around a set of principles, from waging a non-violent but extraordinarily successful mass movement against the British Raj to envisioning a new free India and what it should look like, Gandhi’s worldview was vast, complex and nuanced. On his 151st birth anniversary, India can do no better than translate Gandhi’s ideals of simplicity, truth, non-violence, non discrimination and religious unity, and care for nature into reality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhi-and-his-worldview/story-hpAMaTYIWmZblPuAO31VRM.html
02-10-2020||India||Satyagraha in South Africa||A young lawyer of 24, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi arrived in Durban in early 1893 to serve as counsel to a local merchant. In June that year, he was asked to travel to Pretoria which required him to first travel to Pietermaritzburg and then take another connection.On the train, Gandhi was seated in the first-class compartment when a white man entered the compartment, recoiled at the sight of a brown man, and summoned railway officials. Gandhi was ordered to go to the van compartment as the officials harshly told him that “coolies” were not allowed in the first-class compartment. Gandhi resisted, producing his ticket and refusing to budge , only to be pushed out of the train, his luggage tossed at the station after him, in Pietermaritzburg.Also read: Gandhi: The chronicler“It was winter and the cold was extremely bitter. My overcoat was in my luggage but I didn’t dare ask for it lest I should be insulted again, so I sat and shivered,” Gandhi later wrote in his autobiography, The Story of My Experiments With Truth.This incident is almost universally described as the moment of the Mahatma’s political awakening. And yet, his travails didn’t end there.Gandhi continued his journey on the next day, but when he made it to Charlestown and had to take a stagecoach, he was made to sit with the coachman on the box outside because the white conductor and passengers wouldn’t have it otherwise. A scuffle ensued with the conductor soon after and Gandhi was beaten up; the blows stopped only after some other passengers intervened.Today, if the world views Gandhi as a civil rights icon who freed India and birthed a unique form of political protest that reverberates even today, much of it is owed to South Africa, and the humiliation that sparked his political awakening there.Contested legacyAnd yet, his views and writing as a young lawyer in a nation torn by apartheid continues to be the most bitterly contested part of his legacy with a growing cohort of activists and academics coming to see Gandhi as not liberating but as a racist who looked down on local residents.Gandhi’s time in South Africa came into sharper focus on the eve of his 150th birth anniversary last year when the Johannesburg City Council debated a motion to remove his name and statue from the city centre.The motion — along with leaders of the Rhodes Must Fall movement, which has demanded the removal of statues and memorabilia connected to the English colonialist Cecil Rhodes because of his racism — said Gandhi was prejudiced in his treatment towards Black South Africans, routinely used the pejorative term Kaffirs and viewed Indians as being superior to them.Also read: When Gandhi stood trial for sedition“Ours is one continuous struggle against a degradation sought to be inflicted upon us by the Europeans who desire to degrade us to the level of the raw Kaffir whose occupation is hunting, and whose sole ambition is to collect a certain number of cattle to buy a wife and, then, pass his life in indolence and nakedness,” Gandhi told a meeting after spending three years in South Africa.The petition — brought by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) party — acknowledged that Gandhi undertook efforts to understand the local people and that his views changed in latter years.“In this view, Gandhi is branded as a“reformed racist”, who despite having positively transformed and shed his early prejudice against Africans— does not deserve to be forgiven,” wrote Eric Itzkin, the author of Gandhi’s Johannesburg: Birthplace of Satyagraha, in the Hindustan Times.In some ways, this reconfiguring of Gandhi’s history is not new. In India, academics and Dalit activists have for long questioned his views on untouchability and said his clashes with Dr BR Ambedkar underlined his problematic views on caste.But many others studying Gandhi have called for a more nuanced debate on the matter. Writing in the Hindustan Times, Uma Dhupelia-Mesthrie, a senior professor at the history department of the University of the Western Cape and the great-grand-daughter of Gandhi, noted that the debate on social media ignores the changes Gandhi went through in subsequent years when he sought to travel third class in trains to get a taste of what Africans experienced.In defence of GandhiShe pointed out that Indian Opinion — a newspaper Gandhi started — published news about African grievances, restricted land rights and daily discrimination. Gandhi’s final campaign in 1913, which drew Indian women to become passive resisters for the first time, was inspired by the struggle of African women against the Pass laws (which stipulated that Africans in urban areas had to carry a Pass on their person or face prosecution).Itzkin noted that Gandhi’s time in Johannesburg from 1903 to 1913 was a formative period during which time he developed the philosophy of satyagraha.In his landmark speech to the Young Men’s Christian Association, delivered in Johannesburg on May 18, 1908, Gandhi spoke of his vision of an inclusive, multiracial society in South Africa: “If we look into the future, is it not a heritage that we leave to posterity that all the different races commingle and produce a civilisation that perhaps the world has not yet seen?” In his article, British historian David Arnold noted that Gandhi’s time in South Africa was marked by his faith in the empire and its sense of justice. And yet, it didn’t stop him from demolishing the moral authority of the empire in his 1909 book Hind Swaraj.“There was nothing moral about railways or Western-style colleges and hospitals. There was nothing moral about people starving; about taxing salt; about the violence that underpinned the Raj. Gandhi punctured the moral balloon of British rule in India and it never recovered from that spectacular deflation,” he wrote.In South Africa, too, many now say it’s important to see Gandhi’s whole persona, his early missteps and his later contribution — a fact underlined by the massive loss of the EFF motion, 226-20. And, of course, none other than Nelson Mandela, who was inspired by Gandhi, also defended him.Itzkin wrote that Mandela was aware of the racist statements made by Gandhi when he was young but in an article in 1999, argued that the Mahatma must be forgiven those prejudices, and be judged in the context of the time and circumstances.“We are looking here at the young Gandhi, still to become the Mahatma, when he was without any human prejudice save that in favour of truth and justice,” Mandela wrote.After all, as Dhupelia-Mesthrie noted, who can claim at 45 to be the same person they were at 24?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mk-gandhi-s-south-africa-days/story-7sBXEutMT6dt95XLAFWINL.html
02-10-2020||India||Gandhi: A determined chronicler||Growing up in the princely state of Porbandar, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi’s older brother, Laxmidas, did not imagine that the youngster, who did passably well in his studies and exhibited a love for theatre, would ever become a journalist. The best he hoped for was that Gandhi would study enough to become a barrister and a diwan of the state. For a while, it was touch and go, as Gandhi himself pointed out in his autobiography, My Experiments With Truth, that he wrote many years later. Fate, however, had other plans for the young MK.After training in law and clearing the London bar, Gandhi turned his sights to South Africa, then a British colony. He migrated in 1893 to work for the offices of Dada Abdulla and Company. His own experience with apartheid, the system of racial segregation institutionalised by the colonial authorities against the Black and other non-White populations (including brown-skinned Gandhi) was a rude awakening for the 24-year-old.Also read: Gandhi and his worldviewIn 1903, he started Indian Opinion, which “regularly published news about African grievances about restricted land rights and daily petty discrimination and commended African achievements,” his great grand-daughter, Uma Dhupelia-Mesthrie, a professor of history at the University of Western Cape, pointed out in an essay that she wrote for the Hindustan Times as part of the Gandhi: 150 Years On series to commemorate the sesquicentennial birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation. But Gandhi was always more than a journalist. He fought for freedoms large and small, and the news journals that he started and/ or edited through his 78 years — six in all, including Harijan, but he was a prolific writer and his pieces appeared in many places, including in this paper — served to amplify his deeply held beliefs. “Gandhi used Indian Opinion to mobilise readers, to educate them about an ethical and moral lifestyle and to highlight the harsh conditions of indentured workers on the estates and mines. His thoughts on what constituted good journalism, one free from advertisers, began to crystallise in this period. He also used the paper to establish his own leadership of the movement. It is this Gandhi and the man who went on to lead India’s liberation struggle, who would inspire generations of South African resisters,” Dhupelia-Mesthrie wrote.It was in South Africa that Gandhi gave up his flourishing legal practice; established the Phoenix Settlement where he lived with wife Kasturba and four sons, Harilal, Manilal, Ramdas and Devdas, along with other Indian settlers, and from where he published Indian Opinion; and formulated campaigns of Satyagraha. Gandhi left the running of the paper to the trustees of Phoenix farm (Manilal was one of its longest serving editors) when he returned to India in 1915, touching down in the port city where he once dreamt of becoming a solicitor while walking the corridors of the Bombay high court.Young IndiaIt didn’t take too long for Gandhi to start newspapers in India. As his grandson Gopal Krishna Gandhi wrote for the Hindustan Times series, “Young India (YI) was to become, for the duration of its lifetime (1919-1932), English-educated India’s premier thought partner.”“The year it was founded in was, for India, a year of rage. The draconian Rowlatt Act restricting civil liberties in the name of the First World War, followed by the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and what came to be called “The Punjab Wrong”, were the chief concerns of this weekly of eight very thin pages. Its editorials made it, literally, a page turner in India’s public life of the time,” Gopal Gandhi wrote.The same year, in August, Gandhi had already started a Gujarati weekly called Navajivan, true to his belief that the majority of India lived in the villages and did not speak a word of English. If the messages of Satyagraha, Civil Disobedience, Hindu-Muslim unity — all central to Gandhi’s activism in the freedom struggle — was to reach them, vernacular press was the way to go. Young India, however, was started to reach out to “Educated India”, and to readers especially in the Madras Presidency. The paper, which worked on a subscription-only model — Gandhi did not want “advertisement soiling its pages” — went on to attain a circulation of 1,200 copies in its initial few weeks (it cost an anna per copy); by 1922, it had reached a weekly sales figure of 40,000.Also read: MK Gandhi’s South Africa daysThe paper went on to be edited by other stalwarts of the freedom struggle: Shoaib Qureshi, a son-in-law of Mohammed Ali, the Khilafat leader, C. Rajagopalachari, George Joseph, J C Kumarappa and Jairamdas Doulatram.“It became more than a thought-partner, a thought-maker and thought-changer.“Educated India” became an eager student of Young India,” Gopal Gandhi wrote.This is not to say that Gandhi held a very high opinion of the state of the Indian press at the time.In an April 1924 piece for Navajivan, he wrote: “Dr. (MA) Ansari [a Congressman] writes to say that those [north Indian] papers regard it as their duty to… spread false rumours, to calumniate each other’s religion and thereby to vilify each other. It seems this has become a means of increasing the circulation of their papers. How to stop this infection from spreading has become a big problem.” Power of the editorialThis also probably explains why, speaking at the inauguration of the Hindustan Times in September 1924, Gandhi remarked that seeing the conditions in the country at the time, he would stop the printing of all newspapers except Young India, if he could. “Every word and sentence published in the paper should be weighed.There should not only be no untrue statements, but no suggestio falsi or suppressio veri,” he told the small crowd that had gathered for the inauguration of the printing press of the Hindustan Times. Eight days later, the first edition was taken out, with each letter painstaking hand-pressed. Gandhi knew the power of a strongly worded editorial. In February 1943, when the British released a pamphlet, Congress responsibility for the Disturbances, 1942-43, over the 1942 Quit India resolution, Gandhi — then imprisoned at the Aga Khan palace in Poona —responded with a letter, several pages long and exhaustive in its defence of the call for political freedom. The letter was published in seven instalments in the Hindustan Times. Gandhi was a prolific writer and chronicler. Ramachandra Guha, author of two definitive Gandhi biographies offers a glimpse of it in his essay, A biographer’s journey: In search of the Mahatma, in which he wrote: “The Collected Works are indispensable to any scholar of Gandhi. In writing my own two-volume biography of the Mahatma, I found more than half-a-dozen nuggets in this capacious and lovingly curated collection. However, I knew from the beginning that I had to go much beyond this printed series of books. The Collected Works had all the known letters that Gandhi himself wrote; but virtually none of the letters that he received or responded to. Then there were the thousands of letters written about Gandhi by his contemporaries and critics, which I wanted to study as well.”Tridip Suhrud, who recently published a critical edition of Gandhi’s autobiography and authored The Diary of Manu Gandhi: 1943-1944, also wrote about the various people who have written about MK Gandhi over generations. In his piece titled Essential Reading on MK Gandhi, he wrote that the most authoritative writer of Gandhi was Gandhi himself. “But of course, the best on Gandhi is Gandhi himself. His autobiography is a text for those seeking an ally in troubled times; Hind Swaraj continues to exasperate readers, new and old alike; his idiosyncratic Key to Health remains his best selling book. For all those who have leisure, volumes of his collected writings are highly recommended,” Suhrud wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhi-the-chronicler/story-7Y5IyZtIAcQfeyOuot7D2I.html
02-10-2020||India||Travelling to Dubai: Why Dubai has put additional checks on Indians||Flying to anywhere outside India at present is difficult given the Covid-19 situation across the world. Though several countries have opened their skies for international flights, there are several checks and balances. India and the UAE are part of an air bubble agreement, which allows airlines of both the countries to carry passengers. But Dubai has imposed several additional conditions on Indians flying to Dubai.On September 18, Dubai authorities suspended all Air India Express flights temporarily for 15 days for allegedly carrying coronavirus positive patients to the UAE city twice. The ban was lifted a day after. The Dubai Civil Aviation Authority also penalised Air India Express to bear all medical and quarantine expenditures of the Covid-19 positive patients who have been ferried to Dubai.Test from these labs not validThe authorities in Dubai has also specified four Indian labs whose test results are not be considered valid. It has asked Air India Express to reject negative RT-PCR test reports of these labs: Suryam Lab, Jaipur; Microhealth lab, Kerala; Dr P Bhasin Pathlabs (P) Ltd in Delhi and Noble Diagnostic Centre, also in Delhi. #FlyWithIXAttention Passengers travelling to Dubai! pic.twitter.com/uxPAmsA60U“The certificate must be in English, if no in Arabic. No other language certificate will be entertained,” Vistara guidelines for Dubai passengers said. Visa rulesTourist visa holders travelling to the UAE (Dubai and Sharjah) must ensure that the passport and related documents must have a minimum 6 months validity from the arrival date. On September 4, Air India carried a Covid positive passenger to Dubai. The passenger had a Covid positive certificate, reports said. In August too, a similar such incident took place. The airlines, however, blamed the ground-handling agency for the lapse. Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travelling-to-dubai-why-dubai-has-put-additional-checks-on-indians/story-ctQbtq6ZDOTR3bzHOsYlSN.html
02-10-2020||India||International flights: New destinations, rules, relaxations in October||The Centre on Wednesday extended the suspension of regular international passenger flights till October 31 and will operate these flights in air bubbles and under the Vande Bharat scheme. Though a number of activities have resumed in the country in a phased manner, regular international flights are one of those which are still restricted. The restriction also owes to the embargos other countries have in place to check the number of Covid-19 infections, apart from India’s Covid-19 figures. the However, a number of things effectively changes from today.16 international destinationsIndians can now fly to 16 destinations as new air bubbles have been signed. The list of the countries include Afghanistan, Bahrain, Bhutan, Canada, France, Germany, Iraq, Japan, Kenya, the Maldives, Nigeria, Oman, Qatar, the UAE, the UK, the US. Travel agreements with Oman and Kenya have been finalised in the last few days. These agreements are the only window that is currently allowing international travel. Under these agreements, airlines of both the countries can carry passengers. Further widening the scope of international air connectivity.Happy to announce that bilateral air bubble arrangement is now in place for flights between India & Oman, taking the number of such arrangements to 16.Carriers of India & Oman will operate between the two countries.No flights to Germany till October 20However, a fall out with Germany early this week has put passengers in a quandary. Lufthansa has cancelled all its flights till October as India has rejected its October schedule where Germany is flying more flights to India but the number of Indian airlines entering Germany is restricted. Negotiations are going on in this regard.Vande Bharat Mission flightsThe repatriation flights, on the other hand, are still on. Vande Bharat Mission was initiated in the first week of May to repatriate Indians stuck abroad owing to the Covid-19 lockdown. More destinations are being added to Vande Bharat flights. Air India Express will start direct flights from Mangalore to Dubai in October. Baggage rulesAs the Centre has allowed the airlines to reverted to their pre-Covid baggage rules, this month flyers will be able to carry more luggage. “Air India is glad to be able to offer its unparalleled maximum baggage allowance again! 35 kgs for Business Class; 25 kgs for Economy Class! Leave your weight of worries with us & enjoy your flight,” Air India has tweeted. Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-flights-new-destinations-rules-relaxations-in-october/story-Bp3zcP8yfgjNd7QPbjx2CI.html
02-10-2020||India||More outrage, protests after Hathras victim’s cremation||The hurried cremation of the Hathras gang-rape victim was meant to suppress protests and chief minister Yogi Adityanath must resign, opposition political readers said on Wednesday, while also demanding the case be shifted outside of Uttar Pradesh. The slugfest intensified after the family of the 19-year-old Dalit victim alleged that they had been forced by UP police to perform her last rites in the stealth of the night. The police said they had the consent of the kin. Congress president Sonia Gandhi said the people of the country are sad and angry over the gruesome incident and said the “Nirbhaya of Hathras did not die but was killed by a cruel and insensitive government and its administration”. WATCH: Hathras horror: ‘Cars can overturn in UP’ says BJP leader; Congress slams Yogi“What kind of justice is this? What kind of a government is this? You think you can do anything and the nation will sit and watch. Never, the nation will speak against your injustice. On behalf of the Congress party, I demand justice for the family. India belongs to everyone. Everyone has the right to live with dignity. The Constitution has given us this right. We will not allow the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] to break the country and violate the Constitution,” the Congress president said in a video message. Also Read: Resolve the Hathras rape case swiftlyCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded the resignation of the chief minister, who said he had formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the September 14 gangrape, in the course of which the woman was brutalised by four men.Tagging Adityanath, Priyanka Priyanka, who oversees her party’s Uttar Pradesh unit, tweeted: “RESIGN. Instead of protecting the victim and her family, your government became complicit in depriving her of every single human right, even in death. You have no moral right to continue as chief minister.” @myogiadityanath RESIGN Instead of protecting the victim and her family, your government became complicit in depriving her of every single human right, even in death. You have no moral right to continue as Chief Minister. 3/3In another tweet in Hindi, she alleged that at 2:30 am on Wednesday, UP police forced the family to cremate the body.मैं यूपी के मुख्यमंत्री जी से कुछ सवाल पूछना चाहती हूँ- परिजनों से जबरदस्ती छीन कर पीड़िता के शव को जलवा देने का आदेश किसने दिया?पिछले 14 दिन से कहां सोए हुए थे आप? क्यों हरकत में नहीं आए?और कब तक चलेगा ये सब? कैसे मुख्यमंत्री हैं आप? pic.twitter.com/Q2qPcDXDTT“I was on the phone with the Hathras victim’s father when he was informed that his daughter had passed away. I heard him cry out in despair. He had just been telling me that all he wanted was justice for his child. Last night the victim’s father was robbed of the chance to take his daughter home for the last time and perform her last rites,” she wrote. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi joined his sister in attacking the BJP government of Uttar Pradesh. “A daughter of India is raped-murdered, facts are suppressed and in the end, the right to perform the last rites is also taken away from the victim’s family. It is insulting and unjust,” he tweeted in Hindi. Members of Dalit groups and activists alleged the police was actively prohibiting them from agitation. “The whole world is watching how the government and the police together cremated our sister in the absence of her family. I have been taken into custody and put under house arrest in Saharanpur; but we will continue to fight,” said Chandrasekhar Azad, chief of the Bhim Army that had led protests outside Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital on Tuesday.The Samajwadi Party also tried to organise a march to the CM’s residence, but the police stopped the group too with a lathicharge. In New Delhi, around 80 Left activists were detained when they tried to stage a protest outside Uttar Pradesh Bhawan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-outrage-protests-after-hathras-victim-s-cremation/story-sOAFiYcn5SAaEsDDFHCsSO.html
