03-10-2020||India||Odisha issues SOP for use of antiviral drug Favipiravir by Covid-19 patients||Odisha government has issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) on the use of Favipiravir tablet by Covid-19 patients who are in home isolation. This comes as the state reported 3,000-odd news cases of infection on Saturday.Additional chief secretary, health department, Pradipta Mohapatra said as around 80 percent of Odisha’s 30,000-odd Covid-19 patients have been allowed home isolation, trained doctors can prescribe Favipiravir after assessing the condition of patients with the latter’s written consent.Favipiravir is an antiviral drug that was developed for the treatment of resistant influenza virus in Japan. In case of Covid-19 patients with mild to moderate symptoms, the medicine has proved to be effective. It works by inhibiting RNA dependent RNA polymerase enzyme, a key enzyme blocking replication of RNA viruses.Also read: ‘70% of Covid-19 patients don’t transmit virus,’ reveals study conducted in AP, TNThe health secretary said Rapid Response Teams of the state government in various districts will be trained to assess the condition of patients in home isolation and, in consultation with doctors, will ascertain whether the patients need to be administered Favipiravir at home. Once the patient is found to be suitable for the administration of Favipiravir, the RRT will explain the patient and the family members about the dosage of the tablet, side effects, precautions, and actions to be taken. Under no circumstances can the patients go for self-medication.Also read: Odisha man forced to live in toilet for over a year after rain damages houseFavipiravir is not recommended for children and pregnant women. Those above the age of 60 years have been advised to consult a doctor if they experience any side effects of the drug. In case of adverse reactions or worsening of general conditions, the RRT will consider moving the patient to the local Covid Care facility.The Health and Family Welfare department has directed all district collectors, CDMOs and municipal commissioners to set up a dedicated helpline and telemedicine facility for early launching of the programme for online training, sensitisation of RRT teams, doctors on call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-issues-sop-for-use-of-antiviral-drug-favipiravir-by-covid-19-patients/story-bS0zAOW1t1nRBV2pD4YdGL.html
03-10-2020||India||ED summons Kerala CPI (M) state secretary’s son to Bengaluru on alleged drug funding charges||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPI (M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, to its Bengaluru office on Tuesday to question him in connection with the alleged drug funding charges. He was issued a notice on Saturday; a senior officer who is part of the investigation said adding he was also asked to produce details of his properties. He was asked to appear before the ED office in Shanthinagar in Bengaluru. There are reports he will also be questioned by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Last month he was interrogated by the ED in Kochi for more than 11 hours and later the Central agency had frozen transactions of his properties. Trouble began for the second son of the state secretary after Bengaluru drug racket accused Anoop Mohammad gave a statement to the NCB in which he mentioned his name. After his arrest he said Kodiyeri had helped him a lot in his “business venture”. Later his name also figured prominently in the call list of Mohammad. There were also allegations that he allegedly helped Swapna Suresh, main accused in the gold smuggling case, to slip out of the state in July and helped her find a hideout in the city. Kodiyeri later admitted that he knew Mohammad and helped him to open a hotel in Bengaluru in 2015 but he was not aware of his alleged drug dealings. But, later the ED found that two shell companies floated by Kodiyeri, B Capital Solutions and B Capital Forex, were allegedly involved in many shoddy deals. Floated in 2015, both firms had failed to file tax returns and other formalities and the ED suspects these firms were floated for alleged money laundering and hawala transactions. Kodiyeri was not available for comment. During investigation into the 30 kg gold smuggling through the UAE consulate, the ED has also found that there is close link between the smuggling and psychedelic drug cases. The smuggling case came to light on July 5 after 30 kg gold was seized from a consignment that came in the name of the United Arab Emirates consular office in Thiruvananthapuram. And the drug surfaced on August 28 after the arrest of Anoop Mohammad and two others in Bengaluru. Drug seizure involving Kannada actors is a different case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-kerala-cpi-m-state-secretary-s-son-to-bengaluru-on-alleged-drug-funding-charges/story-pZxZame9wxFqlihRQROOHK.html
03-10-2020||India||Odisha man forced to live in toilet for over a year after rain damages house||A 50-year-old daily wage labourer in Odisha’s Jharsuguda district has been living in a toilet built under Swachh Bharat Mission after his kutcha house was damaged in rains more than a year ago.Jogendra Nikhunti, a daily-wage labourer from Pujaripalli village under Lakhanpur block in Jharsuguda district, has been living in a toilet. He was living alone in his house after his wife and children left him for Chhatisgarh allegedly due to his drinking habits.“My kutcha house was completely damaged during monsoon season last year and since then I am living in a toilet that the government constructed. I find it difficult to fit inside the room but somehow manage to sleep since I have no other place other than this. I had informed the sarpanch of Bhikampali gram Panchayat who had assured me of extending help but till now nothing has been done,” said Nikhunti.Also read: UP CM Yogi Adityanath recommends CBI probe in Hathras gang-rape caseHe also alleged that he is not getting foodgrains under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) for the last few months. Sarpanch Krushna Kalo said he is not getting his foodgrains as his Aadhaar card has not been linked with the NFSA card. “I am not sure if he has an Aadhaar card. But if he has got his Aadhaar card then we can link it with the NFSA for the supply of foodgrains,” said the sarpanch.Jharsuguda district collector Saroj Samal said Nikhunti’s name has been included in the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana inclusion list and he would get a house once the government takes a decision.“But as it would take time, we can build a house for him from the District Mineral Fund or CSR money if he wants to stay in the house. Till the house is made, we are trying to keep him at an old age home. The BDO of Lakhanpur is trying to counsel him for getting him moved to an old age home,” said the collector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-forced-to-live-in-toilet-for-over-a-year-after-rain-damages-house/story-r2ejvZY5IQB7kbXGbRcaCN.html
03-10-2020||India||Hathras gangrape: Will make an example of offenders, says UP CM Yogi Adityanath||Amid outrage over the cases of gang rape and murder of two women in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday promised exemplary punishment to the culprits, and to those who even think of disrespecting women.“Anyone who even thinks of hurting the honour and self-respect of mothers and sisters in Uttar Pradesh is certain to face annihilation. Such persons will get exemplary punishments. Your UP government is committed towards the safety and progress of mothers and sisters. This is our resolve and promise,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. The chief minister’s statement comes amid the Opposition demanding his resignation after a rape of a 19-year-old woman, who hailed from the Valmiki caste, on September 14. The victim succumbed to her injuries on September 29, and her body was forcibly cremated by the police at 2.30am the next day, sparking allegations from the Opposition that the authorities were trying to bury evidence. Another Dalit woman was raped and killed in Balrampur district. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad demanded President’s Rule in the state, alleging “failure of constitutional machinery”. The Trinamool Congress lashed out at the state for unleashing “jungle raj” after its delegation was stopped from meeting the family members of Hathras victim.  हाथरस की दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण घटना और जुड़े सभी बिंदुओं की गहन पड़ताल के उद्देश्य से @UPGovt इस प्रकरण की विवेचना केंद्रीय अन्वेषण ब्यूरो (CBI) के माध्यम से कराने की संस्तुति कर रही है।इस घटना के लिए जिम्मेदार सभी लोगों को कठोरतम सजा दिलाने के लिए हम संकल्पबद्ध हैं।Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who addressed a prayer meeting in the memory of the rape victim in New Delhi, said every woman needs to question the UP government to seek justice for the daughter of Hathras. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has accused rival parties of trying to politicise the incident with Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad accusing the Congress of indulging in theatrics. “It is an unfortunate incident. Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath ji ordered a Special Investigation Team(SIT) inquiry into the case. Accused have been arrested. If it’s a rape case or not, that has also been told by UP Police,” Prasad was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Meanwhile, senior BJP leader Uma Bharti urged Adityanath to allow politicians and media to meet the family members of the victims. “Your image as the CM is very clean. I would request you to allow media personnel and politicians, including those from the Opposition to meet the family,” the BJP leader wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gangrape-will-make-an-example-of-offenders-says-up-cm-yogi-adityanath/story-WCagos4eIWqgYDfvlL9NlN.html
03-10-2020||India||Top Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah expected to visit India on October 6||Afghanistan’s top peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah is expected to visit India on October 6 as part of an outreach to key countries in the region for support for the negotiations between the Afghan government and the Taliban, people familiar with developments said on Saturday. Abdullah, chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation in Afghanistan, will travel to India after a three-day visit to Pakistan that concluded on Wednesday. This is his first visit to India after the formation of a new government in Kabul following last year’s troubled election. The people cited above said on condition of anonymity that Abdullah is expected to meet the top Indian leadership to seek support for the intra-Afghan negotiations currently underway at Doha in Qatar. India had sent an official delegation to Doha to attend the event marking the launch of negotiations and the event was also addressed by external affairs minister S Jaishankar. In his speech, Jaishankar said that any new dispensation which emerges from the intra-Afghan dialogue process must ensure that the soil of Afghanistan is never used for anti-India activities. Senior Afghan leader Marshal Abdul Rashid Dostum had visited India on September 25 and held talks on the peace process with Jaishankar, who told him New Delhi remains committed to Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled negotiations. During his interaction with the Pakistani media in Islamabad, Abdullah said both Pakistan and Afghanistan are on “the same page” on the issues of reducing violence and showing flexibility in the negotiations underway in Doha. These views should be emphasised in “messages communicated to Taliban”, he said. India, the region’s largest provider of development aid to Afghanistan, has expressed concern at a recent spike in violence by the Taliban and terror attacks on minorities such as Sikhs. It has said that the intra-Afghan negotiations must ensure the interests of minorities, women and vulnerable sections of society and reduce violence across Afghanistan and its neighbourhood. Since 2001, India has undertaken projects worth $3 billion in Afghanistan, including $1 billion pledged in 2016 under the “new development partnership” scheme for five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-afghan-peace-negotiator-abdullah-abdullah-expected-to-visit-india-on-october-6/story-9dAu2F24Amrn9ygUV3kuOI.html
03-10-2020||India||‘Couldn’t even see her face before cremation’: Hathras gang-rape victim’s kin||Journalists were finally allowed to enter the Hathras gang-rape victim’s village, Boolgarhi, and interacted with her family members after at least two days during which the village had remained out of bounds for reporters and politicians.The family members of the woman alleged they were pressured, especially the father, who said with tears, that he was not sure if the body that was cremated was his daughter’s. The alleged forcible cremation of the victim’s body in the dead of night has added to the national outrage over the alleged gang-rape and brutalisation that led to the woman’s death.Further alleging that they “couldn’t even see her face before the cremation”, the family said they wanted justice and not money. The state government has already announced Rs 25 lakh ex gratia, a job for a family member and a house for the family of the victim.“We requested not to conduct the cremation at night, but no heed was paid. In fact, we do not know if it was our daughter’s body,” they said.Also read: UP CM Yogi Adityanath recommends CBI probe in Hathras gang-rape case“The village and our house were heavily guarded by the police. We want justice, not money. It was totally unjustified to deny a respectful cremation. We asked for cremation in the daytime, but it was done at night forcibly,” the victim’s mother said.“We lay down in front of the ambulance, but we were removed and the cremation was done by force at night,” the family alleged.The victim’s mother denied undergoing a narco-analysis test. She also denied having asked for a CBI inquiry into the case. Journalists had been kept out of the village for the last two days as the authorities said a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was conducting the probe.Also read: State must protect the family, says Rahul Gandhi in HathrasMeanwhile, Hathras subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Prem Prakash Meena said section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code was still in force in the village prohibiting the assembly of four people or more.“The video of the DM (district magistrate) going viral is fake and edited” he added.The Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four dominant caste men earlier this month. The victim was admitted to the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College of Aligarh Muslim University after she was left partially paralysed. She was later moved to Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi where she died on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/couldn-t-even-see-her-face-before-cremation-hathras-gang-rape-victim-s-kin/story-HgYRB6OaLqQvHQxdn1G5TP.html
03-10-2020||India||Nation wants justice for India’s daughter, tweets Rahul Gandhi hours after visiting Hathras||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday evening visited Hathras gang-rape victim’s family and said the whole country was united in seeking justice for the daughter of India.He tweeted hours after meeting the family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who was gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras by ‘upper’ caste men on September 14. A fortnight later, she breathed her last in New Delhi’s Safdarjang Hospital and her body was cremated at midnight by Uttar Pradesh Police. The victim’s family members’ were allegedly not allowed to take part in the cremation.“I met the afflicted family of Hathras and understood their pain. I assured them that we are standing with them in this difficult time and will help them in getting justice. The UP government will not be able to do anything arbitrary as it wants, because now the whole country is standing to bring justice to the daughter of this country,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted.After spending over 30 minutes with the victim’s kin, Rahul Gandhi and his sister Priyanka Gandhi told reporters that the Congress party stood with the aggrieved family. “The family couldn’t see their daughter for the one last time. UP CM Yogi Adityanath should understand his responsibility. Till the time justice is delivered, we’ll continue this fight,” Priyanka Gandhi said.Rahul Gandhi said the state government must protect the grieving family. “I stand with the family. It is the responsibility of the state government to ensure their safety,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nation-wants-justice-for-india-s-daughter-tweets-rahul-gandhi-hours-after-visiting-hathras/story-uoz0TOofS2nJf0Ewlxu53M.html
03-10-2020||India||‘70% of Covid-19 patients don’t transmit virus,’ reveals study conducted in AP, TN||A latest study conducted by US-based Centre for Disease, Dynamics and Economic Policy (CDDEP) in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu has revealed that not all individuals infected with Covid-19 transmit the virus, stating children as active transmitters. The study, titled ‘Epidemiology and transmission dynamics of Covid-19 in two Indian states’, was published in the September 30 edition of ‘Science’ magazine. Quoting the findings, an official in the Andhra Pradesh government said a team of investigators from the CDDEP, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu governments and University of California at Berkeley studied disease transmission patterns in 575,071 individuals exposed to 84,965 confirmed cases of Covid-19 in these two states. Also read: Covid fear, disparity - Why these countries objected to Indian flights“The study, based on data collected by tens of thousands of contact tracers in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, is the largest and most comprehensive analysis of Covid-19 epidemiology till date,” the official claimed. According to the study, prospective follow-up testing of exposed contacts had revealed that 70 percent of infected individuals did not infect any of their contacts, while 8 percent of infected individuals accounted for 60 percent of observed new infections. The study found a high prevalence of infection among children who were contacts of cases around their own age. “Risk of transmission from an index case to a close contact ranges from 2.6 percent in the community to 9.0 percent in the household. Same-age contacts are associated with the greatest infection risk,” it said. However, mortality is higher in the age group of 40-69 years in these two states. It is 0.05 percent among the people in the age group of 5-17 years and 16.6 percent in people of above 85 years. “Men were 62 percent more likely to die than women. Similarly, 63 percent of those who died had at least one co-morbidity, while 36 percent had two or more co-morbidities. Nearly 45 percent of the deceased were diabetic,” the study revealed. The study found that both Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have effective primary healthcare delivery models. These two states have the largest healthcare workforces and public health expenditures per capita. They initiated rigorous disease surveillance and contact tracing early in response to the pandemic, it said. Also read: Trump in exceptionally good spirits, fever-free, breathing fine, say doctors“They have followed procedures including syndromic surveillance and testing for all individuals seeking care for severe acute respiratory illness or influenza-like illness at healthcare facilities, delineation of 5-km “containment zones” surrounding cases for daily house-to-house surveillance to identify individuals with symptoms,” it observed. The study also noted that there is a daily follow-up of all contacts of laboratory-confirmed or suspected Covid-19 cases, with the aim of testing these individuals 5-14 days after their contact with a primary case, irrespective of symptoms, to identify onward transmission. According to the director of the CDDEP, Dr Ramanan Laxminarayan, this study was made possible by the significant contact-tracing effort in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu which involved tens of thousands of healthcare workers. “The results on disease transmission and mortality have the potential to inform policy to fight Covid-19. The study also speaks to the capacity of research emerging from India to help inform the global response to Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-of-covid-19-patients-don-t-transmit-virus-reveals-study-conducted-in-ap-tn/story-72MK8gg4Qdc8R09HEvZoUP.html
03-10-2020||India||Jharkhand minority welfare minister Haji Hussein Ansari dies battling Covid-19||Jharkhand minority welfare minister and four-time JMM legislator from Madhupur, Haji Hussein Ansari died on Saturday afternoon fighting coronavirus in Medanta hospital in Ranchi.The 73-year-old JMM leader, who had undergone open heart surgery about two years back, was admitted to Medanta on September 23 after he tested Covid-19 positive. He, however, tested negative on October 2 and was shifted to a non-Covid ICU of the hospital.He passed away due to a cardiac arrest at about 3:50 pm on Saturday, confirmed health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni.The body was handed over to the family maintaining Covid-19 protocols. His son Hafizul Hassan was present. Later, the family members took the body to his ancestral place in Madhupur for the last rites.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren tweeted: “I am deeply hurt by the loss of my ministerial colleague Haji Hussein Ansari sahab ji. Haji sahab was in the forefront of the Jharkhand movement and played a great role in it. He was a simple person with strong determination. May the almighty give peace to the departed soul and strength to the family to withstand the loss.”JMM president and Rajya Sabha member Shibu Soren said he was pained to hear the news. In his condolence message, Soren described Ansari as a truly popular leader who was available to all. “He was my beloved companion. Ansari was a true leader, who was always alert on public issues and party organisation,” Shibu said adding that his death was an irreparable loss to the party.Condolences poured in from leaders of different political parties as well. Among the prominent ones were state Congress president and minister Rameshwar Oraon, CPI (ML) state secretary Janardan Prasad, CPI (M) and CPI state committees. Born in Pipra village in Madhupur block of Deoghar district, Ansari started his political journey in late eighties with the Congress. Influenced by JMM chief Shibu Soren, he joined the regional party in the nineties when the Jharkhand movement was at its peak. A close associate of Shibu Soren, he was one of the frontal leaders of the separate statehood struggle and spearheaded several agitations along with the JMM chief. Later, Ansari got elected from the Madhupur assembly segment for the first time in 1995 in unified Bihar. He represented the assembly constituency four times in 1995, 2000, 2010 and 2019.He was the leader of the opposition in Jharkhand in 2004 and also headed the state Haj committee as its chairman in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-minority-welfare-minister-haji-hussein-ansari-dies-battling-covid-19/story-lDl4KUvNu8t0Ncct3DT9rK.html
03-10-2020||India||AIIMS report on Sushant Singh Rajput death: Who said what||Ending months of speculation, the forensic team of AIIMS Delhi, which was looking into the autopsy report of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, has now asserted that it was a suicide. “There were no injuries over the body other than hanging. There were no marks of struggle/scuffle in the body and clothes of the deceased,” Dr Gupta told ANI. The findings of the team led by Dr Sudhir Gupta have created a stir and evoked several reactions. Anil Deshmukh: Maharashtra home minister, NCP leader Anil Deshmukh raised questions over the delay in the CBI probe. “The investigation carried out by Mumbai Police in the Sushant Singh suicide case was done professionally & ethically. It has also been confirmed by the Hon’ble Supreme court & AIIMS report,” Deshmukh tweeted.Sachin Sawant: Congress leader and Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant demanded an SIT probe into the conspiracy being hatched against the Maha Vikas Agadhi government. “After the confirmation of AIIMS panel , the Conspiracy of Modi govt to defame Maharashtra is exposed. We demand SIT probe to nab the mastermind of the Conspiracy,” he said. After the confirmation of AIIMS panel , the Conspiracy of Modi govt to defame Maharashtra is exposed. We demand SIT probe to nab the mastermind of the Conspiracy. pic.twitter.com/nlWl70Kd1OPratap Sarnaik: Shiv Sena spokesperson Pratap Sarnaik blamed the opposition for besmirching Mumbai Police. “With the AIIMS report, opposition parties have been exposed. Henceforth they should not drag Mumbai police into politics and let the cops do their job in a professional manner.” एम्स फॉरेन्सिक टीमचे चेअरमन डॉक्टर सुधीर गुप्ता यांनी आपला अंतिम रिपोर्ट सीबीआय कडे दिला आहे त्यानुसार सुशांत सिंग चा मृत्यू आत्महत्येने झाला आहे हे सिद्ध होते. एका कलाकाराच्या आत्महत्येचे राजकारण करून मुंबई पोलीस व महाराष्ट्राची खोटी बदनामी करणाऱ्या लोकांना ही सणसणीत चपराक आहे.Vikas Singh: The lawyer of Sushant Singh Rajput’s family has called the report “inconclusive”. Since the team did not actually examine Sushant’s body but relied on photographs, the report could not be treated as conclusive. “AIIMS report is not conclusive and CBI in its charge sheet can still file a case of murder in Sushant Singh Rajput death case,” he said.Satish Maneshinde: Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde blamed media for speculation against Rhea Chakraborty. “I have seen the statement of the Doctors from AIIMS concerning SSR case. The official papers and report are only with AIIMS and CBI, which will be submitted in court once investigations are over. We await the official version of CBI. We on behalf of Rhea Chakraborty have always said that Truth cannot be changed under any circumstances. The speculations against Rhea in some quarters of the Media are motivated and mischievous. We remain committed to Truth Alone. Satya Meva Jayte,” read his statement. His family complained to cops about the threat to his life way before he died, he wanted to live but quit films, he wanted to settle in Coorg but who blackmailed him? Who cornered him in a way that dying was easier than living? Morally and legally abetment of suicide is a murder.Kangana Ranaut: “Young and extraordinary individuals don’t just wake up one fine day and kill themselves. Sushant said he was being bullied and outcast, he feared for his life, he said movie mafia banned him and harassed him, he was mentally affected by being falsely accused of rape..is family complained to cops about the threat to his life way before he died, he wanted to live but quit films, he wanted to settle in Coorg but who blackmailed him? Who cornered him in a way that dying was easier than living? Morally and legally abetment of suicide is a murder,” the actor tweeted.Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead on June 14 in his Mumbai residence. The Mumbai Police called it a suicide after preliminary investigation. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is now probing the case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is looking into a money-laundering angle and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is investigating into a drug angle — both related to the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-report-on-sushant-singh-rajput-death-who-said-what/story-bASG0BNVkkHtRRICgHeItN.html
03-10-2020||India||UP CM Yogi Adityanath recommends CBI probe in Hathras gang-rape case||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath recommended a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the gang-rape of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras. Amid mounting pressure on the state government due to protests across the country against its handling of the case, the CM’s office tweeted the development on Saturday. मुख्यमंत्री श्री @myogiadityanath जी ने सम्पूर्ण हाथरस प्रकरण की जांच सीबीआई से कराए जाने के आदेश दिए हैं।Later, Adityanath said the state government is seeking an inquiry by the CBI for a probe into all aspects linked to the Hathras episode.“We are determined to ensure the harshest punishment for all those responsible for this incident,” he tweeted in Hindi.CM Adityanath had on Friday evening ordered the suspension of Hathras superintendent of police Vikrant Vir and three other police officers for “negligence and tardy investigation” in the case. He also ordered for “narco-analysis polygraph tests” to be conducted on everyone involved in the case. The Dalit teen died in New Delhi’s Safdarjang Hospital on Tuesday, a fortnight after she was brutally gang-raped and tortured by ‘upper’ caste men in while she was out to get fodder on September 14. Opposition parties, including Congress, Trinamool Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and CPI, took part in protests at various locations and implored the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP CM Yogi to take action in the case.According to Priyanka Gandhi, the state government was trying to shift blame and the government must reveal the phone records of the district magistrate and SP (who were suspended) to ascertain who had been issuing instructions to them. On Friday, she tweeted, “.@myogiadityanath RESIGN. You have no moral right to continue as Chief Minister of UP.”“Why is the Prime Minister silent and where is the Union Home Minister? What are they scared of? Why is India’s biggest state under Section 144?” CPI leader Sitaram Yechury tweeted on Friday.After meeting the victim’s kin in Hathras on Saturday evening, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi said that the UP government should ensure the safety of the aggrieved family. “I stand with the family. It is the responsibility of the state government to ensure their safety,” Rahul Gandhi said.“The family couldn’t see their daughter for the one last time. UP CM Yogi Adityanath should understand his responsibility. Till the time justice is delivered, we’ll continue this fight,” Priyanka Gandhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-recommends-cbi-probe-in-hathras-gang-rape/story-U9KRYCbzAcoMGHKM7UObyO.html
03-10-2020||India||15-year-old Dalit girl’s dead body found in Uttar Pradesh field, kin suspect murder||A dismembered body of a teenage Dalit girl, who was reported missing for around a week by her family, was found in a field in Kanpur Dehat by villagers, police said on Saturday. The body of 15-year-old Laxmi Kumari was found by villagers, who were on a search for her in a field. The villagers found dismembered parts strewn in different places, said Kanpur Dehat superintendent of police Keshav Chowdhury. The body parts were being eaten by the dogs in the field, police said.Laxmi’s father said he identified his daughter’s body through the clothes found nearby. Laxmi’s parents had lodged a complaint with the local Roora police station, fearing that she might have been killed after she went missing on September 26, police officials said.In his complaint, the teenager’s father had accused his two brothers Brajlal and Jiyalal of murdering his daughter over an ongoing land dispute. The two accused have been taken into custody, the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-year-old-dalit-girl-s-dead-body-found-in-uttar-pradesh-field-kin-suspect-murder/story-fSMxf00rVDJVCtHB7BwHBM.html
03-10-2020||India||‘Will continue to fight till justice is served’: Priyanka Gandhi after meeting Hathras gang-rape victim’s family||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi said their party stands with the aggrieved family after meeting Hathras gang-rape victim’s kin on Saturday.Priyanka Gandhi consoled the victim’s mother and said that they will together stand strong in the face of injustice against the family. “The family couldn’t see their daughter for the one last time. UP CM Yogi Adityanath should understand his responsibility. Till the time justice is delivered, we’ll continue this fight,” she said after meeting the victim’s family.Rahul Gandhi said that the state government must protect the grieving family. “I stand with the family. It is the responsibility of the state government to ensure their safety,” he said.The leaders stayed with the family for over an hour after they reached Hathras around 6.45pm following a series of dramatic events, including their detainment by the UP Police on Thursday on grounds of violating Section 144 and the pandemic law.Meanwhile, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath recommended Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the case. On Friday, the CM had suspended Hathras superintendent of police Vikrant Vir and three other police officers for their handling of the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-to-fight-till-justice-is-served-priyanka-gandhi-after-meeting-hathras-gang-rape-victim-s-family/story-iq7YkuuRVfiVJcO2FXSRcO.html
03-10-2020||India||‘Construction of Ram mandir to begin from Navratri’: Temple trust||The construction of the grand Ram temple in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh will begin from Navratri, October 17, with the laying of the foundation pillars of the mandir. “Construction work of Ram mandir will start with the setting of foundation pillars of the temple from this Navratri. By then, the ongoing testing work of pillars will be over,” said mahant Kamal Nayas Das, successor-designate to Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra’s chairman mahant Nritya Gopal Das.“Navratri is considered auspicious and the seers do not wish to miss the opportunity to start the construction of Ram mandir on this occasion,” Das added.Also read: State must protect the family, says Rahul Gandhi in HathrasThe testing of the twelve foundation pillars of the Ram mandir is on and will be over by mid-October. Larsen and Toubro, the company carrying out the construction work for the temple, is conducting the testing. Later, experts from IIT-Chennai will arrive in Ayodhya to carry out the last phase of testing. They are expected in Ayodhya soon.The temple trust had started the piling work for testing the foundation pillars for the temple on September 11. Around 1,200 pillars will be erected about 100 feet below the surface to prepare the temple’s foundation. In technical terms, this process is called piling.To begin with, one pillar, a metre-wide in diameter, was erected 100-feet below the ground. This pillar has been subjected to various tests for around a month to check its strength and durability. From around October 15, after all the testing work is over, the remaining pillars will be laid. Also read: Tejashwi Yadav Opposition’s CM candidate, Cong gets 70 seatsHowever, it is not clear whether the Navratri Mela will be conducted. The Ayodhya administration had cancelled the Navratri Mela in April due to the Covid-19 pandemic.According to the Hindu calendar, Navratri falls twice in a year – in April and in October known as Chaitra and Shardiya Navratri respectively.Prime Minister Narendra Modi presided over the ‘bhumi poojan’ ceremony of Ram mandir in Ayodhya on August 5 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/construction-of-ram-mandir-to-begin-from-navratri-temple-trust/story-Dcj5kTG8YamZ9x8vi261rO.html
03-10-2020||India||India moving towards a presidential form of govt, says Bengal CM Mamata at protest meet||Launching a scathing attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party at the Centre, West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee said that the country is moving towards a presidential form of government. “The country is moving towards presidential form of government – one nation, one leader, one political party. Super-autocracy is going on in the country. There is no democracy in India. Media, NGOs, political parties, government officers are not being allowed to speak. Agency-raj is going on,” she said on Saturday, tagging the BJP as the biggest pandemic the country is facing today. Banerjee was addressing a rally in the heart of Kolkata to protest against the alleged gang rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Uttar Pradesh. This is her first rally after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. “I felt like rushing to Uttar Pradesh. Today my heart lies in that village. The Dalits and minorities are facing maximum atrocities. If I raise my voice, they (BJP) accuse me of minority appeasement. Today I am a Dalit because a Dalit girl has been murdered. Tomorrow I will be a member of the scheduled tribe community if some tribal person is tortured,” the TMC supremo said, with most of her 30-minute speech being delivered in Hindi. The TMC is seeing an opportunity to reach out to voters from backward classes, who supported the BJP in several of the 18 Lok Sabha seats the latter won in 2019. There are about 10 million people from the Namasudra community (Dalits) in Bengal. Before the 2019 polls, the All India Matua Mahasangha, a Dalit body, had played host to a rally addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Attacking the BJP over the Hathras incident, Banerjee said that she had tried to contact the victim’s family over the phone but was unable to speak as their phones were seized. The chief minister hinted that she may visit Hathras any day. “BJP may have directed the UP police not to allow anyone to enter the village. But for how long will it continue – Today, tomorrow and day after? A time will come when I will visit the village and you won’t get to know about it. I will surely meet the victim’s family,” she said. She ordered party leaders to continue protest rallies at block level every day till October 16 before the countdown for Durga Puja starts. The TMC chief used the platform to lead an all-out attack against the BJP-led Union government starting from farm bills, to disinvestment plans and GST, unemployment among others. “Over the past few days a political drama is going on in Mumbai. We want justice to be delivered. But the fact remains that whenever election approaches political vendetta comes into play,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-moving-towards-a-presidential-form-of-govt-says-bengal-cm-mamata-at-protest-meet/story-F92Al9lBDU5B4eHdYOxdNN.html
03-10-2020||India||Protection of aggrieved family is state responsibility, says Rahul Gandhi after meeting Hathras gang-rape victim’s kin||After meeting the family members of the Hathras gang-rape victim on Saturday evening, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the state government must protect the grieving family. “I stand with the family. It is the responsibility of the state government to ensure their safety,” the Congress leader said after the meeting that continued for over 30 minutes. “The family needs protection,” said Priyanka Gandhi, who had a one-on-one chat with the victim’s mother when the Gandhis were inside the house of the victim. “The family couldn’t see their daughter for the one last time. UP CM Yogi Adityanath should understand his responsibility. Till the time justice is delivered, we’ll continue this fight,” Priyanka said. Also Read: ‘Will continue to fight till justice is served’: Priyanka Gandhi after meeting Hathras gang-rape victim’s familyFollowing a series of dramatic incidents, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra reached Hathras on Saturday evening at around 7pm. Security was beefed up around the residence of the gang-rape victim who died in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 29, after being alleged gang-raped by four upper caste men. This was their second attempt to meet the family members, the first one being thwarted by Uttar Pradesh Police on Thursday, on the pretext of Section 144. On Saturday noon, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi started for Hathras by road. At least 35 other Congress leaders, including some MPs, were also on their way to Hathras. The Congress cavalcade met a heavy deployment of security personnel on Delhi-Noida border where it was decided that Rahul, Priyanka and a few Congress leaders will be allowed to enter Uttar Pradesh. Congress leaders KC Venugopal and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury accompanied the Gandhis. The Gandhis’ visit to Hathras comes a day after a Trinamool delegation was stopped by the Uttar Pradesh police, drawing flak from even veteran BJP leader Uma Bharti. The BJP leader from AIIMS Hrishikesh — where she is admitted for Covid-19 treatment — tweeted, urging Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to allow opposition leaders in Hathras as UP police conduct was “earning bad name for the BJP government and UP government as well.”On Friday, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ordered the suspension of Hathras superintendent of police Vikrant Vir and three other police officers for their handling of the case.The government also decided that “narco-analysis polygraph tests” would be conducted on everyone involved in the case, including the victim’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hatras-gang-rape-case-rahul-priyanka-reach-village-meet-family-members/story-VBhvxudgBynlIhjxbRotWM.html
03-10-2020||India||I feel it’s safe to shoot but ‘darr toh lagta hai’: Flora Saini||‘Stree’ actor Flora Saini has been sceptical to shoot amid Covid crisis but despite family pressure she could not keep herself away from the camera for long! The actor shot in Lucknow for the upcoming OTT series ‘Jackson’. “I have been discussing this project with Saurabh (Tewari, director) sir for a long time. And then when he started shooting in Lucknow, he called me to inform. My mother was like ‘nothing doing!’ but then I had to convince her. She agreed because it was a small schedule, as length of my role is not that big in the first season,” said Flora after wrapping her shoot in the state capital. On being asked what made her say yes to the series, the ‘Gandi Baat’ actor replied, “My role in the series is very different. People have seen me in various glamorous avtars but here I was getting a chance to do something extraordinary. At present I can’t reveal much about it. It challenged me as an actor and I’m glad I was able to pull it well.”Flora agrees that it is risky shooting during pandemic. “There are various norms implemented by our associations which are being followed dutifully. The makers are far too cautious as much is on stake for them. I feel it’s safe to shoot but ‘darr toh lagta hai’. The fact is that we too need to be guarded while shooting,” she said. On reaching Mumbai on Saturday, the actor said that she felt a bit low and anticipates that it must be a normal weather change. Flora earlier shot for ‘Ya Rab’ in Lucknow. The pretty actor is looking forward to shoot for ‘City of Dreams’ season 2 and is waiting for ‘Inside Edge-3’ wherein she has already shot for her part. Her latest being ‘Bahut Hua Samman’ that got streamed on OTT, recently was shot in Varanasi last year. The film will see her playing a glamorous Bhojpuri star.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-feel-it-s-safe-to-shoot-but-darr-toh-lagta-hai-flora-saini/story-jQE2bEeqQ8vW4ZLVIvfwxH.html
03-10-2020||India||‘Farmers are masters of their destiny now’: Union minister on farm bills||Union minister for education Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on Saturday hailed the recently passed three agriculture laws by the Centre saying they have made the farmers the masters of their own destiny. Nishank made the statement while addressing a press conference in Dehradun on the three agriculture laws while accusing the Opposition of protesting against the laws without any basis and provoking the farmers. “The agricultural reforms have freed the farmers from the clutches of the middlemen and have made them the masters of their own destiny,” said Nishank. Hailing the laws as highly beneficial for the farmers, he said, “They have given a new lease of life to the agricultural sector of the country. This will largely help the small farmers while ending the influence of the middlemen when selling their produce.”Also read: Tejashwi Yadav Opposition’s CM candidate, Cong gets 70 seats“The new law enables the farmers to sell their produce directly to the buyers like food processors, wholesalers, aggregators and exporters thus increasing their income,” he said. The Union minister also refuted the claims of the Opposition that the new laws will end the Minimum Support Price (MSP) concept and the existing mandis. “There will be no change in the MSP concept nor in the mandis which will continue to operate as normal,” he said.Nishank also lashed out at the Congress and said, “They didn’t read the laws and the provisions in it and have started protesting against them. If they would have read them carefully, they wouldn’t have been protesting without any basis”.The Congress, however, questioned Nishank’s claims saying he should answer whether “there are any provision of not ending the MSP and mandis”.Suryakant Dhasmana, Congress state vice-president said, “He should first answer if there any provisions of not ending the MSP and the mandis which are like a lifeline to the farmers in selling their produce. He should also answer why has the Centre amended the Essential Commodities Act by removing some items like pulses, potato and onion from the list”.“These are all steps to promote crony capitalism and not to benefit the farmers. These new agriculture laws are to push the farmers into bonded labour at the hands of big industrialists,” said Dhasmana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-are-masters-of-their-destiny-now-union-minister-on-farm-bills/story-970zbsUADdPGI9N0raZrOP.html
03-10-2020||India||International flights: Why these countries have objected to Indian flights in past||After months of shutdown, international flight gradually resumed services across the world with several conditions. This period of staggered reopening saw countries exercising their rights to bar flights coming from high-risk countries. Foreign flights have also been banned in the interest of the local airlines. After India started international flights as part of Vande Bharat Mission and air bubbles, several countries have so far objected to India’s flights. Later, some of the issues have been resolved.Here is a list of the countries and why they objectedUnited States: In May, the US administration imposed restrictions on Vande Bharat Mission flights, saying the Indian government has been engaging in discriminatory treatment of American airlines by barring them from operating similar flights. The issue got resolved as India and the US set up air bubble under which airlines of both the countries will be able to carry passengers.UAE: Soon after the United States, the United Arab Emirates raised a similar concern as India was not allowing any UAE flights. The UAE authorities in June said if Air India flights are carrying UAE nationals, then also special permission would be required. Following this, air bubble was set up with the UAE as well.Also Read: International flights: New destinations, rules, relaxations in OctoberHong Kong: Hong Kong banned Vande Bharat flights for a period of fortnight twice in August and September as passengers were found Covid-19 positive.Dubai: Dubai banned Air India flights for Covid-19 concerns. Now it has asked the authorities to blacklist four Covid-19 testing centres when they check test report before allowing passengers to board.Germany: There is currently no flight operational between India and Germany though the two countries have a bubble pact. Negotiations are on as Germany is not allowing Indian carriers to run as many flights as Lufthansa is flying.”As against Indian carriers operating 3-4 flights a week, Lufthansa operated 20 flights a week. In spite of this disparity we offered to clear 7 flights a week for Lufthansa which was not accepted by them. Negotiations continue,” the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-flights-why-these-countries-have-objected-to-indian-flights-in-past/story-jYDCqzth7dNUDwqhA24RjJ.html
03-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka on way to Hathras after high drama, SIT completes probe into Dalit teen’s death||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were headed to Hathras on Saturday to meet the family of the Dalit sexual assault victim following a massive show of party strength and some scuffles too at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. While high drama unfolded in the national capital and the case continued to find wide resonance, a Hathras administration official said the Special Investigation Team had completed its probe into the death and alleged gangrape of the 19-year-old woman. Also read: Hathras gang-rape case: ‘SIT will address all issues raised by victim’s family,’ says ACSEnding a two-day standoff, the administration removed barricades outside her village to allow the media to meet her family. But scores of police personnel in riot gear lined up at the Delhi-Noida Direct flyway to prevent the Congress convoy from moving to Hathras, about 180 km away. Eventually, as swarms of Congress workers and others jostled with each other amid loud honking, slogans and Congress flags fluttering in the air, the Gautam Buddh Nagar Police finally allowed five people, including Rahul Gandhi, to go to Hathras. Congress workers – some who described what happened as “brutal repression” -- claimed police used batons to disperse the crowd. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi were detained on Thursday when they tried to go to Hathras.“CrPC Section 144 has been imposed in Noida, Greater Noida as well as in Hathras and some other districts in Uttar Pradesh due to the COVID-19 outbreak. Considering social distancing and other related norms, permission has been granted for five people, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra,” Noida Police Commissioner Alok Singh told PTI.All roads it seemed led to Hathras with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath sending senior officials, including Additional Chief Secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi and Director General of Police H C Awasthy, to the village to meet the woman’s family. Several journalists, including those from TV channels, also made their way to the village where various family members spoke of their grief and trauma since September 14 when she was brutally assaulted and allegedly gangraped by four upper caste men Awanish Awasthi told reporters that “any group with no more than five people” is allowed to meet the victim’s family, marking a departure from the last few days when media and politicians, including from the Congress and Trinamool Congress, were turned away from the village.“After returning (from Hathras) we will be submitting a report on the entire incident to the chief minister,” Awanish Awasthi said. Also read: ‘Will stand with Dalit brothers and sisters’: Mamata at protest against Hathras gang-rapeThe Dalit teen died of her grievous injuries in the early hours of Tuesday in a Delhi hospital, a fortnight after she was attacked, and cremated in the dead of night near her home on Wednesday. Her family alleged they were forced by local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites, triggering outrage nationwide and protests in several places. On Thursday, the Hathras administration had clamped prohibitory orders and scuffles broke out as politicians, including from the Congress and the TMC, as well as the media tried to access the village. About 300 police personnel stood on guard to prevent anybody from entering.The death of the young woman, whose brutal assault recalled for many the horrors of the Nirbhaya case, continued to snowball into a major political issue As the Congress delegation from Delhi prepared to make its way to Hathras, its Uttar Pradesh unit president Ajay Kumar Lallu and more than 500 workers were put under house arrest, the party alleged. In Varanasi, a group of Congress workers blocked the Union minister Smriti Irani’s cavalcade. Congress spokesperson Lalan Kumar said protesting party workers, who raised anti-government slogans and demanded justice for the woman’s family, were later arrested.Addressing a press conference, the Women and Child Development minister accused the opposition of playing politics on the Hathras issue. “The victim will get justice. I have spoken to the chief minister. Once the SIT submits its report, the chief minister will take action against the accused,” Irani told reporters. Adityanath had set up three-member Special Investigation Team on Wednesday and instructed that it submit its report by October 14.In a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag ‘Hathrashorror’, Rahul Gandhi said the behaviour of the UP government and police with the woman and her family “is unacceptable”. Hitting out at the Adityanath dispensation, Priyanka Gandhi described the UP government as “morally corrupt” and said, “The victim did not get treatment, her complaint was not registered on time, her body was forcibly cremated, the family is in captivity, they are being suppressed -- now they are being threatened that they will have to undergo a narco test.” The party also alleged that the woman and her family had been denied justice and “severely traumatised” by the BJP government.BSP president Mayawati demanded a CBI or a Supreme Court monitored probe into the incident and said people were not satisfied with the initial investigations in the matter.“There is tremendous resentment in the entire country over the Hathras heinous gangrape case. The public does not seem satisfied with the initial probe report. Therefore, this matter should be investigated by the CBI or under the supervision of the honourable Supreme Court. This is the demand of the BSP,” Mayawati tweeted in Hindi.“Also, the honourable president of the country, who also comes from UP and is a Dalit, it is a strong appeal to him to intervene in this case, keeping in mind the inhuman attitude of the government, to bring justice to the victim family,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-priyanka-on-way-to-hathras-after-high-drama-sit-completes-probe-into-dalit-teen-s-death/story-GwDj0d5hgQ98CqpodSgopI.html
03-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape case: ‘SIT will address all issues raised by victim’s family,’ says ACS||Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi on Saturday said in Hathras that the special investigation team (SIT) will address all issues raised by the family members of the 19-year-old victim of Hathras gang-rape and murder case. He also clarified that public representatives intending to visit the village can do so but only five at a time.Awasthi and UP director-general of police HC Awasthi were in Hathras village on Saturday. They reached the house of the victim and talked to the family members for about half an hour.“It was an unfortunate incident and thus, we came to meet the family members and assured them that the guilty won’t be spared,” said the ACS, while addressing media persons.“The special investigation team (SIT) has senior officials on it who are probing the matter. The team has begun its task and submitted its initial report on Friday evening, on the basis of which, the Hathras SP, circle officer, sub-inspector, senior sub-inspector and head moharrir, besides others, have been suspended,” he said.Also read: ‘Will stand with Dalit brothers and sisters’ - Mamata at protest against Hathras gang-rape“While meeting us, the family members raised certain issues which have been noted. All these issues will be addressed by the SIT,” assured the ACS.“The DGP has promised that security will be provided continuously in the village so that peace and tranquillity continues,” said Awasthi. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi had tried to visit the victims’ house on Friday but were stopped from moving towards the village. However, both were allowed to visit the village on Saturday but with limited numbers.RLD vice-president Jayant Chaudhary and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav are expected to visit the village on Sunday.Meanwhile, the new superintendent of police for Hathras, Vinit Jaiswal, joined duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-case-sit-will-address-all-issues-raised-by-victim-s-family-says-acs/story-prrEpAB8EOMmLoTOUZw0iM.html
03-10-2020||India||Railways permit cooked food to be sold at stations for the first time since Covid-19 outbreak||Ahead of the festival season rush, the Railways have allowed cooked food to be sold at food plazas and shops at railway stations for the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak, according to an order issued by railways’ catering arm the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC). The national carrier had so far allowed the sale of only packaged food across catering and vending units at stations. Food stalls across platforms had been shut throughout the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25. “Zones are advised that static catering units (FP, FFU, RR. JA & CK) which are operational at 10% of licence fee with limited saleable items up till September 30 may be allowed to operate till October 31 at pro-rata LF of 20 per cent of license fee with sale of cooked food as takeaway only. No dine in to be allowed,” the IRCTC order said. “Further, zones are also advised that the contracts which have expired after March 23 may also be allowed to operate up to October 31 on payment of licence fee of 20 per cent,” it added.This also comes as a big relief to passengers looking to travel during the festival season. The Railways is planning to introduce 200 additional special trains between October 15 and November 30 to cater to passengers travelling during the holiday season, Railway Board CEO VK Yadav announced on Thursday. At present around 310 special trains are plying since lockdown while regular trains remain suspended indefinitely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-permit-cooked-food-to-be-sold-at-stations-for-the-first-time-since-covid-19-outbreak/story-fi2UQUOXF9ut1MdoWYcKGM.html
03-10-2020||India||India has 18.6% of global coronavirus cases, 21% of all recoveries||With the second highest caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) globally, India continues to post the highest number of recoveries from the infection. India accounts for 21% of all the recoveries reported worldwide, even as the country accounts for 18.6% of the global share of cases. United States accounts for the highest number of cases reported globally, accounting for 21.7% of all the cases, but accounts for 18.4% of the total global recoveries, according to data shared by the Union health ministry. The higher recoveries reported in India are largely owing to fewer deaths due to the infection. India’s case fatality ratio – fraction of people who died of the infection among those who tested positive – is one of the lowest in the world and currently stands at 1.56%, lower than the global average of 2.97%. And, much lower than countries like Mexico where the current CFR stands at about 10.9% and United Kingdom where it stands at 9.17%. The other countries where the CFR is lower than the global average are Russia with a CFR of 1.76%, South Africa with 2.49% and United States with 2.87%, the data from the ministry shows. “India has consistently been reporting one of the lowest CFR across the world. Studies are going on to figure out why, but scientists think it could be because of a younger population, our previous exposure to other coronavirus infections, the virus having mutated to cause more infections but fewer deaths, people having been vaccinated with BCG (anti-tuberculosis vaccine). The current decline in deaths could also be because the treatment modalities have been standardized now,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor of pulmonary medicine at Safdarjung Hospital. The higher recoveries and fewer new cases being reported across the country has also resulted in the drop in the number of active cases or those with current infections. The government needs to focus on the active cases as they are the ones who have to be in isolation and might need medical intervention. The number of active cases has gone down consecutively for 12 days now. After reaching about 100,000 cases being reported from the country each day, the number of new cases has dipped to 79,000 reported as on Friday, according to the health ministry. Over 78% of these new cases are being reported from 10 states – Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Delhi, Chhattisgarh. Of the total deaths reported on Friday, 84% are also from ten states – Kerala and Odisha which have reported a high number of cases are not among the ten states with high fatalities, whereas Madhya Pradesh and Haryana which are not among the ten with highest number of cases are among the ten that have reported high fatalities due to the infection. Maharashtra continues to report the highest number of cases and deaths, accounting for 25% of all the new cases and 39.6% of the deaths, the data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-18-6-of-global-coronavirus-cases-21-of-all-recoveries/story-dvx6Q5hPIBlmqjCgEY7zZJ.html
03-10-2020||India||Sero survey shows Covid-19 antibodies in 27% population of Kashmir’s Pulwama||The second sero-survey in Kashmir’s Pulwama has revealed that 27 percent of the population has developed Covid-19 antibodies as opposed to 2 percent of the population three months ago. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the nation’s premium medical research organisation, conducted the second national sero-survey for Covid-19 in August to monitor the trends of SARS-CoV-2 infection transmission in India.“The second round of the ICMR’s national sero-survey for SARS COV-2 infection (Covid-19) in Pulwama district shows prevalence of 27.3 percent. In the first round, in June, it was only 2 percent,” said Dr Muhammad Salim Khan, head of community medicine, Government Medical College, Srinagar and nodal person for the ICMR’s national sero-survey for Pulwama district.The community-based surveillance was conducted across 60 districts and 10 hotspot sites across all states and Union territories to map the changing trend of the population’s response to SARS COV-2 infection over the months.The first round was held in May and June this year where the prevalence of IgG antibody was found 0.73 percent among the general population in the country. During the survey, blood samples were collected to determine the prevalence of infection in the recent past and the body’s immune response to the SARS CoV-2 infection.Also read: Tejashwi Yadav to lead Opposition alliance in BiharIn the second round in Pulwama district, 413 blood samples were collected in ten different clusters of which 113 reported to be positive for IgG antibodies against SARS CoV-2 infection which makes it to 27.3 percent.“Sona Samilo village cluster showed the highest, 52.5 percent, positive prevalence while Khaigam recorded the lowest prevalence at 2.5 percent,” Khan said.The district was chosen in the first survey as it was a low-risk district depending on the number of cases per million population.So far, Jammu and Kashmir has recorded 77,253 positive cases of Covid-19 with 3,996 people registering positive for the infection in Pulwama. As many as 69 people have died due to the infection in the district of the total 1,212 deaths in the Union territory till October 2.The data was collected through app-based modules and at each site the data and blood samples of participants were collected for adults and children over 10 years of age.“The eldest positive cases were of three men and a woman ageing over 75 years while the youngest was an 11-year-old girl,” said Khan.The ICMR conducted the study through its regional centres, however, it asked the Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar, to conduct the study in Pulwama district on its behalf.A team from the GMC, comprising faculty, resident doctors and medical interns from the Department of Community Medicine (SPM), was deputed for conducting the survey in ICMR-assigned ten clusters in Pulwama. The study was coordinated by Dr Inaamul Haq and Dr Mariya Amin Qurieshi - assistant professors at the community medicine department, GMC, Srinagar. The blood samples were sent to the ICMR lab at Chennai.“We still need to follow SOPs religiously to prevent further spread of Covid-19 infection in the community which include wearing masks, social distancing and hand hygiene,” Khan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sero-survey-shows-covid-19-antibodies-in-27-population-in-kashmir-s-pulwama/story-1Vn93uVOxGTa5a6RRWPO5N.html
03-10-2020||India||Don’t do politics on Dalit atrocities: Ramdas Athawale on Hathras case||Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale on Saturday said there should not be any politics in the name of atrocities on Dalits which he claimed to have been going on during successive governments in Uttar Pradesh. “What has happened in Hathras is most terrible. The incident of rape on a Dalit girl is a very serious issue,” he said. Athawale, who said he will be meeting Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, stated, “On the Hathras case, I have to say that there should not be politics in the name of atrocities on Dalits. It is not right to propagate about atrocities on Dalits during Yogi government.” “It is right that atrocities are taking place but it had been so during the Mulayam Singh Yadav, Mayawati and Akhilesh (Yadav) governments also,” he added. Backing CM Adityanath on the steps taken by him in the case, the Union minister said the manner in which the woman’s body was cremated was wrong and he would be taking up the issue of action on other officials. He said the reason behind such atrocities on Dalits is casteism and it will continue till people have casteist mindset. Athawale said he wanted to go to Hathras on Friday but could not do so as the district administration had barred the entry of outsiders while adding that he would try to go next week, if allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-do-politics-on-dalit-atrocities-ramdas-athawale-on-hathras-case/story-eQbScFgStvJyEgTr14q33M.html
03-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: On domestic flights, pre-Covid figures will be reached between Diwali and New Year, says Hardeep Singh Puri and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Domestic flights: Pre-Covid figures will be reached between Diwali and New Year, says Hardeep Singh PuriThe domestic aviation sector will reach pre-Covid numbers of daily flights and passengers between Diwali and New Year, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said. On October 2, a total of 1,76,601 domestic passengers were handled by all the airports collectively, and 1536 flights were operated.Read more. PM Modi rues lack of strategic vision of past regimes for poor border infrastructure | AnalysisAt the inauguration of 9.2km long Atal Tunnel in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi lighted up three projects in the west, central and east India to underline that the previous government lacked strategic vision and pitched for a rapid border infrastructure upgrade to defend India.Read more. In a first, Rafale fighter jet to feature in Air Force Day paradeMarking its first public appearance since arrival on Indian land, the Rafale fighter jet will be taking part in the Air Force Day parade on October 8, the Indian Air Force said on Saturday.Read more. VHP plans nationwide drive to raise funds for construction of Ram temple in AyodhyaThe Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) plans to launch a nationwide drive from January to raise funds for the Ram Temple construction in Ayodhya. VHP vice president Champat Rai said the plan was expected to get a final nod from VHP’s decision-making body soon.Read more. Vidya Balan’s vogue belted saree worth Rs 99k and sleeveless blouse leaves fashion police smittenClearly, not all traditional wear is boring or so Shakuntala Devi star Vidya Balan makes us believe with her latest sultry photoshoot in a silk saree and vogue belt. Flaunting her love for the six yards of elegance, Vidya took her love for traditional wear a notch higher as she glammed up for her latest photoshoot in a Rs 99k printed saree, clinched at her waist by a phoenix logo tan belt and paired with a sleeveless blouse.Read more. Red Cross shares PSA from 1918. Guess the similarity it has with 2020An advisory post shared by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) has grabbed the attention of netizens. The committee shared a PSA issued during the Spanish flu pandemic of 1918. It is about the importance of wearing masks. The oganisation also pointed out the similarity of that period with the present times.Read more. Hathras Ground Report: Is victim’s family ready for narco test? Here’s the replyEven as outrage grows over the alleged gang-rape, torture and subsequent death of a Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, the government has ordered a narco analysis of those linked to the case, including families of the accused, the victim, as well as police personnel. Hindustan Times’ Shiv Sunny travelled to Hathras to speak to the victim’s family. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-on-domestic-flights-pre-covid-figures-will-be-reached-between-diwali-and-new-year-says-hardeep-singh-puri-and-all-the-latest-news/story-r8iVOZbgiNZElz52gSBqgI.html
03-10-2020||India||India successfully test-fires nuclear capable hypersonic missile Shaurya||India on Saturday successfully test fired its indigenously developed nuclear capable hypersonic missile ‘Shaurya’ with a strike range of around 1,000 km from a test range in Odisha, defence sources said.‘Shaurya’, which is the land variant of India’s K-15 missile, has a strike range of 700 km to 1000 km and is capable of carrying payloads of 200 kg t 1000 kg, the sources said.The surface-to-surface tactical missile was blasted off from a canister strapped to the ground launcher from launch complex 4 of the Integrated Test Range (ITR) in the APJ Abdul Kalam Island around 12.10 pm and covered the desired range, they said.It is 10 metres long, 74 cm in diameter and weighs 6.2 tonnes. Its two stages use solid propellants.Describing the trial as successful, the sources said that the state-of-the-art missile performed a manoeuvre in the closing stages of its flight and hit the impact point in the Bay of Bengal with precision and accuracy.A gas generator at the bottom of the canister pushed the missile out it. Its first stage ignited then and fell off.The second stage went into action after this, a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) official said.During the test flight, the missile was tracked by various telemetry stations and radars and performed well, he said.DRDO officials rate Shaurya as one of the top 10 missiles in the world in its class with its high performance navigation and guidance systems, efficient propulsion systems, sophisticated control technologies and canisterised launch,” sources said.The missile can be launched from silos and canisters mounted on a truck and fixed on the ground, they said adding that it can be easily moved around. A truck itself can become a launching platform.“Shaurya” missiles can kept in locations where the enemies would not be able to detect them. Besides, it cannot be detected by satellite imaging, the sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-test-fires-nuclear-capable-hypersonic-missile-shaurya/story-6OVLkT6uXueovpkKniuxGK.html
03-10-2020||India||VHP plans nationwide drive to raise funds for construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya||The Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) plans to launch a nationwide drive from January to raise funds for the Ram Temple construction in Ayodhya.VHP vice president Champat Rai said the plan was expected to get a final nod from VHP’s decision-making body soon. He added Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Surat, and Jaipur would be some of the main centres for the drive. Rai said some other centres might also be considered as per the need.Gaurav Jaiswal, a VHP functionary, said the donations would purely be voluntary. “He [Rai] also informed us that some specially-prepared literature would be distributed by our volunteers during the drive that would be undertaken across all localities and villages,” he said after a VHP meeting here.Also read: Babri judgment sharpens political divide“The responsibility of preparing the literature has been entrusted to Sanskar Bharti— an organisation working in the field of promoting Indian art and culture. The material would then be made available to all the states from Delhi that is becoming the centre of this initiative. It would then be translated into various local languages before distribution.”This fund collection campaign will also be widely advertised in all prominent dailies. Before January, all details of the campaign would be finalised after duly taking suggestions in this regard into consideration.“Local units have been asked to complete all details of the campaign so that as soon as the details at the national level are taken, the campaign can be launched on the ground in a well-organised manner,” said Jaiswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vhp-plans-nationwide-drive-to-raise-funds-for-construction-of-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/story-x3Dy11zvUCtmTV2inr2CUN.html
03-10-2020||India||In a first, Rafale fighter jet to feature in Air Force Day parade||Marking its first public appearance since arrival on Indian land, the Rafale fighter jet will be taking part in the Air Force Day parade on October 8, the Indian Air Force said on Saturday.“Rafale is a 4.5 generation, twin-engine omnirole, air supremacy, interdiction, aerial reconnaissance, ground support, in-depth strike, anti-ship and nuclear deterrence fighter aircraft, equipped with a wide range of weapons,” the IAF tweeted on Saturday.The IAF is operating its newly inducted Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on its highest state of alert. The IAF’s current fleet of five Rafale fighters is fully operational and ready to undertake any mission. India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016.Also read: India, China to hold sixth round of military talks today; IAF Rafales flying in LadakhThe air force formally inducted the planes at the Ambala air base on September 10 though they landed at their home base on July 29. At the induction, IAF chief RKS Bhadauria made it clear that the warplanes were mission-ready and the ceremony marked their “full operational induction” into the air force.The Rafale jets are part of the IAF’s No. 17 Squadron, which is also known as the “Golden Arrows.”The IAF has been projecting its capability to carry out day-and-night, all-weather combat missions in the Ladakh sector, with front-line fighter jets, attack helicopters and multi-mission choppers getting airborne for demanding night-time missions from forward airbases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-rafale-fighter-jet-to-feature-in-air-force-day-parade/story-1jO9RbTpnO9g7NSevKGEPI.html
03-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka allowed to visit Hathras gang-rape victim’s family||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and his sister Priyanka Gandhi were allowed to travel to Hathras to visit the 19-year-old gang-rape victim’s family after being stopped briefly at Delhi-Noida border.The leaders, accompanied by former member of Parliament Deepender Singh Hooda and other Congress workers, were permitted to cross the border by the Uttar Pradesh Police. Delhi: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at Delhi-Noida flyway.Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra with other leaders are en route to #Hathras in Uttar Pradesh to meet the family of the alleged gangrape victim. pic.twitter.com/KxNvcIcGGpThis was their second attempt to meet the victim’s family. The siblings were detained by UP Police as they were walking to Hathras after their vehicles were stopped in view of Section 144 on Thursday. They were charged with violating Section 144 and the pandemic law.Noida Commissioner of Police Alok Singh said, citing Section 144, that a maximum of seven people, including the Gandhis, will be allowed to cross the border. He asked the rest of the Congress workers to return.Police resorted to lathicharge to disperse the crowd from DND toll plaza. The DND plaza is yet to open for general traffic.Noida additional deputy commissioner of Police Ranvijay Singh had earlier said that the leaders were violating Section 144, and urged the crowd to disperse in larger public interest. “They are violating the Section 144 of CrPC. We are deployed here to control the unlawful assembling of people. We are appealing for peace amid Covid-19 outbreak, in larger public interest they should disperse,” said before a part of the convoy was allowed to pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-priyanka-allowed-to-visit-hathras-gang-rape-victim-s-family/story-oBBiqYmBb5cEsmBqf68VSJ.html
03-10-2020||India||Domestic flights: Pre-Covid figures will be reached between Diwali and New Year, says Hardeep Singh Puri||The domestic aviation sector will reach pre-Covid numbers of daily flights and passengers between Diwali and New Year, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said. On October 2, a total of 1,76,601 domestic passengers were handled by all the airports collectively, and 1536 flights were operated. A record high.Domestic aviation continues on a steady growth trajectory with 1,76,601 domestic passengers on 1536 flights on 2 October 2020.We should touch pre-COVID figures between Diwali & New Year. pic.twitter.com/OPwf6TWmovHere is all you need to know about post-Covid domestic operations:1. Domestic flights were suspended on March 25 when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to fight the spread of Covid-19.2. Aviation sector is one of the worst-hit sectors by the lockdown.3. After a gap of two months, domestic flights were resumed on May 25 — with several restrictions at place.4. Airlines were asked to fly only 33 per cent of their pre-Covid capacity.5. The Centre fixed the air fare so that airlines do not overcharge passengers. Air tickets have been capped between Rs 2,000 and Rs 18,600. The fare cap is still existing.6. Initially, only one check-in bag was allowed in domestic flights. No meals were to be served on board. 7. Over the time, these restrictions have been relaxed. The airlines are now operating at near 60 per cent capacity. The airlines have been asked to revert to their pre-Covid baggage rules. Packaged meals are also available on domestic flights now. 8. Several state governments have still not allowed the airports to return to their pre-Covid numbers of daily arrivals and departures.9. In August, the West Bengal government barred flights from six Covid-19 high-risk cities. On days of local lockdowns, all flights were barred.10. Still, the growth in the domestic figures has been hopeful, as passengers are now convinced that flights are safe, the Union minister has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flights-pre-covid-figures-will-be-reached-between-diwali-and-new-year-says-hardeep-singh-puri/story-b6ye1zYybnmX6xUSlARdFJ.html
03-10-2020||India||How India’s Covid-19 death toll reached 100,000 mark||As Covid-19 continues to wreak unprecedented havoc in the world, India’s death toll surpassed the 100,000-mark on Friday. The grim milestone comes as the daily number of infections has started declining in the country after registering over 90 thousand cases for days.From the day the first batch of cases was reported in the country, India took seven months to cross 100,000. The death toll in the country is now at 100,842.On March 12, the first death due to Covid-19 was reported in Karnataka and 127 days later on July 16, there were 25,000 deaths in the country.On August 15, India crossed the 50,000-mark — only 30 days later. The death toll crossed the 75,000-mark in another 25 days on September 9, with the latest 25,000 fatalities coming in just 23 days.On average, 1,065 people have died every day over the past week in the country and the majority of the deaths have been reported from three states-- Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Karnataka. These three states have reported 56% of the total deaths in the country.With 37, 480 deaths as of Friday, Maharashtra has accounted for 37% of all fatalities in the country. It is followed by Tamil Nadu with 9,653 deaths and Karnataka with 9,119 people killed.Meanwhile, India’s Covid-19 tally has mounted to 6,473,544. While the number of recoveries crossed 5.4 million-mark on Saturday as 75,628 patients have been cured in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-india-s-covid-19-death-toll-reached-100-000-mark/story-1H5jmW97vNk4Bx88EfXvnL.html
03-10-2020||India||‘Courts can’t examine one rank one pension changes’: Centre to SC||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that any changes to the One Rank One Pension (OROP) scheme cannot be examined by the court as the policy in its present form has been approved by the Union cabinet after examining its financial viability and feasibility.The court is examining a plea filed by the Indian ex-servicemen movement demanding annual revision of pension under OROP and for calculating the pension based on 2014 salary of ex-servicemen. As per the present scheme, the periodic review of pension was fixed at five years and the pension was fixed based on 2013 salaries.In an affidavit filed in response to the petition which is pending in the court since 2016, the ministry of defence informed that every year due to OROP, there is an annual recurring expenditure of Rs 7123.38 crore. Ever since the scheme was made applicable on July 1, 2014, the total expenditure incurred over the past six years adds up to Rs 42740.28 crore, it said.Also Read: PM Modi rues lack of strategic vision of past regimes for poor border infrastructure | Analysis“A policy can be questioned on the ground of arbitrariness…neither does the petitioner have a right to claim nor do the Courts have power to issue mandamus or to enforce a work in progress to become a policy...Only the Government has the authority to decide the contours of a scheme and manner of its implementation,” the affidavit said.Also Read: Foreign secretary and army chief to make first joint visit to MyanmarA bench of justices DY Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee on Thursday took the affidavit on record and posted the matter for hearing on October 28. Attorney General KK Venugopal will lead arguments for the Centre on that day. The petitioner organisation, which is a group of military veterans, relied on the 2011 report presented by the committee of pensions, Rajya Sabha, headed by veteran BJP leader Bhagat Singh Koshiyari which defined OROP as uniform pension for all armed forces personnel retiring in the same rank and with same years of service irrespective of their date of retirement. The committee recommended annual revision under OROP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/courts-can-t-examine-one-rank-one-pension-changes-centre-to-sc/story-QX0Ls5zfIZqHxHXLgZGoGM.html
03-10-2020||India||Massive security at Delhi-Noida border as Rahul, Priyanka drive to Hathras||Heavy security has been deployed at the Delhi-Noida border on Saturday afternoon as Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi started towards Hathras — in their second attempt to meet the family members of the Dalit woman who was allegedly gang-raped on September 14 and died of her injuries in Delhi On September 29. “They are violating the Section 144 of CrPC. We are deployed here to control the unlawful assembling of people. We are appealing for peace amid Covid-19 outbreak, in larger public interest they should disperse,” Noida additional deputy commissioner of Police Ranvijay Singh said. On Thursday, both the leaders were detained on their way to Hathras on the grounds of violating Section 144 and Pandemic law. Their second attempt on Saturday is significant as 35 Congress MPs, including Shashi Tharoor, have joined the delegation. चाहे जितना बल आजमा लो,चाहे करो लाठियों की बौछार।इस न्याय युद्ध में निकल पड़े हैं,तोड़कर मानेंगे तेरा अहंकार।।देश की बेटियों का विश्वास हम टूटने नहीं देंगे।#SatyagrahaForOurDaughters pic.twitter.com/ezHlamtUGoThe Congress posted a video of the heavy police deployment at the border. Under the leadership of Sh @RahulGandhi Ji and Smt @PriyankaGandhi Ji, we @INCIndia MPs are on our way to #Hathras, to meet the family of the daughter of India, who was brutally raped & murdered. Justice will prevail.Satyameva Jayate!#RahulGandhiWithHathrasFamily pic.twitter.com/29Y3HMwM08As the car that Priyanka Gandhi was driving reached near the border, it was stopped owing to the massive blockade at the area. Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi were ready to visit the village alone as well. “What is the violation of Section 144 if Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi want to go alone?” Surjewala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-security-at-delhi-noida-border-appealing-for-peace-says-noida-police-as-rahul-priyanka-drive-to-hathras/story-NHGBIlVe0IeEyWIJKUlO2O.html
03-10-2020||India||Delhi Metro to start services for UPSC candidates from 6am on Sunday||Delhi Metro will start its services at 6am on all lines and stations on Sunday to help aspirants appearing for the civil services preliminary 2020 examination reach their centres.“To facilitate students for the UPSC examinations, Delhi Metro services will begin at 6 AM from terminal stations of all lines on 4th October,” Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) tweeted on Saturday.The Civil Services preliminary 2020 examination held by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) was earlier scheduled for May 31, which had to be postponed amid the Covid-19 pandemic. On June 5, UPSC had announced that it will conduct the prelims examination on October 4 at 2,569 centres across 72 cities in the country.More than 10.58 lakh candidates have applied for the examination this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-metro-to-start-services-for-upsc-candidates-from-6am-on-sunday/story-VVfFnwCBJnvemzNj81tKZM.html
03-10-2020||India||KCR writes to Centre as Telangana seeks complete control over dam on Krishna||Telangana has sought complete control over the operation of Srisailam Dam on the Krishna river to prevent Andhra Pradesh from constructing “illegal projects” without the Centre’s permission. K Chandrasekhar Rao, the Telangana chief minister, wrote a letter to Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Friday in this regard.In the 14-page letter, Rao accused the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) constituted for water sharing between the two states of being biased against Telangana and favouring Andhra Pradesh. He said Andhra Pradesh is going ahead with the expansion of the capacity Pothireddypadu head regulator on the Srisailam reservoir to draw 80,000 cusecs of water from the Krishna river to Pennar basin. Rao the regulator was originally meant for drawing only 1,500 cusecs to supply drinking water to Chennai.Andhra Pradesh has finalised tenders for the construction of the Rayalseema Lift Irrigation Scheme to lift 3 TMC (thousand million cubic feet) of water daily from the Srisailam Reservoir and transport it to the Pennar and adjoining basins.“Though the matter was brought to the notice of KRMB in February itself, it has failed to take any action to stop these illegal projects. The KRMB has also failed to install a telemetry system to measure the largescale illegal withdrawal of water by AP [Andhra Pradesh] from Pothireddypadu regulator. Instead, the board gave instructions to Telangana to stop the release of water from Srisailam Left Bank Power House of Telangana,” said Rao.He cited the arrangements and said the responsibility to operate the Nagarjunasagar Project was given to Telangana and Srisailam Project to Andhra Pradesh. “Because of the failure of KRMB, Andhra Pradesh has taken advantage of this arrangement to illegally draw huge quantities of water from Pothireddypadu.”He said the operation and control of the Srisailam Project should also be given to Telangana to stop Andhra Pradesh from going ahead with its plans of expanding the capacity of its projects.“If Andhra Pradesh is allowed to go ahead with their nefarious and illegitimate expansion plans now, there will be no water available to meet the requirements for existing projects in Telangana including the drinking water needs of the capital city Hyderabad.”Rao said Telangana was waiting to know its legitimate share of river waters even after six years of its formation. He asked the Centre to address the issue in a time-bound manner.Rao called Andhra Pradesh’s objections to the projects being constructed on the Godavari river like Kaleshwaram lift irrigation scheme as a complete farce. He said all these projects were contemplated, designed, and grounded before Telangana’s creation in 2014.“The present government has only re-designed some of the projects to augment irrigation potential well within the riparian rights of Telangana.”The Centre has called a meeting of representatives of the two sates on October 6 to resolve their water disputes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-writes-to-centre-as-telangana-seeks-complete-control-over-dam-on-krishna/story-lZAqtNUQTm5lNbm1PjhiBJ.html
03-10-2020||India||Dr Reddy’s seeks nod for phase 3 trial of Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V||Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has sought permission from the Drugs Controller General of India’s (DGCI) to conduct the phase 3 human clinical trials of Sputnik V, the Russian vaccine to treat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to news agency PTI.Russia’s sovereign wealth fund has reached an agreement with the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical firm for clinical trials and distribution of its experimental vaccine, which was approved by the Russian government in August.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “The Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has applied to the DCGI seeking permission to conduct phase-3 human clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19 developed by Russia. The DCGI will carry out a technical evaluation of the application before giving its approval,” PTI quoted a source as saying.The phase 3 trial of Sputnik V, developed by Gamaleya National Research Centre of Epidemiology and Microbiology and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), is underway in Russia since September 1 on around 40,000 subjects, they added.According to sources cited by the agency, it would be multi-centre, observer-blind, randomised controlled study. The RDIF had earlier said that upon regulatory approval in India, it shall supply 100 million doses of the vaccine to the Indian pharma company.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Russia has a good history as far as manufacturing vaccines is concerned; they make good vaccines so we presume this vaccine is good. They have published the first study of 76 patients in the medical journal The Lancet which is showing good effectiveness and good antibody immunity generation,” Dr Balram Bhargava, director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), had said when RDIF and Dr Reddy’s had agreed to collaborate.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-reddy-s-seeks-nod-for-phase-3-trial-of-russia-s-covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v/story-Bpe15pJLAaHr8o3qVj1kfO.html
03-10-2020||India||Manipur urges poll panel to hold simultaneous bypolls on all 13 vacant seats||Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh on Friday said that the state government will approach the Election Commission of India (ECI) to conduct bye-elections on all 13 vacant assembly seats instead of just two in the state.“We are urging the ECI to conduct bye-elections in the left out vacant assembly constituencies too,” Biren said, while responding to a question after flagging off a cycle rally in the capital held on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti and National Cleanliness Day 2020.On September 24, Biren had dropped six of his cabinet ministers and inducted five new faces in a major reshuffle. Three days after their induction, ministers were assigned portfolios.On the day of oath-taking by the new ministers, the BJP national vice president Baijayant Panda had even hinted about inducting another minister after the bye-elections.On September 29, the ECI announced that bye-elections for Lilong and Wangjing-Tentha assembly constituencies will be held on November 7. Sitting MLAs on these two seats had quit, necessitating the bypolls.At present, altogether 13 assembly constituencies are lying vacant in the 60 member Manipur legislative assembly after nine MLAs resigned and four were disqualified.Also Read: Manipur Unlock 2: Reopening of schools, colleges, cinemas, entertainment parks allowedThe pending court cases could be the reason behind ECI not announcing bye-elections to the remaining assembly constituencies, according to the joint chief electoral officer of the state.The last date for making nominations is October 20 and the last date of withdrawal of candidature is October 23. The dates set aside for counting and completion of the election process, are November 10 and 12 respectively.Meanwhile Congress MLA Khumukcham Joykishan has demanded a separate standard operating procedure (SoP) for holding bye-elections for the two assembly constituencies to prevent further spread of Covid 19 pandemic in the border state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-urges-poll-panel-to-hold-simultaneous-bypolls-on-all-13-vacant-seats/story-60cVYjnVa0ZbLsnWe9nMsM.html
03-10-2020||India||‘Our priority is farmers’ benefit, for earlier govt it was election’: PM Modi at Solang public rally||After inaugurating Atal Tunnel in Himachal Pradesh’s Rohtang, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed a public rally in Solang and said the tunnel will help draw tourists to Himachal Pradesh from all across the world.As the country is unlocking itself after Covid-19 lockdown, the tourism sector will also start getting back on track soon, the PM said, adding that the state is bound to see a rise in tourist footfall due to the tunnel.He also took the opportunity to talk about farm laws that were passed in Parliament last month and said that the laws, just like Atal Tunnel, will help small farmers in the long run.Small farmers who wish to sell their produce in markets far away from their origin would be able to do so with the help of this tunnel, PM Modi said. “Our country is bound to change for the better. An example of this is the introduction of farm bills. For us, the priority is our farmers, for earlier governments it was elections,” PM Modi said.“Dreams of youth of Himachal Pradesh and all of India are important to us. These developments will help fulfil them. I would like to congratulate the state and the country again for the inauguration of Atal Tunnel,” he added.Along with the inauguration of Atal Tunnel, another decision was taken for the people of Himachal, the PM said, adding that a 66 MW Dhaulasidh Hydro Electric Project in Hamirpur was recently approved. “This project will not only give electricity to the country, it’ll also give employment to the youth of Himachal,” PM said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur and Union minister Anurag Thakur also attend the Solang Nala rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-public-rally-at-himachal-pradesh-s-solang-after-atal-tunnel-inauguration-in-rohtang/story-O2IFmKJtxY3yVSkJ9fJjJJ.html
03-10-2020||India||PM Modi rues lack of strategic vision of past regimes for poor border infrastructure | Analysis||At the inauguration of 9.2km long Atal Tunnel in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi lighted up three projects in the west, central and east India to underline that the previous government lacked strategic vision and pitched for a rapid border infrastructure upgrade to defend India.With the on-going stand-off between Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in east Ladakh in mind, PM Modi took the example of 16,800 feet high airstrip at Daulat Beg Oldi post near the Karakoram Pass which could not be activated due to lack of political will from 1965 to 2008. The advanced landing ground was activated by the Indian Air Force (IAF) in 2008 using a Russian AN-32 plane and the then United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government was informed after completion of the mission. The airstrip, which is vital for supplies to troops in DBO-Depsang Bulge area, is now used by C-130J Hercules aircraft much to the chagrin of the Chinese commanders.Without referring to China, PM Modi also blamed the previous regimes for placing hurdles in way of Indian Army patrols along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) by not building roads to the perceived line. China experts believe that it is this 30-year differential in border infrastructure between the two countries that helps the PLA, in terms of both capacity and capability.Interestingly, PM Modi used three projects launched by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government — Atal tunnel (Himachal Pradesh), Kosi Maha Setu (Bihar) and Boghibeel bridge (Assam) — to showcase the apathetic attitude of past governments towards achieving national goals. While the Atal tunnel was inaugurated on Saturday, Kosi rail bridge was launched in September after hanging fire since 1934 and the Boghibeel Setu was commissioned by PM Modi in 2018 .In the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat, India Army chief General MM Naravane and defence secretary Ajay Kumar, PM Modi took a pot-shot at the Indian bureaucracy that kept the Rafale fighter acquisition pending by only flying files from one desk to the other and thus compromising the defence of India. Citing the example of the state of ordnance factories, PM also issued an oblique warning to Indian bureaucracy to not stand in the way of “Atmanirbhar” Bharat.While the importance of Atal tunnel cannot be understated, the fact is that this tunnel under Rohtang La opens a new road to Ladakh via Darcha-Padam-Nimu route rather than Darcha-Upishi-Leh route which is blocked six months a year due to heavy snow at four other high mountain passes en-route. The Darcha-Padam-Nimu route can remain open round the year once a 4.5km tunnel is built under Shinku La on Darcha-Padam axis.Just as roads in the Ladakh sector are being built to connect remote areas of the country, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) is moving at a much faster pace to complete strategic roads in Arunachal Pradesh so that places such as Tawang, Walong and Kibuthoo are linked through all-weather roads to other parts of India.It is no wonder that China has refused to recognise the Union territory of Ladakh and calls the border infrastructure upgrade in the areas to ensure India’s so-called occupation of this territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-rues-lack-of-strategic-vision-of-past-regimes-for-poor-border-infrastructure-analysis/story-CcYwzDmQOhj31rDjAPHHnK.html
03-10-2020||India||Foreign secretary and army chief to make first joint visit to Myanmar||Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane are set to visit Myanmar on Monday, the first time an Indian delegation to the neighbouring country has included both officials, for discussions to take forward ties in areas ranging from security to connectivity. This will be the foreign secretary’s second foreign visit, after a trip to Bangladesh in August, since the Covid-19 outbreak and the army chief’s first such visit amid the restrictions related to the pandemic, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The visit comes against the backdrop of India’s five-month border standoff with China. New Delhi has been working steadily to boost ties with all countries in the neighbourhood barring Pakistan, and has announced a slew of initiatives ranging from currency swaps, budgetary support and connectivity projects to help other states in the region to overcome the economic impact of Covid-19. The visit will also come four days after the India-Myanmar foreign office consultations, which were conducted virtually by Shringla and permanent secretary U Soe Han on Thursday. During that meeting, Shringla announced that the two sides are working to operationalise Sittwe port by the first quarter of 2021 while the tendering process for 69 bridges for the trilateral highway, also involving Thailand, will begin soon. India’s assistance to Myanmar currently stands at $1.4 billion, and New Delhi will provide debt service relief under the G20 debt service suspension initiative to Myanmar from May to December to mitigate the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Despite the challenges caused by the Covid pandemic, we are working towards operationalising the Sittwe port by the first quarter of next year. With respect to the 69 bridges on the trilateral highway, I am happy to inform you that we will soon be moving forward with the tendering process,” Shringla said. Sittwe port is part of the Kaladan multi-modal transit transport project, which is crucial to India’s plans for the landlocked northeastern states to access the Bay of Bengal through Mizoram and to provide alternative connectivity to Kolkata without having to use the circuitous Siliguri corridor. The India-Myanmar-Thailand trilateral highway has been held up due to problems associated with the stretch in Myanmar and the construction of the bridges is expected to speed up work on the project. Security cooperation between India and Myanmar also figured in Thursday’s meeting, with Shringla describing it as robust. Both sides are sensitive to each other’s security concerns, he added. Myanmar’s handing over of 22 Indian insurgents was “deeply appreciated” by India as it sent a “strong message of deterrence to inimical elements on both sides”, he added. Shringla requested Myanmar for the early conclusion of an extradition treaty, a mutual legal assistance treaty on civil and commercial matters, and an agreement on the transfer of sentenced persons. Also Read: Army chief, foreign secretary to seal shipping agreement and security ties with MyanmarAs part of defence cooperation, an Indian team for deployment of meteorological squadrons will travel to Myanmar this month, and India will receive Myanmar’s representative at its maritime Information Fusion Centre for the Indian Ocean. The situation in Rakhine state also figured in the meeting. India recently entered into trilateral cooperation with Japan in Rakhine, under which it will create infrastructure for 15 schools. “Our efforts towards ensuring an early, safe and sustainable repatriation of internally displaced persons to Myanmar will continue,” Shringla said. This issue assumes importance as Bangladesh had raised the issue of one million Rohingya refugees it is hosting during the virtual meeting of the Joint Consultative Commission (JCC), which was co-chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Bangladeshi counterpart AK Abdul Momen on September 29. Momen had expressed the hope that India, as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council during 2021-22, will play a “more meaningful role for a lasting solution to the Rohingya crisis, including their early repatriation to Myanmar in a safe and sustainable manner”, according to a statement from Bangladesh’s foreign ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-and-army-chief-to-make-first-joint-visit-to-myanmar/story-eKCZX01cnVXsDmLByesvzM.html
03-10-2020||India||Bollywood drugs case: Executive producer Kshitij Prasad sent to judicial custody till Oct 6||Kshitij Prasad, a former employee of Dharmatic Entertainment, who was arrested in connection with the probe into the drugs angle into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, was sent to judicial custody till October 6 by a special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) court on Saturday.Following questioning by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the alleged Bollywood drug nexus, the executive producer was remanded in the central agency’s custody for seven days till October 3. He was arrested for allegedly receiving contraband from suspected peddlers who had supplied charas to actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik. He, however, claimed that he was being framed.Prasad’s role was revealed during the interrogation of Sanket Patel, allegedly one of the drug peddlers, NCB had told the court in its remand application. Patel had allegedly delivered ganja (weed) to Prasad at his residence in Andheri on the instructions of Karamjeet Singh, who believed to be a drug distributor with a local network that caters to the Bollywood fraternity.The agency also submitted before the magistrate that Prasad had admitted to taking ganja from arrested alleged drug peddler Ankush Arneja and Singh through his associate Patel.Earlier this week, Prasad had alleged that he was forced by NCB to falsely implicate Karan Johar and other executives of the production house in the case of alleged consumption of drugs. The agency denied the charge, claiming that the investigation was conducted in a professional manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bollywood-drugs-case-executive-producer-kshitij-prasad-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-oct-6/story-5pWc5kJ8KGUAX6Gft6pZGP.html
03-10-2020||India||‘Politics, not for justice’: Smriti Irani attacks Rahul Gandhi over plans to visit Hathras||Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani on Saturday took a jibe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who will go to meet the family of the 19-year-old Hathras gang-rape victim for the second time after being stopped from going there earlier this week.“Rahul Gandhi’s march towards Hathras is for politics, not for justice,” Irani said while addressing a press conference in Varanasi on the recently passed farm laws.On Thursday, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were stopped in UP’s Greater Noida and detained briefly. Gandhi was manhandled and pushed to the ground by police personnel present at the spot near the national capital.Also read | Congress to hold nationwide agitation against Hathras gang-rape case on Oct 5The Union minister said that the women’s commission informed her that it is taking all possible step to ensure justice for the victim, a Dalit. She said she has spoken to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath regarding Hathras matter and was assured that strict action would be against those dared to deprive the victim of justice.Asked if Hathras’ district magistrate who allegedly threatened the family of the victim would be suspended, she said Adityanath assured her that action would be ensured on the basis of the report of the special investigation team (SIT) which is probing the case.The Dalit woman was raped by four “upper caste” men on September 15 and she died on Tuesday at Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi . She was shifted to the Delhi hospital from the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College of Aligarh Muslim University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/politics-not-for-justice-smriti-irani-attacks-rahul-gandhi-over-plans-to-visit-hathras/story-i6ZtjVDzaROD6cXcbvFiWL.html
03-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Hathras village borders reopened, reporters allowed in, says official and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Hathras village borders reopened, reporters allowed in, says officialAuthorities in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras on Saturday reopened the borders and said they will allow media to enter the village in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, where a 19-year-old woman was gang-raped, officials said.Read more. At Atal Tunnel inauguration, PM Modi says development of border infrastructure will benefit common man, armyPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday the Atal Tunnel has not only realised Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s dream but has also ended the decades-long wait of the people of Himachal Pradesh. The Prime Minister made the comments after he inaugurated the 9.02km long Atal Tunnel, which will connect Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley in the state.Read more. Sushant Singh Rajput’s death was a suicide, not murder: AIIMS panel chiefSushant Singh Rajput’s death was a suicide, and not murder, Dr Sudhir Gupta, who led the AIIMS panel re-evaluating the actor’s post-mortem report, has said. Many, including Sushant’s family, had been urging the Central Bureau of Investigation to initiate a murder probe in the case.Read more. Army chief, foreign secretary to seal shipping agreement and security ties with MyanmarOn the eve of Myanmar general elections, Indian Army chief General MM Naravane and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla are headed towards Naypyidaw on Sunday to seal the much-awaited coastal shipping agreement to activate the Kaladan multi-modal project and cement security ties against insurgent groups.Read more. Doctor’s adorable grandson interrupts him during TV interview, steals the show. WatchSince the past few months several people, across the world, are working from home. There is no denying that this setup is no easy feat as it comes with its own set of challenges. And, one among them is being interrupted by kids and that too in the middle of a video call. The same thing happened when Dr Irwin Redlener, a renowned a paediatrician, appeared on MSNBC for an interview.Read more.IPL 2020, CSK vs SRH: MS Dhoni explains why he was coughing and struggling in the last two oversChennai Super Kings lost their third match in a row in the 13th season of the Indian Premier League. Up against Sunrisers Hyderabad, CSK were asked to chase 165 at the Dubai International Stadium. But they could not achieve the feat as they managed to score only 157 runs in their quota of 20 overs. The onus of the result was again put on CSK captain MS Dhoni, who was carrying his team’s hope along with Ravindra Jadeja.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-hathras-village-borders-reopened-reporters-allowed-in-says-official-and-all-the-latest-news/story-x7RsHZnpiOnk8CLi3Tlc5M.html
03-10-2020||India||Yet to decide on opening Kartarpur Corridor, says India||India on Saturday said it is yet to decide on opening its part of the Kartarpur Corridor, which allows Indian pilgrims visa-free access to Durbar Sahib gurdwara, following Pakistan’s decision to open its side of the corridor. New Delhi also called on Islamabad to construct required infrastructure, including a bridge, for the safe movement of pilgrims over a stretch that gets waterlogged during the rainy season. Pakistan’s religious affairs ministry issued a notification for reopening Kartarpur Corridor on Friday following an improvement in the Covid-19 situation. According to reports in the Pakistani media, the notification said Indian pilgrims would be allowed to visit the gurdwara from dawn to dusk. Responding to queries from the media about Pakistan’s move, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said movement of pilgrims through the corridor was suspended because of the Covid-19 outbreak. “We remain in touch with all concerned authorities, including ministries of home affairs and health and family welfare. A decision on reopening of the corridor would be taken in accordance with the Covid protocol and easing of restrictions,” he said. Srivastava noted that at the time of opening of the Kartarpur Corridor last year and in the bilateral agreement signed in October 2019, it was decided both sides would “establish requisite infrastructure, including construction of a bridge at Budhi Ravi Channel at the earliest, for safe and hassle-free movement of pilgrims”. He said, “One year hence, Pakistan is yet to construct the bridge while it is ready at our end. A technical meeting with Pakistan was also facilitated and two teams met on August 27, 2020. There is, however, no progress on [the] part of Pakistan.” The 4.7-km Kartarpur Corridor connects Dera Baba Nanak in India’s Gurdaspur district with Durbar Sahib gurdwara in Pakistan’s Kartarpur. The gurdwara stands on the site where Guru Nanak, the founder of the Sikh religion, spent the last years of his life. India had gone ahead with the opening of the corridor last year to respect the sentiments of the Sikh community despite strong misgivings about several steps taken by the Pakistani side, including the imposition of a service fee of $20 on every pilgrim, and security concerns. Following the closure of the corridor in March, Pakistan had offered to reopen it in June. Pakistan has also opened its section of the corridor on the occasion of some Sikh festivals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yet-to-decide-on-opening-kartarpur-corridor-says-india/story-Xa65Nq6HZ7yHrBhVZad0LK.html
03-10-2020||India||Atal Tunnel will connect youth of Lahaul-Spiti youth to many employment opportunities: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who travelled from the South Portal of Atal Tunnel in Rohtang to the North Portal in Sissu of Lahaul Valley after its inauguration on Saturday, said it is a historic day for the residents of the area as they will benefit in many ways.“With the construction of Atal Tunnel, the farmers of Lahaul-Spiti and Pangi, people associated with horticulture, cattle-rearers, students and traders will benefit,” he said during his address in Sissu. He also said the tunnel “will connect the youth of this entire region with many employment opportunities.”“Tunnel will help provide new markets for handicrafts, other products from Himachal’s Lahaul-Spiti region,” he also said.Further lauding the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for the construction of the tunnel, PM Modi said, “Transformation has been brought in governance and the policies are no more based on votes. But they are aimed at development of all.”Also read: PM Modi questions previous regimes over Ladakh’s Daulat Beg Oldi, says they compromised on security“Our government is committed to giving basic amenities to all sections of the society,” he also said.Named after former prime minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the Atal tunnel has been built at the altitude of 3,000 metres from the mean sea level. The tunnel reduces the road distance between Manali and Leh by 46km.It has been built with ultra-modern specifications in the Pir Panjal Range of the Himalayas. It will remain open throughout the year as opposed to the valley being cut off for about six months every year amid heavy snowfall.The single tube double lane tunnel with a roadway of 8 metres and an overhead clearance of 5.525 metres is horse-shoe shaped and has been designed for a traffic density of 3,000 cars per day and 1,500 trucks per day with a maximum speed of 80 km/hr, according to a statement by the Prime Minister’s Office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atal-tunnel-will-connect-youth-of-lahaul-spiti-youth-to-many-employment-opportunities-pm-modi/story-7kMayNv36lUOBgSuiNE9FJ.html
03-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape victim’s kin say ‘couldn’t even see her face before cremation’||The family of the 19-year-old Hathras gang-rape victim said on Saturday they want justice and not money as they spoke to reporters, who were allowed to enter the Uttar Pradesh district for the first times in days.The Dalit woman was raped by four “upper caste” men earlier this month and was admitted to the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College of Aligarh Muslim University after she was left partially paralysed. She was later shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi where she died on Tuesday.The family said while speaking to reporters they were not allowed see their daughter’s body before her forcible cremation at 2:30am, adding that their request to cremate the woman in the morning fell on deaf ears. “We lied down in front of the ambulance but were removed and the cremation was forcefully performed at night,” they said. “We want justice, not money,” they said.Also Read| ‘Cops outside toilets of victim’s home’: Hathras off limits, family off the gridThey were referring to the victim cremated by the Uttar Pradesh police in the predawn hours on Wednesday against the family’s wish. The family members were allegedly locked inside their house and could not perform the last rites.The area was cordoned by the Uttar Pradesh authorities and Section 144 was imposed in the district that barred political leaders and journalists from meeting the family members. Earlier in the day, the district was reopened only for reporters.The family has alleged that they, especially the woman’s father, were being pressured by the UP authorities. They also alleged that no probe was conducted by the special investigation team (SIT) on Friday on the pretext of which media was restricted from entering the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-victim-s-kin-say-couldn-t-even-see-her-face-before-cremation/story-j0zfkBFiGzLxOzsGarYN7M.html
03-10-2020||India||Odisha activist seeks fresh public hearing for Vedanta’s expansion plan||Two days after the Odisha government held a public hearing over Vedanta Limited’s proposed expansion of its aluminium smelter plant in Jharsuguda district, prominent environmental activist Prafulla Samantra has demanded a fresh public hearing calling the earlier one illegal.In a letter to the member secretary of Odisha state pollution control board that conducted the public hearing at a government school in Jharsuguda district’s Kurebaga village on September 30 afternoon, Samantra alleged that the hearing was conducted in a hurried manner.Vedanta Aluminium had proposed to expand its existing smelter plant at Jharsuguda from 16 LTPA to 18 LTPA and its captive power plant capacity to 1,215 megawatt at a cost of about Rs 1,240 crore.The public hearing on the environment impact assessment of the proposed expansion was held on September 30 after some dramatic developments involving a stay on the hearing process and the lifting of the stay order hours before the actual hearing.Samantra, who in 2017 had won the prestigious Goldman Environmental prize for his ground-level environmental activism, said he had urged the OPCB not to hold public hearing without proper information to the public as the news of the stay order given by Orissa high court on September 29 had appeared in several newspapers on September 30.The HC on September 29 had issued a stay order on public hearing notification issued by the Odisha state pollution control board after a petition was filed alleging that the public gathering, as a result of holding a public hearing, will violate the Covid guideline order by special relief commissioner which prohibits large congregations of people. However, the HC in another hearing, done via video conferencing on September 30, permitted the public hearing to take place by relaxing the stay.Samantra, who has already filed written objections to the environmental impact assessment (EIA) report for the Vedanta Aluminium expansion project, however, said the whole process of public hearing should have been transparent. Also Read: Odisha govt provides uniform to 14.83 lakh pre-school children on Gandhi Jayanti“The OPCB should have fixed another day for the public hearing and issued advertisements in the newspapers as per the rules. The HC order could have been implemented on another date by following the law. Many villagers who could have participated in the hearing were not aware of the latest HC order and were deprived of the right to appear in public hearing. How was the hearing made possible within a short time and under whose supervision was it conducted,” asked Samantra.The public hearing was attended by around 400 people including 62 who spoke.Also Read: Odisha fisherman catches exotic fish, sells it for Rs 1.56 lakhOPCB regional officer Hemandra Nath Nayak who had conducted the hearing said that adequate time was given to people through advertisements floated in local dailies on August 28.“Those who are opposing the public hearing should read the notification for public hearing. Besides, no violation of Covid guidelines had taken place as people who attended the hearing had maintained social distancing and wore masks,” said Nayak.Sanjiv Patnaik, the PRO of Vedanta Aluminium, said the company had no role in the public hearing as it was conducted by OPCB. “The proposed expansion will be within the existing aluminium smelter plant complex of about 2061.41 acres. No additional land would be acquired,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-activist-seeks-fresh-public-hearing-for-vedanta-s-expansion-plan/story-cPt1XAZjRht6SgT1r1SDGM.html
03-10-2020||India||Army chief, foreign secretary to seal shipping agreement and security ties with Myanmar||On the eve of Myanmar general elections, Indian Army chief General MM Naravane and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla are headed towards Naypyidaw on Sunday to seal the much-awaited coastal shipping agreement to activate the Kaladan multi-modal project and cement security ties against insurgent groups. Gen Naravane and Shringla will meet senior General Min Aung Hlaing and Aung San Suu Kyi, the state counsellor of Myanmar, as last incoming foreign visitors before November 8 elections.According to South Block officials, both Gen Naravane and Shringla will comprehensively review ties with Myanmarese leadership so that there is no discrepancy in the exchange of views. The highlight of the one-day two-day visit will be the coastal shipping agreement that will allow Indian ships to reach Mizoram via Sittwe Port on the Bay of Bengal and through the Kaladan river multi-modal link. This project has been hanging fire for the past 20 years when it was envisaged by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government.The two sides will also discuss strengthening security ties by making the India-Myanmar border impenetrable to the anti-India insurgents and drug smugglers. A large number of anti-India insurgents are based across the Moreh border in Manipur and across Vijayanagar salient in Arunachal Pradesh. The anti-India insurgents are armed with Chinese weapons with their leaders like Paresh Baruah of the ULFA based in Ruili in Yunnan province of China. The Indian-Myanmar border is also used to smuggle synthetic drugs like YABA and heroin.India and Myanmar will also discuss in increasing cooperation in the energy sector with New Delhi already investing more than $1.4 billion dollars into the development of hydrocarbon-rich off-shore blocks in the Andaman Seas.While there is a significant presence of China in Myanmar in the infrastructure, hydrocarbon, power and ports sector, Naypyidaw is keen to develop across the board ties with India. The Myanmarese leadership is clear that its ties with China cannot be at the cost of the bilateral relationship with India.During the visit of Indian top officials, the two sides will also discuss the issue of rehabilitation of the Rohingyas with India already discussing the facilitation of the refugees back to Myanmar. All three countries do not want Pakistan-based Islamist groups to infiltrate into the Rohingya refugee settlements on the Bangladesh-Myanmar border and radicalize them. Already there is evidence that Pakistan based Lashkar-e-Taiba and Bangladesh-based Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen group have sent their cadres to radicalize the Rohingyas.“As India sees Myanmar as the key to develop and secure its north-east region, the dialogue with Naypyidaw will be comprehensive and discuss all aspects of the relationship,” said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-foreign-secretary-to-seal-shipping-agreement-and-security-ties-with-myanmar/story-MFUF5UY5hdU4KCONvirOkK.html
03-10-2020||India||Ladakh-Leh polls: Set to make clean sweep, says BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday put up a brave front, saying the region’s people are in its favour and it would make a clean sweep in the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC)-Leh polls on October 22.The polls are being held amid resentment over the BJP-led Centre’s failure in ensuring constitutional protection for Ladakh’s resources and cultural identity. There are demands for the implementation of Constitution’s Sixth Schedule in the region for these safeguards. Ladakh was split from Jammu & Kashmir and declared a Union Territory last year when Constitution’s Article 370, which that provided these safeguards, was also nullified.Also read: Govt assures Ladakh’s interest will be looked after, local groups withdraw call to boycott LAHDC polls“People are in favour of the BJP and the issue of the Sixth Schedule is over because the Apex Body of People’s Movement [ABPM] comprising older leaders recently went to Delhi, where they met [Union] home minister Amit Shah, who has given them an assurance to fulfil their demand,” said LAHDC chief executive councillor and BJP leader Gyal P Wangyal over the phone. “I am very much confident that the home minister will fulfil his promise.”Wangyal, who emphasised he was not privy to the specifics of the talks between the apex body and Shah, said he has no doubt that the BJP will win the elections under Ladakh Parliament member Jamyang Tsering Namgyal’s leadership.Elections to the hill council are held every five years. The BJP has 18 seats in the outgoing 30-member council, while the Congress five, and the National Conference two.Former BJP lawmaker Thupstan Chhewang has formed the ABPM to seek constitutional safeguards under the Sixth Schedule on the lines of north-eastern states. The umbrella group includes political and religious organisations and the Ladakh Buddhist Association. It is also seeking legislative powers for two councils in Leh and Kargil.Following Shah’s assurance, the body withdrew its call for a boycott of the council polls.Chhewang resigned from the BJP in November 2018 over the BJP government’s failure in grating federal territory status to Ladakh as per the party’s 2014 election manifesto.Chering Dorjay, a member of the apex body, said after Ladakh was given the Union Territory status without legislature on August 5 last year, the local people wanted safeguards under the Sixth Schedule for their land, jobs, language and culture. “It still remains the sentiment of the people in Leh and therefore when high command did not heed it, I resigned in protest in May,” said Dorjay.“Within 15 day of the culmination of the hill council polls, Shah has assured to provide us safeguards under the Sixth Schedule. However, the exercise has to be preceded by the participation of the representatives elected in the polls. Further, we have to take the people of Kargil on board.”Dorjay said the Sixth Schedule will guarantee no settlement of outsiders. “The outsiders cannot purchase land or property in the region. That is the main concern of the people here because Ladakh region has vast swathes of barren land and they are vulnerable to outsiders, who can come and settle anywhere.”Saturday is the last day for filing of nominations for the 30-seat council. The scrutiny of nominations will be held on October 5. October 7 is the last day for withdrawal of nominations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-leh-polls-set-to-make-clean-sweep-says-bjp/story-9DZtIvkFNAOC2kqAE8nMGO.html
03-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Two IIT-Delhi startups develop antiviral T-shirt, lotion||Two startups from the Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi have developed an antiviral protection kit that contains an antiviral lotion and T-shirt along with essentials like hand sanitisers and masks. The antiviral fabric used for the T-shirt, say the researchers, destroys microorganisms on contact. It reduces the likelihood of microbes settling on the fabric, thereby cutting down transmission. The fabric is over 95% effective against bacteria and viruses, according to the researchers. Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is spread through respiratory droplets that settle on surface that is then touched by another person who can infect themselves by touching their eyes, nose and mouth. The antimicrobial properties of the T-shirt remain effective even after 30 washes in mild conditions. “The Covid-19 pandemic driving an all-time-high demand of multifunctional antiviral and microbial apparels. Developing cost-effective bio-clothing with antiviral and antimicrobial functionalities through local resources and resilient manufacturing can deactivate the viral threats and can efficiently stop or slow the spread of the virus. Further, this will boost the local economy for textile and garment sectors,” said Bipin Kumar, professor in the department of textile and fibre engineering at IIT Delhi and mentor for E-TEX, one of the two startups that has developed the kit. The other startup, Clensta, has created a protection lotion that offers up to 99.9% virus protection for up to 24 hours. The product developed using Prolonged Antiviral Technology to prevent bacterial, viral, and fungal infections without harming the environment and human health. The product can protect against the virus for 24 hours, thereby reducing the need for washing hands and using sanitisers frequently. It can be used on any part of the body, including the face. “Amid the ongoing pandemic, it is of utmost importance to maintain personal hygiene. To cope with the rising demand of sanitisation products, we extend a new range of affordable antiviral products to provide long term protection in one use,” said Puneet Gupta, founder of Clensta International.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-two-iit-d-startups-develop-antiviral-t-shirt-lotion/story-HkPrPwiOE33YJUpUirVLPM.html
03-10-2020||India||Congress to hold nationwide agitation against Hathras gang-rape case on Oct 5||The Congress party will hold nationwide agitation against the Hathras gang-rape incident on October 5.This comes as Congress leader Rahul Gandhi announced to visit Bul Gargi village where a 19-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped by four dominant-caste men on September 14, with his party’s general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other supporters.She succumbed to her injuries in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi on Tuesday. Also Read: Hathras village borders reopened, reporters allowed in, says officialHe will be visiting to meet the Dalit victim’s family members who have claimed that after her death police did not allow the family to bring the body home and cremated it forcefully.On Thursday as well, Gandhi’s siblings tried to march towards the village but were stopped by the police citing Section 144 imposed in the area. During the scuffle with police, Rahul Gandhi was manhandled and could be seen falling on the ground in videos.The case has caused massive outrage across the country and prompted calls for the resignation of state chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The opposition leaders and activists have criticised the way state police are handling the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-hold-nationwide-agitation-against-hathras-gang-rape-case-on-october-5/story-3m0bR3CuQ38KkNPMEPSG4K.html
03-10-2020||India||Hathras village borders reopened, reporters allowed in, says official||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras on Saturday reopened the borders and said they will allow media to enter the village in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, where a 19-year-old woman was gang-raped, officials said.Police had set up barricades roughly 2km from the village on the main road early on Thursday, blocked off all access paths and deployed policemen on the mud tracks and in the fields to prevent any “outsiders” from accessing the village.Officials had also said that Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which prohibits the assembly of four or more people, was clamped in the area. They had said the ongoing probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was the reason for the restrictions.Also read | Mayawati demands CBI probe, Akhilesh seeks FIRs against DM, SP“Since SIT probe in the village is complete, the restriction on media has been lifted. More than five media persons are now allowed to gather as Section 144 of CrPC is in place,” Prem Prakash Meena, Sadar senior divisional magistrate, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | UP Congress chief under house arrest ahead of Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka’s Hathras visit: Party“Only the media is allowed right now. When orders come in to allow delegations, we will let everybody know. All allegations about phones of the family members being taken away or confining them in their homes are absolutely baseless,” Meena said.UP’s director general of police HC Awasthi will visit Hathras amid a controversy over local administration’s handling of the alleged rape case.Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, are expected to visit the village later in the day to meet the woman’s family, the party has said. The woman was allegedly raped by four dominant-caste men on September 14 when she had gone to the fields in her village to gather cattle fodder.She was admitted to the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College of Aligarh Muslim University after she was left partially paralysed and then shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi when her condition did not improve. She died on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-village-borders-reopened-reporters-allowed-in-says-official/story-NjzQsW1GKhEWu8KqG7flKK.html
03-10-2020||India||Ready to waive ‘interest on interest’ during moratorium: Centre tells SC||Compound interest accrued during the six-month moratorium on repayment of loans up to Rs two crore taken by individuals and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) will be waived, the Centre told the Supreme Court in an affidavit on Friday. The moratorium was announced as part of measures to mitigate economic hardships caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to check its spread in March.The government made the announcement in the affidavit as a bunch of petitions seeking a waiver of accrual of interest for the moratorium period are pending before the court.The affidavit, however, said the waiver on contractual interest on loans cannot be waived as it will lead to a huge financial burden on banks estimated to be more than Rs 6 lakh crore. “Union of India has decided to continue the tradition of handholding the small borrowers. The Government has decided that the relief on waiver of compound interest during the six-month moratorium period (March 1-August 31) shall be limited to the most vulnerable category of borrowers.”The waiver will apply to MSME/entity or individuals, who have taken below Rs 2 crore education loans, housing loans, consumer durable loans, auto loans, personal loans, professional, etc.The Centre said the decision was taken in the interest of borrowers and the banks, which would unable to sustain this load. It had initially opposed the waiver in the court. The proposal was also opposed by the Indian Banks Association (IBA) and the State Bank of India separately represented in the matter.Agra-based businessman Gajendra Sharma was the first to move the court seeking the waiver.A three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan is expected to take up the matter on Monday and pass further orders after going through the affidavit. The bench has maintained that it is the responsibility of the Centre and Reserve Bank of India to handhold the borrowers. It has pointed out that it was the Centre’s decision to impose lockdown, shutting down businesses and establishments.The court on September 10 asked the Centre to consider the issue taking all parameters into consideration. Earlier, with the moratorium ending on August 31, the court had said that banks will not declare loan accounts as non-performing assets (NPA) on account of non-payment.IBA, which represents 215 banks, told the court no account shall become NPA at least for two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-waive-interest-on-interest-during-moratorium-centre-tells-sc/story-tXTDIZJPWlz2N2VbW1VgbM.html
03-10-2020||India||No other tunnel of this length at this height: Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur on Atal Tunnel||After the construction of the Atal Tunnel, which connects Manali to the Lahaul-Spiti valley, Himachal Pradesh has got recognition in the world, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Saturday.Thakur made the comments after the 9.02km tunnel was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Rohtang.“After the construction of this tunnel at the height of 10,040 feet, Himachal Pradesh, a small state, has got recognition not only in the nation but in the whole world. There is no other tunnel of this length at this height,” Thakur said after the Atal Tunnel was inaugurated.Also Read: At Atal Tunnel inauguration, PM Modi says development of border infrastructure will benefit common man, armyNamed after former prime minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the Atal tunnel has been built at the altitude of 3,000 metres from the mean sea level. The tunnel reduces the road distance between Manali and Leh by 46km.It has been built with ultra-modern specifications in the Pir Panjal Range of the Himalayas. It will remain open throughout the year as opposed to the valley being cut off for about six months every year amid heavy snowfall.Also Read | Single tube double lane tunnel, horseshoe-shaped: 10 things about Atal Tunnel||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-other-tunnel-of-this-length-at-this-height-himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-on-atal-tunnel/story-nyEmFJPm3aGIL6MLp5GJ4I.html
03-10-2020||India||Border areas connectivity is directly related to security issues, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday inaugurated the strategically-important Atal Tunnel, which connects Manali to Lahaul-Spiti in Himachal Pradesh.During the inauguration, PM was accompanied by state chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat and MoS Anurag Singh Thakur and the DG BRO Lt Gen Harpal Singh. PM Modi also addressed the nation after inaugurating the 9.02km Atal Tunnel and hailed the Border Roads Organisation for carrying out the construction work in harsh weather conditions.It is the longest tunnel built at an altitude of 3,000 meters.Here are the key quotes from PM Modi’s inauguration speech:“It is a historic day; not only dream of Atal ji realised but also decades-long wait of people of Himachal is over. It will be a lifeline for Leh-Ladakh.”“Atal tunnel will give new strength to India’s border infrastructure. It is an example of world-class border connectivity. There have been demands to improve border infrastructure but for a long time, such projects either couldn’t get out of the planning stage or got stuck midway.”“Atal Bihari Vajpayee laid the foundation of approach road for this tunnel, but after his government, this work was all but forgotten. It was accelerated after 2014. In just six years, we completed the work of 26 years.” “Connectivity has a direct connection with development. Connectivity in border areas is directly related to security issues.”“Experts say if the tunnel was constructed with the pace it was being built at that time, it would probably be completed in 2040. We completed the work in just six years.”“I want the ministry of external affairs to invite some universities for case studies on this tunnel. The world should know how our soldiers can do such a wonderful job in limited resources.”“I request the ministry of education that the students of engineering and technical studies related universities should be given a chance to do a case study of Atal Tunnel. The students must learn how this tunnel was built.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/border-areas-connectivity-is-directly-related-to-security-issues-says-pm-modi/story-J1FwqGHYS4KUXkbxGQZuMN.html
03-10-2020||India||Mumbai group clears 10,500 kg trash from waterfalls, pitches for a policy||45 volunteers from Mumbai-based environment group Environment Life along with a team from the Navi Mumbai municipal corporation (NMMC) removed 240 kg of trash on Friday from the Shiravane waterfall in Nerul, Navi Mumbai, completing their 13th waterfall cleanup drive since 2016.The group has so far removed 10,500 kg trash comprising non-biodegradable items such as liquor bottles, thermocol plates, plastic spoons, packaged water bottles, wafers packets, footwear, clothes etc. from 18 waterfalls in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) over the past four years. The group includes residents of Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, and Thane in the age group of 12 to 65 years.The group has requested the Maharashtra tourism development corporation (MTDC) for developing a waterfall tourism policy including waste management at these sites.“Areas, where we have conducted cleanups, are all within a two-hour drive from the city and accessible to Mumbaikars. Though, they are famous picnic spots and weekend getaways, the trash left behind after such outings is a major problem,” said Dharmesh Barai, head coordinator, Environment Life.“Villagers are often harmed by broken glass bottles and so are animals, which, while grazing, eat up the garbage. The local pristine environment around these waterfalls turns into garbage dumpsites,” added Barai.Environment Life began its waterfall cleanup drive on October 2, 2016, across six waterfalls - Pandavkada (in Kharghar), Zenith (Khopoli), Aanandvadi, Jummapatti, and Tapalwadi (in Neral), and Chichoti (in Vasai), collecting 1,420 kg trash in 71 bags. On December 18, 2016, they removed 1,000 kg of trash from Kondeshwar waterfall in Badlapur. Their highest collection was during their third drive at Bhivpuri waterfall at Karjat, where 2,500 kg of trash was collected in 120 bags.Also Read: Human-wildlife conflict: Committee set up to process victims’ claims in Chandigarh“Thereafter, the drive continued during the monsoon months when maximum trash accumulation took place,” said Barai. Last year, the group collected 1,050 kg trash from Vadap waterfall in Karjat and another 220kg in August from Aadai waterfall in Panvel in October.Overall, a total of 502 bags of garbage has been collected over the past 4 years and waste segregated with the help from local municipal bodies and volunteers.“Useful materials were shared for reuse while remaining waste was sent to landfills,” said Barai. What’s more, the group has now taken on mangrove patches near TS Chanakya wetlands in Navi Mumbai where they have so far removed 1,800 kg of waste with help from volunteers, school students, and NMMC officials.Also Read: Delhi to launch massive anti-air pollution campaign from Oct 5: Gopal RaiBabasaheb Rajale, deputy municipal commissioner (solid waste management), NMMC said, “With the perspective of Swachh Bharat, we will support any cleanup efforts that are genuinely focused towards improving environmental conditions around us. From supporting volunteers by providing them with vehicles, machinery, equipment and personnel to being physically present on-site, we will ensure Navi Mumbai and surrounding areas are declared the cleanest not only in Maharashtra but across India.”Meanwhile, Environment Life’s submissions to MTDC for the waterfall tourism policy include ideas like putting up signboards, information and instruction boards to describe the importance of a particular waterfall, toilets and changing room facilities, dustbins, monitoring, ban on liquor consumption, parking facilities and gate fee collection at every waterfall.“The money can be used for cleanliness and infrastructure development for a better tourism experience. Local villagers will get employment opportunities and will ensure that such areas remain protected during the off season as well,” said Barai.Ashutosh Salil, managing director, MTDC said, “The group’s efforts are absolutely commendable and we welcome their suggestion for waste management at all tourism places. We will have to start working closely with the local bodies, mostly gram panchayats, where ever these waterfalls are located for waste management.”A member of MTDC’s directorate said they would consider the suggestions received and the feasibility of establishing a waterfall cleanliness policy for Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-group-clears-10-500-kg-trash-from-waterfalls-pitches-for-a-policy/story-optYVDQOr0VZwfacYrtbQN.html
03-10-2020||India||Monsoon likely to withdraw from parts of UP, Rajasthan, MP in next 24 hours: IMD||Monsoon is likely to withdraw from many parts of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and some parts of northwest Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours, according to India Meteorological Department.A low-pressure area is lying over northwest and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal off Odisha-north and Andhra Pradesh coasts. Under its influence, widespread rain and moderate thunderstorm with lightning is very likely over Odisha, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal during the next 3-4 days. Heavy rainfall is very likely over Odisha during October 3 to 6 and over Gangetic West Bengal and Jharkhand on October 3 and 4, and Chhattisgarh during October 4 to 6.Also read: Delhi gets first sign of winter as nights cooler, temperature may dip below 20°C this weekWidespread and heavy rain is very likely over Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura during October 3 to 6. All of northwest India is likely to record dry weather for the next 5 days, IMD said in its Saturday morning bulletin.Monsoon is normally likely to withdraw completely by October 15. “Monsoon withdrawal cannot be declared from these regions until rain stops completely. The withdrawal parameters have to be met so it’s difficult to say when the monsoon will withdraw completely,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.Minimum temperature has started falling in parts of northwest India. Delhi’s minimum temperature recorded on Saturday was 20.3 degrees C, 2 degrees below normal while the maximum on October 2 was 36.4 degrees C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-withdraw-from-parts-of-up-rajasthan-mp-in-next-24-hours-imd/story-NNEchnSIcoyDCuIKcn9lYO.html
03-10-2020||India||UP Congress chief under house arrest ahead of Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka’s Hathras visit: Party||The Congress party said on Saturday the chief of its Uttar Pradesh unit, Ajay Kumar Lallu, was placed under house arrest ahead of the visit of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to meet the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered. “UP Congress President Shri Ajay Kumar Lallu ji has been placed under house arrest. How scared is this government. We are not going to stop,” the UP Congress tweeted.Ajay Kumar Lallu also said he has been placed under house-arrest. “What is the state government trying to hide? Whom does it want to save? Today, women in Uttar Pradesh are unsafe. There is lawlessness in the state,” he was quotes as saying by news agency ANI.Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi will meet the family of the Dalit woman along with other leaders on Saturday, a couple of days after they were stopped by the Uttar Pradesh police on their way to her village.“Congress MPs under the leadership of former Congress President Shri. @RahulGandhi will go to #Hathras today afternoon to meet the grieving family of the 19 year old daughter of Uttar Pradesh, who was brutally assaulted & murdered,” senior party leader KC Venugopal tweeted earlier in the day. “@INCIndia delegation led by Shri. @RahulGandhi will meet the family members to hear their grievances & demand justice for the victim & her family who have been denied justice & severely traumatized by the BJP Government in UP,” he added. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi were stopped by the police when they were on their way to meet the woman’s family on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-congress-chief-ajay-kumar-lallu-placed-under-house-arrest-ahead-rahul-gandhi-priyanka-s-visit-to-hathras-tweets-party/story-RfbIdJ09rtYUP8ircIBRvN.html
03-10-2020||India||Supplied 9,000 tonnes of steel for Atal Tunnel: SAIL||State-owned SAIL on Friday said it has supplied over 9,000 tonnes of steel for the all-weather Atal Tunnel which reduces the distance between Manali and Leh by 46 kms and travel time by four to five hours. The 9.02 km long tunnel connects Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley, ensuring connectivity throughout the year. The valley was earlier cut off for about six months every year due to heavy snowfall.        In a statement, the Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) said it has contributed to the mega project by supplying more than 9,000 tonnes of steel. Two-thirds of the total 15,000 tonnes of steel used in the project has been supplied by SAIL, it said.         Out of the 9,000 tonnes, 6,500 tonnes was TMT, 1,500 tonnes structurals and 1,000 tonnes plates for fabricating beams, besides a small quantity of GP/GC sheets for constructing stations and control rooms.        “The tunnel will be of great significance to the locals as well as for strategic movements. It will boost connectivity of the Spiti Valley. This is an achievement considering the very challenging conditions of the construction site and weather,” Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan was quoted as saying in the statement.          SAIL Chairman Anil Kumar Chaudhary said, “It is a proud moment for the company to have partnered in such an important project for strengthening India. As India moves forward in becoming Atmanirbhar, SAIL will participate in producing the strong steel needed to fuel every infrastructural need of the nation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supplied-9-000-tonnes-of-steel-for-atal-tunnel-sail/story-VxWd5ttVXPoED3vryEVQxM.html
03-10-2020||India||‘No moral right…’: Priyanka Gandhi seeks Yogi’s resignation over Hathras rape||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has sought Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s resignation over the gang-rape and death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman from Hathras, which has sparked protests and outrage across the country.“RESIGN. You have no moral right to continue as Chief Minister of UP,” Gandhi said in a late-night tweet on Friday and shared a notice by a news channel alleging that a conversation between one of their reporters with a family member of the victim was tapped and leaked.The statement shared on Gandhi’s Twitter handle comes as the Uttar Pradesh police deployed officers around the village in Hathras district where the woman was gang-raped two weeks ago. The police are preventing journalists from meeting the family members of the victim, and reports said that authorities have seized the phones of the victim’s relatives and put them under surveillance.“The UP government is morally corrupt. The victim did not get treatment, did not write a complaint on time, burned the body forcibly, the family is in captivity, they are being pressurized - now they are being threatened that there will be a narco test. This behaviour is not acceptable to the country. Stop bullying the victim’s family,” the Congress leader said in another tweet in Hindi on Saturday morning.Also Read: Prohibitory orders clamped in Hathras, district borders sealedHer tweets came days after she and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi were briefly detained by the state police as they were going to meet the victim’s family, citing imposition of Section 144. They were later released and escorted back to Delhi by UP police.The Congress leaders will be visiting the family later in the day along with a team of party lawmakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-priyanka-gandhi-seeks-yogi-adityanth-s-resignation-says-no-moral-right-to-continue-as-cm/story-59ESzAViPr6wllyLg8PgRJ.html
03-10-2020||India||PM Modi questions previous regimes over Ladakh’s Daulat Beg Oldi, says they compromised on security||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday took a jibe at the previous Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government for its lack of focus on the development of border infrastructure and compromising with the country’s security, as he especially mentioned the Daulat Beg Oldi airstrip in Ladakh, where India is witnessing a border stand-off with China.PM Modi said, without naming the Congress party, during the inauguration of Atal Tunnel in Himachal Pradesh, that the previous government must explain the reason the Daulat Beg Oldi airstrip remained closed for nearly 50 years. He inaugurated the 9.02km long Atal Tunnel, which will connect Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley in the state.“Many other important projects were treated in the same way as Atal Tunnel. The strategically important Daulat Beg Oldi airstrip in Ladakh remained closed for 40–45 years. I do not want to go into details about the helplessness and the pressure behind it,” Modi said adding that the country had seen a phase in which strengthening of border infrastructure was deliberately delayed. Inaugurating the spectacular #AtalTunnel. https://t.co/Npiw0qSO5AThe Prime Minister also asked why the previous government lacked the political will to open the airstrip at the Daulat Beg Oldi as he said his government is now concentrating on border development. “Security of the country is of prime importance for the Union government and the creation of border infrastructure is one of its top priorities. There was nothing more important for us than protecting the country. But the country has also seen a period when the defence interests of the country were compromised,” Modi said.“Connectivity has a direct connection with the development and economic progress of the people. We also know that connectivity in border areas is directly related to security-related issues of the country. The Union government is giving utmost emphasis on the development of border infrastructure and its benefits are being extended to the common people as well as our armed forces personnel,” PM Modi said.He also said that the previous governments had deliberately delayed the construction of Atal Tunnel. He also pointed out that if the work had continued at the same pace on the project, it would have been completed in 2040.“We completed the work in just six years that would have taken 26 years. Atal ji laid the foundation stone of the approach road of this tunnel in 2002. Till 2013-2014, progress was made only on 1,300 meters of this tunnel. After 2014, the project progressed with unprecedented pace,” PM said.‘Realised a dream’Prime Minister Modi said the Atal Tunnel has not only realised Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s dream but has also ended the decades-long wait of the people of Himachal Pradesh.The Prime Minister was accompanied by defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat, chief minister Jairam Thakur, Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Singh Thakur and the Border Road Organisation’s director general Lt Gen Harpal Singh at the inauguration ceremony.The tunnel, which the Prime Minister said will also become the lifeline for Leh-Ladakh, will remain open throughout the year as opposed to the valley being cut off for about six months every year amid heavy snowfall.The strategically important tunnel will also strengthen the country’s border infrastructure, Modi emphasised. “Be it bridges, tunnels, or road construction, development of border infrastructure will not only benefit the common man but also help the military,” he said.Hailing the Make in India move, Modi said big reforms have been introduced to ensure modern weapons are produced in the country. After a long wait, the chief of defence staff is now part of the system. According to the requirements of the Indian Army, better coordination has been established in both procurement and production, Modi added.The Prime Minister also pointed out that work on another bridge Kosi Mahasetu, the foundation of which was laid by Vajpayee in Bihar, has been expedited since 2014 as the Modi government came into power.Cutting travel timeThe Rs 3300 crore-Atal Tunnel, named after former prime minister, reduces the road distance by 46km between Manali and Leh and the travel time by about four to five hours. The tunnel has been built with ultra-modern specifications in the Pir Panjal Range of the Himalayas at an altitude of 3,000 metres from the mean sea level.The single tube double lane tunnel with a roadway of 8 metres and an overhead clearance of 5.525 metres is horse-shoe shaped and has been designed for a traffic density of 3,000 cars per day and 1,500 trucks per day with a maximum speed of 80 km/hr, according to a statement by the Prime Minister’s Office.Jairam Thakur said on Friday that around 200 people were expected to attend the event in Manali. The PMO said Modi will participate in public functions at Sissu in Lahaul Spiti and at Solang Valley after attending the inauguration function at South Portal, Manali.Rajnath Singh had on Friday inspected the Atal Tunnel along with chief minister Thakur and Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-9-02km-atal-tunnel-connecting-manali-to-lahaul-spiti-valley/story-LcX6JyHvq5ADJHibvEjDqJ.html
03-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally mounts past 6.47 million, recoveries over 5.4 million||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) mounted to 6,473,544 after 79,476 new infections and 1,069 related deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, according to data from the Union health ministry on Saturday.The number of active cases was 944,996 and the country’s death toll mounted to 100,842, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am. India’s total recoveries from the viral disease are 5,427,706 as 75,628 Covid-19 patients were cured in the last 24 hours across the country. The national recovery rate is currently pegged at 83.84%.“The last 10 lakh recoveries were added in just 12 days. With this, India continues to maintain its global position of being the country with maximum number of recovered COVID patients in the world,” the health ministry had said on Friday.Also read | How Covid-19 has taken a toll on India’s districtsIt said that 76.62% of the active cases are in 10 states and Union territories and that the active cases contribute only 14.74% to the positive caseload of the country. Maharashtra is leading the states’ tally with more than 250,000 cases and Karnataka follows with more than 100,000 cases. According to the ministry, 14 states and Union territories in the country have less than 5,000 active cases.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayOf the new Covid-19 cases, 78.07% are concentrated in states and Union territories. Maharashtra contributed more than 16,000, Karnataka added around 10,000 cases and Kerala follows with more than 8,000.As 10 states and Union territories account for 72% of the newly recovered cases, Maharashtra has the highest number followed by Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. On Friday, 83.37% of the deaths were reported from 10 states and Union territories with 36% from Maharashtra with 394 deaths, followed by Karnataka with 130 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-mounts-past-6-47-million-recoveries-over-5-4-million/story-l7D1MkIMBjpkrEvBlSrm9M.html
03-10-2020||India||Names of 20 Galwan heroes inscribed on eastern Ladakh war memorial||The names of the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the brutal Galwan Valley skirmish in eastern Ladakh on June 15 have been inscribed on a war memorial in eastern Ladakh, officials said on Saturday.Colonel B Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of 16 Bihar, was among the 20 soldiers killed in the seven-hour deadly conflict near Patrolling Point 14 in Galwan Valley, where outnumbered Indian troops inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA). The names of all battle casualties are inscribed on the National War Memorial, the officials said. Beijing has not disclosed the number of fatalities it suffered in the Galwan Valley clash but according to India’s assessment, the PLA suffered twice as many casualties. Also read: Seventh round of India-China military talks on border row likely next weekApart from 16 Bihar, soldiers from 3 Punjab, 3 Medium Regiment and 81 Field Regiment were involved in the clash.The Indian soldiers confronted the Chinese troops, who refused to remove their installations and vacate the area, triggering a violent clash that involved more than 600 rival soldiers at its peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/memorial-for-galwan-martyrs-in-eastern-ladakh/story-fqSsIRacUXRweCws0eJu8N.html
03-10-2020||India||BJP will contest all 117 seats in Punjab in 2022 polls: Chugh||Six days after the Akali Dal snapped ties with the BJP over farm laws, the saffron party’s newly appointed national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Friday said the party will contest all 117 seats in 2022 assembly elections in Punjab.The state will have a BJP chief minister, said Chugh who was felicitated by the party rank and file in Amritsar after being appointed as national general secretary.“We need to start groundwork with new energy as countdown has begun now,” he added.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) snapped its 24-year long alliance with the BJP last Saturday citing “injustice to farmers, Sikhs, Punjab and Punjabi language”. It also accused the BJP government at the Centre of pushing through the three laws on agriculture reforms without consultation with the party. The BJP has denied the charge and asked party leaders and workers to apprise the farmers of the intended “benefits” of the three laws while exposing the Opposition’s alleged attempts to mislead the farmers on the issue.On Friday, Chugh was heckled near Harsha Chhina village in Amritsar district where he had gone to talk about the “benefits” of the agriculture laws.Also Read: Cong likely to extend stir against farm lawsChugh was addressing the villagers at the farmhouse of senior BJP leader Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina when the protesting farmers led by Sakattar Singh Kotla of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee interrupted him. He, however, continued with his speech that was aired live on Facebook.As the police kept the agitators under control, Chugh told the gathering that the farm laws will change the life of farmers for the better.Also Read: In Punjab, govt employees to face action if farm fires spotted on their rented out landWhen the BJP leaders came out of the venue, the agitating farmers stopped their vehicles amid sloganeering. The two offered to talk to the protesters but the latter refused. Chugh assured another group of farmers that the minimum support price (MSP) of crops will stay. Chhina asked them to form a joint committee of all 31 farmer organisations to hold a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi about their apprehensions regarding the legislations.BJP MP and Punjabi singer Hans Raj Hans on Friday offered that farmers’ issues related to new laws should be discussed with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and party national president JP Nadda. Hans, who hails from Jalandhar, said over phone that they have assured farmer unions, etc to arrange their meeting with Nadda and Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-contest-all-117-seats-in-punjab-in-2022-polls-chugh/story-kBG8IbH9xIXYfUvZ066SfI.html
03-10-2020||India||Congress delegation led by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi to visit family of Hathras gang-rape victim||Congress’ Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will meet the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, who was gang-raped and murdered in Hathras, along with other leaders on Saturday, a couple of days after they were stopped by the Uttar Pradesh police on their way to her village, the party said. “Congress MPs under the leadership of former Congress President Shri. Rahul Gandhi will go to Hathras today afternoon to meet the grieving family of the 19-year-old daughter of Uttar Pradesh, who was brutally assaulted, murdered and the body cremated surreptitiously in the middle of night by Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government,” the party said in a statement.“The Congress delegation led by Shri. Rahul Gandhi and Smt Priyanka Gandhi will meet the family members to hear their grievances and demand justice for the victim and her family who have been denied justice and severely traumatized by the BJP Government in their desperate attempt to hide the truth of the heinous crime perpetrated on the victim,” it added.Also read | Prohibitory orders clamped in Hathras, district borders sealedRahul Gandhi and his sister and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi were briefly detained on Thursday as they tried to visit Hathras on the grounds that there was a ban on public assembly in the area. The police took them to a guest house at the Buddh International Circuit in Greater Noida before escorting them back to Delhi.On Friday, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attended a prayer meeting for the victim at a Valmiki temple in Delhi. She was joined hundreds of people, including Congress leaders PL Punia, Sushmita Dev, Anil Choudhary and BV Srinivas, to show solidarity with the woman. Priyanka Gandhi told reporters that she was at the event to express her condolences and offer prayers for the deceased. “We are all here to ensure that the girl gets justice. We will pressure the government to get her justice,” she said.Also read | ‘Cops outside toilets of victim’s home’The state police have deployed officers around the village, preventing journalists from meeting the family amid allegations that authorities seized the phones of the victim’s relatives and put them under surveillance. Since early Thursday, police set up barricades roughly 2km from the village on the main road, blocked off all access paths and deployed policemen on the mud tracks and in the fields to prevent any “outsiders” from accessing the village.The police have said that Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which prohibits the assembly of four or more people, was clamped in the area. A senior officer said the ongoing probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was the reason for the restrictions.A four-member delegation of the Trinamool Congress, led by senior party leader Derek O’Brien, was also stopped on Friday by the police from going to the village of the gang-rape victim to meet her family.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered the suspension of Hathras’ superintendent of police Vikrant Vir and three other police officers for their handling of the case. The chief minister took the decision on the basis of an initial report of the SIT.The woman was allegedly raped by four dominant-caste men on September 14 when she had gone to the fields in her village to gather cattle fodder. She was left partially paralysed and admitted for treatment in the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College of Aligarh Muslim University and then shifted to New Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital when her condition did not improve. She died on Tuesday morning. The woman’s family has said she was forcibly cremated late in night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-delegation-led-by-rahul-gandhi-and-priyanka-gandhi-to-visit-family-of-hathras-gang-rape-victim/story-dLyGB2JsCXj31oaYEzxCrI.html
03-10-2020||India||District turned into fortress, police barricades: Here is what is happening in Hathras and beyond||A 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras and succumbed to her injuries in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital earlier this week. Her family members have claimed that the police cremated her forcefully in the dead of the night and they were not even allowed to bring the body home.The details of the gruesome incident have sent shockwaves across the country and triggered a massive outrage. Activists and opposition leaders have demanded the resignation of chief minister Yogi Adityanath over the handling of the case even as a series of rapes were reported from the state.Here are the latest developments in the Hathras case:* The administration has sealed the borders of the district. Police have set up barricades roughly 2km from the Bul Gargi on the main road, blocked off all access paths and deployed policemen even on the mud tracks and in the fields to ward off any “outsiders” from accessing the village.* Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure will remain in effect till October 31.* News agency PTI reported that a boy, who claimed to be a relative of the victim, alleged their family’s phones have been confiscated and their outdoor movements confined.* “My family members are being threatened. My uncle asked me to try to reach out to the media. My uncle was assaulted by DM sahib yesterday, after which he fell unconscious,” PTI quoted the boy as saying. He made the comments while speaking to the media outside the village. According to the report, the boy came out of the village after walking through the farms.* A villager said on the condition of anonymity that apart from the streets, police are also camping outside the toilets of the victim’s house. “The women of the house are finding it difficult to visit the toilet with policemen standing right outside,” said the person, who emerged from the village on the pretext of meeting a doctor.* Adityanath has formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the case of the alleged murder and gang-rape of the woman. On the basis of a preliminary inquiry report sent on Friday, the chief minister suspended the superintendent of police Vikrant Vir and four other policemen.* Several opposition leaders including, Trinamool Congress’ Derek O’Brien, Congress’ Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have tried reaching the village but stopped and manhandled by the police.* On Friday, O’Brien and others managed to enter the victim’s village but were unable to meet the family. When O’Brien tried to reach the village along with other lawmakers, he was pushed to the ground by a team of the Uttar Pradesh police.* On Thursday, Gandhi siblings were briefly detained while they were on their way to the village. During the scuffle with police, Gandhi could be seen falling on the ground in videos.* West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will on Saturday lead a protest march in Kolkata against the Hathras gang-rape case. The rally will start at 4pm and the participants will walk from Birla Planetarium to Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in central Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/district-turned-into-fortress-police-barricades-here-is-what-is-happening-in-hathras-and-beyond/story-BvMUwdtt9yTnxZllPOciML.html
03-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to inaugurate Atal Tunnel connecting Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to inaugurate 9.02km Atal Tunnel connecting Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valleyPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday inaugurate the Atal Tunnel under the Rohtang Pass that connects Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley in Himachal Pradesh, which will be available for commuters throughout the year unlike earlier when the valley was cut off for about six months every year amid heavy snowfall. Read moreIndia’s Covid-19 toll surpasses 100,000The death toll from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India surpassed the 100,000 mark on Friday, a grim milestone that comes exactly seven months from the day the first batch of cases were reported in the country. Read moreIslamic State group Al-Hind plotted to build province in jungles of South India: NIA charge sheetAn offshoot of IS operating in south India, known as the Al-Hind module planned to establish ISIS Daishwilayah (province) inside the jungles of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala as recently as in late 2019 according to a July charge sheet by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) against 17 members of the module. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Neither a finisher nor a powerplay bowler, why are they playing him,’ Aakash Chopra baffled at KXIP’s team selectionFormer India opener Aakash Chopra blamed the team selection of Kings XI Punjab for their defeat to Mumbai Indians. Read moreMilind Soman looks kohl lotta trouble as he nails the Arabian nights makeup in sizzling throwback pictureTouted as a beauty staple for women for long, kohl in eyes has started trending among men and Bollywood actor Milind Soman showed how he nailed the Arabian nights makeup, much before it was a celebrity fashion trend. Read moreAbhishek Bachchan hits back at troll who said he’s a ‘product of nepotism’, calls him ‘ill-informed, immature, naive’Slamming a Twitter user who described him as a ‘product of nepotism’, actor Abhishek Bachchan said that the person was ‘ill-informed, immature and naive’. The actor, in recent days, has had to fend off a new wave of online hate. Read moreIPL 2020: Priyam Garg’s maiden fifty helps Sunrisers Hyderabad beat CSK by 7 runsRavindra Jadeja’s maiden IPL fifty went in vain as Sunrisers Hyderabad beat Chennai Super Kings by 7 runs in Dubai. After choosing to bat first, SRH posted 164/5 following Priyam Garg’s maiden IPL fifty. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-atal-tunnel-connecting-manali-to-lahaul-spiti-valley-and-all-the-latest-news/story-VF4NdaH2qwgIiISnBpkhzN.html
03-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi’s tractor rallies in Punjab against farm laws put off by a day||Congress leader and former party president Rahul Gandhi has put off his Punjab visit by a day and will now be taking out tractor rallies in the state against the centre’s agriculture laws from October 4 to 6.The change in programme was announced by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s media adviser Raveen Thukral on Friday. “Change in @RahulGandhi tractor rallies programme; rescheduled to October 4, 5, 6. Rest remains the same,” he tweeted.During his three-day visit, Rahul will lead the party’s tractor rally in Moga, Ludhiana, Sangrur and Patiala districts of the Malwa region, covering more than 50 km, according to a Punjab Congress spokesperson. Besides the chief minister, all party ministers, MPs and MLAs are expected to participate in the protest rallies along with All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of party affairs in Punjab, Harish Rawat, and state party president Sunil Jakhar.Meanwhile, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja, on Friday, said a meeting of state party leaders will be held in Delhi on Saturday, ahead of Rahul Gandhi’s October 5 visit to Haryana. The HPCC chief said in a statement that Gandhi will visit Haryana to extend support to farmers against the controversial farm laws.Also Read: Farmers stir in Haryana fading out, Cong banks on Rahul’s visit There are several disgruntled leaders in the state Congress, but Rawat is making efforts to ensure that the party presents a united face at the event. Rawat met former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has been sulking ever since he quit the state cabinet last year after being stripped of key portfolios, in Amritsar to placate him.“Sidhu will participate in Rahul Gandhi’s tractor rally and so will other leaders. It is a party event in support of the state’s farmers who are protesting against the three new laws,” a party leader said.Also Watch: FIR filed against Rahul & Priyanka Gandhi over March towards HathrasRajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dullo, who has been critical of the chief minister’s functioning in recent months, said if he gets an invite, he will participate in the tractor rally.Meanwhile, director general of police Dinkar Gupta, on Friday, reached Moga to review the security arrangements for Rahul’s rally, which will start from Badhni Kalan of Moga district. Faridkot range inspector general of police (IGP) Kaustubh Sharma and Ludhiana range IGP Naunihal Singh were also present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-s-tractor-rallies-in-punjab-against-farm-laws-put-off-by-a-day/story-GSwNK3ig6DqkfgU8fy69tJ.html
03-10-2020||India||Assam tempo driver arrested for ‘raping’ two minor girls||Police in Assam’s Lakhimpur district have arrested a tempo driver accused of raping two minor girls. According to the police, the incident happened on Thursday after the girls, aged 12 and 15 were given a lift by the accused in his tempo. The survivors have been rescued and are in a childcare home at present. “The girls from Arunachal Pradesh were working as domestic workers in Naharlagun in the same state. On Thursday morning they escaped from their employer’s home and reached Banderdewa in Lakhimpur on the Assam-Arunachal Pradesh border where they met the accused,” said Longnit Terong, superintendent of police, Lakhimpur. “The accused kept taking them around the whole day. In the evening, he allegedly raped the elder girl who later managed to escape. The accused was caught by local villagers, while he was raping the other girl,” the police officer added. Also Read: Hathras gangrape: Leaders, students, activists demand justice for victim in CapitalThe accused was handed over to the police who arrested him on charges of rape under sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Police have conducted medical examinations of the victims and sent them to a childcare home while efforts are underway to trace their families in Arunachal Pradesh. Results of the medical tests are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-tempo-driver-arrested-on-charges-of-raping-two-minor-girls/story-8x4EA1V34TXkGfwtbCIoEM.html
03-10-2020||India||German envoy’s Wind of Change redux, with a little help from India||As diplomats grappled with Covid-19 restrictions and lockdowns, German ambassador Walter Lindner was busy with a secret project to mark the 30th anniversary of Germany’s reunification on October 3 – a new version of the Scorpions song Wind Of Change recorded with Indian musicians. Rolling Stone magazine, which described the song as “an anthem for the end of the Cold War” said the “song’s sentiments of hope and peace, ... (The world is closing in/Did you ever think/That we could be so close/Like brothers?),... and an accompanying video... that employed footage of the construction and tearing down of the Berlin Wall led to it being inextricably linked to the end of the Cold War.” The track has been endorsed by Klaus Meine, the lead singer of Scorpions and one of the writers of the song that was a worldwide hit in 1991 in the times of perestroika and glasnost, and went on to sell 14 million copies. Lindner said Meine told him the new version gave him (Meine) goosebumps. Lindner, an accomplished musician who plays instruments such as the guitar, piano and flute and has released several albums, said he opted to record an Indian version of Wind Of Change, an “unofficial anthem of freedom, hope and change”, to mark German Unity Day instead of organising a webinar or digital workshop. “On this historic day, German reunification was finalised. The Berlin Wall came down and the Cold War came to an end. Commemorating the 30th anniversary of German reunification at a time when we are facing the coronavirus pandemic presented its own challenge. We didn’t want just another webinar. We wanted a different, innovative approach,” he said. ALSO WATCH | German Unity Day: Envoy Walter Lindner records new version of ‘Wind Of Change’ Technology played a key part in the venture – singer Chetan Dominic Awasthi recorded his vocals at home in Noida, sarod, tabla and sitar players Pandit Vikash Maharaj, Prabhash Maharaj and Abhishek Maharaj recorded their parts in Varanasi while drummer Peter Retzlaff sent in his part from New York – and the envoy put everything together in his well-equipped home studio. Besides the drums and the Indian instruments featured in the song, Lindner played all other instruments. The song also features on Lindner’s new CD , A Journey’s Songbook, which has several Indian musicians and is a mix of rock, soul, jazz and Indian music. Lindner said he chose Wind Of Change because the song gives a “glimpse of hope – that there are better days, a better future is possible, that change is possible, be it from Covid or disasters in the world”. The envoy spoke to Klaus Meine, whom he has since befriended, to get the rights for the song. Lindner said Meine told him an Indian version would be a “wonderful idea because the song is about building bridges across cultures”. The video for the track features footage of the Scorpions, and has an endorsement from Meine, who says: “Today, we’re building bridges across borders and cultures for a better and more peaceful world.” Lindner said he hopes the people of India too will take away a message of hope. “If you’re in the corona situation and depressed, and at home and then you crave for getting out, look at this and get some ray of hope. Whatever changes you want in your life and in your surroundings, it can happen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/german-envoy-s-wind-of-change-redux-with-a-little-help-from-india/story-0D5FjDMPBsTHsPGd0tESTL.html
03-10-2020||India||Single tube double lane tunnel, horseshoe-shaped: 10 things about Atal Tunnel||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday inaugurate Atal Tunnel, which will cut down the distance between Leh and Manali by 46km and the travel time by four to five hours, in Himachal Pradesh’s Rohtang.“We have made all preparations and we are waiting for the Prime Minister. It’s a moment of joy for the people of Himachal Pradesh. This is a historical moment,” Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“The tunnel holds great significance in the light of the situation with neighbouring countries and added that it is not only significant from a national security point of view but also be very helpful for the commute of the people,” Thakur said.“Around 200 people will be present at the event. Prime Minister is sending out a message that how close Himachal is to his heart. He is appearing physically for a development project. We wanted a huge inauguration event. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, only a small event is being organised. The tunnel will also send a strong message for a border security point of view,” he added.Defence minister Rajnath Singh visited the Atal Tunnel on Friday along with Thakur and reviewed the preparations for the inaugural function of Atal Tunnel.Here are 10 things to know about the Atal Tunnel:* The decision to construct Atal Tunnel was taken on June 3, 2000, by the then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The foundation stone for the tunnel was laid on May 26, 2002.* On 25 December 2019, the Rohtang tunnel was renamed as Atal Tunnel in the memory of Atal Bihari Vajpayee.* Atal Tunnel is located at a distance of 25km from Manali at an altitude of 3,060 meters.* The 9.02km long tunnel has been built with ultra-modern specifications in the Pir Panjal Range of the Himalayas.* It is a horseshoe-shaped, single tube double lane tunnel with a roadway of 8 metres and an overhead clearance of 5.525 metres.* It has been designed for a traffic density of 3,000 cars and 1,500 trucks per day with a maximum speed of 80 km/hr.* The tunnel is 10.5-metre wide and a 3.6x2.25 metre fireproof emergency egress tunnel has been built into the main tunnel itself.* The tunnel is equipped with various security features such as CCTV cameras, telephone connections at every 150 metres for any emergency, fire hydrant mechanism at every 60 metres and auto incident detection system.* There are evacuation lighting and exit signs at every 25 metres and broadcasting system throughout the stretch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-s-longest-highway-tunnel-horseshoe-shaped-10-things-about-atal-tunnel/story-ryfsx5VhnGOQk8BpYQM74L.html
03-10-2020||India||Dalit woman dies by suicide in Madhya Pradesh, kin allege police inaction on rape complaint||A 32-year-old Dalit woman, who was allegedly raped on September 28, died by suicide in Madhya Pradesh’s Narsinghpur district on Friday. The victim’s family has accused the police of harassment and alleged that their complaint was not lodged.On Friday, assistant sub-inspector Mishrilal Kodapa of Gotitoriya police outpost under Chichli police station was suspended for laxity in duty, said Gadarwara Sub Divisional Officer of Police (SDOP) S R Yadav.Director general of police (DGP), Madhya Pradesh, Vivek Johri, said: “An FIR has also been lodged against the ASI of police for his alleged refusal to lodge the FIR.” Mishrilal Kodapa was arrested under section 166A of IPC, but was later granted bail, said a police officer from Chichli police station. Of the three persons booked for gang rape, two have been arrested. One of the two booked for abetment to suicide has been arrested.The woman’s husband said, “My wife was in an agriculture field to cut grass for cattle when the accused gang-raped her on September 28... I went to Gotitoria police outpost to lodge the FIR at the night itself. The police personnel took the complaint, but didn’t lodge the FIR. They told me that a medical examination will be conducted next day.”“When we went to the police outpost the next day the report was not lodged again. Fed up, we went to Chichli police station...but police personnel lodged my elder brother and I in the lock-up and abused my wife. Mortified... she committed suicide today.” The sub-divisional officer of police Seetaram Yadav said, “ The woman and her husband did lodge the complaint but their complaint was vague.”(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918; Fortis Helpline 24x7, 16 languages: 8376804102)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalit-woman-dies-by-suicide-in-madhya-pradesh-kin-allege-police-inaction-on-rape-complaint/story-F3mafn5FzmEL1qq7DR5GYO.html
03-10-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate 9.02km Atal Tunnel connecting Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday inaugurate the Atal Tunnel under the Rohtang Pass that connects Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley in Himachal Pradesh, which will be available for commuters throughout the year unlike earlier when the valley was cut off for about six months every year amid heavy snowfall.The 9.02km long tunnel has been built with ultra-modern specifications in the Pir Panjal Range of the Himalayas at an altitude of 3,000 metres from the mean sea level. Atal Tunnel reduces the road distance by 46km between Manali and Leh and the travel time by about four to five hours, according to the statement released by the Prime Minister’s Office on Friday.It is a horseshoe-shaped, single tube double lane tunnel with a roadway of 8 metres and an overhead clearance of 5.525 metres, the statement added. Designed for a traffic density of 3,000 cars per day and 1,500 trucks per day with a maximum speed of 80 km/hr, the tunnel is 10.5-metre wide and a 3.6x2.25 metre fireproof emergency egress tunnel has been built into the main tunnel itself.Also Read: After Rohtang, more high-altitude tunnels to come up on Manali-Leh highwayThe tunnel has been built keeping in mind several safety measures. Entry barriers at both north and south portals, telephone connections at every 150 metres, fire hydrant mechanisms at every 60 metres, air quality monitoring, CCTV cameras, evacuation lighting and exit signs at every 25 metres and broadcasting system throughout the stretch are some of the key safety features built into the Atal Tunnel.The decision to construct the tunnel was taken on June 3, 2000, under the prime ministership of late Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The foundation stone for the Access Road to the South Portal of the tunnel was laid on May 26, 2002, the PMO said. However, in 2019 the Union Cabinet under the chairmanship of PM Modi resolved to name the Rohtang Tunnel as Atal Tunnel in honour of the former prime minister.After attending the inauguration function at South Portal, Manali, Modi will participate in public functions at Sissu in Lahaul Spiti and at Solang Valley, PMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-9-02km-atal-tunnel-connecting-manali-to-lahaul-spiti-valley/story-3YmUtzWMbnOWUtl65MGOyJ.html
03-10-2020||India||Hathras gangrape: Senior police officials suspended||The Uttar Pradesh government suspended senior police officials in Hathras district on Friday and ordered narco-analysis tests for everyone involved in the case as pressure mounted over blocking media access to the family of a 19-year-old Dalit woman, whose brutal gang rape and murder has shocked the nation. The government, in an order on Friday evening, suspended Hathras superintendent of police Vikrant Vir, deputy superintendent of police Ram Shabd, police inspector in-charge Dinesh Kumar Verma, senior sub- inspector Jagveer Singh and head constable Mahesh Pal.The district police came under criticism, first for an alleged delay in responding to the woman and her family’s complaint, cremating her body in the middle of the night without the family’s consent, then for throwing a cordon of police officers around the village that stopped the entry of all journalists, and now for seizing the phones of the victim’s family members -- although it is likely that instructions for many of these came from Lucknow. The suspensions were ordered on the basis of recommendations by a three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT), which questioned the victim’s family members on Thursday. “The SIT formed in the Hathras case submitted its preliminary report to the state government today,” read the government press note.It said that Vir was suspended for alleged negligence and lax supervision of the case. He was replaced with Shamli SP Vineet Jaiswal. “Narco and polygraph tests should be conducted on the accused, complainant and police officials,” the note added. Former Uttar Pradesh DGP, Brijlal said: “the state government orders narco-analysis tests in criminal cases to know if the complainants and the accused are giving a correct version of in the incident concerned.”Vikrant Vir did not respond calls despite repeated attempts.The SIT -- comprising home secretary Bhagwan Swaroop, deputy inspector general of police Chandra Prakash and commandant of the Agra provincial armed constabulary Poonam -- was constituted on September 30. The order came after two chaotic days when police banned the entry of “outsiders” to the village, triggering allegations that it had put the Dalit woman’s family under surveillance. On Friday morning, a teenager who said he was a cousin of the victim, approached journalists waiting at the police barricades – set up roughly 2km from the village – and alleged that the administration locked in the family, seized their mobile phones and even hit the victim’s father. “They have seized our mobile phones and won’t allow us to meet the media. All we want is speak to journalists about the pressure we are under,” he said. The police denied the charges, and pointed out that Section 144 of the Indian Penal Code – which prohibits the assembly of four or more people – was clamped in the area. The police said the SIT probe was the reason for the restrictions. “The three-member SIT is conducting the probe in the village. Till then, entry of the media is to remain restricted. We are also maintaining law and order. Hence, no political delegations and individuals are allowed inside the village,” said additional superintendent of police (ASP) Prakash Kumar in the afternoon.The 19-year-old woman, who belongs to the Valmiki caste, was brutally attacked and gang-raped on September 14, and rushed to a hospital in Aligarh. Eight days later, on September 22, she recorded her statement, where she said she was raped and named the four accused. Her mother’s statement echoed the claims.As her condition deteriorated, she was moved to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital on September 28 and died in the early hours of September 29, sparking nationwide protests. Later that evening, the police drove the family and the victim’s body back to the Hathras village but proceeded to cremate the body without the consent of the parents. At 2.30am on September 30, the policemen cremated her body even as the family alleged they were restricted from even getting a final glimpse of their daughter. Since then, protests against the crime have swept the nation and prompted several Opposition leaders to try and visit the village – but have all been thwarted by the state police. Citing forensic reports, the police have denied that the woman was raped but experts have pointed to lapses in procedure during the medical examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gangrape-senior-police-officials-suspended/story-hFY58EB9vFdg0aJhzbPNtJ.html
03-10-2020||India||ICMR DG hails Gandhian perspective of healthy living in Covid-19 times||Following Mahatma Gandhi’s philosophy of healthy lifestyle -- “Less is more” and “Health is wealth” especially in the times of crisis will be a prominent way to foster ease of living during the Covid-19 pandemic, said Prof (Dr) Balram Bhargava, Director General of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Friday.Speaking on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, Prof (Dr) Bhargava said that Gandhi has spent his life promoting the message of preventive health to the masses.“In today’s unprecedented time, there is no better person who could lead us out of this. Taking a cue from his messages, we should follow the COVID-19 preventive measures like physical distancing (do gaz ki doori), use of masks at public places and offices, maintaining hand hygiene as these are most effective ways to keep this dreadful virus at bay,” he said. Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe ICMR Director-General opined that Gandhi was aware and concerned about individual health and poured his thoughts in the book “Key to Health”.“Following them conscientiously will be a prominent way to foster ease of living in COVID times,” he said. In the meantime, ICMR is on its toes to find out pharmacological solutions and developing a vaccine to fight against this coronavirus, said ICMR chief.Over the last two years, the top medical research body has the National Gandhi Museum, to promote Gandhian philosophy of health -- ‘Gandhi & Health@150’ initiative.Dr HK Chopra, Senior Consultant, Moolchand Hospital said, “Mahatma Gandhi’s thought process was to ‘keep moving’, which is essential for blood circulation and a healthy body. The best message that he gave us was that exercise is essential for a fit body and mind.”Also Read: India’s Covid-19 toll reaches 100,000+Meanwhile, Dr Swadeep Srivastava, Founder, HEAL Foundation, said that Gandhi’s simple teachings and philosophies inspire us to shape our thoughts and do better in a time of crisis such as the Covid-19 pandemic.“Mahatma Gandhi was also a master communicator and the behaviour change champion of the world,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-dg-hails-gandhian-perspective-of-healthy-living-in-covid-19-times/story-XkMItpot7I3bfo13IhGTPL.html
03-10-2020||India||Delhi police register case against protesters violating laws at Jantar Mantar||The Delhi Police on Friday registered a case against the persons who staged a protest demanding harsh punishment for the accused in the alleged Hathras gangrape case and some were demanding fair investigation in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, violating NGT order, Supreme Court order, Section 144 of CrPC and other laws in view of Covid-19.“Members of many political parties and different NGOs in different groups reached Jantar Mantar to stage a protest demanding harsh punishment for accused persons in Hathras Gangrape Case and some were demanding fair investigation in Sushant Singh Rajput death case,” the police said in a statement.As the protestors have violated order under section 144 CrPC in force and other laws regarding Covid-19, a case under section 188 of IPC, 3 Epidemic Act and 51(b) Disaster Management Act has been registered at Parliament Street police station against the protestors, police said. Earlier in the day, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal went to Jantar Mantar to participate in the protest in wake of alleged Hathras gangrape incident along with Aam Aadmi party leader Atishi and other members. Left parties, members of Bhim Army and student organisations staged a protest against the Hathras incident at Jantar Mantar.Youth Congress members dressed as Mahatma Gandhi, organised a demonstration at Jantar Mantar Road to protest against the alleged Hathras gangrape.The 19-year-old Hathras victim died at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital on September 29, a fortnight after allegedly being gang-raped. All the four accused in the incident have been arrested.The government has formed a three-member SIT to probe the case and said the matter will be heard in the fast track court.The post-mortem report states that the victim suffered a fracture of “C6 cervical vertebra” and there was “extravasations of blood along the fracture line” and the underlying spinal cord was “contused with ascending oedema”. Also, the postmortem report denies rape charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-register-case-against-protesters-violating-laws-at-jantar-mantar/story-BpZgyJpvziEJ2fSNleui3O.html
03-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The death toll from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed 100,000 on Friday. In some ways, this is just a number, and perhaps an underestimate at that. It’s a truth universally acknowledged that every country in the world has undercounted the number of dead from the viral pandemic – not deliberately all the time, but simply because it is tough to keep count. India is no exception – Dispatch 158, on September 15, estimated (based on an assumption on the infection fatality rate) that India, at the time of that writing, had seen between 110,000 and 131,500 deaths, significantly higher than the 80,000 that were officially recorded. Still, 100,000 is a milestone even if not a happy one. India is now the third country in the world, after the US and Brazil, to have deaths in the six-digits.Perhaps because of India’s vast population, or our almost automatic acceptance of fatalism, we find it easy to anonymise deaths and reduce them to mere numbers. We are inured to headlines such as “45 dead in boat accident” or “Floods claim 140 lives”. These headlines are made up, but they will likely be familiar to most people. Sometimes we stop and read a piece that’s extremely tragic or horrific, but then we move on (as, indeed, many believe that we should).The deaths of famous people are different – because suddenly, the death is no longer a mere number. It is a person, a famous person, an artist or a singer who perhaps touches our lives every day (as many do long after they are gone). These are extraordinary people, who lived extraordinary lives. But all lives, even ordinary ones, are extraordinary in their own way – and not just to the family and friends of the deceased. Each of the 100,000 is a life lost – and each (it’s important to acknowledge this because of our fatalism) could have been saved. Old and young, men and women, the fit and the not-so, rich and poor, famous and unknown – the virus has killed over 100,000 people in the country (India’s death toll on Friday night was 100,896). Policemen (and policewomen), doctors, politicians, teachers, farmers, couriers, pensioners, businesspeople, students, cab drivers, journalists, priests – the virus has taken a toll on people from every walk of life. And it will continue to.Among infectious diseases, tuberculosis and respiratory infections still kill more in India, as do many so-called lifestyle ailments such as diabetes, but these comparisons do nothing to reduce the grimness of the Covid-19 death toll. Since September 5 (and till October 1), India has recorded fewer than 1,000 deaths on only three days. The current seven-day average of daily cases in India is around 80,000; at the current case fatality rate of 1.5%, this will translate into 1,200 deaths a day in the next few weeks. In effect, every day that sees the addition of 80,000 cases is actually foretelling 1,200 deaths. This is one of the three numbers India’s health administrators need to focus on – instead, there’s a lot of talk of the recovery rate (which does not make sense because if the case fatality rate is only 1.5%, we can expect 98.5% of those infected to recover over time). The two other metrics the administrators need to keep an eye on are: the number of tests (and within that, the number of RT-PCR tests); and the number of active cases.India crossed 50,000 deaths (50,084) on August 15, when it had 2.5 million cases (2,589,208). It crossed 100,000 deaths on October 2, when it had 6.5 million cases. It has added roughly 50% of the deaths it has seen to date in the same time that it has added around 62% of the cases. In the same period, the world has added 38% of the cases it has seen to date, and 24% of deaths.An even better comparison would be to see the proportion of cases the world has added in the time it has seen roughly half the deaths to date. It crossed 500,000 deaths on June 25, when it had 9.6 million cases. It crossed a million deaths on Tuesday (by which time the number of cases had grown to 33.38 million). In effect, world had added 70% of the cases to date in the same period in which it added half the deaths to date.In September, India added 33,273 deaths (33.7% of its deaths till September 30) and 2.6 million cases (41.56% of its cases), for a case fatality rate of 1.28%. In the same period, the US added 1.2 million cases (16.25% of its cases till September 30) and 23,917 deaths (11.3% of its deaths) to its tally for a September case fatality rate of around 2%.The good news for India: the case fatality rate of 1.28% is not very far from the 1% the government wants to touch. The bad news: September saw one of every three deaths from Covid-19 the country has seen so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-EJAZPzAg11SrMwwTLLMGvI.html
03-10-2020||India||‘Cops outside toilets of victim’s home’: Hathras off limits, family off the grid||The Uttar Pradesh police threw a cordon of officers round the village in Hathras district where a 19-year-old Dalit woman was gang-raped and murdered two weeks ago, preventing journalists from meeting the family amid allegations that authorities seized the phones of the victim’s relatives and put them under surveillance. Since early Thursday, police set up barricades roughly 2km from the village on the main road, blocked off all access paths and deployed policemen even on the mud tracks and in the fields -- to ward off any “outsiders” from accessing the village. WATCH | Hathras case: UP CM Adityanath suspends SP, ordered narco-analysis testsAlso Read: Hathras gangrape: Police stifle protests after forcibly cremating victimOn Friday morning, a teenager who said he was a cousin of the victim, approached journalists waiting at the barricades and alleged that the administration had locked in the family, seized their mobile phones and even hit the victim’s father. “The police have occupied our house. They have even taken positions on the terrace,” the boy alleged. Also Read: ‘Inhumane and goes beyond cruelty’: Virat Kohli on Hathras gangrapeA villager said on condition of anonymity that apart from the streets, police are also camping outside the toilets of the victim’s house. “The women of the house are finding it difficult to visit the toilet with policemen standing right outside,” said the person, who emerged from the village on the pretext of meeting a doctor. Also Read: After Hathras, another Dalit woman gangraped in Balrampur; UP govt faces backlashThe teenager said the family was desperate to meet the media. “My uncle (victim’s father) also made an unsuccessful attempt to escape from the village with me. I know the secret exit routes through the agricultural routes because of which I could make it,” he said. He further alleged that the police cut off the family’s contact with the outside world. “They have seized our mobile phones and won’t allow us to meet the media. All we want is speak to journalists about the pressure we are under,” he said. The teenager said that a senior officer even kicked the victim’s father in his chest on Wednesday, causing him to fall unconscious. The police denied the charges, and pointed out that Section 144 of the Indian Penal Code – which prohibits the assembly of four or more people – was clamped in the area. A senior officer said the ongoing probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was the reason for the restrictions. “The three-member SIT is conducting the probe in the village. Till then, entry of the media is to remain restricted. We are also maintaining law and order. Hence, no political delegations and individuals are allowed inside the village,” said ASP Prakash Kumar in the afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-off-limits-family-off-the-grid-gangrape-kin-alleges-victim-s-father-hit-by-authorities-seizing-of-mobiles/story-Hc1UBCXv6xBxN4KoM0ad5J.html
03-10-2020||India||Delhi gets first sign of winter as nights cooler, temperature may dip below 20°C this week||There is a nip in the air in Delhi and the northern plains with minimum temperatures falling -- the first signs of the onset of winter. The minimum temperature in Delhi on October 2 was 20 degree C, 2 degree C below normal and a fall of 2 to 3 degrees from September 27-28 when the minimum temperature was 23.2 degree C and 22.2 degree C.The Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Delhi, said there could be a further fall of 1 to 2 degree C in minimum temperatures over the coming week. Maximum temperatures, however, remained moderate at 35.6 degree C on October 1 and 36.5 degree C on September 30. Also Read: Chandigarh: Mercury drops below 20°C for first time since MayLast year, Delhi recorded minimum temperature of 19.8 degree C on October 4. “We are not expecting any change immediately in the maximum temperature. There are clear skies now after the monsoon has withdrawn, so day temperatures are high but the heat is radiated back so the nights are cooler. The wind direction has changed from easterly during monsoon to north-westerly so the winds are blowing from the colder regions such as J&K and Himachal Pradesh. If there is any rain or snow there due to a western disturbance, it will get colder,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.IMD’s forecast for next seven days shows minimum temperature will be around 19 degree C. “As per our forecast minimum temperatures will drop by a degree or so in the next week,” said K Sathi Devi, head of the national weather forecasting centre.Also Read: After 61 years, India records two consecutive years of ‘above normal’ rainRMC data shows that minimum temperatures are also lower than normal in other parts of northwest India -- Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh, Karnal in Haryana, and Chamba and Bilaspur in Himachal Pradesh. Though the post monsoon season has started after IMD declared end of the monsoon on September 30, widespread heavy rain is expected over Odisha, Jharkhand, and Gangetic West Bengal during the next four to five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-gets-first-sign-of-winter-as-nights-cooler-temperature-may-dip-below-20-c-this-week/story-6SXNjsZdlk64qUW0fhrfgK.html
03-10-2020||India||Tripura scribes wear black badges to protest against CM’s ‘threat’ over reporting of state’s Covid-19 situation||A group of journalists gathered at the Agartala Press Club on Friday wearing black ribbons to protest against chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s alleged threat against media coverage of the state’s drive to contain Covid-19. The journalists on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti gathered to protest against comments made by chief minister Deb during the foundation-stone laying ceremony of a special economic zone in South Tripura on September 11 said that he will not forgive some newspapers for creating confusion regarding the state’s handling of the pandemic.“Some newspapers are trying to confuse people....History will not forgive them, people of Tripura will not forgive them and I Biplab Deb will not forgive them. I do whatever I say, history is testimony to that,” Deb had said, according to news agency PTI. Following this incident journalists from Tripura had served three days notice to the chief minister asking him to withdraw his statement. CM Deb said that he did not mean to threaten anyone through his statement. The journalists said that they will stick to their movement and send representatives seeking intervention from the Prime Minister, Home minister and Press Council of India.The president of Agartala Press Club Subal Kumar Dey said, “We work on behalf of the people. But freedom of expression of the media has been trampled in the past 30 months. The officials are not allowed to speak to the media, journalists are threatened and assaulted in different parts of the state.”Dey said that the movement will continue unless the chief minister withdraws his statement. He further added, “We demand that the chief minister withdraws his statement, give justice to assaulted mediapersons or else our movement will continue.”(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-journalists-wear-black-badges-to-protest-against-cm-s-threat-over-reporting-on-state-s-covid-19-situation/story-wNvHshUBTruSfTBxqt9mMJ.html
03-10-2020||India||Like in Sushant Rajput case: Bihar police gets FIR request from actor Akshat Utkarsh’s family||Actor Akshat Utkarsh’s family has filed a complaint with the Bihar police to seek a FIR and a probe into the actor’s death on Sunday night. Mumbai police had indicated that the actor was depressed due to lack of work and had died by suicide.His family in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur, however, has rejected this conclusion and alleged that Akshat Utkarsh had been murdered.Utkarsh was found hanging at his rented accommodation at Andheri West in Mumbai on Sunday night. He had worked in some TV serials and advertisements. He had recently signed a Bhojpuri film ‘Litti-Chokha’.Muzaffarpur city deputy superintendent of police Ram Naresh Paswan confirmed that the actor’s family had submitted a formal complaint. But the police haven’t acted on the request. Paswan said they are awaiting directions from senior officials on how to proceed.It is unusual for the police in one state to try to investigate a crime that primarily relates to another state.But the Bihar police had departed from this standard practice in August this year when it registered a FIR for abetment to suicide, dishonestly inducing delivery of property and breach of trust in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in Mumbai on a complaint from his father KK Singh.This FIR was the starting point for the investigation by three federal agencies; Central Bureau of Investigation, the Enforcement Directorate and the Narcotics Control Bureau.Akshat Utkarsh’s family in Muzaffarpur wants the Bihar police to apply the same principles and file the FIR.In the complaint handed over to the police on Thursday, the family has named three suspects including his flatmate Shikha Rajput and his society secretary Kishore Thakkar, said police on Friday. The family accused the three of hatching a conspiracy to kill Utkarsh.The Muzaffarpur police are yet to lodge the FIR against the accused, Utkarsh’s uncle Vikrant Kishore complained. He said if police doesn’t take appropriate action, the family will stage a protest outside Muzzafarpur’s Town police station.The family said has contested the Mumbai police finding that Utkarsh’s family said Akshat Utkarsh had no reason to face financial troubles since they would wire him money whenever he needed.His father Vijayant Kishore said his son had called him around 8.30pm on September 27 and said he wanted to tell him something. However, he did not share anything and said he would tell the same on Monday. Senior police inspector Someshwar Kamte of Amboli police station had earlier said Utkarsh lived with his girlfriend who had found his body.According to his roommate’s statement, Akshat was behaving as usual on Sunday evening and they as usual chatted about various things and then had dinner together before going to sleep. “At around 11.30 pm when she woke up to use the washroom, she found Akshat dead in his room, after which she immediately called the police,” an officer from Amboli police station had said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-in-sushant-rajput-case-bihar-police-gets-fir-request-from-actor-akshat-utkarsh-s-family/story-Hm79vkD7f28wreXzyzCtGO.html
03-10-2020||India||1 vaccine may have reached initial efficacy test||The first clues of whether a Covid-19 vaccine is effective in preventing infections among people may have already come in, a private agency tracking the process and scientific research has projected, pointing to protocols and enrolment data from American pharma company Pfizer.The disclosure of efficacy data is being closely watched, particularly in the context of the presidential election in United States where president Donald Trump has on several occasions assured that a vaccine will be approved before the November 3 polling. Pfizer’s is among half a dozen experimental vaccines being tested in large scale (Phase 3) human trials and, according to science informatics and analytics company Airfinity, it is projected to have had enough Covid-19 cases in the trial for its first interim analysis. Covid-19: What you need to know todayAn interim analysis is when a trial reaches a preset threshold of infections – 32 in the case of Pfizer’s first of four – for researchers to review. If no fewer than 76.9% (26 out of the 32) of the infections are among those who got a placebo, the vaccine will have shown to be effective in preventing the disease as per the first analysis yardstick. Watch: How Covid-19 has gripped India’s urban centres Airfinity’s projections suggest Pfizer would have hit the 32 cases threshold on September 27. “To calculate these projected dates, we have reviewed all clinical trial data and protocols received so far, collected enrolment rates for the leading candidates as well as the Covid-19 attack rate at the locations where they are running their trials. We then use a code to estimate how long it will take to reach the required number of Covid-19 cases in the trial using all this information,” an Airfinity analyst told HT. Also Read: Chronic respiratory illnesses, heart diseases among top three causes of death in India: 2017 dataPfizer’s chief executive Albert Bourla has in recent appearances said the company expects “conclusive” efficacy data to come in by October – a position experts have been wary of. On September 26, a group of 60 scientists and public health experts from top American institutions wrote an open letter to Pfizer expressing their apprehensions and urging Bourla to not apply for regulatory clearance till all safety standards have been met. “Pfizer’s choice of 32 events is the lowest of all seen so far and has been widely criticised... there seems to be concern within Pfizer itself as the CEO has written out a company-wide email following the presidential election debate this week,” said the Airfinity analyst, adding that Pfizer’s choice of “four interim analyses in one phase III trial is unheard of in any vaccine trial”. In the e-mail to staff, Bourla said the company will not heed to political pressure and that the references to vaccine development process in the presidential debate was “disappointing”.Also Read: India’s Covid-19 toll reaches 100,000+The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which will take the final regulatory decision, is scheduled to meet on October 22 to review possible licensing and approvals for Covid-19 vaccine candidates, though it is unlikely to discuss any specific candidates, according to its meeting schedule.According to Airfinity’s projections, the next vaccine candidate to reach interim analysis threshold is Sinovac’s inactivated virus double-dose vaccine (October 22, Moderna’s mRNA-based double-dose candidate (October 25), and Oxford-AstraZeneca’s adenovirus vector single-dose candidate (November 24). Oxford-AstraZeneca is also experimenting with double dose formulations which will take longer for the data. Moderna is US-based while Oxford and AstraZeneca are from the United Kingdom.Also Read: Lonza confident of 2020 target for Moderna Covid-19 vaccine supplyApart from these, US’s Johnson & Johnson, Russia’s Gamaleya institute and China’s Sinopharm and CanSino have the most watched vaccine candidates. These are among 18 vaccine candidates in Phase 2 and 3 trials. Among these, five have been given emergency authorisation for use among public or in some groups of people by Russia, China and the United Arab Emirates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-vaccine-may-have-reached-initial-efficacy-test/story-38HjNSTs5TswZf0UBPMNBJ.html
03-10-2020||India||Chronic respiratory illnesses, heart diseases among top three causes of death in India: 2017 data||Heart diseases, chronic respiratory illnesses and strokes are the top three causes of death in India, together accounting for over 3 million deaths in the country in 2017, the last year for when all-cause mortality data is available. This is roughly 30 times of the 100,000 deaths that have been recorded in India due to Covid-19 in the less than seven months that the viral illness began spreading and claiming lives. For the last 28 days, at least 1,000 people have died every day – a number that has been described as alarming. Taking known infections into account, the mortality rate (or the case fatality rate) comes to 1.56%.“Covid-19 shouldn’t be a cause of worry as the death rate for India has been constantly dropping, and my assessment is that it will drop further. In absolute numbers it may sound big that one lakh people have died but we have to also look at our country’s population, and the number of people who got infected,” said Dr NK Mehra, former head, transplant, immunology and immunogenetics, All India Institute of Medical Science, Delhi.  Also Read: Gurugram: New Covid-19 cases show decline of 23% in a week“In India, the severity of infection is also low because our immunity levels are better modulated to fight off any infections as compared to Europeans and Americans. In fact, other viruses kill more. However, the infectivity rate of this virus is quite high so infections could go up in future. Deaths will remain low,” he added. One of the key ways Covid-19 turns severe is when it comes an intense lower respiratory tract infection, although researchers say the most fatalities may be a result of a cytokine storm (when the immune system begins attacking organs). According to the Global Burden of Disease report published in The Lancet Global Health last year, data from 2017 (the latest period it has been available for), shows respiratory illnesses killed 0.34 million that year – nearly three-and-a-half times of the Covid toll seen till now.WATCH | Covid update: Donald Trump test positive; Mumbai slums infection; Kerala casesAlso Read: Maharashtra government to procure Covid-19 medicines, test kits worth Rs 634 croreIn terms of diseases with high case fatality rate in India are usually those with a CFR of 1% or above. Of the 11 such diseases, as documented in the National Health Profile 2019, at least eight diseases are with CFR that ranges from 100% to 2%. Covid-19’s CFR is around 1.5%. Top infectious diseases with high CFR are rabies (100%), Japanese encephalitis (11%), influenza (A) H1N1 (7%), acute encephalitis syndrome (6%), encephalitis (5%), meningococcal meningitis (4%), tetanus neonatal (4%), diphtheria (2%), and viral meningitis, cholera and tetanus other than neonatal all three reporting 1% CFR. “Covid-19 mortality rate of course needs to come below 1%, that goes without saying, as mortality is one of the factors that determine impact of disease. But, if you ask me, our bigger concern should be post-Covid complications, also called long Covid, because of the structural damage it does to the lungs and the brain. It affects the quality of life in long-term, and needs our focus,” said Dr Samiran Panda, head, epidemiology and communicable diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research. Also Read: Death data highlights need to check young-old transmissionICMR recently launched National Covid-19 Registry in six regions from across the country to document long-term effects of the viral disease. Doctors treating Covid-19 patients also say that the number of deaths is dropping. But with winter setting in, Covid-19 could pose a bigger problem. “We have managed to keep things very much under control so far but there is evidence to suggest that pneumonia progresses differently during summers and winters. In winters, it becomes more severe, which is why coming months are going to be a challenge in terms of stopping Covid-19 numbers from rising,” said Dr VK Paul, chairman, one of the government empowered groups, to manage Covid-19 situation in the country, in a recent Covid-19 briefing. “People need to be extra careful in coming days, with absolutely no scope for prevention fatigue. There is no other option but to adopt Covid-19 safe behavior such as wearing a mask, maintaining hand hygiene, and observing social distancing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chronic-illnesses-are-still-the-biggest-killers-2017-data/story-P0Ux8wZX0nKeGKymrNSzCJ.html
03-10-2020||India||Covid-19 death data highlights need to check young-old transmission||At least 88% of Covid-19 fatalities in India are in people above the age of 45 – with those above 60 accounting for most of the deaths among these – but this age band accounts for less than half (40%) of infections, data from the Union health ministry showed. The data suggests that Indians must take precautions to ensure its younger population, which appears to be more prone to being infected, does not pass it on to older people, who have higher odds of succumbing. This trend was borne out by data of deaths classified by age and pre-existing illnesses, which is also a known factor that raises the likelihood of fatalities (as does being male). The data corresponded to the first 90,000 fatalities in India.“What we need to understand about this virus is that it is highly contagious and that everyone is equally exposed to it. It may seem like those who are more likely to be mobile are the ones most affected but we are seeing that even if one family member is infected and brings the infection home then all family members are likely to contract the infection,” says Sanjay Rai, professor, community medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi.At least 70% of all people who have died have had at least one co-morbidity, according to morbidity statistics from the Union government. Men make up for a clear majority of the dead at 70%.Infection statistics show a markedly different trend: at least 60% of all Covid-19 infections in India have been among people below the age of 45 years, and at least half of the infected people have been between the ages of 18 and 44. Pre-existing diseases raising the risk of severe or fatal Covid-19 include hypertension, diabetes, liver disease, heart disease, asthma, chronic renal disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), low immunity, malignancy, bronchitis and chronic neuromuscular disease. Hypertension and diabetes are the two most common comorbidities that lead to the disease progressing to severe levels among Covid-19 patients. Experts, however, said they expect a clearer picture about the fatality trends once states become better in terms of surveillance concerning Covid-19 cases. “Sometimes during an outbreak, data surveillance takes time to pick up at some places. It is normal but gains momentum with experience as the outbreak progresses. It needs to be monitored carefully though,” said Dr Giridhara Babu, head, epidemiology division, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-data-highlights-need-to-check-young-old-transmission/story-XgCoD3gGM9oYck1YXgi2LP.html
03-10-2020||India||Govt’s ‘behavioural change’ campaign to beat festive rush||The Narendra Modi government plans to launch as early as next week, a massive campaign to urge people to be cautious about their behaviour in the upcoming festive season that will see more social gatherings and outdoor activities amid the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. The campaign, according to officials involved in the planning who spoke on condition of anonymity, is likely to start from October 7, continue for at least three months, and cover the entire festive season including the New Year celebrations. The new campaign, which stresses on a change in behaviour, comes days after the government announced the conditional re-opening of schools and multiplexes from late October and also allowed open-air social and religious events to be held. Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting on September 28; attendees included Cabinet secretary Rajeev Gauba, Niti Ayog’s member health Dr VK Paul, secretaries of home affairs, health, information and broadcasting, rural development and panchayati raj . According to people familiar with the proceedings who spoke on condition of anonymity Shah suggested that as people in large numbers will participate in the festivals, there is a possibility that the gains achieved in controlling the pandemic might be lost and that there is need for a campaign to remind people that they should be careful . Shah added that to be effective, the campaign needs to be simple, such as the PM’s coinage of “do gaz ki doori” which a distance of two gaz. That’s around 6 feet. Shah, the people added, said that campaigns that appeal to bureaucrats, might not be attractive for common people and suggested that the campaign’s taglines include key phrases such as Covid, suraksha (protection) and do gaz ki doori. “It has been decided to tap places such as bank branches, anganwadi centres and post offices to spread the word around. Shah asked VK Paul to talk to hospital groups to support the campaign,” said one of the officials present at the meeting. A second top official present in the meeting said, “it is absolutely essential to launch such a campaign as we have to take our battle against Covid to the next level. And already people are lowering their guard which is a dangerous thing to do now.”A third official said that the cabinet secretary has since the meeting held two follow-up meetings,with government of India secretaries and chief secretaries of the state, to focus on the campaign. Information and broadcasting secretary Amit Khare has been entrusted with finalising the slogans for the campaigns, the people said. The government has also indicated that there will be special emphasis on wearing masks in the campaign. Dr VK Paul, member of Niti Aayog and one of the key advisors to Modi on Covid, said in a press conference that the coming festive season will be all about masks— mask wali chhath, mask wali eid, mask wala dussehra aur mask wali diwali. “This is all for our own good; and needs to be promoted big time. There is scientific basis to it. We don’t have to gather in groups; large gatherings must be totally avoided; and no big congregations should be allowed. Community heads should ensure and appeal that festivals should be celebrated with caution; not in large groups but smaller groups. Large gathering, especially in market places, could be detrimental, so we have to be careful,” said Paul, during the government’s weekly Covid-19 media briefing on Tuesday.Experts agreed that public awareness campaign is crucial. “Wearing a mask, and wearing it properly, is as good as vaccine against Covid-19. It also helps reduce the viral load that may go in when you breathe in, which is why it’s essential to wear a mask,” said Dr Giridhara Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-s-behavioural-change-campaign-to-beat-festive-rush/story-VjtE15jgv82BEz58N6ROJJ.html
03-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 toll surpasses 100,000||The death toll from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India surpassed the 100,000 mark on Friday, a grim milestone that comes exactly seven months from the day the first batch of cases were reported in the country.India became the third country in the world to cross this landmark – only the United States (212,000 deaths) and Brazil (144,000 dead) have reported more fatalities – but does so with a significantly better mortality rate than nearly all other countries that have seen large outbreaks. India’s case fatality rate (CFR) – the proportion of death to the number of confirmed cases – stands at 1.56%, which is not only half of the global average (2.98%), but also better than the comparable rates in the US (2.84%) and Brazil (2.99%).Also Read: 1 vaccine may have reached initial efficacy testHowever, since the first week of September, daily deaths in India have been outstripping those in any country in the world. On average, 1,065 people have died every day over the past week in the country, against 755 average daily deaths in the US and 713 in Brazil in the same period. This has made India the biggest contributor to the global death tally — one in every five fatalities (19%) in the world in the past week has come from India. The first death due to Covid-19 was reported on March 12 in Karnataka, with the 100,000th fatality coming 204 days later. If India’s fatalities are divided into four phases of 25,000 deaths each, each has become shorter than the one preceding one. While the first 25,000 deaths took 127 days (on July 16), India crossed the 50,000 mark only 30 days later (on August 15). Deaths crossed the 75,000 mark another 25 days later on September 9, with the latest 25,000 fatalities coming in just 23 days.Also Read: Death data highlights need to check young-old transmissionThe seven-day average of fatalities in India has been over the 1,000-mark for the past 28 days, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. At its peak (so far), this number touched 1,166 for the week ending September 19. To be sure, this has dropped slightly over the past few days and is 1,069 as on Friday. Only the US, where the trajectory touched 2,300 deaths a day for the week ending April 21, has seen more people die this consistently. Also Read: Gurugram: New Covid-19 cases show decline of 23% in a weekAs of Friday night, of the 6.47 million people infected in the country, 100,896 have lost their lives and over 5.42 million have recovered. The death toll is, however, expected to keep rising as the country is still adding 81,431 new cases a day on average, and of those around 1.5% (based on India’s CFR) will succumb to the disease.WATCH | Covid update: Donald Trump test positive; Mumbai slums infection; Kerala casesGovernment experts have credited India’s relatively better Covid-19 mortality rate to a series of factors such as the experience in dealing with other lung diseases such as tuberculosis, and early interventions in terms of the nationwide lockdown. “These things were crucial in identifying the infected, and isolating them as per requirement very early on in the disease stage,” said Dr Samiran Panda, head, epidemiology and communicable diseases, India Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Also Read: Maharashtra government to procure Covid-19 medicines, test kits worth ₹634 croreIndependent experts said the country’s relatively younger population may have also helped in reducing mortality. “Fewer people dying in India of Covid is not surprising as the severity of infection is low in the country, which among other factors can be attributed to better immunity status to fight any infections, and also relatively younger population with fewer comorbidities,” said Dr NK Mehra, former head, transplant, immunology and immunogenetics, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. The fact that the outbreak in India started relatively later than it did in the western world may have also worked to India’s advantage on the CFR front. This becomes particularly evident because as the disease has progressed, scientists and doctors have learnt to fight and treat it better. As the result, the CFR has been improving, both in India and the rest of the world. India’s CFR has halved since the start of July – it was 3% on July 1.“We obviously know the disease far better now, and manage to save most of the hospitalised patients. The mortality rate is under 2%, which is decent if you compare with other countries,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, department of pulmonology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.The share of deaths among the states, however, has largely been uneven, with Maharashtra (37,480 deaths till Friday) accounting for 37% of all fatalities in the country. It is followed by Tamil Nadu with 9,653 deaths and Karnataka with 9,119 people killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-toll-100-000/story-sNGsNLCA2MjbpMfjDdFEDI.html
03-10-2020||India||Hill cutting for Char Dham road on in full swing: SC panel chief||Ravi Chopra, chairperson of the Supreme Court appointed high-powered committee (HPC) has written a letter to the central government pointing out that construction of the Char Dham road project is proceeding in violation of the apex court order of September 8. In the letter addressed to the secretary of Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) and secretary of Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change on September 28, Chopra wrote that “hill cutting and destruction of forests are now in full swing in all ongoing projects in gross violation of the SC’s order”. HT has reviewed the contents of the letter. On September 8, Supreme Court ruled that the width of the road should not exceed the 5.5 metres that the Union road transport and highways ministry specified in 2018 for under-construction roads in mountainous terrain. It referred to the fragility of the terrain and impact of the road width on the Himalayan ecosystem while issuing the order. The road being constructed is of width between seven and 11 meters. “I am shocked to see reports in various newspapers…that MoRTH has informed Government of Uttarakhand that the intermediate lane design will only be used for the stretches where work has not begun as yet and that work areas where (illegal) hill cutting has been done and where plantation and other mitigation measures have to be taken as per the Court’s order September 8, 2020, will continue on the basis of the old Double Lane + Paved Shoulder. The same was also confirmed to me on the phone by the Pariyojana Chief Engineer, in-charge of MoRTH’s regional office, Mr. VS Khaira,” Chopra added in the letter, which, if true, means that the highways ministry itself is flouting the court’s order. The Char Dham road connects the pilgrimage centres of Gangotri, Yamunotri, Badrinath and Kedarnath. The government’s position has also been that because it is in a border area abutting China, the road needs to be able to facilitate the transport of military vehicles to border areas. Chopra said that “hill cutting and destruction of forests are now in full swing in all the ongoing projects. This is in gross violation of the Hon’ble Supreme Court’s order and the recommendations of the HPC, which are accepted by the Hon’ble Supreme Court. Forest felling in sensitive areas like the Kund forests along NH-109 is very shocking and disturbing since it may destabilize the slope in near future.” The chairperson has asked the central government to make its stand clear. VS Khaira, chief engineer, regional office of MoRTH Uttarakhand and project in-charge of Char Dham road project, said that the apex’s court’s orders will not be violated in any manner. “We will be following all the guidelines as per the Hon’ble Supreme Court’s orders. There will be no violations of any manner.” RK Sudhanshu, secretary for Public Works Department of Uttarakhand government, said that they have not received any new directions from the central government. “Last week we were directed by the Centre to follow the guidelines of the SC for new stretches and we will be following that. The Supreme Court’s orders will not be violated and all the work will be done according to the directions given by the court,” he added. He said that during a video conference with the central government, they were told that the SC’s order of 5.5m road will be followed for stretches where work is to be started from scratch. That means Chopra’s comments on the width being more than that mentioned in the court order in other stretches is accurate. As work continues, members of the HPC -- formed by SC last year to check environmental damages to the Himalayan region due to this project -- maintain that the order said the whole road should be of the width 5.5m and mitigation measures should be put in place for complying with the order. On September 11, Ravi Chopra wrote to the secretary MoRTH seeking, “submission of a comprehensive work plan to bring the Char Dham Pariyojana in compliance with the Hon’ble Court’s direction that it will follow MoRTH’s 2018 circular”. None has been forthcoming. The letter also pointed out, “Also, kindly make sure that to comply with the Hon’ble Supreme Court’s Orders dated 08.09.2020 and 08.08.2019, in letter and spirit, no new hill cutting is done in all the ongoing/proposed projects till the HPC has reviewed the Rapid EIA report and issued specific directions thereafter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hill-cutting-char-dham-road-on-in-full-swing-sc-panel-chief/story-D8bz73fKAPe7WRcQ4VGD9J.html
03-10-2020||India||Govt provided over Rs 2.33 lakh crore cash aid in last 6 months||The government has so far provided cash assistance of over Rs 2.33 lakh crore in addition to free ration to pandemic-hit underprivileged sections of the society in the last six months that played a crucial role in demand generation and reflected in the recent signs of economic recovery, two senior government officials said.Positive growth in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection, an all-time high Purchasing Manager Index (PMI) for manufacturing, and a robust export performance in the month of September are the testimonies that the government’s Rs 20.97 lakh crore Aatmnirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India) package launched between March 26 and May 17 has worked, the officials said requesting anonymity.Also Read: A review of economy in 1st half of FY 2020-21The GST collection in September 2020 saw a positive year-on-year growth of 4% at Rs 95,480 crore for the first time since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown on March 25. PMI for manufacturing in September also surged at an all-time high of 56.8, signifying expansion of economic activities. According to the latest official data, India’s exports grew by 5.27% at $27.4 billion in September, after contracting for six months in a row. One of the officials, who is privy to the meetings at the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on the Covid impact mitigation exercise, said, “All these money [Rs 2.33 lakh crore] and assistance [free distribution of food materials and cooking gas cylinders] have gone through direct benefit transfer (DBT) into the bank accounts and in the hands of deserving people, without any middlemen and any delay. Yet, critics say that government has not taken enough demand side measures by putting cash in the hands of people. Is this not putting cash in hands of people at the time of distress?”As on date Rs 68,921 crore financial assistance has been provided to 42 crore people under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP). The package was an initial response to the Covid-19 pandemic in March and it was a part of the Rs 20.97 lakh crore stimulus package that was announced in five tranches in May. The size of PMGKP was Rs 1.7 lakh crore. Also Read: Not being risk-averse in face of Covid-19 crisis: FM Nirmala SitharamanGiving details of the direct cash transferred to the poor, the official said, “Rs 30,952 crore has been credited through DBT to 20.65 crore women Jan Dhan account holders. Almost 8.94 crore farmers under PM Kisan have been paid with two instalment of Rs 17,891 crore each. Rs. 15,000 crore fund for health sector is being implemented in three phases. Rs 27,000 crore spent so far under Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan. Rs 40,000 crore additional provision was made under MGNREGA [Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act]. About 1.82 crore construction workers have received financial support of Rs 4,987.18 crore. About 40.6 lakh members of EPFO [Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation] took online withdrawal benefit of non-refundable advance from EPFO account amounting to Rs.10,615 crore and Rs 130.5 crore has been spent on paying premium to the insurance scheme for health workers.” “Besides, 320 lakh metric tonne free food grains were given to about 81 crore people at five kg per beneficiary for eight months. This covers more than 60% of India’s population,” he said. The government has also distributed about 16 lakh metric tonnes free pulses or chana to about 20 crore households, he added.The government also provided free cooking gas to the poor. About 4.29 crore cylinders were delivered in April, 3.78 crore in May, 3.05 crore in June 2020, 1.05 in for July 2020, 0.89 crore in August 2020, and 0.72 crore in September, he added.Officials said that the PMO and other arms of the government are monitoring the situation and the government would respond to any requirement of the economy. “Even the Rs 20.97 lakh crore stimulus package was announced after intensive inter-departmental consultations and absolute consensus at the highest levels and the government is open to taking measures as and when necessary,” a second official said.In an interview with HT on Tuesday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said she was open to one more stimulus, if necessary. “One more may be needed is what we are hearing from the people who interact with us, and we are trying to see what it is that we can do,” she had said in the interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-provided-2l-cr-cash-aid-in-last-6-mths/story-vQQOduogdKrtxKMO7DjLQM.html
03-10-2020||India||Cong likely to extend stir against farm laws||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday said that “farmers will win” in their protest against three farm legislations, which were recently passed in Parliament and got the President’s assent, signalling the party’s intent to prolong the fight against the Prime Minister Narendra Modi government over the issue. “Congress’ agitation against three black (farm) laws will continue. I want to emphasize that this movement of farmers and Congress will be successful and the farmers will win,” Sonia Gandhi said in her message on Gandhi Jayanti. The opposition parties and various farmers’ groups have alleged that the farm bills will weaken the MSP regime and only benefit big agribusinesses. “...today the farmers and farm laborers of the country are agitating on the streets against the three anti-black laws. The Modi government is crying tears of blood to the donor farmer who grows grains for the country by sweating his blood,” Sonia said.The Congress president said that her party has “always made every law with public consent” and before the enactment of the law, “the interests of the people have been kept at the top”.Her statement comes a day ahead of party leader Rahul Gandhi’s scheduled protest against the farm bills in Punjab. In his tweets on Friday, Rahul said, “I will not fear anyone in the world… I will not bow down to anyone’s injustice, I will win the untruth with the truth and I can bear all the sufferings while opposing the untruth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-likely-to-extend-stir-against-farm-laws/story-NTOY3FeN9HZYzGrk7dOiVI.html
03-10-2020||India||Islamic State group Al-Hind plotted to build province in jungles of South India: NIA charge sheet||An offshoot of IS operating in south India, known as the Al-Hind module planned to establish ISIS Daishwilayah (province) inside the jungles of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala as recently as in late 2019 according to a July charge sheet by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) against 17 members of the module. This is the first time NIA or any investigative agency has unearthed an ISIS plot of this nature in India, although the terror group’s playbook has always revolved around creating Islamic states in areas it controls. Also Read: NIA court sentences IS recruit from Kerala to life imprisonmentThe arrests were made between December, 2019, and January this year. To understand how to survive inside the deep forest, the 20-member module, led by Bengaluru-based Mehboob Pasha and Cuddalore (Tamil Nadu)-based Khaja Moideen even bought books on famous sandalwood smuggler Veerappan who successfully dodged the police of several states. Significantly, in November 2019, Pasha, along with four others from this highly radicalised module of IS, even visited the Shivanasamudra area in Karnataka to identify an area in the jungle where they could train, create a suitable hideout for all Al-Hind members and establish the first IS Daishwilayah (province) in the country. Also Read: NIA arrests Al-Qaeda operative from Bengal’s MurshidabadIn its charge sheet, reviewed by HT, NIA has further stated that on the directions of Khaja Moideen, module members procured tents, rain coats, sleeping bags, ropes, ladders, pulleys, bows and arrows, jungle boots, knives, arms and ammunitions, as well as large quantity of firecrackers and sparklers with an intention to extract explosive content from them for making powerful IEDs. The outfit even identified hideouts in Kolar, Kodagu, and other places in Karnataka; Jambusar in Gujarat; Ratnagiri in Mahatrashtra; Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh; and Burdwan and Siliguri in West Bengal where they could hide, according to the NIA chargesheet. Their plan was to target/murder Hindu religious and political leaders, police officers, government officials and other high profile individuals all over India and then retreat to the forest, the charge sheet added.  Pasha was receiving instructions from an unknown foreign handler called “bhai”, NIA said. Also Read: Arrested al Qaeda operatives spill more names to NIA investigators“At its prime in 2014-15, the Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi led global terror outfit Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (IS) managed to control a significant territory in Iraq, Syria and even Afghanistan. The outfit influenced hundreds of Indian youngsters – some of whom travelled to the held territories, while many stayed here to carry out attacks in different cities. However, never in last six years, have we heard that there was a plan to create a physical territory here in India by the outfit,” said a senior counter-insurgency official who didn’t want to be identified. The Al-Hind module, which operated from the Al-Hind Trust office of Pasha in Guruppanpalya, Bengaluru, was unearthed by agencies in January this year with multiple raids in Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The NIA charge sheet adds that Khaja Moideen even sold his inherited land in Cuddalore (Tamil Nadu) and gave an amount of ₹5 lakh to buy jungle survival and training items. The outfit members practiced Taekwondo and Kung Fu at the Al-Hind Trust’s premises. On the directions of Pasha, the module members also participated in anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) protests in different cities. Moideen was arrested in the murder of a Hindu leader KP Suresh Kumar in Tamil Nadu in 2014 but was released on bail in July 2019. Since then, he was in touch with Pasha to create a new module, NIA said. NIA officials familiar with the case said some members of the module are still absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-group-planned-province-in-south-india-nia-charge-sheet/story-PqPdkxdOdt7ormlxfD95hO.html
03-10-2020||India||2 killed on suspicion of being ‘witches’||A 50-year-old woman and a 28-year-old man were killed and their bodies burnt by fellow residents in a hamlet in Assam’s Karbi Anglong on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday on suspicion that the two were “witches”. According to the police, the incident took place at the remote Rohimapur hamlet, located under Dokmoka police station 80 km from Diphu. Nine people including three women have been arrested in connection with case. “We got information about the incident from a relative of the one of the deceased on Thursday morning. The place where the incident happened is located nearly 9km from the highway,” said Debojit Deuri, superintendent of police, Karbi Anglong. The village of 18-20 families comprises people from the Adivasi community and almost all residents are engaged in farming. The nearest proper village is located around 5-6 kilometres away. The deceased, Ramawati Halua and Bijoy Gour, were accused by fellow villagers of being responsible for the death of a young girl from the village who died on September 27. “Prior to her death, the deceased girl had told villagers that Ramawati and Bijoy were responsible for her sickness. The villagers held a kangaroo court in front on the headman’s house on Wednesday night, killed the duo (who are unrelated) and cremated them on a single pyre,” said Deuri. “We have managed to recover some human remains from the pyre which will be sent for forensic examination. Nine persons from the village including three women who were involved in the killings have been nabbed. They have confessed to killing the two deceased. Efforts are on to nab six other accused who are absconding,” he added. Ramawati was a widow who used to stay with her daughter. Bijoy stayed with his father. Such killings are usually motivated by blind superstition, or dispute over land. A case of murder under several sections of Indian Penal Code and the Assam Witch Hunting (Prohibition, Prevention and Protection) Act, 2015 has been registered at Dokmoka police station. According to the state government data presented in the assembly in November last year, 107 people have been killed in instances of witch-hunting across the state since 2011. “Our effort will be nab all accused, get all the required evidence and reports from the forensic lab and file a charge sheet in the case within the quickest possible time,” Deuri said. In 2018, two men from Guwahati who drove to Dokmoka on a sightseeing trip were killed by a mob on suspicion of them being child lifters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-2-killed-on-suspicion-of-being-witches-in-assam/story-tdvoA0p1qzLjdORTZ2CFwO.html
03-10-2020||India||Hathras gangrape: Leaders, students, activists demand justice for victim in Capital||Political leaders, students, activists and members of the civil society gathered at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar on Friday evening, demanding justice for the 19-year-old Dalit woman who was gang-raped and murdered in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, and voiced concern over the law-and-order situation in the state. Smaller protests were held in other parts of the city, including CR Park, Vasant Kunj, Lodhi Colony and Dwarka.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who joined the protest in Jantar Mantar, demanded capital punishment for the perpetrators. “The culprits should be given the harshest punishment so that nobody in the world tries to repeat such an act. They must be hanged till death. Some people have been feeling that attempts are being made to save the culprits and the whole incident is being covered...The FIR for rape was not lodged for many days, no proper treatment was given to her, and her body was cremated at night going against Hindu customs. Several actions have made people believe that the whole incident and the culprits are being shielded,” he said.The chief minister led a candle-light vigil on the Jantar Mantar Road along with his party MLAs Atishi and Saurabh Bharadwaj, and senior leader Durgesh Pathak.In a statement later in the evening, he said: “There should be no politics on the matter, it is not ethical to play politics on this. When one says a rape has happened in Uttar Pradesh, another person says a rape has also happened in Rajasthan. This is no argument.”Student groups from Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi University, Jamia Millia Islamia, Ashoka University and Ambedkar University were joined by members of organisations such as All India Democratic Women’s Association and the National Federation of Indian Women, and the Dalit group Bhim Army.Politicians such as Left leaders Sitaram Yechury, D Raja and Kanhaiya Kumar, Yogendra Yadav, Jignesh Mevani, Kanhaiya Kumar and Chandrashekhar Azad also participated in the protest.Delhi Police registered an FIR under the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act for defying social distancing norms and gathering in large numbers to protesting at Jantar Mantar. They did not name anyone but said the FIR was against all protesters. Another FIR was registered against eight members of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Congress at Vigyan Bhawan for defying social distancing norms and carrying a match towards BJP President JP Nadda’s house to protest against three farm bills passed recently in Parliament. On Friday afternoon, the organisers changed venue of the protest from India Gate to Jantar Mantar. Anticipating a large number of protesters, there was heavy presence of police and central security forces. All arterial roads connecting Jantar Mantar with India Gate were barricaded by the police. Residents from the satellite cities of Noida and Gurugram also joined.In the evening, when crowds started to gather, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation closed the entry and exit of the Janpath Metro station at 7pm. The exits of the Rajiv Chowk and Patel Chowk stations were also shut. Police barricades were erected and vehicular traffic diversions and restrictions were put in place at several places in central Delhi. Sitting in different smaller groups, the protesters shouted slogans demanding justice for the young woman and her family and the resignation of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. There were an estimated 1,000- 1,200 protesters at Jantar Mantar. Asha Singh, who had come from Balmiki mohalla in Bawana in north-west Delhi said: “Is being born in a so-called lower caste a crime? That woman and her family in Hathras need justice. The incident happened in a village 200 km from Delhi. 200 km is not too far a distance. Tomorrow it can happen anywhere. It has to be stopped now.”As the crowd shouted slogans, police personnel in riot control gear stood at a distance. Madhurima Kundu, member of the All India Students Association, said, “They can conduct polls in Bihar amid Covid-19 crisis but protests are being scuttled. The Dalit victim was cremated without even allowing her family to attend the cremation. This shows the state of the country we are in.”Shadipur resident Kusum (goes only with first name) was in Jantar Mantar with her eight-year-old daughter. “We learnt about the protest through WhatsApp messages. We had to be here today. It is a barbaric crime that has happened against a woman, against a person of the Dalit community,” she said.Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad said he would soon march to Hathras to meet the victim’s family.Speaking about the SIT constituted by the state government to investigate the case, lawyer Prashant Bhushan said: “Who can trust their SIT? The village has been cordoned off and we are getting reports that the family’s phone has been seized and they are not being allowed to talk to the media. This is unacceptable.”CPI leader and former JNU students’ union president Kanhaiya Kumar said, “A bigger pandemic than Covid-19 is the patriarchal and casteist mindset of the society. That is why we have gathered here to demand justice for our daughters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-leaders-students-activists-gather-at-jantar-mantar-demand-justice-for-rape-victim/story-JtTj38s8LYLd0fTrd3Q27J.html
03-10-2020||India||Hathras gangrape, midnight cremation and protests across nation: All you need to know||A 19-year-old Dalit woman was gang-raped and tortured by ‘upper’ caste men in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras on September 14 while she was out with her mother to collect fodder. She died a fortnight later in New Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital.Family members of the victim claimed that her body was cremated by UP Police in their absence at 2.30am on Wednesday. Dalit community leaders and women rights activists protested against the police action, calling it a “new low”.Also Watch | Hathras case: Kejriwal, Bhim Army chief join Delhi protesters demanding justice Here is a timeline of events:- Soon after the victim’s death on September 29, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad led a protest at Gate Number 5 of Safdarjung Hospital. “The government should not test our patience. We won’t rest until the culprits are hanged,” he said.- The midnight cremation of the victims’ body was slammed by Opposition parties, which claimed that the Yogi Adityanath government did so to suppress protests.- Kavita Krishnan, secretary of the All India Progressive Women’s Association, said that the girl and her family were being denied dignity even in death and mourning. “When the family found her and she was taken to the police station, the police said she is trying to trap people and then she was hospitalised and not kept in ICU for six days and then on her death the police blamed the victim’s family and they are denying this Dalit family and victim dignity even in death and mourning,” she said.- Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi attempted to visit the family of the victim in Hathras on Thursday, but their convoy was stopped in view of Section 144 in the area. After Rahul Gandhi said “I will walk to Hathras alone,” he along with his sister Priyanka was detained by the UP Police. - The Gandhis were taken away in a police jeep and kept in a guest house for sometime before being released and escorted back to Delhi by the UP police. Meanwhile, the Congress claimed that the leaders were arrested by the police and attacked UP CM Adityanath for the move.- A first information report (FIR) was filed against the Gandhis under the pandemic law by the UP Police for their march towards Hathras.- The Bharatiya Janata Party, on the other hand, dubbed the proposed visit of Gandhi siblings to Hathras as “political tourism”.- On Friday, both Chandrashekhar Azad and Aam Aadmi Party called for a protest at Jantar Mantar. Hundreds of people, including Azad, AAP chief and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, CPM General Secretary Sitaram Yechury and CPI leader D Raja, participated in the protest.- “The entire country wants that the culprits should be given stringent punishment. Some people feel that attempts are being made to save them. At this time, the victim’s family needs all the possible help,” said Kejriwal.- At Jantar Mantar, Azad said that he will visit Hathras and urged the Supreme Court to take cognizance of the incident.- In another development, UP CM Adityanath ordered the suspension of Hathras superintendent of police Vikrant Vir and two other police officials for their handling of the case. “Narco-analysis polygraph tests” would also be conducted on everyone involved in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gangrape-and-protests-top-developments/story-x7eupUqWtPswBForPDfXAJ.html
03-10-2020||India||I am like your elder sister, Uma Bharti tweets to Yogi Adityanath on Hathras incident, asks him to let politicians meet family||Senior BJP leader Uma Bharti urged Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to allow politicians and media personnel meet the family members of the Dalit women who was allegedly gangraped in Hathras and later succumbed to her injuries in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital. “You must have known that I am admitted to the Corona ward of AIIMS after I was found Covid positive. Today is my 7th day here. I have not been able to meet anyone. I was not present at the hearing of special CBI court on Babri Masjid case. I have not spoken to anyone on telephone as well. But I have been following television news,” the senior BJP leader wrote. ७)मै @BJP4India में आपसे वरिष्ठ एवं आपकी बड़ी बहन हू । मेरा आग्रह है की आप मेरे सुझाव को अमान्य मत करियेगा ।Watch | ‘Like your elder sister’: Uma Bharti asks UP CM to allow politicians in Hathras The BJP leader’s long thread of tweet comes soon after a Trinamool delegation which was on their way to meet the family was stopped on Friday. On Thursday, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi were not allowed to visit Hathras and police cited the imposition of Section 144 as the reason of barring politicians. On Friday, the family members were not allowed to talk to media people as well. Also Read: No rape claim before SIT report in Hathras case raises doubts, say expertsReferring to the Hathras incident, Uma Bharti said she is certain that the CM is handling the situation deftly. “But the way police has locked the victim’s family offers various scope for debate and apprehension,” the veteran BJP leader wrote. “The women belonged to a Dalit family. Police hurriedly conducted her last rites and now the family has been locked down. I don’t know of any rule that prohibits the family of a victim if SIT probe is going on. This will raise question over the SIT probe only,” Uma Bharti wrote. Also Read: Hathras gang-rape case: UP cops barricade village to stop media, opposition from meeting familyWithout mincing any word, Uma Bharti denounced the action of Uttar Pradesh Police and said UP police’s action will be tarnishing the image of not only the UP government, but also the BJP government. The BJP leader also alluded to the recent groundbreaking ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. “We are committed to bring Ram Rajya back in the country,” she wrote. “Your image as the CM is very clean. I would request you to allow media personnel and politicians, including those from the Opposition to meet the family,” the veteran BJP leader wrote.Had Uma Bharti not been Covid-19 positive, she would have visited the family members of the victim in Hathras. “After I get released from here, I will definitely meet the family members,” she wrote. “I am senior to you in the party and I am also like your elder sister. I urge you to not dismiss my suggestions,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-like-your-elder-sister-uma-bharti-tweets-to-yogi-adityanath-on-hathras-incident-asks-him-to-let-politicians-meet-family/story-n2Cy4rfNJQrwwChEiTitUI.html
