04-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi kicks-off ‘Kheti Bachao’ yatra in Punjab against farm bills||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi sharpened his attack on the Centre over its farm liberalisation plans on Sunday, alleging that corporate houses were setting the agenda for the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP)-ruled government.After launching ‘Kheti Bachao Yatra’, a three-day protest march involving about 3,000 tractors at the rally venue, Gandhi said the Congress party stood firmly with the agrarian community and will fight against the three controversial farm legislations, passed in Parliament’s monsoon session.“A couple of chosen corporate houses are issuing diktats to the central government on policy formation. Lands of farmers in states such as Punjab and Haryana, that have contributed significantly to the national food security for decades, are now facing the threat of acquisition by the powerful corporate houses,” the former Congress president said in Moga.Also read: Tejashwi, Tej Pratap named in FIR in murder of former RJD leader in PurniaWhile expressing solidarity with farmers against three farm laws enacted by the Centre, the Congress also tried to show the united face of the state leadership on Sunday.Sulking Amritsar East MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, a political bete noire of the chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, attended party function after several months. The former cricketer was invited to address the gathering.As all 31 farmers’ associations are protesting against the central rules from a non-political platform for the last days, the Congress leadership tried to convey a message of agrarian support in organising the event starting today. Gandhi also released ‘Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Flag’. The venue of the rally at a grain market was well attended by villagers, including women who registered their opposition to the new farm laws. Though the huge political cutouts were missing at the venue, people waited for over three hours when the first political event since lockdown on March 22 started past 1 pm today.Also read: Rahul Gandhi to hold tractor rallies, road shows in Haryana on October 6, 7At Sunday’s rally held in the shadow of Covid-19, villagers had come to the rally in large numbers of private buses from Moga and adjoining districts of Bathinda, Barnala and Ferozepur. Key Covid-19 guidelines of maintaining physical distancing and covering faces were flouted by the audience at the event organised by the ruling political dispensation. The Wayanad MP tried to connect with the rural audience while stating that the Narendra Modi government wants to dismantle the well-established agricultural marketing system with new rules.“Farmers of Punjab and others have expressed rejections of rules by holding demonstrations. If voted to power, the Congress party will trash these rules. These legislations are a direct hit on the economy of the farming sector,” he added.The BJP-ruled central government rejects the Congress’s charges that the new farm laws will benefit corporate entities, and argues that the legislation will usher in reforms in the agriculture sector and benefit farmers. The BJP also accuses Opposition parties of politicising the issue and misleading farmers.Earlier, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh urged Gandhi to bring farmers at the national level under one roof for an organised protest against the Centre.He lashed out at the Akalis for selling off the interests of the farmers as part of the Union government with Bathinda MP Harsimrat Badal being party to the decision as a cabinet minister. He said the Centre might pay the MSP for a couple of crops, but eventually would scrap the system completely.“The Congress will fight back unless the black laws on farm sector are withdrawn,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-kicks-off-kheti-bachao-yatra-in-punjab-against-farm-bills/story-dLsJWJoV3QHlZYa2jBkO3K.html
04-10-2020||India||Mukul Roy, other BJP leaders felicitated in Kolkata, Dilip Ghosh conspicuous by his absence||A programme held in Kolkata on Sunday afternoon to felicitate former Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Mukul Roy for his elevation in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hierarchy was marked by the absence of state president Dilip Ghosh and a host of other leaders. They were all in the districts, holding rallies in support of the new farm laws. A member of the BJP central executive since joining the party in 2017, Roy was made a national vice-president during a big reshuffle on September 26. BJP national general secretary and election observer for West Bengal, Kailash Vijayvargiya, and national secretary and co-in-charge of West Bengal Arvind Menon were also felicitated on Sunday. Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta addressed the audience among whom the overwhelming presence of leaders and workers who defected from the TMC was noticeable. They even gave large framed photographs of Roy and Vijayvargiya embracing each other to the two leaders as a gift. “I was born in West Bengal but now I am working for the central unit. If the BJP leadership wants to entrust me with any responsibility I will carry it out sincerely. Ousting the Mamata Banerjee government should be our only goal,” Roy told the audience during a short speech. This immediately stoked speculations that Roy might be made head of the election committee for the assembly polls due in around six months. Dasgupta also stressed on the need to fight the TMC as one. “It does not matter whether we want to approach from the left or from the right. We can have all kinds of opinion. The main objective is to establish a BJP government in West Bengal,” he said. Incidentally, by replacing former Bengal unit president Rahul Sinha with former TMC MP Anupam Hazra as national secretary, the BJP central leadership last week sent a strong message to its Bengal leaders as well as the ruling party in the poll-bound state. The reshuffle was announced by BJP president JP Nadda in Delhi on September 26. Sinha immediately voiced his dissent, saying, after serving the party for 40 years he had to make way for leaders from the TMC. As Sinha’s emphasis on the entry of TMC leaders came under focus, Bengal BJP leaders maintained silence to avoid a controversy. “I served the party as a soldier since its birth and this is how I was rewarded. Nothing can be more unfortunate,” Sinha said in a video message that went viral. A senior BJP leader told HT last week that there was a growing feeling among TMC workers and leaders who joined the BJP that there was no scope for them to go up the hierarchy since they do not have a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) background. The reshuffle might counter this perception and encourage more people from TMC to defect, he said. “One should not read too much into Sunday’s incident. Almost all state BJP leaders were out of town. However, it is a fact that the felicitation was held at the initiative of people who defected from the TMC,” a prominent leader of the Bengal BJP said on condition of anonymity. “After all the central leadership also wants more defections so that it becomes easier to defeat the ruling party in 2021,” he added. When contacted by HT, some prominent state BJP leaders said they did not know who had organised the programme at the auditorium of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations at Ho Chi Minh Sarani in south Kolkata. Ghosh toured East Midnapore and held four back-to-back rallies before returning to Kharagpur town on Sunday night. “I am 300 km away from Kolkata. I do not know who held the programme,” said a leader known to be close to Ghosh. Hazra, who has tested positive for Covid-19, could not attend Sunday’s programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukul-roy-other-bjp-leaders-felicitated-in-kolkata-dilip-ghosh-conspicuous-by-his-absence/story-SQ4zIwbb6SkTdqGxXgLVBP.html
04-10-2020||India||Hathras family against CBI probe, demands SC inquiry||Family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who died in a New Delhi hospital on September 29 after she was allegedly gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras and left partially paralysed said they were against a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe ordered by the Yogi Adityanath government and instead sought a Supreme Court-monitored inquiry.“We do not require a CBI probe... we want an investigation to be held under a retired Supreme Court judge,” said the brother of the woman.A Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by the state government, meanwhile, continued its probe and recorded statements by family members of the woman, who was allegedly raped and left partially paralysed by four dominant-caste members on September 14 when she had gone to the fields to collect cattle fodder.“We are open to anyone who wants to present himself before SIT and get his or her statement (recorded),” said senior Indian Police Service officer Bhagwan Swaroop, who heads the three-member team.Scores of people held a meeting Sunday outside the house of a former BJP MLA in Hathras where they defended the accused in the alleged gangrape of a Dalit woman who later died, and demanded registration of an FIR against her family members.Heavy police force was deployed in the vicinity of the residence of former BJP MLA Rajvir Singh Pehalvan, located around 8-9 kilometres from the victim’s village.One of the organisers of the meeting and Pehalvan’s son Manveer Singh denied that the gathering comprised members from the upper castes and said they were from “different sections of society”.“We welcome the CBI inquiry ordered by the Uttar Pradesh chief minister. We have faith in the investigation,” Singh said, and claimed that the victim’s family members were “changing their stand”.“The entire scenario has been created to blame the government. The accused persons are in favour of any type of inquiry. But the victims are changing their stand every now and then. They do not want a narco test or a CBI probe. Now they want other kinds of inquiries,” he claimed.On September 22, the victim of the gang rape— who died in New Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital where she had been shifted after her condition failed to improve in an Aligarh hospital where she was initially treated— recorded had her statement, claiming she had been raped and naming the four accused. Her mother’s statement echoed the claim.On Sunday, Dalit leader and Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad visited the family of the Hathras woman and demanded that a high-level security cover be provided to her relatives“I demand ‘Y security’ for the family or I’ll take them to my house, they aren’t safe here. We want an inquiry to be done under the supervision of a retired Supreme Court judge”, he said.Azad’s demand came a day after Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi visited the victim’s family and said the state government should take responsibility for the family’s safety.“If ‘Y Plus’ category security cover can be provided to actor Kangana Ranaut, then why can it not be provided to the family of the victim,” Azad said, adding that if his demand was not met, he will organise a gherao of the state assembly. Amid criticism of the government and the police’s handling of the case, CM Adityanath on Sunday asked officials to handle cases related to women, girls, Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) with sensitivity.The CM said this to police and administrative officers during a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) review meeting. “The most complicated of problems could be solved through dialogue,” he said.“Attempts must be made to sort out various problems through dialogue with the affected people. The police should act promptly and deal with sensitivity in cases related to women, girls, SCs and STs,” he said.On Saturday, Adityanath had said his government was committed to ensuring justice to each and every victim. He said that efficient and sensitive policing was needed to strengthen the foundation of good governance, curb crime and maintain law and order in the country’s most populous state.The CM had also sent senior officials including additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi and director general of police HC Awasthy to the village on Saturday to meet the woman’s family. Awasthi said any group with no more than five people was allowed to meet the victim’s family, a remark that came after journalists and politicians were previously turned away from the village.Other accusations of missteps include allegations that the woman’s body was cremated by the police in the early hours of Wednesday without the family’s consent, triggering demonstrations across the country.Chaotic scenes were witnessed on Sunday in Boolgarhi village of Hathras district when a Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD)delegation was about to enter the village and a Samajwadi Party (SP) team was leaving. Five SP leaders had gone inside the village. Anxious SP workers soon went out of control and jumped the barricades when RLD vice president Jayant Chaudhary and his supporters arrived at the spotWhen some unidentified people started throwing stones, the police charged the crowd with batons while Chaudhary was interacting with a reporter. RLD workers rushed to rescue Chaudhary. The RLD leader downplayed the incident, but criticised the police for the lathi-charge on his delegation. “This lathi-charge on Jayant Chaudhary reflects the jungle raj in Uttar Pradesh. He had gone to condole the death of the Hathras girl and was targeted in a planned manner,” said Kaptan Singh Chahar, a former spokesperson of RLD.“Some RLD workers, including Pradeep Chaudhary, sustained major injuries,” Chahar said.Sub-district magistrate Prem Meena denied a planned lathi-charge, and said that the police had resorted to a baton-charge to bring the situation under control after SP and RLD workers threw stones at the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-family-against-cbi-probe-demands-sc-inquiry/story-0PR8MeXeHbTHIgaVjUexyN.html
04-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand adds 1,419 fresh Covid-19 cases, state tally touches 51,481||Uttarakhand on Sunday reported 1,419 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 51,481 According to the bulletin released by the state health department on Sunday evening, the maximum of 472 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district followed by Tehri (196), US Nagar (175), Haridwar (164), Uttarkashi (102), Pauri (58), Chamoli (48), Champawat (30), Rudraprayag (30), Pithoragarh (29) and Bageshwar (26). Dehradun district has reported the maximum of 13,946 Covid-19 positive cases so far followed by Haridwar (9800), US Nagar (8603) and Nainital (6120). Out of the 51,481 people who have tested positive so far, a total of 41,487 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 80.59%. Also, 392 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Sunday with a maximum of 158 from Dehradun district. The state reported the death of 4 Covid-19 patients. Of the 4 deaths, one was due to coronavirus while the rest were due to co-morbidities. With this, the death toll of Covid-19 patients increased to 652 in the state. Out of the 652 deaths, 205 are due to coronavirus, while the others died due to co-morbidities. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 50.37 days, while the positivity rate is 7.19%. The state has so far tested over 7.4 lakh samples of which results of over 14,200 are awaited. Uttarakhand, currently has 247 containment zones in eight districts including a maximum of 96 in Haridwar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-adds-1-419-fresh-covid-19-cases-state-tally-touches-51-481/story-m2yJmB06Vawv2JuVHq5e5O.html
04-10-2020||India||Hathras case: Sanjay Raut says those who supported Kangana Ranaut’s comments are now silent||Questioning those who demanded justice for Kangana Ranaut but are now silent after the Hathras gang-rape case, Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut said had a Hathras-like incident taken place in Maharashtra, there would have been demands to dismiss the government.“Those who supported Kangana Ranaut’s baseless comments against Mumbai and Maharashtra and demanded justice for her when her illegal construction was pulled down are now silent and have become invisible when it comes to demanding justice for the Hathras victim,” Raut wrote in his party’s mouthpiece Saamana.Also read: Bhim Army chief wants ‘Y’ security cover for Hathras gang-rape victim’s familyIn an indirect attack at Kangana Ranaut, Raut said, “The Hathras victim was not a celebrity and she was not on drugs. She did not have any illegal construction (built by) spending crores of rupees. She was a simple girl whose dead body was illegally burnt in the dead of the night. All this happened in Yogi’s‘Ramrajya’.”The Shiv Sena leader also compared the Hathras incident to “atrocities being committed against Hindu girls in Pakistan” in his weekly column.“We hear that such incidents happen in Pakistan where Hindu girls are kidnapped, raped and murdered. What happened in Hathras was no different. So far no one has called Hathras a Pakistan.”Raut stated that the reaction to the Hathras incident would have been different, had it taken place in Shiv Sena coalition-ruled Maharashtra.“If a Hathras-like incident had taken place in Maharashtra, demands would have been raised for dismissal of the state government and for imposition of President’s rule,” Raut said.Also read: Hathras gang-rape victim’s family against CBI probe; SIT records statementRaut said 12,257 incidents of gang-rape have been reported in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh from 2014 to 2019, “but justice is given considering caste, religion and political affiliations”.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-sanjay-raut-says-those-who-supported-kangana-ranaut-s-comment-are-now-silent/story-JHpmoWE67EsbcEtU3xjzOP.html
04-10-2020||India||India scales up Covid-19 testing capacity from 1 in Jan to 7.7 crore in Oct: Health ministry||The testing capacity in the country has been ramped up at a significant pace to reach over 7.7 crores in October from just one in January this year, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on Sunday.The MoHFW also said that the increased pace of testing has led to “early identification, prompt isolation, and effective treatment of Covid-19 cases. These have eventually resulted in a sustained low Fatality Rate.”Also read: High levels of Covid-19 testing led to sustained low fatality rate: Govt“India has scaled up its testing capacity from one in January to more than 7.7 cr in October. With progressively falling positivity rate, testing has worked as an effective tool to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection,” a tweet by the MoHFW read.As per the MoHFW, 7,78,50,403 tests for Covid-19 were conducted in the country on October 3 which marks a new high.Further the positivity rate in the country is at 8.32 per cent currently, as per the Health Ministry.With an increase of 1,069 deaths reported on Saturday, the Covid-19 toll surpassed 1 lakh in India, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW).Also read: India allows testing on demand for Covid-19With the latest increase, the Covid-19 toll in the country now stands at 1,00,842.Meanwhile, the country reported 79,476 new cases, taking the tally of people infected with coronavirus to 64,73,545, the Ministry said.The total Covid-19 count includes 9,44,996 active cases and 54,27,707 cured, discharged, or migrated cases.Meanwhile, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said that India has maintained the top global ranking with maximum recoveries of Covid-19 patients and it has one of the lowest mortality rates in the world.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients now stands at 83.84 per cent and the total recoveries have surpassed the 54 lakh mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-scales-up-covid-19-testing-capacity-from-1-in-jan-to-7-7-crore-in-oct-health-ministry/story-HKVRJDoZPcyQL1yjGFSvcK.html
04-10-2020||India||Probe ordered after Noida policeman grabs Priyanka Gandhi’s kurta during protest||Noida police has ordered a probe after a photo went viral on social media in which a male police personnel is seen grabbing Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s kurta during a protest at DND Flyway on Saturday afternoon. The incident took place when the Congress party workers tried to follow former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to cross the DND Flyway at 4 pm and police lathi-charged the supporters to disperse them.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut had tweeted this photograph on Saturday and had asked the state government if there were no woman police officers in Uttar Pradesh.Vadra had got down from her car and tried to shield the party workers. In the melee, a male police personnel in uniform, wearing a blue helmet, was seen grabbing Vadra by her kurta. People on social media criticised the Noida police’s handling of the protest and its behaviour towards a woman.Noida police on Sunday took suo motu cognizance of the matter after and launched a probe.“Noida police profoundly regrets the incident while handling an unruly crowd at DND Flyway. The DCP Headquarter Noida has taken suo motu cognizance of it and ordered an inquiry to be conducted by a senior lady officer. We, Noida Police, are committed to ensure safety and dignity of women,” Noida police said in a tweet.Also read: Hathras gang-rape accused defended at meeting held at ex-BJP MLA’s residenceNitin Tiwari, deputy commissioner of police, headquarters said that a probe has been ordered but refused to share details. He said that the matter will be investigated by the DCP (women safety) Vrinda Shukla. Meanwhile, Shukla did not take the calls or reply to messages for a comment.On Thursday, Amrita Dhawan, chief of Delhi Mahila Congress, alleged that a woman police personnel tore her clothes during the protest at Yamuna Expressway when the Gandhi siblings were going to meet the kin of Hathras gang-rape victim. Noida police had denied the allegation.Noida Sector 20 police has registered a case against 502 Congress party workers for protest at DND Flyway on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-ordered-after-noida-policeman-grabs-priyanka-gandhi-kurta-during-protest/story-VxbwlykiRUl0eNQpevEuNN.html
04-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape accused defended at meeting held at ex-BJP MLA’s residence||Scores of people held a meeting Sunday outside the house of a former BJP MLA in Hathras where they defended the accused in the alleged gangrape of a Dalit woman who later died, and demanded registration of an FIR against her family members.Heavy police force was deployed in the vicinity of the residence of former BJP MLA Rajvir Singh Pehalvan, located around 8-9 kilometres from the victim’s village.One of the organisers of the meeting and Pehalvan’s son Manveer Singh denied that the gathering comprised members from the upper castes and said they were from “different sections of society”.“We welcome the CBI inquiry ordered by the Uttar Pradesh chief minister. We have faith in the investigation,” Singh told PTI while claiming that the victim’s family members were “changing their stand”.“The entire scenario has been created to blame the government. The accused persons are in favour of any type of inquiry. But the victims are changing their stand every now and then. They do not want a narco test or a CBI probe. Now they want other kinds of inquiries,” he claimed.He said an FIR should be registered by police against the complainants in the case. “Our demand is that a case should be filed against those people who had filed the case in the first instance,” he said. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital where she had been brought for treatment.On Sunday, Singh also said various legal options were being explored to defend the accused in the case. He asserted that the arrest of some of the accused persons from their homes was proof of their innocence.“Had they been guilty, they would have run away from their homes. Why would they be present in their homes,” he said.He also alleged that the Congress and the Samajwadi Party were trying to influence the victim’s family as they wanted to the issue to “linger on”.The meeting assumes significance as it was held a day after Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visited the victim’s house and met her family members at a village in Hathras district, and the recommendation of a CBI probe by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath.The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on Wednesday. Her family alleged that they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, had said the cremation was carried out “as per the wishes of the family”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-accused-defended-at-meeting-held-at-ex-bjp-mla-s-residence/story-zyQgeoozIAkAiBfprWWZHM.html
04-10-2020||India||‘Mohamarir Heshel’: Tripura’s ‘pandemic kitchen’ provides food to needy amid Covid-19 crisis||A social organisation has started a ‘langar’ or community kitchen in Tripura to provide free food to the needy, including orphans and old-age home veterans, amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The ‘langar’ has been named ‘Mohamarir Heshel’ which means ‘pandemic kitchen’ or ‘kitchen during pandemic’.Sourav Bhattacharjee, a theatre student of Rabindra Bharati University in West Bengal, got the idea to open a community kitchen from langars at Jadavpur in Bengal during the first lockdown in March. He came back to Khowai district of Tripura, his hometown, during Unlock 2.0 and started the pandemic kitchen along with nearly 30 people from different professions. The organisation comprises graduate and postgraduate students, teachers, advocates, writers, media persons, movie directors, among others. It was started in October with an aim to provide cooked food, once a week, to children living in orphanages and veterans of old-age homes in and around the capital city.Also read: Donald Trump’s condition had been worse than revealed, confirms White HouseThey provide rice, dal, vegetables, chicken and a citrus fruit in the meal to children who sit by maintaining social distance.“Many people lost their source of livelihood during the Covid-19 lockdown. Food is most necessary in this period. So, we are trying to provide meals to the poor at least once a week now,” said Sourav.The organisation is also looking to open its pandemic kitchen in slums, bordering villages and other areas.The state has reported 26,552 Covid-19 patients so far, of whom 290 have died. Another two patients died by suicide. Total 21,387 patients have recovered from the disease.The state has 5.79 lakh poor families including 4.70 lakh priority group and another 1.09 lakh Antodaya Annapurna Yojana (AAY) families, according to state government record. Nearly 1,969 migrant workers are living in the state and among them, many have returned during different Unlock phases.During the first lockdown in March, the urban development department started community kitchen and provided free meals to the homeless people.The state government had also requested different non-government organisations and self-help groups to provide food to the homeless.Earlier, the state government provided Rs. 1,000 to each 8,666 identified hawkers, vendors and others who are engaged in menial jobs. The state also provided free ration to AAY and Below Poverty Line (BPL) families and subsidised ration for Above Poverty Line (APL) families amid the pandemic.The pandemic kitchen, three days back, provided food to an orphanage located at Aralia in the outskirts of the capital city.“The Mohamarir Heshel came to our orphanage and provided food to the children. They are doing a very good job,” said Kalyan Dasgupta, one of the founders of the orphanage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mohamarir-heshel-tripura-s-pandemic-kitchen-provides-food-to-needy-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-EXXLMpFR8PqJnS0EzOXdUN.html
04-10-2020||India||Centre calls meeting on Gorkhaland at short notice; election move, says TMC||The Centre has convened a meeting in Delhi on October 7 to discuss “issues related to Gorkhaland,” a Union home ministry letter issued on Saturday to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government, the autonomous Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) said. The meeting has been convened by G Kishan Reddy, Union minister of state for home affairs at the ministry’s North Block office. The state home secretary and district magistrate of Darjeeling have been asked to attend it. The letter was marked “Most Immediate”. The development has irked the TMC government and the Binoy Tamang faction of the GJM, whose leaders have been put in charge of the GTA by the state. Bimal Gurung, who founded the GJM and clamped a 100-day shutdown in the Darjeeling hills in 2017 in demand for a separate state, is on the run ever since he was charged by the state under anti-terror laws. In November 2017, Gurung’s erstwhile lieutenant Binoy Tamang suspended him and his aides in their absence. “Every time we approach an election the BJP government raises the Gorkhaland issue to create disturbance in the hills. This is yet another move,” said Gautam Deb, tourism minister and TMC lawmaker from north Bengal. “The Centre is making a fool of the Gorkhas. It has called a meeting because the assembly polls will be held next year. The same thing was done before elections in the past. The struggle for Gorkhaland went on for years. No government took any step. This is just a political move,” Anit Thapa, a leader of the GJM’s Binoy Tamang faction and chairman of the board of administrators of the GTA, told the local media. Significantly, the home ministry letter was marked to the “President, GJM” and the address mentioned is that of Bimal Gurung’s office at Singamari in North Point, Darjeeling. Reacting to this, Thapa said, “According to a court order both Gurung and Binoy Tamang are presidents of the GJM. How can it be said that Gurung was invited?” The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat thrice since 2009 by forging an alliance with the GJM. In 2019, the BJP had an alliance with the GJM (Gurung faction), Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) and other small political parties in the hills. Since 2009, the BJP has been promising to find a permanent political solution to the long-pending demands of people of Darjeeling, Siliguri, Terai and Dooars region. The promises were made in the BJP’s election manifestos in 2014 and 2019 as well. BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said, “The Centre is aware of the problems and aspirations of the hill people. All these issues will be addressed.” Ajoy Edwards, president of the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee, said, “We welcome the Centre’s move. The GNLF is also an alliance partner of the BJP but we have not been invited. Those who attend the meeting must raise the issue of separate statehood. They cannot hoodwink the hill people anymore.” In November 2017, the decision to dethrone the GJM founder was taken at a meeting of the party’s central committee chaired by Tamang. The meeting was however, attended by only 37 of the 93 members of the committee. Gurung was removed from the post of president and Tamang took over. The fugitive general secretary Roshan Giri, was also stripped of his position and Tamang’s close associate, Anit Thapa, took over. Both Tamang and Thapa now enjoy the support of the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-calls-meeting-on-gorkhaland-at-short-notice-election-move-says-tmc/story-4zctoNIrWOPrwPntUG5FYK.html
04-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: FIR registered against Tejashwi Yadav, Tej Pratap in connection with former RJD leader Anil Kumar Sadhu’s murder and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tejashwi, Tej Pratap named in FIR in murder of former RJD leader in PurniaThe Bihar Police have registered an FIR against six people including leader of state’s opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Mahua MLA, Tej Pratap Yadav, senior RJD leader Anil Kumar Sadhu and three unidentified assailants in connection with murder of former secretary (SC/ST cell) of the state unit of the Rashtriya Janta Dal (RJD) Shakti Mallik on Sunday. Read more.Compensation issue to states likely to be resolved at GST Council meet on MondayThe Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting on Monday to finalise modalities to compensate states for their revenue shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the current financial year is expected to be stormy as opposition-ruled states - Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal - have not yet opted either of the two borrowing options, two officials aware of the development said on Sunday. Read more.Bhim Army chief wants ‘Y’ security cover for Hathras gang-rape victim’s familyBhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad visited the family of Hathras gang-rape victim on Sunday and demanded that ‘Y’ security cover be provided to them. “I demand ‘Y security’ for the family or I’ll take them to my house, they aren’t safe here. We want an inquiry to be done under the supervision of a retired Supreme Court judge”, he said. Read more.Kriti Sanon, Swara Bhasker slam BJP MLA for saying instilling ‘sanskaar’ in daughters can prevent rapes: ‘So messed up’Actors Kriti Sanon, Swara Bhasker and Pooja Bedi have slammed Surendra Singh, BJP MLA from the Bairia constituency in Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia, who is facing flak for his remark that rapes can be stopped if parents inculcate good values in their daughters. The actors said that his mindset needs to change. Read more.Watch: Rahul Gandhi rides tractor, addresses farmers on Day 1 of Punjab protestIndian National Congress leader Rahul Gandhi started his 3-day protest in Punjab against the latest agriculture reforms brought in by the National Democratic Alliance government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party. Gandhi led a tractor rally from Badni Kalan to Jatpura, and also addressed gatherings of farmers. Watch full video here.IPL 2020: Quinton De Kock, pacers pave the way for Mumbai Indians’ comprehensive win over Sunrisers HyderabadDefending champions Mumbai Indians recorded their third win of the IPL 2020, getting the better of Sunrisers Hyderabad by 34 runs at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Sunday. Quinton de Kock’s half-century, along with some solid hitting at the death by Kieron Pollard and the Pandya brothers lifted MI to a strong 208/5, in reply to which SRH were kept to 174/7, with fast bowlers Trent Boult, James Pattinson and Jasprit Bumrah picking up two wickets each. Read more.Anand Mahindra shares Matrix-inspired question, Abhishek Bachchan respondsIf you are one among those who have seen the popular science-fiction movie Matrix, you may remember the scene where the protagonist Neo is given a choice to take one of two pills, a red one or a blue one. While the red pill would open his eyes to reality and the blue pill would make him see life from behind rose-coloured glasses. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-fir-registered-against-tejashwi-yadav-tej-pratap-in-connection-with-former-rjd-leader-anil-kumar-sadhu-s-murder-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dngOto6Mdj66ul1btuKYUO.html
04-10-2020||India||Chaos at Hathras victim’s village, RLD vice president faces ‘planned lathi-charge’||It was an action-filled day at the otherwise sleepy village of Boolgarhi, under Chandapa police station of Hathras district in Uttar Pradesh. There was elaborate security arrangement at the spot where the road bifurcates for the village.Permission was being granted for political delegations to enter the village to meet the gang-rape and murder victim’s family. However, when an RLD delegation was about to enter the village and a Samajwadi Party (SP) team was leaving on Sunday, chaotic scenes were witnessed when the police resorted to lathi-charge.A large number of SP supporters had gathered at the barricading outside the village, waiting for their party delegation. Five SP leaders had gone inside the village. The anxious SP workers soon went out of control and jumped the barricade, and amid the chaos, RLD vice president Jayant Chaudhary and his supporters arrived at the spot.Also read: Bhim Army chief wants ‘Y’ security cover for Hathras gang-rape victim’s familySoon there was stone-pelting from some unidentified people gathered there and police resorted to lathi-charge while Chaudhary was interacting with a reporter. The RLD workers rushed to rescue Chaudhary as police went out of control.The RLD leader downplayed the incident but criticised the police for the lathi-charge on his peaceful delegation. When the news reached Agra, the RLD workers condemned the lathi-charge on their leader.“This lathi-charge on Jayant Chaudhary reflects the jungle raj in Uttar Pradesh. He had gone to condole the death of the Hathras girl and was targeted in a planned manner,” said Kaptan Singh Chahar, former spokesperson of the RLD.“Some RLD workers, including Pradeep Chaudhary, sustained major injuries,” Chahar said.Sub-district magistrate Prem Meena denied any ‘planned lathi-charge’ and said that it was done to bring the situation under control after the SP and the RLD workers pelted stones on police. The entry to the village was banned on Friday and not even media was allowed inside. However, on Saturday, additional chief secretary (home) Avanish Awasthi said delegations of five members can enter the village and meet the victim’s family members.The first to meet the victim’s kin were Congress leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi on Saturday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chaos-at-hathras-victim-s-village-rld-vice-president-faces-planned-lathi-charge/story-M1YPBR7TH5Qkf3Qsv6ksbI.html
04-10-2020||India||MP govt takes u-turn, allows large Durga idols, big pandals and Ramleela amid Covid pandemic||A month after it banned the installation of Durga idols of more than 6 feet and setting up a pandal over more than 10 sq feet area amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Madhya Pradesh government took a U-turn and lifted the restrictions on the celebrations. The state government has also allowed Ramleela, burning of effigies of demon king Ravana, installation of bigger idols of Durga and huge pandals for visitors for Durga Puja and Dussehra while maintaining social distancing, a top official said.“In a meeting held in Bhopal on Saturday chaired by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the decision was taken to permit the stage of Ram Leela and burning of Ravana’s effigy on Dussehra, but it will be mandatory for organisers as well as visitors to follow the protocols of Covid-19 including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing in all the events,” MP public relation department commissioner Sudam Khade said,“The CM said that there will be no restriction on size of Durga idols during Durga Utsav and the pandals could be set up to the size of 1350 sq feet. However, the tableaux, Garba and procession will not be allowed,” he said. The CM also instructed that officials should prepare “advance planning” because Covid 19 infection may spread further during the upcoming festivals and in winter season, said the officer. Earlier, on September 4, the state government had issued an order banning large pandals and the installation of huge idols. In the order, the government had not cleared its stand on the staging of Ramleela and burning of effigies of Ravana. According to an officer, the government scrapped the order after a protest by the different saffron organisations supported by BJP MP from Bhopal Pragya Thakur and Congress MLA PC Sharma. However, civil society members expressed their concern as the state has about 19,807 active Covid-19 cases 19 and numbers are increasing by the day. They say the decision was taken in view of bypolls, which is scheduled to be held on November 3 on 28 assembly seats. Civil society member and political analyst Lajja Shankar Hardeniya said, “I have written a letter to the chief minister requesting a total ban on public celebration as being a leader he should lead the crowd not led by the crowd.” “By allowing this, BJP tried to satisfy its vote bank for the upcoming bye-election. The state government is encouraging mass suicide. When authorities are failing to contain the spread in normal situations, how could we expect that they would keep a vigil on crowds in the Durga Utsav pandals and Dusshera ground?” he added. An environmentalist and civil society member from Gwalior, Sudhir Sapra said, “In Gwalior, Chambal and Malwa region, the number of cases had increased due to political rallies. Now for the political gain and to make their vote bank happy, the state government is ready to put the life of people at stake. We are quite sure that the authorities wouldn’t take action against participants and organisers because of upcoming assembly elections.” The opposition Congress welcomed the decision “It is a matter of faith. It will end the financial constraints of idol makers, tent houses, flower decorators, crackers sellers and others who were facing tough times due to Covid 19,” said PC Sharma, Congress MLA and former public relation minister. Earlier, on Saturday, the Madhya Pradesh high court had directed the district magistrates in nine districts to register offences not only against political, government, state or social functionaries but also members of congregations under provisions of Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code (IPC) if they are found violating restrictions imposed under Covid-19 protocol while organizing social and political congregations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-takes-u-turn-allows-large-durga-idols-big-pandals-and-ramleela-amid-covid-pandemic/story-yy1nLlibzIvf8yJ6GiQ2dI.html
04-10-2020||India||Rhea should be released without further harassment: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||A day after a panel of doctors at AIIMS in Delhi ruled out murder as the cause of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, Adhir Chowdhury , on Sunday demanded that the actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty be released forthwith without further harassment.Chowdhury , who had said in the past that Chakraborty was being “falsely implicated” following her arrest in connection with a drug probe linked to Rajput’s death, claimed on Twitter that she was a victim of a “political conspiracy”.“Now the BJP propaganda machinery may accuse the forensic team of AIIMS who has nullified the allegation that Rhea Chakroborty conspired to kill Sushsnt Singh Rajput, the state Congress chief tweeted.“We are all pained by the expiry of Sushant ji but he cannot be honoured by falsely implicating a lady as an accused, I have earlier said that Rhea Chakroborty was an innocent lady, she should be released without further harassment to her, she has been the victim of Political conspiracy (sic),” he added.In its conclusive medico-legal opinion to the CBI, a six-member team of forensic doctors has dismissed theories of “poisoning and strangling” in Rajput’s death.Chakraborty was arrested on September 8 by the Narcotics Control Bureau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-should-be-released-without-further-harassment-adhir-ranjan-singh-chowdhury/story-jSCp1LjCTu8qQ0gv3VpckK.html
04-10-2020||India||Doctor who was stabbed 2 days ago by business partner, succumbs to injuries in Kerala||A woman doctor who was stabbed two days ago allegedly by her friend succumbed to her injuries on Sunday, police said. Dr Sona Jose (30) was stabbed by the accused in her clinic and she was undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Thrissur.According to the police, the accused, who is also her business partner and friend M Mahesh, has been absconding since the incident. Three people had been running a dental clinic for the last two years and soon they developed serious differences. Later, Dr Sona and Dr Parvathi, her friend, filed a police complaint on Tuesday against Mahesh.The police said Dr Sona Jose was stabbed while the three partners were having a conciliatory discussion in the clinic. Her relatives also filed a complaint against Mahesh saying he harassed her quite often. The police said Sona was separated from her husband two years ago and she stayed for some time with Mahesh. But after financial differences cropped up between them, she had shifted from his flat.“We have launched a hunt for the accused. Preliminary reports suggest financial dealings were behind the murder,” said a senior police officer. Her relatives said despite filing a complaint, the police had failed to take any action. However, the officer said they had made a preliminary inquiry and was planning to summon the accused to the police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-who-was-stabbed-2-days-ago-by-business-partner-succumbs-to-injuries-in-kerala/story-aGr8mgfhN1BsJDHYyuKWQP.html
04-10-2020||India||Will request CBI to constitute a fresh forensic team, says Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer||A day after the forensic team of the AIIMS asserted that Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide, his family lawyer Vikas Singh said he would request the CBI director to constitute a fresh forensic team. “Highly perturbed with AIIMS report. Going to request CBI Director to constitute a fresh Forensic team. How could AIIMS team give a conclusive report in the absence of the body,that too on such shoddy post mortem done by Cooper hospital wherein time of death also not mentioned,” the lawyer tweeted. Highly perturbed with AIIMS report. Going to request CBI Director to constitute a fresh Forensic team . How could AIIMS team give a conclusive report in the absence of the body,that too on such shoddy post mortem done by Cooper hospital wherein time of death also not mentioned .The AIIMS team was roped in by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to reassess Sushant Singh Rajput’s autopsy report. Without revealing much details, Dr Sudhir Gupta, the head of the AIIMS team, said that there did not find any mark other than that of hanging. “There were no injuries over the body other than hanging. There were no marks of struggle/scuffle in the body and clothes of the deceased,” Dr Gupta told ANI.Also Read: AIIMS report on Sushant Singh Rajput death: Who said whatRajput’s family lawyer called the AIIMS report inconclusive as the team did not actually examine the late actor’s body but relied on photographs. Now he said he would request CBI for a new forensic team. Earlier, Singh expressed his concerns over the delay in CBI investigation. “Getting frustrated by the delay in CBI taking a decision to convert abetment to suicide to Murder of SSR. The Doctor who is part of AIIMS team had told me long back that the photos sent by me indicated 200% that it’s death by strangulation and not suicide,” he had said. Following Vikas Singh’s allegations, the CBI issued a statement saying that the agency has not ruled out any angle. “The Central Bureau of Investigation is conducting a professional investigation related to the death of Shri Sushant Singh Rajput in which all aspects are being looked at and no aspect has been ruled out as of date. The investigation is continuing,” CBI said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-request-cbi-to-constitute-a-fresh-forensic-team-says-sushant-singh-rajput-s-family-lawyer/story-z0DzpDcxjQu44J6QaujHzI.html
04-10-2020||India||‘We can’t be selective in condemning violence’: J-K Lieutenant Governor||Jammu and Kashmir’s Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday appealed to the people to make efforts for peace and exuded hope that soon there shall be no backward village in the Union territory.Sinha, while speaking during a ‘back to village’ function in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, said that violence at every level should be condemned.“I appeal to all to contribute towards peace. There is no dearth of opportunities for development, employment and overall growth of Jammu and Kashmir,” Sinha said.“Violence, killings of innocents should be condemned, whether it’s the killings of common people or security forces. We can’t be selective in condemning violence,” he said.‘Back to village’ is a programme through which officers of the administration reach out to the public to listen to their demands, proposals, suggestions and address their grievances. This is the third phase of the programme which has been launched in Jammu and Kashmir as the region has remained without an elected government for over two years.Also read: Donald Trump’s condition had been worse than revealed, confirms White HouseThe L-G said that innovative financing, convergence of schemes, enabling infrastructure, effective and efficient implementation will be key to improving growth prospects of Jammu and Kashmir.“With hard work, dedication and better execution on ground, every individual in our villages will attain social empowerment,” he said.Sinha said that the UT has been provided with funds to an excess of Rs 1,951 crore this year for the development of villages and the people.“Similarly, agriculture and horticulture sectors have been provided Rs 1,872 crore, to an excess of Rs 680 crore with respect to last year,” he said.Sinha said that the government was working on four key points for the development of Jammu and Kashmir like accelerating growth, providing benefits of social security and social welfare schemes to all, eliminating regional disparities and effective execution of works.“In the recently sanctioned economic package and the upcoming mega industrial package, focus will be on 1) Industry, Business and Services; 2) Agriculture and allied sectors, village industries; 3) Technology and Innovation; 4) Infrastructure; 5) Financial Inclusion and Social Security,” he said.He said that under the new economic package announced recently, the farmer-mandi link is to be strengthened so that the producers get more options and better prices for their produce.“Similarly, the number of satellite markets is to be increased from 17 to 22… Means and resources abound, with people’s participation, soon there shall be no backward village in J&K,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-can-t-be-selective-in-condemning-violence-j-k-lieutenant-governor/story-WewGhe15FoEPg3PRXJN6GM.html
04-10-2020||India||Pakistani troops open heavy fire in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch||Pakistan resorted to heavy shelling and firing on Sunday at Indian posts and forward villages along the Line of Control (LoC) in Mankote sector of Poonch district, the army said. “Around 0320 hours (3.20 am), Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Mankote sector. Indian Army retaliated befittingly,” said a Defence spokesman. There were no adverse reports on the Indian side in the latest skirmishes. Pakistan has been violating the truce deal with impunity since August 5 last year when the Centre revoked Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. Meanwhile, security forces on Sunday recovered some arms and ammunition during a search and cordon operation in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said A joint search operation was carried out by a special operations group of local police and 16 Rashtriya Rifles at Gali Girjjan in Surankote, leading to the recovery of an assault rifle with three magazines and 150 rounds along with a pistol, the officials said They said the arms and ammunition were found hidden at a secluded place in the remote area during the operation which was carried out on specific information. However, no one was arrested in connection with the recovery so far, the officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-troops-open-heavy-fire-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-poonch/story-8PDe2JJDBUdpY5HMMtdCyM.html
04-10-2020||India||Covid-19 tally in Jammu and Kashmir nears 80,000 mark||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 878 fresh Covid-19 infections on Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases in the union territory to 79,106 while 11 deaths took the death toll to 1,242, the government said.As many as 422 people tested positive in Kashmir while 456 cases were reported from Jammu.Some 1,053 people recovered from the virus and were discharged from different hospitals taking the overall recoveries to 62,404 which account for a recovery rate of 78.8%, the highest so far.On September 2, the recovery rate had reached 77.3 % after which it constantly declined to reach 64% on September 20. Since September 21, the recovery rate has improved owing to a greater number of daily recoveries than fresh cases. Between September 21 and September 30, as many as 15,132 patients have been discharged against 11,080 fresh infections.A government spokesperson said 525 people were discharged in Jammu division and 528 in Kashmir on Sunday. Of the total, 39,983 people have recovered in Kashmir and 22,421in Jammu.At present, there are 15,460 active cases in Jammu and Kashmir. A total of 17.07 lakh tests have been conducted in the UT so far.Out of the 11 casualties on Sunday, six were in Jammu and five in Kashmir.The number of total deaths has reached 1,242 – 860 in Kashmir and 382 in Jammu.The death toll had crossed the 500 mark on August 13 and 1000 mark on September 20. In comparison to August which reported 326 deaths, there has been an increase of 64% in the number of deaths in the UT in September taking the month’s death toll to 478.In Jammu division, the highest number of new cases was recorded in Jammu district at 252 followed by 49 in Kishtwar.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 156 more people tested positive, followed by Bandipora at 54.Srinagar tops the tally with 15,533 cases and 301 deaths. Jammu district is at number two with 14,514 cases and 203 deaths. The active cases in Jammu are 3,534 while there are 1,908 active Covid patients in Srinagar.Till date, 5.91 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 22,258 in home quarantine, 15,460 in isolation, and 48,301 under home surveillance. Besides these, 5.04 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tally-in-jammu-and-kashmir-nears-80-000-mark/story-sRaXuRr1C6xYwTXJe4EwML.html
04-10-2020||India||‘I have all the time in the world for my daughter…’||Known for her versatile roles, actor Juhi Parmar wishes to continue doing quality work. “I have always been an actor who prefers quality over quantity. That’s the reason my body of work is so diverse and creditable. When I was doing daily soaps, our shows were high on TRP charts and gave me huge recognition. Then I switched to reality shows and won both — ‘Comedy Circus’ and Bigg Boss-5. So, I believe in making right choices on the right time.” Talking about keeping her priorities straight, ‘Kumkum-Ek Pyara Sa Bandhan’ and ‘Rishtey’ actor said, “Other than being an actor, I am also a mother of a child and I have to balance my life to its best. I want my daughter to be aware of the fact, she has a working mother who has all the time in the world for her. That’s one of the biggest reasons I am very selective while taking up new projects.” Juhi is happy that finally things are getting back on track and many people in the industry are back to work. “Things were on hold and it was causing a lot of panic amongst all. Many were living on a hand to mouth condition during the crisis. It feels happy that work has restarted and we are restructuring the industry. With new shows coming up along with theatres being reopened and then OTT platforms bringing new content, so presently we all are engaged in generating work,” she said. The versatile actor will be seen next in the TV show ‘Hamari Wali Good News.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-have-all-the-time-in-the-world-for-my-daughter/story-jcNIHp5Nq9A6ici5YhqGPN.html
04-10-2020||India||One Assam Rifles personnel killed in militant ambush in Arunachal Pradesh||One Assam Rifles personnel was killed and another was injured in an ambush by militants in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh on Sunday morning, police said. The incident took place around 9 am on near Jairampur when a group of militants attacked a water tanker belonging to the 19 Assam Rifles. “The ambush happened in the morning. One person is stated to have died and another is critically injured,” T. Tangha, a senior police officer in Changlang told HT over phone. According to unconfirmed reports, the militants first detonated improvised explosive devices (IEDs) on the road and then sprayed the tanker with bullets before fleeing the spot. The Assam Rifles, India’s oldest paramilitary outfit has not issued any official statement about the incident. No militant outfit has yet claimed responsibility for the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-assam-rifles-personnel-killed-in-militant-ambush-in-arunachal-pradesh/story-62fuOcvnp6Xll2ujtK3NOM.html
04-10-2020||India||Shooter Shreyasi Singh joins BJP ahead of Bihar Assembly election||Shooter Shreyasi Singh, daughter of former union minister late Digvijay Singh, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in presence of party leader Bhupendra Yadav at BJP headquarters in New Delhi on Sunday.Singh, gold medallist at the 2018 Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia and a silver medallist at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, Scotland, is expected to be the party’s candidate either from Amarpur (Banka) or Jamui, depending on the seat sharing with alliance partners.Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) national president Chirag Paswan represents the Jamui parliamentary constituency currently. Singh was part of the Indian team at the 2013 Trap Shooting World Cup held in Acapulco in Mexico. Her late father was president of the National Rifle Association of India. She hails from Jamui district of Bihar and this is her first step into politics.Her late father, however, served as the Union deputy minister for ministry of finance and the ministry of external affairs. In 1998, he became the Union minister of state, ministry of railways, in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government. He went on to serve as the minister of state in the ministries of commerce and industry, railways and external affairs. Putul Kumari, Shreyasi Singh’s mother, is a former MP from Banka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shooter-shreyasi-singh-joins-bjp-ahead-of-bihar-assembly-election/story-bOUseR7KFYNDIAJBxxn80L.html
04-10-2020||India||‘Modi govt bent on snatching land, bread from farmers’: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi extended support to protesting farmers of the country on Sunday and said that he will fight for their rights even as the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is bent on taking away bread and land from them.“On the first day of #KhetiBachaoYatra, a new energy was realized by meeting farmers and sisters of the farmers of Punjab. Today, the Modi government is bent on snatching the bread from the mouth and feet of the Annadata of the country. But you are not alone. I promise to always support you in the fight for your rights,” Rahul Gandhi said on Twitter. #KhetiBachaoYatra के पहले दिन पंजाब के किसान बहन-भाइयों से मिलकर एक नयी ऊर्जा का एहसास हुआ।आज मोदी सरकार देश के अन्नदाता के मुँह से रोटी और पैरों से ज़मीन छीनने पर तुली है।लेकिन आप अकेले नहीं हैं। मैं आपके हक़ की लड़ाई में हमेशा आपका साथ देने का वादा करता हूँ।The Congress leader earlier today took out a tractor rally and addressed a public meeting in Punjab’s Moga district and heavily criticised the government-led policies and laws for the farmers. Three farm bills passed by the government have triggered protests by farmers across the country. These include the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. Censuring the three recently passed farm legislations during his address, Gandhi said, “The prime minister says the laws are being framed for farmers. If the laws are being made for farmers, then why didn’t you debate in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha?”He also disputed claims made by several leaders in the government, including the prime minister, who have held that the farmers are happy with these laws and welcome the move by ruling dispensation. “And if farmers are happy with these laws, then why are they agitating across the country? Why is every farmer of Punjab agitating?” Gandhi asked. Gandhi also told the farmers that these laws will be revoked if Congress is voted to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-bent-on-snatching-land-bread-from-farmers-rahul-gandhi/story-8DfN1tTjmxpVjYtNUipl4L.html
04-10-2020||India||Bhim Army chief wants ‘Y’ security cover for Hathras gang-rape victim’s family||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad visited the family of Hathras gang-rape victim on Sunday and demanded that ‘Y’ security cover be provided to them.“I demand ‘Y security’ for the family or I’ll take them to my house, they aren’t safe here. We want an inquiry to be done under the supervision of a retired Supreme Court judge”, he said.Azad’s demand came a day after Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi visited the victim’s family and said that the state government should take responsibility for the family’s safety.“If ‘Y Plus’ category security cover can be provided to actor Kangana Ranaut, than why can it not be provided to the family of the victim?,” he said, adding that if his demands are not met, he will ‘gherao’ the Vidhan Sabha.The 19-year-old Dalit woman was gang-raped and murdered by ‘upper’ caste men in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras on September 14. Nationwide protests and demonstrations were organised by various Opposition parties after her death a fortnight later in New Delhi’s Safdarjang Hospital.The Bhim Army chief led the protest in front of the Delhi hospital soon after the victim’s death and urged all Dalit community members to protest against the incident and demand that death penalty be given to the culprits. “The government should not test our patience. We won’t rest until the culprits are hanged,” he said.On Saturday, he said everyone had the right to live according to the Constitution and sought gun license for the underprivileged sections of the country.“Our demand is that the 20 lakh Bahujans of the country be granted gun licenses immediately. The government should provide us a 50 % subsidy to purchase guns and pistols. We will defend ourselves,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhim-army-chief-wants-y-security-cover-for-hathras-gang-rape-victim-s-family/story-pjrIescT90t3CAAS0oUhkJ.html
04-10-2020||India||Uncertainty looms large over India-China trade through Nathu La in Sikkim||Uncertainty looms over India’s trade with China through Nathu La (pass) in Sikkim that was opened in 2006, after being closed for 44 years, said traders and a minister in Sikkim. Sikkim-based international traders said the Covid-19 pandemic and simmering tension between the two counties at several points along the international border, including Naku La in North Sikkim, may make it impossible to resume trade this year even if international flights and movement of people between the two nations are allowed. The trans-border trade takes place on four days a week from May 1 to November 30 every year. Only Sikkim-based traders are allowed to take part. They have to procure trade licence every year before May 1. No change was made in the licensing policy this year. Some traders got them before the pandemic started in March and the borders were sealed. Also Read: Atal Tunnel done, now PM Modi pushes Border Roads chief for all-weather axis to LadakhIn 2018, goods worth around Rs 40 crore were exported while the import from China was worth around Rs 3.5 crore, traders said. Located at 14,150 feet, Nathu La in East Sikkim is around 55 km away from Gangtok, the state capital. The pass was reopened on July 6, 2006. It was closed after the 1962 India-China War. In Sikkim, many of those involved in international trade feel that the mutual trust among people on the two sides of the border is lost following the series of recent incidents of border standoff between forces of the neighbours.“It will be hard to revive that trust in the present scenario,” said Anil Kumar Gupta, an exporter. Naku La in North Sikkim is one of the international border points that witnessed a face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in May this year. Kailash Agarwal, general secretary, Sikkim Chamber of Commerce, said, “Closure of the border trade will not adversely affect India as traders in Sikkim do not import essential commodities. It is China which will be affected as they import food items.” Rice, biscuits, confectionaries, canned food, items made of copper etc. are exported to China while blankets, garments, jackets and hosiery goods are imported by India, said Gupta“The volume of trade has increased consistently over the years. In 2006, the annual volume was to the tune of only Rs 7 lakh. Today, the number of people having trade passes has crossed 600,” said Gupta, who exports food items to China. Pema Wangdi Bhutia, president of Nathu La Border Trade Association, said, “This year, Indian businessmen initially decided not to go for trade through Nathu La because the pandemic started in China. It is not feasible to start trading for such a short time even if bilateral relations become normal.” BS Panth, Sikkim’s tourism, trade and commerce minister, said, “Trade through Nathu La is not possible this year. The future course of action depends on what decision the Indian government takes.” Former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and his Chinese counterpart signed an agreement to reopen the Nathu La trade route during the former’s China tour in June 2003.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uncertainty-looms-large-over-india-china-trade-through-nathu-la-in-sikkim/story-U5q0bvtgosvstrUMiixfXK.html
04-10-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine: 400 to 500 million doses by July 2021 for 25 crore people. What do the new numbers mean?||Laying out a “realistic” roadmap of Covid-19 vaccine distribution, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday announced that by July 2021 India would receive and utilise 400-500 million doses for 20 to 25 crore people. The race for an effective Covid-19 has been hotting up with Russia and China already announcing their vaccines, which they are even administering to people. While India in working towards developing indigenous vaccines, it is also looking to source vaccines from outside.Here is everything you need to know about the latest developments regarding Covid-19 vaccine1. As several human trials of Covid-19 are still going on, the rolling out of the vaccines will only be possible in 2021, several experts have pointed out earlier. The Union health minister on Sunday set a deadline in the third quarter of the next year. 2. The minister clarified that this July timeline is not for all people. About 25 crore of India’s 1.3-billion population are likely to get vaccinated by this time.3. The Centre has asked states to send list of priority population who will be receiving the vaccine shots first. This includes all doctors, nurses, health care staff, ASHA workers etc.4. The Centre had earlier said that the pricing of the vaccine will not be a hindrance. Those who need the vaccine will get the vaccine first.5. Reports said the Centre may also allow corporates to get vaccines directly from manufacturers.6. States have been asked not to sign any deal with manufacturers as Centre is monitoring the entire process.7. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, which entered into an agreement with Russia’s sovereign wealth fund for trial and distribution of Sputnik V, has sought permission from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to conduct the phase 3 human clinical trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-400-to-500-million-doses-by-july-2021-for-25-crore-people-what-do-the-new-numbers-mean/story-5Lp3OcXEGiIsEqaqnnMIqN.html
04-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 PM: Why are farmers protesting if they are happy with farm bills, asks Rahul Gandhi in Punjab and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Why are farmers protesting if they are happy with farm bills, asks Rahul Gandhi in PunjabAddressing farmers in Punjab, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the Congress will not let farmers’ interest to get hurt by the new farm laws. Launching the party’s three-day Kheti Bachao Yatra protesting the laws which now have got the President’s assent, the Congress leader said, “If farmers are happy with these laws then why are they protesting across the nation? Why is every farmer in Punjab protesting?”Read more.Lok Janshakti Party to contest Bihar assembly polls aloneThe Lok Janshakti Party has taken a call to contest the upcoming three-phase assembly polls in Bihar on its own. The decision to break away from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) was taken at the Parliamentary Board meeting of the party on Sunday.Read more. Atal Tunnel done, now PM Modi pushes Border Roads chief for all-weather axis to LadakhAfter inaugurating the 9.2-km Atal Tunnel on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) chief Lieutenant General Harpal Singh to start preparing for the underground tunnel at Shinku-La so that an all-weather road is completed to Ladakh via Darcha-Padam-Nimu route in next three years.Read more. India, China to hold corps commander level talks on border row on Oct 12India and China will hold corps commander-level talks on October 12, the seventh round, in eastern Ladakh sector in their latest attempt to address the ongoing military standoff between the two countries, officials familiar with the developments said on Sunday.Read more.Watch: ITBP organizes yoga for patients at Delhi’s Sardar Patel Covid Care CentreIndo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) organized Yoga for Covid patients at Delhi’s Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre and Hospital. At present over 1200 patients have been admitted at the ITBP-run centre. More than 5500 patients discharged after treatment so far. The Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre was inaugurated on July 5. Read more. Man accuses Swara Bhasker’s Rasbhari of instigating violence against women, actor replies: ‘Rapes aren’t increasing because of my roles, but your mentality’Actor Swara Bhasker has responded to a Twitter user who accused her recent series, Rasbhari, of corrupting young minds. The accusation comes at a time when mass protests are being staged across the country, against the recent rape incidents in Hathras and Balrampur.Read more. Dad dances outside hospital window to cheer son getting treatment inside. WatchA heartening video showing a dad standing outside a hospital window and dancing to cheer up his son undergoing cancer treatment inside has now tugged at the heartstrings of people. Shared on Facebook by Cook Children’s Medical Center, where the kid goes for treatment, the video has now gone all kinds of viral.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-why-are-farmers-protesting-if-they-are-happy-with-farm-bills-asks-rahul-gandhi-in-punjab-and-all-the-latest-news/story-59DhZYEvor4C6YW9wYfv3O.html
04-10-2020||India||In Goa, Prakash Javadekar dodges queries on Mollem, Mhadei projects||Union Minister Prakash Javadekar on Sunday refused to entertain queries concerning three projects in Goa that he as chairman of the Ministry of Environment Forests and Climate Change’s standing committee had approved back in April and instead said that he would ‘study the matter’ if those affected by it submit a memorandum to him. Javadekar was in Goa as part of the BJP’s strategy to send out ministers across the country to speak of the benefits of the recently passed contentious farm bills.During his press conference in the state capital reporters asked questions on the diversion of forest land for the expansion of a railway, highway and a new power line which he had cleared in a meeting held via video conference during the lockdown in April this year. But he feigned ignorance on the topics as well as his ministry’s advice to the Karnataka government that it would not need an environment clearance for the Mhadei river diversion project that Karnataka is constructing to Goa’s detriment. “If I receive the memorandum, I will definitely study it,” Javadekar said when asked to respond to concerns raised by locals over the diversion of forest land for the projects.The standing committee of the ministry granted its approval to the diversion of forest land from notified wildlife sanctuaries in Mollem along Goa’s eastern frontier with Karnataka for three projects -- the doubling of an existing railway line between Hubli in Karnataka and Vasco da Gama in Goa, the expansion of the national highway 4A between Belgaum in North Karnataka and Goa and a power line. The railway line, by far the biggest of the three will come at a cost of diversion of 113.857 ha. of forest land from the protected area and felling of 18,541 trees. The second project -- the four laning of the existing two lane highway that was constructed by the Portuguese colonial government between Panaji in Goa and Belgavi in Karnataka will cost 31.015 ha of forest land and 12,097 trees proposed to be done partly by widening the existing highway, but largely by creating completely new roads on viaduct structures parallel to the existing highway, wherever it cannot be widened due to the difficult nature of the terrain. Thirdly, a 400KV power line -- 3.5 km of which passes through protected forest to augment power supply between Goa and Karnataka to provide additional feed to Goa is also proposed.These clearances have now been challenged before the High Court as well as the Central Empowered Committee constituted by the Supreme Court on grounds that they have been cleared in haste and threaten the rich biodiversity of the region.Javadekar was also questioned over his ministry’s advice to the Karnataka government ahead of the by-polls in Karnataka last year that their projects would not need an environmental clearance. “The CM will respond to you on this. The matter is in court and nothing at all is happening,” Javadekar said before walking away. The MoEF, in a letter to the Karnataka government noted that the scheme “doesn’t envisage creating new command area or providing water to suffering existing command areas for irrigation. Also the project doesn’t involve hydroelectric power generation [and] is purely a drinking water supply scheme and [hence] does not attract the provisions of the EIA notification 2006 and its subsequent amendments.The Congress was quick to accuse the BJP minister of betraying one state in favour of another. “Avoiding questions betrayer of Mother Mhadei, makes it clear that @BJP4India in connivance with @BJP4Goa and @goacm sold our Lifeline to Karnataka for Political Gains. The defective @DrPramodPSawant once again stands exposed,” State Congress president Girish Chodankar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-goa-prakash-javadekar-dodges-queries-on-mollem-mhadei-projects/story-wbkgDeflGQ5J21FuY1kjLO.html
04-10-2020||India||Hathras case updates: Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad seeks ‘Y’ security cover for victim’s kin||Police in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district baton-charged several workers of the Samajwadi Party on Sunday as they clashed with the force even as their leaders met the family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who was gang-raped earlier in the month. A few Rashtriya Janata Dal workers were injured in the clash between the Samajwadi Party supporters and police deployed in the barricaded area.A swarm of political leaders paid a visit to the woman’s family a day after Congress’ Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi met them and assured them of their support. Several opposition parties have called for the resignation of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who has recommended a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the gang-rape and death of the woman.Here are all the key developments:‘Provide ‘Y’ security cover to‘Hathras gang-rape victim’s family or...’: Bhim Army chiefChandrashekhar Azad on Sunday said that the Hathras gang-rape victim’s family should get ‘Y’ security cover or else he will take them to his house. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad reaches victim’s villageAfter being stopped by the police on his way earlier today, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad reached Hathras village to meet the family of 19-year-old victim. Azad had attempted to accompany the woman’s family from Delhi to Uttar Pradesh on Saturday but was detained by UP police midway and put under house arrest. Lathicharge between Samajwadi Party workersOn Sunday, reports of lathicharge also emerged from Hathras village after members of Samajwadi Party and Rashtriya Janata Dal clashed with police deployed in the barricaded area.Hathras victim cremated at night on orders from top officials, alleges SPAlleging that the late night cremation was a direction from a top official, former MP and Samajwadi Party leader Dharmendra Yadav said the body of 19-year-old gang-rape victim was cremated in night and her was family denied the right to see their daughter for a final time. A probe by sitting judge of Supreme Court is required, Yadav said.Family seeks SC-monitored inquiry, rejects call for a CBI probeFamily members of the Hathras victim have said they are against a CBI investigation and sought a Supreme Court-monitored inquiry.Earlier in the day, ‘upper caste’ members attended a mahapanchayat called by former Hathras MLA Rajveer Pehalwanin in Hathras city and welcomed Adityanath’s recommendation for a CBI probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-updates-dalit-woman-s-family-rejects-call-for-cbi-probe-seeks-sc-led-inquiry/story-hjO0c3wEm6uo6B5QpzRrOL.html
04-10-2020||India||Make mask-wearing a social medicine against Covid-19: Kiran Bedi||Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry Kiran Bedi on Sunday called upon the people to make mask- wearing a social medicine to prevent the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. In her message to the people through video, she said that after easing of lockdown and the Covid-19 restrictions, people should adopt mask-wearing as it could be a social medicine to stem the spread of the infection. She said social gatherings were also becoming a major reason for spreading infections. Hence people should be on guard, she said. The Union Territory administration was also doing maximum tests to detect the infection early, she said while asking the citizens to also report early if there were symptoms of the virus. With bars opened, the Excise Department and the police attached to the department should make surprise checks and video-record observance of Covid-19 protocol in the bars and eateries and warned of legal action if there were violations, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-mask-wearing-a-social-medicine-against-covid-19-kiran-bedi/story-LgiAmbbAGbot0PqY2She4I.html
04-10-2020||India||Former IPS officer accused in Assam Police job scam could be hiding in Nepal||The Assam Police has said that a retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer who is one of the prime accused in the police job recruitment scam in Assam, is believed to be hiding in neighbouring Nepal, will be caught in a few days. PK Dutta, who retired as a deputy inspector general (DIG), has been absconding since September 20, when the Assam government cancelled a written exam to recruit 597 sub-inspectors to the police force after the question paper was leaked and was circulated on social media. Dutta and his son Ishan are suspected to have fled to Nepal by road after the scam came to light. The former police officer’s daughter is married to a Nepali citizen based in Kathmandu. “We can assure you Dutta will be nabbed within few days. Our investigation is on and he will be arrested whether he is in Nepal or anywhere else,” GP Singh, additional director general of police (law and order), told journalists on Saturday. Dutta along with ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Diban Deka are suspected to have fleeced many candidates for posts of sub inspectors by assuring them jobs in lieu of cash. Deka is alleged to have procured the question paper ahead of the written test. Police investigation has revealed that a day ahead of the test on September 20, many candidates had taken a mock exam in a Guwahati hotel. Nearly 70 of these candidates were staying at one of the five hotels Dutta owns in Guwahati. Police had issued a look out notice for both Dutta and Deka and alerted income tax department, enforcement directorate and department of revenue intelligence after unearthing many properties belonging to the police officer. On September 30, Deka, who had unsuccessfully contested as a BJP candidate from Barkhetri assembly seat in 2011, was arrested by the police. The 43-year-old was expelled from the party after his arrest. According to reports, an associate helped Dutta and his son reach Siliguri in West Bengal on September 23 where they spent a night in a hotel. It is speculated Dutta’s son-in-law helped the duo enter Nepal the next day. An Assam Police team is reported to be in Nepal at present and trying to bring back Dutta. Senior police officials in Assam, however, remained tightlipped about Dutta’s whereabouts as it could impact investigation and his arrest. Meanwhile, Deka, who was remanded to five days police custody after his arrest, has been kept at a high security lock up of the special branch in Guwahati following apprehension of threat to his life. Prior to his arrest, the BJP leader in a Facebook post had admitted his association with the agency conducting the written exam for sub inspectors and added that he was absconding as there were threats to his life. Till Saturday, crime branch and criminal investigation departments of Assam Police who are investigating the scam had arrested 32 people including those who lured candidates with promise of jobs as well as job applicants who were in touch with Dutta and Deka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-ips-officer-accused-in-assam-police-job-scam-could-be-hiding-in-nepal/story-e01ojqxnPtTMD3Hkgi2WbI.html
04-10-2020||India||India maintains less than 1 million active Covid-19 cases for 13th day in a row: Govt||With 937,625 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, down by 7,371 on the previous day, India has sustained a steady trend of less than one million active cases for the 13th consecutive day, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said. According to the health ministry, there were 1,017,754 active cases on September 18, and September 22 the count dropped to 968,377 and has since then remained below one million.India’s Covid-19 tally has surpassed 6.5 million with the toll exceeding 100,000. However, the recovery numbers bring a respite as over 5.5 million people have been discharged from hospitals or have been recovered in home isolation.Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereThe government also pointed towards an increase in the daily Covid-19 testing across the country with an average of 1.15 million tests conducted daily in the past ten days. “Despite the extended weekend, India has posted high daily testing numbers over Thursday-Friday-Saturday with 10,97,947, 11,32,675 and 11,42,131 tests respectively,” the health ministry’s statement said, adding that more than 1.5 million tests can be conducted every day.“From merely one in January 2020, India’s total tests have crossed 7.89 crore so far. There has been a commensurate dip in the positivity rate. With the progressively falling positivity rate, testing has worked as a highly effective tool to limit the spread of COVID-19 infection,” it said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The first Covid-19 swab sample in India was tested on January 23 at ICMR’s National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. India had one NIV laboratory in January and since then, the country has added 1,751 laboratories to its network to conduct Covid-19 tests, including 1,059 and 692 in the government and private sector, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-maintains-less-than-1-million-active-cases-for-13th-day-in-a-row-govt/story-1bIYZKmqcbSxuxaOpmCOCI.html
04-10-2020||India||Govt’s priority is to ensure Covid-19 vaccine for all: Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan addressed his weekly Sunday Samvaad and said that the government was working tirelessly to ensure that once Covid-19 vaccine is out, it reaches all citizens of the nation as soon as possible.“Our government is working round the clock to ensure that there is a fair and equitable distribution of vaccines, once they are ready. Our utmost priority is how to ensure vaccine for each and everybody in the country,” he said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage“#WatchNow the 4th Edition of #SundaySamvaad I’m thankful that so many of you are participating actively in this dialogue and helping to create mass awareness on important issues,” Harsh Vardhan tweeted. #WatchNow the 4th Edition of #SundaySamvaad I’m thankful that so many of you are participating actively in this dialogue and helping to create mass awareness on important issues. @MoHFW_INDIA @moesgoi @IndiaDST @DBTIndia @CSIR_IND @ICMRDELHI https://t.co/yZLot4T0k4“A high-level expert body is studying all aspects of the vaccine, including how to ensure equitable distribution. Lists of citizen groups that would require vaccine immediately are being made by the health ministry in association with the state government,” he said.The health minister added that states have been told to submit lists of priority population groups that need to receive vaccine first -- doctors, nurses, sanitation staff, ASHA workers, surveillance officers etc. of both private and government sector will be a part of the list.The health ministry has set October-end as a “realistic” target to complete this exercise, he said, adding that the government’s target is to receive and utilise 400-500 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine covering approximately 20-25 crore people by July 2021.“ We are also keeping an eye on immunity data with regard to the disease,” he said.Meanwhile, India recorded 75,829 fresh cases of coronavirus in the last 24 hours, taking its infection tally over 6.5 million. Over 940 fresh deaths tool the death toll to 101,782, according to the health ministry dashboard on Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensuring-covid-19-vaccine-reaches-everyone-is-govt-s-priority-harsh-vardhan/story-nCVD7xM9YJikkOwwGBSqEK.html
04-10-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Centre asks states to submit lists of priority population by October end||The Union health ministry has asked states to submit lists of priority population who will receive Covid-19 vaccine first by October end, minister Harsh Vardhan has said. Priority population refers to those who are at a higher risk of contracting the virus than others. The government is working round the clock to chart out a mechanism of step-by-step vaccine distribution, once they are ready, the minister said, addressing his weekly programme Sunday Samvaad.“Our government is working round the clock to ensure there is a fair and equitable distribution of the vaccines once they are ready. Just like everywhere else in the world, our government’s utmost priority is to ensure vaccine for each and every person in the country. There is a high-level expert committee looking into all aspects of vaccines,” the minister said.“The ministry is preparing a format in which the state will provide list of priority population to receive vaccines, especially frontline health care workers. We have set a realistic deadline of October end to complete this humongous exercise. States are also being closely guided to submit details of cold-chain facilities and other infrastructure. Our rough estimate and target would be to receive and utilise 400-500 million doses for 20 crore people by July 2021. All this is under various stages of finalisation,” Harsh Vardhan said. The concept of priority population exists across the world. While the older people are at a greater risk of Covid-19, those who are engaged in handling Covid-19 patients also fall under this priority population. China and Russia have started giving vaccine shots to its people. Reports said China is vaccinating government staff, teachers, supermarket employees, border workers apart from doctors and other health care professionals.Russian journalists working for two state-owned media outlets will be offered Sputnik V, reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-centre-asks-states-to-submit-lists-of-priority-population-by-october-end/story-tbSqouI5X5I0u7ljShI0eM.html
04-10-2020||India||AG KK Venugopal declines permission to prosecute Digvijay Singh for contempt of court||Attorney general (AG) KK Venugopal on Saturday declined to grant permission for the initiation of criminal contempt of the Supreme Court (SC) proceedings against Digvijaya Singh, a Congress Member of Parliament (MP) and a former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh (MP), for his two “uncalled for” tweets.In one of his tweets, Singh had criticised the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government for introducing the Special Security Force (SSF) Act, 2020, and another for expressing doubts on whether a court would strike down the law.Venugopal wrote to advocate Sumant Sudan and agreed that the tweets were uncalled for but did not merit action for a criminal contempt of the SC.“I have given careful consideration to the tweets. The statements made are uncalled for. However, I do not believe that they merit action for criminal contempt of the SC of India,” Venugopal stated in his letter.The SSF Act, 2020 empowers the UP government to establish a special security force for the better protection of persons, their residential premises and vital and strategic installations belonging to the state.Also Read: UP Assembly bypolls: Congress names candidates for Suar and Bangarmau seatsThe law had come under spotlight for its provisions, which vests the special security force with sweeping powers.Section 10 of the Act empowers the special security force to arrest any person without an arrest warrant if the person is suspected of having links to any cognisable offence concerning the notified establishments or if the authorities have reasons to believe that he is taking steps to commit such an offence.Section 11 of the Act gives power to the special security force to arrest the person and seize his belongings without a warrant.“Does the Indian Constitution permit such a law? Will the country’s judiciary consider such a law unconstitutional? Or will it decide in favour of the government under pressure? Let us wait and watch,” Singh had tweeted.The tweet has the potential to shake the faith of the common public in the judicial process of the country, Sudan had said in his plea seeking AG’s consent to initiate a criminal contempt of the SC against Singh.As per Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act and Rule 3 of Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of the SC, the consent of AG or the Solicitor General (SG) is required before the apex court can hear a criminal contempt plea filed by an individual.Earlier, Venugopal had declined to grant consent for an initiation of criminal contempt of the SC against journalist Rajdeep Sardesai and actor Swara Bhaskar.The contempt action was sought against Sardesai for his tweets criticising the SC’s handling of the contempt of court case against lawyer and activist Prashant Bhushan.Similar action was sought against Bhasker for her tweets criticising the SC and its judgement in the Ayodhya case on November 9, 2019.Venugopal’s stance before the SC in the contempt of court case against advocate Bhushan was noteworthy, as the Centre’s top law officer had urged the apex court not to impose any punishment on the lawyer.Venugopal had appeared in that case in his personal capacity at the apex court’s request on August 20.He had requested the SC to let Bhushan off with a reprimand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ag-kk-venugopal-declines-permission-to-prosecute-digvijay-singh-for-contempt-of-court/story-vIYQFDQgBFqKbQtV2HbSmJ.html
04-10-2020||India||Atal Tunnel done, now PM Modi pushes Border Roads chief for all-weather axis to Ladakh||After inaugurating the 9.2-km Atal Tunnel on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) chief Lieutenant General Harpal Singh to start preparing for the underground tunnel at Shinku-La so that an all-weather road is completed to Ladakh via Darcha-Padam-Nimu route in next three years.PM Modi apparently had a detailed discussion with the BRO chief at the Atal Tunnel site and told him that road infrastructure on the border areas must be speeded up so that Indian troops can patrol up to the last point. At one point, Gen Harpal Singh told PM that road construction in India is a classic example of “Atmanirbhar Bharat” as not even a single foreigner has helped BRO in construction since the March 2020 lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic.While the PM wanted to know in details about the Seri nullah ingress that held up the Atal Tunnel project, he heard the full brief on the Darcha-Padam-Nimu axis. Already 100km of this road has been metalled with another 200km to be completed in the next three years along with a 4.5km tunnel under the over 16,000 feet high Shinku Pass. BRO has decided to validate the new axis this winter by keeping it snow-free for the army’s logistics movement. PM Modi inspected the entire 9.2km of Atal tunnel through open jeep twice and got down in between to understand each and every point.It is understood that Singh told the Prime Minister that the Sela Tunnel en-route to strategic Tawang will be completed in the next three years. The tunnel foundation was laid by PM Modi on February 10, 2019. The Rs 687 crore project involves a fresh cut of 12km road as well as a three-kilometre tunnel under the Se La, which saw action with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in 1962 war.While the Prime Minister was briefed about Darcha-Nimu road and Se La tunnel, BRO is making plans to cut across through glaciated Saser La in Siachen sector to link up with Murgo-Daulet Beg Oldi axis so that neither China nor Pakistan can threaten supplies to the last post at the Karakoram Pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atal-tunnel-done-now-pm-modi-pushes-border-roads-chief-for-all-weather-axis-to-ladakh/story-driyZFgTq1qi6HwFz5UCdL.html
04-10-2020||India||Will scrap ‘black’ laws when Congress comes to power, Rahul Gandhi assures Punjab farmers||Addressing farmers in Punjab, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the Congress will not let farmers’ interest to get hurt by the new farm laws. Launching the party’s three-day Kheti Bachao Yatra protesting the laws which now have got the President’s assent, the Congress leader said, “If farmers are happy with these laws then why are they protesting across the nation? Why is every farmer in Punjab protesting?” “What was the need to implement these laws amid Covid-19? What was the haste? If you had to implement, you should have discussed in Lok Sabha-Rajya Sabha. PM says laws are being framed for farmers. If it’s the case, why didn’t you discuss openly in the House?” Rahul Gandhi said. Assuring the farmers that the laws will be scrapped the day the Congress comes to power in Centre, Rahul said, “I give you guarantee that the day Congress party come to the power, we will scrap these three black laws and throw them in waste paper basket.”Three farm laws — The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 — have been passed by Parliament amid protests from the opposition parties. Farmers have taken to the streets across the nation protesting the laws.Rahul Gandhi was not present in Parliament during the farm law debates, which saw ruckus in the House.Apart from extending support to farmers’ protests, the party has already explored ways of stalling the implementation of the laws in state level. Congress president Sonia Gandhi urged Congress-ruled stated to pass legislations to negate the laws. Following this, the Maharashtra government has withdrawn its August order to implement new farm laws in the state. Talking about the Hathras gang-rape incident, the Congress leader said, “I was in UP where a daughter was killed. No action taken against those who killed her. Family whose daughter was killed is locked up in their house. The district magistrate and the chief minister threatened them. Such is the situation in India. Nothing happens to criminal but action is taken against victim.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-happens-to-criminals-victim-gets-punishment-in-india-says-rahul-gandhi-in-punjab/story-nSTWzH2uDvf41t3MVAYfLK.html
04-10-2020||India||India, China to hold corps commander level talks on border row on Oct 12||India and China will hold corps commander-level talks on October 12, the seventh round, in eastern Ladakh sector in their latest attempt to address the ongoing military standoff between the two countries, officials familiar with the developments said on Sunday.Both sides had held the last round of talks on the border standoff on September 21, which remained inconclusive as Indian negotiators firmly demanded comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante as the only approach towards de-escalation. Bejing had asked New Delhi to withdraw its soldiers from strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to reduce friction.Also read | The internal drivers of China’s Ladakh offensiveA joint statement, released in New Delhi and Beijing on September 22, said the two sides agreed to stop sending more troops to the front line and to hold the seventh round of commander-level talks “as soon as possible, take practical measures to properly solve problems on the ground, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border area.”Lieutenant General Harinder Singh and Lieutenant General PGK Menon, who represented the army headquarters, took part in the sixth rounds of talks. Menon is set to replace Singh as the commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps soon as the latter will be completing his term next month. Singh has been leading the military talks with China to reduce border tensions. He took charge of the corps in October 2019.The sixth round of military dialogue at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC across the Chushul sector also had, for the first time, involved the participation of a joint secretary-ranked officer from the ministry of external affairs as a step to ensure that the talks yield a positive outcome. The Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, the diplomatic dialogue between the two countries, involves a representative of the Indian defence ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-hold-corps-commander-level-talks-on-border-row-on-oct-12/story-Tmauvi48IrINWBq6qK9wyJ.html
04-10-2020||India||Odisha couple dies by suicide after alleged harassment over repayment of loans||Unable to repay around Rs 50,000 loan that they had taken from a few microfinance companies, a couple in Odisha by suicide Friday night after consuming insecticide, police said Saturday.Police in coastal Balasore district said the bodies of Kashinath Roul and his wife Kanaklata Roul, both in their 50s, were found in their village Podadiha under Rupsa police station area of the district Saturday morning.Jaleswar sub-divisional police officer Jalandhar Jali said Kashinath sold snacks in local trains, but had lost his livelihood after train services were suspended in view of Covid-19 pandemic, “Finding no other option he took loans from some microfinance companies to start a new business. However, Kashinath’s business plans could not take off due to some reasons. He spent the loan amount on his family’s daily expenses,” said Jali.One of Kashinath’s two sons, who lives separately in the village, alleged that a few days ago an agent of a microfinance company demanded repayment of the loan. When Kashinath expressed his inability to repay the loan, the agent scolded him and mockingly asked him to die if he could not repay his loan.“My father had taken loans from a few groups. They were harassing him as he was unable to clear the debts,” said Balram Roul, Kashinath’s son.The other son lives in a different place. Police said they have lodged a case of unnatural death and awaiting the post-mortem report for further investigation.In June this year, Union minister of state for MSME, Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Pratap Sarangi had urged chief minister Naveen Patnaik to put in place firm guidelines to rein in the microfinance companies in Odisha who harass borrowers amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Sarangi had alleged that microfinance companies in Odisha had unleashed a great deal of hardship on women borrowers, leading to social unrest, intimidation, violence and even suicides in some places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-couple-dies-by-suicide-after-alleged-harassment-over-repayment-of-loans/story-FPn6OCCLZhdDSniqUbhsNJ.html
04-10-2020||India||Family alleges foul play in Jammu soldier’s death, seeks probe||Outraged over the death of a young soldier under mysterious circumstances in Uri sector on Thursday, his family members placed his body at the busy Satwari Chowk in Jammu and disrupted traffic movement for over two hours on Saturday afternoon. The deceased soldier has been identified as 21-year-old rifleman Rakshit Choudhary, son of Kuldeep Singh of Barota Camp in Ramgarh sector of Samba district of Jammu and Kashmir. His family was presently putting up in Sanjay Nagar area of Jammu city. “My son had a passion to join the army. He was a C certificate holder and a pass out from MAM college. How could he kill himself? I talked to him that morning at 8 am and he sounded cheerful. He was a bachelor and had no problem back home,” said mother of the deceased. Also Read: Sero survey shows Covid-19 antibodies in 27% population of Kashmir’s Pulwama The family was outraged on Saturday morning when the body arrived in a private vehicle escorted by two soldiers, dressed in civilian clothes, and headed to their homes on leave. “My son can never take his own life and how can a person fire two gunshots to end one’s life,” she asked. The family complained that the deceased soldier should have been sent home with full military honours and demanded the status of a martyr for him. Also Read: Rajouri encounter: Bodies of 3 men exhumed, handed over to families for burialHis mother also demanded a second post-mortem and an independent probe to bring out the truth, alleging a cover-up.Former sarpanch of Barota village Prem Pal said that the Indian Army was hiding something.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-alleges-foul-play-in-jammu-soldier-s-death-seeks-probe/story-2UHEdj0DnsowOPRwVmQiNI.html
04-10-2020||India||Odisha: Rain lashes parts of Bhubaneswar, to continue for next 5 days||Several parts of Bhubaneswar on Sunday experienced rainfall accompanied by thunderstorm due to low pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha coast, said the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Vehicular traffic at roads came to a grinding halt owing to waterlogging at several places in the district.The weather department has predicted light rainfall in Bhubaneswar for the next 5 days.“A low pressure area lies over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha coast and a cyclonic circulation in lower tropospheric levels lies over central Assam and neighbourhood. Under its influence - fairly widespread to widespread rainfall very likely over Odisha during next 3-4 days,” the IMD said.The maximum temperature in Odisha on Saturday was recorded at 30 degree Celsius, while the minimum temperature was 24.6 degree Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-rain-lashes-parts-of-bhubaneswar-to-continue-for-next-5-days/story-iQi6utIIWNPc0Qd2yf8qRL.html
04-10-2020||India||70-year-old among 3 booked for raping minor for months in UP’s Bulandshahr||Three persons including a senior citizen were booked and two of them arrested for allegedly raping a teenage Dalit girl for months in Kakod town area of Bulandshahr district, police said.“The accused Srichand, 70, and Balbeer also known as Ballan, 50, are brothers and they have been arrested after a case of rape was registered against them on the complaint of the victim,” said circle officer, Secundrabad area, Namrata Srivastava. She added that efforts were under way to arrest the third accused Mahesh, 40, who was absconding. The police said the accused knew the girl’s family and they raped the girl at different places over the past few months.When the mother of the 16-year-old noticed some changes in her body and enquired about the same, the girl narrated her ordeal to her. The CO said the girl accused Srichand of raping her almost one-and-a-half-year ago and alleged that his younger brother Ballan outraged her modesty five months ago when she was alone at home. Also read: Hathras gang-rape victim’s family against CBI probe; SIT records statement“Both are known to her family and Ballan worked in a farm house. He helped the family in getting a loan from his farm owner. The family mortgaged their house to the farm owner in lieu of the loan,” the cop said. Ballan used to visit their house to ensure repayment of instalment of the loan which the family had been unable to pay for the past few months due to their poor financial condition. The family’s earnings come from selling milk and another accused Mahesh used to visit their house to procure milk. The girl also charged him of raping her a month ago. “A case was registered against the accused on the complaint of the girl”, said Srivastava and added that a fair investigation would be done in the case. She said that the girl had been sent for a medical examination and her statement would be recorded on Sunday. The incident comes against the backdrop of a 19-year-old Dalit woman’s alleged gang rape and assault in Hathras. She later died in a Delhi hospital and was cremated in the dead of the night by the local police triggering outrage across the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-year-old-among-3-booked-for-raping-minor-for-months-in-up-s-bulandshahr/story-jQogzkjgT7UTIPs6MOwdWL.html
04-10-2020||India||Stormy GST Council meet likely on Monday; non-BJP states to oppose Centre’s borrowing option||The GST Council meeting on Monday may turn into a stormy affair, with non-BJP ruled states still being in disagreement with the Centre on the compensation issue. While as many as 21 states, mostly ruled by BJP or parties which have supported it on issues, had till mid-September opted to borrow Rs 97,000 crore to meet the GST revenue shortfall in the current fiscal, opposition-led states like West Bengal, Punjab and Kerala have not yet accepted the borrowing option given by the Centre.  Sources said in the 42nd meeting of the Council on October 5, opposition-ruled states would object to the Centre’s borrowing options and demand alternative mechanism for funding GST compensation deficit.   They feel that the constitutional liability of compensating states lies with the union government. In the current fiscal, the states are staring at a staggering Rs 2.35 lakh crore Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue shortfall. Of this, as per Centre’s calculation, about Rs 97,000 crore is on account of GST implementation and rest Rs 1.38 lakh crore is the impact of Covid-19 on states’ revenues. The Centre in August gave two options to the states to borrow either Rs 97,000 crore from a special window facilitated by the RBI or Rs 2.35 lakh crore from market and has also proposed extending the compensation cess levied on luxury, demerit and sin goods beyond 2022 to repay the borrowing. The non-BJP ruled states are at loggerheads with the Centre over the issue of funding the shortfall.  Chief Ministers of six non-BJP ruled states — West Bengal, Kerala, Delhi, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu -- have written to the Centre opposing the options which require states to borrow to meet shortfall.  While these states want the Centre to borrow to meet the shortfall, the Centre has argued that the revenue accruing from GST compensation cess goes to the states and the Centre cannot borrow on the security of the tax it does not own. Under the GST structure, taxes are levied under 5, 12, 18 and 28 per cent slabs. On top of the highest tax slab, a cess is levied on luxury, sin and demerit goods and the proceeds from the same are used to compensate states for any revenue loss.  Attorney General of India K K Venugopal had given his legal view on the compensation cess issue where he has opined that there is no obligation on the Centre under the GST laws to compensate for the loss of revenue.  He had opined that the GST Council has to find ways to meet any revenue shortfall arising out of GST implementation. The payment of GST compensation to states became an issue after revenues from the imposition of cess started dwindling since August 2019. The Centre had to dive into the excess cess amount collected during 2017-18 and 2018-19. The Centre had released over Rs 1.65 lakh crore in 2019-20 as GST compensation. However, the amount of cess collected during 2019-20 was Rs 95,444 crore. The compensation payout amount was Rs 69,275 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 41,146 crore in 2017-18.   During April-July of the current fiscal, the total compensation due to states stand at over Rs 1.51 lakh crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/stormy-gst-council-meet-likely-on-monday-non-bjp-states-to-oppose-centre-s-borrowing-option/story-ETD0r4vJtlhly2D7wsr1GL.html
04-10-2020||India||File FIR against political party if over 100 people assemble in rallies: MP high court||The Gwalior bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court has allowed registration of an FIR against a political party by anyone if more than 100 people assemble in any election rally.The court’s directions come ahead of the Assembly by-polls which are scheduled to be held in the State.It was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL), filed by advocate Ashish Pratap Singh, which sought a ban on political events in the State in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The Gwalior Bench of the Madhya Pradesh HC had earlier issued notices to the Chief Secretary, District Collector and Superintendent of Police and asked them to submit replies by September 28.The HC had also appointed three lawyers as Nyaya Mitras to keep a watch on the political activities in the state and in case of any breach of protocol, they would have to report the matter to the court through its registrar.Advocate Ashish Pratap Singh, who had filed the PIL on September 11, said the political parties were holding rallies, which attracted huge crowds, increasing the risk of disease spread.On September 29 the court had been presented with a joint report of the Amicus Curiae was on record citing further instances of breach of COVID-19 protocol because of various congregations that have taken place of political and social nature where a large number of political functionaries were either present or had presided over the said congregations comprising of numbers of people far exceeding the maximum limit prescribed.The court had then decided to hold an in-camera hearing of DM, SPs, of Morena, Bhind, Gwalior, Datia and Shivpuri, where by-elections are to be held shortly.While stating that the politicians, leaders, and functionaries of thegovernment and the State should set an example for the public by abiding by the COVID-19 guidelines, and ensure they do not indulge in any activity, which can lead to the collection of a large number of people.“The DMs of the nine districts falling within the territorial jurisdiction of this Bench i.e. Gwalior, Guna, Morena, Bhind, Vidisha, Ashok Nagar, Datia, Shivpuri and Sheopur are directed by writ of mandamus to register offences by invoking penal provisions of Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) not only against the defaulting members of the congregation but also against political/governmental/State or social functionaries in whose name or on whose behest and behalf the said congregation takes place, failing which the DMs of the concerned nine districts shall be liable for contempt of this Court and shall also be exposed to the rigours of penal provisions of relevant laws,” a portion of the interim order read.The petitioner, Advocate Ashish said, “Any person who feels responsible and sees a crowd of over 100 assembling can click a photograph and register a case.” He further added that the court has accepted that the administration is facing difficulties in stopping such rallies. The court said that either the Amicus Curiae or any person who feels responsible can click a photo of such congregations/events and place it before the appropriate bench for adjudication, through the Principal Registrar.The matter has further been listed for hearing on October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/file-fir-against-political-party-if-over-100-people-assemble-in-rallies-mp-high-court/story-mmc6WFdIAIvPC5Inx6FEqM.html
04-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape case: Arrested accused not that guilty as shown, says former BJP legislator||A former legislator of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Rajveer Pahalwan on Sunday called a mahapanchayat of upper caste members at his residence in Hathras, amid the nationwide uproar over alleged gang-rape and murder of a Dalit woman in the district. During the meeting, Pahalwan said that the accused who have been arrested in the case are not that guilty as being painted.Pahalwan also welcomed the state government’s decision to recommend a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the matter and said, it “will reveal the truth about the incident.” The upper caste members also raised doubts about the woman’s family denying the narco test during the meeting.Also read: Hathras gang-rape victim’s family against CBI probe; SIT records statementAdvocates, who took part in the mahapanchayat, have said they will meet the special investigation team (SIT), constituted by the state government to probe the matter, later in the day.The state government had on Friday ordered a “narco-analysis polygraph tests” for everyone involved in the case, including the woman’s family members. The decision was taken after the report of the autopsy conducted by the state government contradicted the woman’s allegation that she was gang-raped on September 14. The family has refused to undergo the narco test and demanded a judicial probe through the Supreme Court into the matter.On September 29, the woman succumbed to her injuries in Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi. She was cremated by authorities. The state police and the government have been questioned over their decision to cremate the woman’s body in the dead of the night without the presence of her family members.The family says the cremation was forceful and was done without her parents and relatives’ presence. However, the administration says that it was conducted with the family’s consent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-case-arrested-accused-not-that-guilty-as-shown-says-former-bjp-legislator/story-Mj9eboP8Q9WvBaP49hJAqJ.html
04-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: Canada formulates new Indo-Pacific policy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Eye on China, Canada formulates new Indo-Pacific policyCanada is formulating a fresh Indo-Pacific policy that will not only reflect its recent rift with China but may be more in consonance with the objectives of India in the region. Read moreHathras case: 5 Samajwadi Party members allowed to enter villageAuthorities on Sunday allowed a five-member delegation of the Samajwadi Party to enter the village in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, where a Dalit woman was gang-raped by the four upper-caste men. The leaders are expected to meet the 19-year-old woman’s family. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘They need a leader who will lead from the front’: Sreesanth suggests a new captain for KKRKolkata Knight Riders almost scripted another record-breaking chase in the ongoing season of Indian Premier League against Delhi Capitals on Saturday in Sharjah. The keyword, though, being ‘almost’. At one stage, KKR looked out of the competition, after going down six wickets and needing over 60 to win in 4 overs. But a late show from Eoin Morgan and Rahul Tripathi brought hopes back to KKR camp, and it seemed that the franchise might chase down 229 to create IPL record. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta says ‘all eyes on CBI’ after AIIMS rejects murder theory, Ankita Lokhande supportsActor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister, Shweta Singh Kirti has said that her attention is now focussed on the Central Bureau of India’s findings in the actor’s death case, after an AIIMS panel tasked with re-evaluating his post-mortem report concluded that he died by suicide. Many, including the lawyer representing Sushant’s father, had suggested that the actor could have been murdered. Read moreRenault Duster Turbo petrol drive review: Power in a refined packageRenault Duster caught my imagination from the first time it was launched in the Indian market. As a 20-something cub journalist, it was quite the aspirational vehicle for me - muscular visual appeal, SUV proportions and a cabin which was rather elegant in its simplicity. Read more‘Survival of the safest,’ says this post by Mumbai Police. Seen it yet?Masks have now become an essential part of everyone’s daily wardrobe. Authorities from across the nation often take to social media to urge people to don the protective gear while going out of the house. Mumbai Police is no different in that essence and is using their online presence to spread information about the importance of wearing masks - that too quite creatively. Read more‘Next couple of days the real test’: Trump shares video amid Covid treatmentUS President Donald Trump said that he will be ‘back soon’ to finish the presidential election campaign. In a video via his Twitter handle, Trump shared updates regarding his health. The US president is being treated for Covid-19 in a military hospital after contracting novel coronavirus. “I feel much better now. We are working hard to get me all the way back. I have to be back because we still have to make America great again,” Trump said. He added, “I’ll be back soon and I look forward to finishing up the campaign.” Trump also said that the ‘real test’ would be to witness what happens in the coming days. “Over the next period of a few days I guess that’s the real test, so we will see what happens over that next couple of days,” Trump said. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-canada-formulates-new-indo-pacific-policy-and-all-the-latest-news/story-R38gQMxW0Xq6ecTqT2Nb5L.html
04-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape victim’s family against CBI probe; SIT records statement||A day after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath recommended a probe by the Central Investigation Bureau (CBI) in the alleged gang-rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in the state’s Hathras district, a special investigation team (SIT) recorded the statements of the victim’s family members on Sunday.The SIT team led by senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Bhagwan Swaroop is continuing with its investigation even as CBI has been asked to take over. The victim’s family, however, is not in favour of the CBI investigation and wants a judicial probe to be conducted in the case, which has sparked outrage and protests in the country.Also Read| From Hathras gang-rape victim’s death to CBI probe recommendation: What we know so farThe SIT team present in Hathras’ Boolgarhi village is interacting with the concerned people and has said, “anybody who wants to give a statement is welcome.” The team had earlier interacted with the villagers on Thursday and also visited the crime spot.The woman was raped by four “upper caste” men on September 14 following which she was admitted to the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College of Aligarh Muslim University after she was left partially paralysed. She was later shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi where she died on Tuesday.Also Read| ‘What Hathras gang-rape victim’s family wants’: Priyanka Gandhi lists in 5 pointsThe woman’s body was forcibly cremated by the UP police on the following day at 2:30am against the wish of her family members. “We lied down in front of the ambulance but were removed and the cremation was forcefully performed at night,” one of her relatives said on Saturday.The opposition has sought the chief minister’s resignation. Adityanath, however, has assured the harshest punishment for the culprits. “For the purpose of intensive investigation of the unfortunate incident of Hathras and all the points connected @UPGovt The case is being recommended through the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). We are determined to bring the harshest punishment to all those responsible for this incident,” he wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-victim-s-family-against-cbi-probe-sit-records-statement/story-1RdD0AUGNt2GGAdmzzFTiI.html
04-10-2020||India||Prakash Javadekar gets hostile reception in Goa over Mhadei environmental clearance||Union Minister for Environment and Forests Prakash Javadekar ran into a hostile reception in Goa when he arrived on Saturday for a two day visit as Congress workers protested against the minister’s avowed support to Karnataka in the state’s ongoing dispute with Goa over the waters of the river Mhadei. The workers also protested the Union environment and forests ministry’s clearances for diversion of forest land along the Western Ghats in Goa for infrastructure projects that are being staunchly opposed in the state.Congress workers who gathered outside the hotel in which Javadekar was staying were rounded up and detained by the police in late night drama after they had gathered in the lobby seeking an audience with the minister. “The environment minister of this country who swore to protect our environment has no authority to come to Goa and stay in a hotel right on the banks of the Mandovi. They have no right to come and breathe in our environment. They have violated our mother which is the River Mhadei (the River Mandovi is called Mhadei closer to its origin in Karnataka). They have sold it to Karnataka for the sake of power and votes. There are more MPs from Karnataka than Goa, so Goa’s interests have been compromised,” Congress leader Amarnath Panjikar said. State Congress president Girish Chodankar termed the arrest of the youth Congress workers as ‘jungle raj in Goa’. Javadekar during the first day of his visit held an official interaction with farmers in two different villages in North Goa, a move that was termed as tokenism. “If Javadekar is really concerned about farmers he should go and meet the villagers of Melaulim who are protesting against their village lands being taken for the setting up of an IIT in Goa and meet the villagers of Mollem who are fearing for their livelihoods,” Panjikar said. Javadekar during his interactions with farmers in the two villages said that the protests against the recently amended farm bills were solely political. “Barring Punjab, there seem to be no agitations elsewhere. In Punjab too, the agitation is due to political reasons. Purchasing of rice has begun in Punjab. Farmers have started selling rice and protesting as well, because of the politics involved. The Congress which is in power, Akali Dal, AAP, all three are opposing for various reasons. The agitation is political,” Javadekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prakash-javadekar-gets-hostile-reception-in-goa-over-mhadei-environmental-clearance/story-FHH4ksv3E33eytjBB8CbbN.html
04-10-2020||India||Hathras case: 5 Samajwadi Party members allowed to enter village||Authorities on Sunday allowed a five-member delegation of the Samajwadi Party to enter the village in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, where a Dalit woman was gang-raped by the four upper-caste men. The leaders are expected to meet the 19-year-old woman’s family.This comes a day after Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, met her family after officials reopened the borders of the village. However, it is still heavily barricaded to limit visitors including media persons and opposition leaders coming to meet the woman’s family.Gathered at the barricades, the Samajwadi Party leaders said they will not move away.Rashtriya Lok Dal’s vice president Jayant Chaudhary is also expected to meet the family members during the day. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad is also on his way to Hathras.The Hathras case has triggered nationwide outrage as the opposition is demanding Yogi Adityanath’s resignation as the chief minister. Following the woman’s death on September 29, the local police cremated her body at the dead of the night, sparking allegations from opposition parties that the BJP-led state government was trying to bury the evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-5-samajwadi-party-members-allowed-to-enter-village/story-WSCWFZSjE7gRmv88jt8iEI.html
04-10-2020||India||‘When will India get Covid-19 vaccine?’: Health minister Harsh Vardhan to answer today||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan will on Sunday talk about when the country is likely to get a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and who will be the first to get the shots against the viral infection.In his weekly address Sunday Samvaad, the health minister will share the country’s way forward in tackling the coronavirus pandemic.“Tune-In tomorrow at 1PM to learn more about India’s #COVID19Vaccine plan ! When will we get #COVID19 vaccination? Who will be vaccinated first? What are the Government’s #COVID_19 immunization targets for Q2 2021? All these & more will be answered tomorrow on #SundaySamvaad!” Vardhan said in a tweet on Saturday.Follow live updates on coronavirus here Earlier this week, the health minister had said that research to develop a Covid-19 vaccine is being “done expeditiously” and that it is most likely to be ready by early 2021.“There are at least three viable such vaccine candidates that are in the phase of clinical trials right now in the country. We are hopeful that within the first quarter of 2021 it will be available,” Vardhan had said during a press briefing.In India, the British-Swedish company AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford’s vaccine candidate being produced in collaboration with Pune-based pharma firm Serum Institute of India is in the third phase of trials while drugmaker Zydus Cadila launched phase 2 trials for its vaccine candidate on August 6. Another domestic pharma firm Bharat Biotech began phase 2 trials from September.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Also, the government may consider a plan to allow companies, especially large ones in strategically important businesses, to strike direct deals with Covid-19 vaccine developers to secure doses for their employees, officials familiar with the matter have told HT.There were 6,549,373 cases of the coronavirus disease while 101,782 have died of the infection in India, according to the health ministry’s dashboard on Sunday. Even as recoveries have shot up to 5,509,966, there are still 937,625 active cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-india-get-covid-19-vaccine-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-to-answer-today/story-f61qocbvW3x8bNwxwGqX0N.html
04-10-2020||India||PM Modi pays tribute to freedom fighter Shyamji Krishna Varma on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid tribute to revolutionary freedom fighter Shyamji Krishna Varma on his birth anniversary, and said he devoted himself towards India’s freedom and inspired many nationalists.“Shyamji Krishna Varma was fearless and selfless. He devoted himself towards India’s freedom and inspired many nationalists. India bows to him on his Jayanti. We shall always work hard to realise his vision for our nation. Visit this site to know about him. krantiteerth.org,” he tweeted.The website notes that Varma, who was born in 1857, had set up a revolutionary centre in ‘India House’ at London and propagated the cause of India’s independence through his writings in a publication journal called ‘The Indian Sociologist’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-freedom-fighter-shyamji-krishna-varma-on-his-birth-anniversary/story-FTpc15SwSVDp964wYQLqCP.html
04-10-2020||India||From Hathras gang-rape victim’s death to CBI probe recommendation: What we know so far||A 19-year-old Dalit woman was raped by four upper-caste men in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district earlier this month. She went missing on September 14 and was found badly injured by her mother. As the details of the cases came out, it triggered nationwide outrage with opposition parties calling for chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s resignation.Her death triggered massive outrage across the country with opposition leaders hitting out at the state government over women’s security in Uttar Pradesh.Here is what unfolded following her death in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital earlier this week:* On Monday, the Hathras woman was shifted to the Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital from Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital as her condition did not improve.* She succumbed to her injuries in the Delhi hospital on Tuesday.* Following her death, the Uttar Pradesh police brought the body to her home in Hathras. She was cremated by the police forcefully in the dead of the night, claimed her family on Wednesday. The administration maintains that it was done with the consent of the family.* The sudden cremation gave fuel to speculation that the Yogi Adityanath’s government was trying to suppress information regarding the case. The chief minister constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the case on Thursday.* On the same day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi along with party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and a convoy of supporters tried to march towards the victim’s village. The police stopped the Gandhi siblings and the convoy citing Section 144. Rahul Gandhi was manhandled by police personnel at the Yamuna expressway and they were briefly detained before being escorted back to Delhi.* On Friday, Trinamool Congress’ Derek O’Brien and others also tried to reach Hathras. They were stopped before they could reach the victim’s village. A team of the Uttar Pradesh police also manhandled O’Brien and he was pushed to the ground as personnel tried to stop them.* On the basis of a preliminary inquiry report by the SIT on Friday, the chief minister suspended Hathras’ superintendent of police Vikrant Vir and four other policemen.* On Saturday, the administration allowed media to enter the village and lifted some of the restrictions which were imposed on Thursday.* Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi left for Hathras on Saturday to meet the woman’s family. After being stopped briefly at Delhi-Noida border, the police finally allowed them to go ahead.* After meeting the family, Priyanka Gandhi said that the woman’s relatives want a judicial probe into the matter to be conducted through the Supreme Court. The family also sought the suspension of Hathras’ district magistrate, she wrote on Twitter.* Adityanath also recommended a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-hathras-gang-rape-victim-s-death-to-cbi-probe-recommendation-what-we-know-so-far/story-ovYqQ1erpUxiPm5kBhbKyI.html
04-10-2020||India||NCB deputy director KPS Malhotra who questioned Deepika Padukone in drugs case tests Covid-19 positive||Deputy director of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) KPS Malhotra, who was present during Bollywood actor Deepika Padukone’s interrogation in the drugs case associated with Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The central agency is probing the drug-angle in Rajput’s death in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra in June and a potential drug racket in Bollywood. So far, actors Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh have been questioned by NCB, with more expected to be summoned soon.According to reports, no links were found between drug peddlers and Padukone, Kapoor and Khan, who were questioned by the agency in late September. During their questioning, all three of them are said to have denied consuming drugs. According to NCB sources, they will be summoned again only if any strong evidence is found during the investigation.Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, Rajput’s former manager Samuel Miranda are among those arrested in the drugs case related to the 34-year-old’s death.Meanwhile, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) panel looking into the autopsy report on the request of the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) has submitted that Rajput died by suicide and has ruled out any murder angle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-deputy-director-kps-malhotra-who-questioned-deepika-padukone-in-drugs-case-tests-covid-19-positive/story-PaPhWCpsum8R3wqlipFyXP.html
04-10-2020||India||State govts make special arrangements as students appear for UPSC prelims||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) Civil Services (Preliminary) examination is being conducted on Sunday with various precautionary measures in place amid the coronavirus pandemic. Several state governments have made special transport arrangements for UPSC aspirants appearing for the exam.In the national capital, Delhi Metro Railways Corporation (DMRC) started its operation as early as 6am to facilitate the movement of candidates. The Metro services on Sundays generally begin at 8am.“I used public transport to reach the centre. It was not safe, but what can I do? I had to appear in the exam,” news agency ANI quoted a candidate as saying in Delhi.In Maharashtra, the ministry of railways gave permission to candidates and people escorting them to the examination centres to travel by special services over the Mumbai Suburban Railway network on Sunday. Candidates can use the exam call letter and I-card for entry at the station.With their face masks on, students arrived at the examination centres. The situation is “unprecedented,” described one student in Telangana. “This is a very unprecedented situation. Pandemic is nowhere to end in the near future, so it is better to conduct exams,” said Jaswant Kumar, according to ANI.The Union Public Service Commission is conducting the civil services preliminary examination 2020 at 2,569 centres across 72 cities in the country. This year, more than 10.58 lakh candidates have applied for the UPSC prelims examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unprecedented-situation-state-govts-make-special-arrangements-as-students-appear-for-upsc-prelims/story-s94DwSsbB9Q7hju69U1jrJ.html
04-10-2020||India||After Gandhi siblings, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad to visit Hathras||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, who has been protesting against the alleged gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, will meet the victim’s family in the Uttar Pradesh district on Sunday. Azad is expected to reach the village at around 12pm.This comes a day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and the party’s general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met the woman’s family.Azad reached Delhi along with supporters of his Bhim Army on Thursday. Since then he has been leading the protest in natioanl capital and demands resignation of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath over handling of the case.Also read | From Hathras gang-rape victim’s death to CBI probe recommendation: What we know so farOn Saturday, Azad cited right to live in the Constitution and sought gun license for the underprivileged sections of the country. “Our demand is that the 20 lakh Bahujans of the country be granted gun licenses immediately. The government should provide us a 50 % subsidy to purchase guns and pistols. We will defend ourselves,” he said on Twitter.A 19-year-old woman, was gang-raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh on September 14. The woman succumbed to her injuries on September 29, the local police cremated the body at 2.30am the next day. The family has claimed that the cremation was forceful and was done without their presence, while the administration has maintained that it was done with the consent of the family.The hurriedly organised cremation has sparked allegations from the Opposition that the authorities were trying to suppress the evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-gandhi-siblings-bhim-army-chief-chandrashekhar-azad-heads-towards-hathras/story-GWgKvitXQcxJ9hCImSrG4O.html
04-10-2020||India||Ahead of Jaishankar trip, India is game to formalise Quad dialogue that ruffles China||India is not averse to institutionalising the interaction between four major democracies committed to securing Indo-Pacific principles and the shared vision on maritime security, cyber, critical technologies, infrastructure, counter-terrorism and regional cooperation, people familiar with the development said ahead of external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s Tokyo visit on Monday for the crucial Quad security dialogue.“India has no objections to formalising the Quad dialogue with the US, Japan and Australia as the interaction has already been taking place since 2017 with a meeting of foreign ministers taking place on the sidelines of the UNGA in 2019. If the other three members want to institutionalise the dialogue, India is ready to participate,” said a senior official familiar with the government’s thinking on the matter.While China has tried to drive a wedge between the four countries by calling it an exclusive group and even reaching out to Japan for bilateral economic revival, the vision of Quad was best summed up by US Assistant Secretary of East Asian and Pacific Affairs David Stilwell last Friday. “QUAD seeks to establish, promote and secure Indo-Pacific principles, especially as People’s Republic of China tactics, aggression, and coercion increase in the region,” he said.Also Read: China on their radar, India, Japan, US, Australia to hold Quad meet on Oct 6Much as China may attempt to put diplomatic pressure on the group, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, on the eve of his visit to Tokyo, tweeted that Chinese Communist Party’s reckless economic policies and its ruthless suppression of environmental activists have resulted in China’s environmental disasters. The world cannot afford the CCP model of economic development. In a series of tweets on October 3, Pompeo said that China irresponsibly exploits natural resources around the globe, threatening the world’s economy.Japan’s new Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga also made his preference clear as spoke to Chinese paramount leader Xi Jinping after talking to US, Australia and Indian leadership in his first calls.All the Quad countries have serious issues with China; India and Japan have territorial differences while Australia and the US are at the receiving end of Beijing’s trade wars.It is understood that under the Quad critical technology rubric, the four ministers will discuss cooperation in 5G and 5G plus technologies as well as increase interoperability during military exercises in the Indo-Pacific.India will also take a call on Australia’s participation in this year’s Malabar naval exercise in Bay of Bengal later this month, an official said.The four foreign ministers will discuss the security environment in the region with India briefing the Quad partners about the stand-off with People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in Ladakh region. China has deployed nearly 50,000 troops in occupied Aksai China, Tibet and Xinjiang to put pressure on India to accede to its maximalist 1959 LAC line.The Modi government has noted the Chinese statement on Ladakh and Kashmir since Article 370 was abrogated on August 5, 2019. It finds Beijing’s suggestion that New Delhi should stay away from the US and by implication, remain a regional power most patronising, arrogant and coming from a rising power that does not understand the civilizational ethos of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-jaishankar-trip-india-is-game-to-formalise-quad-dialogue-that-ruffles-china/story-KuBv6Nd4DMzdB2RrKVcUUN.html
04-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6.5 million, recoveries at over 5.5 million||India recorded 75,829 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 940 related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking its tally over 6.5 million, data from the Union health ministry showed on Sunday morning.India sustained its trend of maintaining active cases below the 1 million mark for the 13th successive day with 937,625 infections on Sunday. The country’s Covid-19 tally is now at 6,549,373, including 101,782 fatalities, showed the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am.With 82,260 recoveries registered in the last 24 hours, 5,509,966 patients of the viral disease have recovered across the country so far. India’s recovery rate is now at 84.12% currently.The health ministry has said that India accounts for 21% of the global recovered cases, while its share in the total cases stands at 18.6%. “India has maintained its global position with one of the lowest case fatality rates (CFR) when compared to several other countries. While the global CFR stands at 2.97% as on date, the comparative figure for India is 1.56%,” it said on Saturday.Also read | Active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai come down after a spike last monthThe deaths per million population in India is also one of the lowest in the world, according to the ministry. “While the global average is 130 deaths/million population, India is reporting 73 deaths /million population,” it said.The ministry also said on Saturday that 74.36% of the recovered cases in the past 24 hours were from 10 states and Union territories. Maharashtra contributed the highest number to these followed by Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.Also read | High levels of Covid-19 testing led to sustained low fatality rate: GovtOn Saturday, 78.2% of the new cases were reported from 10 states and Union territories with Maharashtra contributed close to 16,000 to the new cases, lower than the day before. Kerala surged to second place with 9,258 new cases while Karnataka reported more than 8000 daily new cases.Ten states and Union territories accounted for 84.1% of fatalities as 39.66% of deaths reported yesterday are from Maharashtra with 424 deaths followed by Karnataka with 125 deaths, the ministry said on Saturday.Also read | India added nearly 400,000 Covid-19 cases, over 5,000 deaths in a weekIndia’s Covid-19 positivity rate has been seeing a marginal decline, shows government data, as it came down from 8.52% over a month ago to 8.32% on Saturday. The government attributes to significant scaling up of Covid-19 testing. India ramped up its testing capacity from one in January to more than 77 million in October. “With progressively falling positivity rate, testing has worked as an effective tool to limit the spread of #COVID19 infection,” the health ministry tweeted on Sunday.Globally, there are 34,797,492 people who have contracted the coronavirus disease and 1,031,576 have succumbed to it, according to Johns Hopkins tracker. The United States is the world’s worst-affected country followed by India and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-6-5-million-recoveries-at-over-5-5-million/story-H6DoB6vDYMxlvxI18WFVKJ.html
04-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 positivity rate shows marginal decline||The positivity rate of Covid-19 infections in India is witnessing a marginal decline, government data shows. The government also says aggressive testing has helped authorities carry out effective treatment and sustain a low fatality rate.Over the past month, the positivity rate of the deadly disease has come down from 8.52% to 8.32% on Saturday, which the government attributes to significant scaling up of testing.“India has exponentially scaled up its testing capacity from one in January to more than 7.7 cr in October. With progressively falling Positivity Rate, testing has worked as a highly effective tool to limit the spread of #COVID19 infection,” the Union health ministry tweeted on Sunday morning.#IndiaFightsCoronaIndia has exponentially scaled up its TESTING capacity from one in January to more than 7.7 cr in October.With progressively falling Positivity Rate, testing has worked as a highly effective tool to limit the spread of #COVID19 infection. pic.twitter.com/I3nGgZWaPP“Very high levels of testing lead to early identification, prompt isolation & effective treatment of #COVID19 cases. These have eventually resulted in a sustained low Fatality Rate,” said the health ministry in another tweet.According to the government data till Saturday, the total number of cases and deaths in the country have been 55,09,966 and 101,782 respectively. The national case fatality rate is at 1.84%.India’s coronavirus disease testing capacity has been increased to conduct about 1.5 million tests daily. On an average, the country has been performing about a million Covid tests a day over the past one month.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which has been spearheading the testing initiative, has significantly upgraded the testing infrastructure. From just one lab (the National Institue of Virology in Pune, which was approved to conduct Covid-19 tests in January), ICMR has now added close to 2,000 labs to the network of labs approved to conduct the tests.Also Read: India added nearly 400,000 Covid-19 cases, over 5,000 deaths in a week“More labs are being added each day to perform Covid-19 tests, and increase the testing capacity across the country. In a short span of six months, from establishing new labs in some of the remote areas where there were hardly any facilities nearby to perform these tests, to upgrading existing labs and repurposing old diagnostic platforms that were used for tuberculosis and HIV testing, we ensured there was no lack of testing facility anywhere in country,” said an ICMR official who did not want to be named.“Today, close to 1.5 million tests can be performed in a day in all our labs. It’s a remarkable achievement in such a short span of time,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-shows-marginal-decline/story-LOEoFFsI4CF0Qob9QaBSRM.html
04-10-2020||India||2 navy personnel killed after glider crashes while training in Kerala’s Kochi||Two personnel of the Indian Navy died after their glider crashed on the outskirts of Kerala’s Kochi on Sunday, according to reports.Lieutenant Rajiv Jha and Petty officer Sunil Kumar were on a training schedule when their glider crashed near Thoppumpady bridge close to the naval base INS Garuda, reported news agency ANI. The personnel suffered serious injuries and were later declared dead. Initial reports suggest it was a freak accident. According to ANI, the Southern Naval Command has ordered a board of inquiry into the matter. More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-navy-personnel-killed-after-glider-crashes-while-training-in-kerala-s-kochi/story-FhbS7bjCW05Eq9IpJh6omO.html
04-10-2020||India||High levels of Covid-19 testing led to sustained low fatality rate: Govt||India has exponentially scaled up its capacity to conduct tests for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from one in January to more than 77 million in October, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Sunday.The government credited the high level of testing in the country to a sustained low Covid-19 fatality rate (CFR). “Very high levels of TESTING lead to early identification, prompt isolation & effective treatment of #COVID19 cases. These have eventually resulted in a sustained low Fatality Rate,” the health ministry wrote on Twitter.In a graph posted alongside the tweet that showed figures for the past 11 days, the ministry pointed towards a marginally declining trend of Covid-19 cases as the testing rate witnessed a spike. The nation’s CFR stands at 1.56%, according to the health ministry.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here As of Saturday, as many as 7,89,92,534 tests had been conducted in the country with a jump of 11,42,131 tests done in a single day, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR’s) data.The first Covid-19 swab sample in India was tested on January 23 at ICMR’s National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. India had one NIV laboratory in January and since then, the country has added 1,751 laboratories to its network to conduct Covid-19 tests, including 1,059 and 692 in the government and private sector, respectively.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage A total of 6,473,544 confirmed cases of the viral infection have been reported in India while the death toll from the disease has surpassed 100,000, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-levels-of-covid-19-testing-led-to-sustained-low-fatality-rate-govt/story-hFcvgzmvqOgHMR7kgT9EyL.html
04-10-2020||India||Delhi: Air quality in Wazipur, Jahangirpuri in ‘poor’ category||As monsoon season withdrew from Delhi and the minimum temperatures are dropping, the air quality in various parts of the national capital has started deteriorating.In Wazirpur, Jahangirpuri and Delhi Technological University (DTU), the Air Quality Index (AQI) was recorded at 207, 226 and 221 respectively on Sunday morning. All three are in the ‘poor’ category, according to the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) data.An AQI between 0-50 is considered good, 51-100 is satisfactory, 101-200 moderate, 201-300 poor, 301-400 very poor and 401-500 is marked as severe/hazardous.On October 1, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai held a meeting with Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar over the increasing pollution issue in the national capital during winters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-air-quality-in-wazipur-jahangirpuri-in-poor-category/story-KEkBniJI79MRTMLTU0n6AM.html
04-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rahul Gandhi’s 3-day tractor rally against farm laws begins today in Punjab and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rahul Gandhi’s 3-day tractor rally against farm laws begins today in PunjabCongress leader Rahul Gandhi is set to take out tractor rallies in Punjab on Sunday to protest the three farm laws recently cleared by Parliament after his visit to the state to extend support to agitating farmers was postponed by a day as he visited the family of Hathras gang-rape victim on Saturday. Read more‘Having to prove that my daughter was raped’: Hathras victim’s mother recounts ordealThe mother of the 19-year-old woman raped and murdered in Hathras says she can’t get two images out of her head -- one is her desperate attempt to cover her injured daughter’s naked lower body with her saree, and the other of being unable to lift her semi-conscious teenage daughter. Read moreBJP, JD(U) zero in on 50-50 seat share deal in Bihar; ambiguity over LJP staysAfter four hours of deliberations between senior Bharatiya Janata Party and Janata Dal (United) leaders in Patna on Saturday, the alliance partners “resolved majority of issues related to seat-sharing”, people familiar with the matter said, even as suspense continued on status of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) in the grouping. Read moreIPL 2020, RCB vs RR: ‘This guy has got some serious talent’, Virat Kohli in awe of 20-year-old Indian batsmanRoyal Challengers Bangalore won their third match of the IPL 2020, a result that saw them propel to the top of the points table. Read more‘I was forced to falsely implicate Ranbir Kapoor, Arjun Rampal, Dino Morea’: Ex-Dharma producer Kshitij Prasad accuses NCB of coercionA former executive of Dharmatic Entertainment, an offshoot of Karan Johar’s Dharma Productions, told a court that Narcotics Control Bureau officers made him falsely implicate actors Ranbir Kapoor, Arjun Rampal and Dino Morea during questioning. Read moreRedditors think this ‘flower dough’ video is mesmerising. Seen it yet?The Internet is a goldmine of intriguing content that can often leave one surprised and impressed, all at once. Read moreIPL 2020: Prithvi, Iyer fifties cruise Delhi Capitals to 18-run victory against KKRDelhi Capitals defeated Kolkata Knight Riders by 19 runs in the 16th match of the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2020 in Sharjah. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rahul-gandhi-s-3-day-tractor-rally-against-farm-laws-begins-today-in-punjab-and-all-the-latest-news/story-SIW2NmxqUPUeewzTM54VHL.html
04-10-2020||India||India to observe one day state mourning today on demise of Emir of Kuwait||India will observe one day of state mourning on Sunday as a mark of respect for the departed dignitary His Highness Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Emir of the State of Kuwait, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said.“His Highness Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Emir of the State of Kuwait, passed away on September 29. As a mark of respect to the departed dignitary, the Indian Government has decided that there will be one day’s State mourning on October 4 throughout India,” the MHA said in a statement.The National Flag will be flown at half-mast on all buildings throughout India where it is flown regularly and there will be no official entertainment on the day, the MHA added.Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Sabah passed away on September 29 in a hospital in the United States. He was 91.He became Kuwait’s Emir in January 2006 after the death of Sheikh Jaber al-Sabah.Upon his death, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had expressed his condolences describing him as a ‘beloved leader of the Arab world and a close friend of India’.PM Modi said the late leader played a leading role in strengthening bilateral relations and always took special care of the Indian community in Kuwait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-observe-one-day-state-mourning-today-on-demise-of-emir-of-kuwait/story-ZxXGtRdUDueMiKOU9z9qLM.html
04-10-2020||India||Ram Vilas Paswan undergoes heart surgery in Delhi Hospital, tweets son Chirag||Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan underwent heart surgery in a Delhi hospital, according to his son and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan on Sunday.Chirag also said that his father might have to undergo another surgery in the coming weeks if the need arises.Through his official Twitter handle, Chirag said, “For the last many days dad is getting treated in a hospital. Due to some sudden developments yesterday evening, an operation of his heart had to be conducted in the late night. If the need arises, then possibly after a few weeks another operation might be conducted. Thanks to all for standing by me and my family in this hour of struggle.” Earlier yesterday, the LJP meeting that was scheduled to decide on whether to accept the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) offer of seats in the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections, was postponed owing to the ill health of the Union Minister.Earlier in September, Chirag had informed that his visit to Bihar for the final discussions over seat-sharing and other formalities ahead of the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections might be delayed as his father was unwell.He had then met party members and supporters urging them to be prepared for every scenario.The confusion seems to exist in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over seat-sharing. While the BJP had earlier said that it will fight the elections under the leadership of Janata Dal (United) leader and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, the LJP, another NDA ally, has been demanding a larger number of seats.Bihar has 243 Assembly seats and elections will be held in three phases--October 28, November 3, and 7--and the counting of votes will begin on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-vilas-paswan-undergoes-heart-surgery-in-delhi-hospital/story-wxBlFoNhBloYtrvKs5LpMM.html
04-10-2020||India||India added nearly 400,000 Covid-19 cases, over 5,000 deaths in a week||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has ballooned to 6.47 million as the country added nearly 400,000 cases in a week, with the highest rate of daily increase in infections in the world, according to data from the Union health ministry.Between September 28 and October 3, 398,842 Covid-19 cases, 5,300 related deaths and 411,186 recoveries have been reported from across the country, the health ministry’s data shows. The death toll from Covid-19 in India also went past 100,000 this week and it became only the third country globally to reach the grim milestone, after the United States and Brazil. According to the health ministry’s data, 100,842 people have succumbed to the viral disease so far.There are 944,996 active cases and the recoveries have been clocked at 5,427,706 till Saturday with the national recovery rate at 83.84%. “India’s total #COVID19 recoveries has crossed 54 lakhs today. It accounts for 21% of global recovered cases, while its share in total cases stands at 18.6%,” the health ministry tweeted on Saturday.Also read | India inc may be allowed to procure Covid-19 vaccines for its employeesThe ministry has also said that India has maintained its position with one of the lowest case fatality rates (CFR) when compared to several other countries. “While the global CFR stands at 2.97% as on date, the comparative figure for India is 1.56%. The deaths per million population in India is one of the lowest in the world. While the global average is 130 deaths /million population, India is reporting 73 deaths /million population,” it said.The government has said that more than 76% of the active cases have been reported from 10 states and Union territories and that the active cases contribute only 14.74% to the positive caseload of the country. According to the health ministry, 14 states and Union territories in the country have less than 5,000 active cases.The Union home ministry also issued rules for the latest unlocking exercise, which is the fifth in a series of such decisions since June 1, this week by allowing a graded restart of schools, the partial reopening of movie theatres, and large gatherings including political and religious events, more than six months after the Centre imposed a hard lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic.The latest easing of curbs permitted more activities in areas outside the containment zones including opening up cinemas, theatres and multiplexes with up to 50% of their seating capacity from October 15. The Centre has also allowed states and Union Territories to decide on reopening schools and coaching institutions from mid-October in a phased manner.It also allowed political, religious, social, cultural, and sports gatherings in “open spaces” with no limit, provided people wear masks, observe social distancing and there are adequate provisions to observe such rules from mid-October.Also read | Govt’s ‘behavioural change’ campaign to beat festive rushThe government also plans to launch a massive campaign to urge people to be cautious about their behaviour in the upcoming festive season that will see more social gatherings and outdoor activities amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The campaign is likely to start from October 7, continue for at least three months, and cover the entire festive season including the New Year celebrations, according to officials involved in the planning who spoke on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-added-nearly-400-000-covid-19-cases-over-5-000-deaths-in-a-week/story-DmqMJL9OewrzqANdJA7vEJ.html
04-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi’s 3-day tractor rally against farm laws begins today in Punjab||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is set to take out tractor rallies in Punjab on Sunday to protest the three farm laws recently cleared by Parliament after his visit to the state to extend support to agitating farmers was postponed by a day as he visited the family of Hathras gang-rape victim on Saturday.According to a Punjab Congress spokesperson, the former party president’s rallies will cover more than 50km, starting from Moga to Patiala, over three days till October 6. During his three-day visit, Gandhi will lead the party’s tractor rally in Moga, Ludhiana, Sangrur and Patiala districts of the Malwa region, covering more than 50 km, the spokesperson said. The rallies are scheduled to begin at 11am on each of the three days, and will adhere to Covid-19 guidelines.Apart from chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, all party ministers, MPs and MLAs are expected to participate in the protest rallies along with All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of party affairs in Punjab, Harish Rawat, and state party president Sunil Jakhar.On the first day, the protest rally will begin with a public meeting at Badni Kalan in Nihal Singh Wala in Moga district before moving through Lopon. It will then head to Jagraon in Punjab’s Ludhiana district, where it will be received at Chakar, Lakha and Manoke, culminating at a public meeting in Raikot and covering a distance of around 22km.On October 5, the party will cover a distance of 20km, beginning with a reception at Barnala Chowk in the Sangrur district, from where Gandhi and his team will travel by car to Bhawanigarh to address a public meeting. They will then head to Samana in Patiala district on tractors. Their receptions will be held at Fatehgarh Chhana and Bahmna, before ending the day with a public meeting at Grain Market, Samana.The last leg of the protest will commence from Dudhan Sadhan in the Patiala district with a public meeting. The Congress team will then head for Pehowa border, which is at a distance of 10km. Gandhi will then enter Haryana from for a series of programmes in the neighbouring state.The Congress party is protesting against three farm laws - The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - passed by the Parliament during the monsoon session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-s-3-day-tractor-rally-against-farm-laws-begins-today-in-punjab/story-1VXD2YGtE9bTXTcXRGqf2I.html
04-10-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: On AIIMS report , Mumbai police say ‘we stand vindicated’||The Mumbai police’s probe stands vindicated with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) ruling out murder in the actor Sushant Singh Rajput case, city police commissioner Param Bir Singh said on Saturday.Some people with “vested interests” targeted Mumbai police without knowing anything about the investigation, he told PTI.The AIIMS medical board on Saturday stated that Rajput died by suicide and it was not a murder.Reacting to the news, Singh said the city police’s probe was professional, and doctors at the Cooper Hospital in the city who performed autopsy had also done their job thoroughly.Also Read| Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer calls AIIMS report ruling suicide ‘inconclusive’: ‘CBI can still file a case of murder’ “We all stand vindicated by these findings of AIIMS,” the police commissioner said.The Supreme Court had upheld transfer of the FIR lodged by Bihar police in the Rajput case and not the Mumbai police’s investigation, Singh said.“The court didn’t find any fault with our investigation,” he said.Singh further said that the city police had submitted investigation report to the apex court in a sealed cover and it was seen by only six persons -- the investigating officer, senior police inspector, deputy commissioner of police, commissioner of police, advocate general of the state and the judge.“Without knowing anything about our investigation and without having seen our report some vested interests criticized our investigation,” he said.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta reacts after AIIMS report rules out his murder: ‘We will win’Rajput (34) was found dead at his flat in Mumbai on June 14. A section of media had hinted that it could be a murder.The CBI had taken over the probe from Bihar Police into the alleged abetment to suicide case filed by the actor’s father K K Singh in Patna against Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-on-aiims-report-mumbai-police-say-we-stand-vindicated/story-rUPKQkE5uzDNj3CvirDFiJ.html
04-10-2020||India||7 staffers of private hospital test positive for Covid-19 after fashion event||It was a global event for the benefit of frontline health care workers, but seven of the 25 medical and non-medical staff of Delhi’s Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals that participated in the fashion show in the hospital’s auditorium have since tested positive -- highlighting the perils of any event in these times. Doctors, nurses, and non-medical staff participated in a fashion show that was streamed online for a US television channel; the 25 people who walked the ramp practised for 10 days before the event in the hospital auditorium, where the event was recorded without an audience.The participants used masks when they walked the ramp in pairs and threes, but did not wear them when they walked alone. The director of medical services Dr N Subramanian of the hospital also participated in the event , the hospital confirmed. He did not respond to calls seeking comment.Also Read: Healthwise: Study casts more doubt on HCQ’s effectiveness on Covid-19After the event, at least seven participants tested positive for Covid-19 over the week, including the organizer Dr MS Kanwar, who is a senior consultant of pulmonology at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals. “A private event for the benefit of Covid-19 frontline staff around the world was organized by a group of doctors. It was not a hospital event and was held virtually, keeping all safety precautions in place for lifting the morale of Covid-19 staff the world over, A few of the participants were later found to be positive as part of the hospitals’ rigorous testing protocols for the staff. Following this, necessary protocols, including quarantining, for Covid-19 staff turning positive were followed. Patient care and staff safety were in no way compromised because of this event,” said a statement from Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals. Dr Kanwar, who tested positive on September 24, said the infections cannot be attributed to the show: “Most of the people involved in the event were working in Covid-19 areas; I myself was working in the Covid ICU at the time. So many health care workers get the infection and it is not right to say that the event had anything to do with the people who tested positive. The whole point of the event was to show people, to allay their fears, that despite seven months of frontline duty there is another aspect of our lives. It was to give positive message to the people.” On average, it takes about five days for symptoms to show after the virus enters the body. But four people familiar with the matter at the hospital confirmed that the infections were detected within a week of the event. Doctors should have known better, said an expert. “This is not advisable at all. In air-conditioned, ill-ventilated halls there is a high risk of transmission of the infection,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology and microbiology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-staffers-of-private-hospital-test-positive-for-covid-19-after-fashion-event/story-b8FLD12diKDJCKstCPaWMJ.html
04-10-2020||India||Faridabad institute part of global evaluation of Covid-19 vaccine||The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), a global partnership to develop vaccines against emerging infectious diseases, has partnered with the Faridabad-based Translational Health Sciences and Research Institute (THSTI) as one of the five laboratories that will create a global network for reliably assessing all vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “THSTI Faridabad recognised under the global network of laboratories established by CEPIvaccines to centralise assessment. The laboratory supported under DBTIndia and IndCEPI. Very important to assess multiple vaccines,” said department of biotechnology secretary Dr Renu Swarup in a tweet. The department has encouraged Indian Covid-19 vaccine developers to partner with THSTI.The other four laboratories include Nexelis (Canada) and Public Health England (UK), VisMederi Srl (Italy), Viroclinics-DDL (Netherlands), and the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease research (Bangladesh). The network will use the same reagents – from the labs of Nexelis and PHE – and follow common protocols to measure the immune response generated by multiple vaccine candidates, including the ones that are not being funded by CEPI. According to the organisation, the network will ensure uniformity in assessment across candidate helping in identifying the most promising one. Currently, there are over 320 vaccine candidates in development across the world, with about 30 just from India. Two vaccines developed by India biotech companies and government institutes have already entered phase II human trials. For vaccine development, pre-clinical trials are done in animals to see whether a candidate is safe and able to protect against the disease. In humans, a small phase I trial is done to assess the safety of the vaccine candidate, a phase II trial is done to see whether it produces an immune response, and a large phase III study assess whether it protects against the infection in field trial. Usually, the tests to see whether an immune response is produced – measured through antibody levels or T-cell response – after a person is vaccinated is done by individual laboratories selected by the vaccine makers. However, this is likely to produce varied data collection and evaluation methods for all the vaccine candidates, making it difficult to compare them. “Through centralising the analysis of samples obtained from trials of Covid-19 vaccine candidates, the new clinical-sample-testing network will minimise variation in results obtained, which could otherwise arise due to such technical differences when carrying out independent analysis. The samples from participating vaccine developers will instead be tested in the same group of laboratories using the same methods, therefore, removing much of the inter-laboratory variability and allowing for head-to-head comparisons of immune responses induced by multiple vaccine candidates,” according to the CEPI website. The vaccine manufacturers can use the network without per sample charges up to the limit of funding available to the programme. For eligibility, certain commitments would be needed from vaccine manufacturers such as timely publication of sample testing results and sharing the immunogenicity data for future regulatory decisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/faridabad-institute-part-of-global-evaluation-of-covid-19-vaccine/story-vO2NzzVwrRl0irNSvDVfLO.html
04-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand adds 503 fresh Covid-19 cases, state tally crosses 50,000-mark||Uttarakhand on Saturday crossed the 50,000 mark in Covid-19 cases, with 503 new patients taking the state tally to 50,062. Out of 50,062 who have tested positive so far, a total of 41,095 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 82.09 %. Also, 919 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Saturday with a maximum of 275 from US Nagar district. The state reported the death of 12 Covid-19 patients. Of the 12 deaths, two were due to coronavirus while the rest were due to co-morbidities. With this, the death toll of Covid-19 patients increased to 648 in the state. Out of the 648 deaths, 204 are due to coronavirus, while the others died due to co-morbidities. According to the medical bulletin released by the state health department on Saturday evening, a maximum of 142 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district followed by Haridwar (99), Tehri (72), Nainital (71), Uttarkashi (34), US Nagar (32), Pauri (16), Bageshwar (13), Champawat (10), Rudraprayag (7), Chamoli (4) and Pithoragarh (3). Dehradun district has reported the maximum of 13,474 Covid-19 cases so far followed by Haridwar (9636), US Nagar (8428) and Nainital (6031). The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 64.67 days, while the positivity rate is 7.07 %. The state has so far tested over 7.3 lakh samples of which results of over 14,400 are awaited. Uttarakhand, currently has 247 containment zones in eight districts including a maximum of 96 in Haridwar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-adds-503-fresh-covid-19-cases-state-tally-crosses-50-000-mark/story-xxT3Fbygi66caKJ3MCj4RP.html
04-10-2020||India||Atal Tunnel: How winter sports athletes saved lives of construction workers during avalanches||At 0800 hours on February 24, 2018, the avalanche rescue team of the Strabag-Afcons Joint Venture (SAJV)—the company that was constructing the Atal Tunnel, one of the world’s longest high-altitude road tunnels—released an alert message. The tunnel runs 9.02km from Solang Valley near Manali to Sissu in Lahaul, cutting across a mountain to the west of the Rohtang Pass. The message said that no one should move out of the under-construction tunnel from the Lahaul NP, or north portal, the term for the tunnel mouth that opens at Sissu. WATCH | ‘Atal tunnel will strengthen India’s border infra’: PM Modi’s full speechA heavy avalanche was expected. The guard stationed at NP was instructed to not let anyone step out. After speaking to the guard, the team moved towards the South Portal (SP) the tunnel mouth near Manali. Also Read: Atal Tunnel is a symbol of Atmanirbhar Bharat, will strengthen border infrastructure: PM ModiUnaware of the alert, three jawans from the engineering wing of 70 Road construction company of Border Road Organisation (BRO), were travelling down towards Sissu from Keylong, 30km to the north. It was the first day of a month-long leave for them. An army vehicle dropped them off near the NP at 1015 hours. They were to cross the tunnel on foot to reach Manali. Two of the jawans entered the tunnel. The third, Naik Satnam Singh, a few steps behind them, was metres away from the mouth when the avalanche struck. The two watched in horror as Satnam vanished under a mountain of white. When the message about the incident reached the rescue team, they were busy clearing an alternate route for near on the Manali-Leh highway near SP, in case the road towards the tunnel got snowed in. They dropped everything and rushed towards the tunnel. Half an hour after Satnam was buried by the avalanche, the rescue operation began. Also Read: Atal Tunnel will connect youth of Lahaul-Spiti youth to many employment opportunities: PM ModiWith the help of avalanche rods—long, collapsible carbon sticks—the seven-member team started probing the area on the left side of the road, where the other jawans last saw Satnam. Thirty minutes passed. No luck. The rescue team began probing the entire area, point to point, sweeping in pre-determined arcs from the left of the snow-drowned highway to the right. They were running out of time. It had been an hour since Satnam disappeared. Unless there was a large air pocked around him, he would be running out of oxygen. At 1130 hours, Lal Chand, a national-level skier and at 36, the youngest of the rescuers, struck something to the far right of the road. “Here!” He shouted out. The other rescuers scrambled and began digging furiously. Five minutes later, Chuni Lal Thakur, an Olympic skier, could see Satnam’s head. “He’s alive, he’s breathing,” he said. Also Read: No other tunnel of this length at this height: Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur on Atal Tunnel“Jai ho maharaj!” said another member of the team. The digging continued with urgency. Fifteen minutes later, having dug more than six feet into the snow, they had the barely-conscious jawan out and into an ambulance. “It was my second birth,” said Satnam, now 35 and posted at Manali since the incident. “When I got trapped under the snow, in the very first minute I was able to move around one or one-and-a-half feet, but then I got buried deep. I was completely stuck and couldn’t move an inch. After five-six minutes of struggling, I lost all hope and thought my game was over. After that I don’t remember anything till I woke up in the ambulance. “Whenever I cross the point at NP where I was rescued, I pay my homage,” he said over the phone. “Had the rescue team didn’t not shown their alertness and quickness, I wouldn’t be talking to you.” The horse-shoe shaped Atal Tunnel, which was inaugurated on October 3, is situated in an extremely avalanche-prone area, 3,000 metres above sea-level. On an average, 200 avalanches hit the stretch every year. For the ten years that it took for the tunnel to be built, the seven members of the rescue team, all of them winter sports athletes, including an Olympian, acted as the lifeline for the construction workers. “These are moments that define your life,” said Chuni Lal, referring to Satnam’s rescue, “a moment of great pride.”Chuni Lal, who headed the team from 2010 till 2019, was one of the first from the villages near Manali to make it big in skiing. He competed in the 1992 Winter Olympics, two Winter Asian Games, and was a coach for the Indian ski team for the 2007 Asian Games. Both his son and his daughter are national skiers. Mountain rescue is a part of life for him. “During my skiing days, and even later as a coach, there were many occasions when we skiers had to rescue stranded tourists near Rohtang,” he said. Three of the seven rescuers, including Chuni Lal, come from Palchan, a stunningly picturesque village with a population of around 2,000, nestled among the snow-covered mountains of the Pir Panjal range. The rescue team comprises Chuni Lal Thakur (49), Kewal Ram (39), Raj Kumar Thakur (43), Duni Chand (38), Joginder Paul (38), Gautam Beas (36) and Lal Chand (36). The members hail from a cluster of nine villages—Palchan, Ruwar, Kothi, Kulang, Solang, Burwa, Majhach, Shanag and Goshal —located on the rugged terrain between Manali and Rohtang. Over the years, the area has developed into the country’s ski nursery, producing over 50 internationals, including five winter Olympians—four in skiing and one, Shiva Keshavan, in luge. Since 1992, when Chuni Lal and Nanak Chand from Palchan competed in the Winter Olympics for the first time, there has been an Olympian from these villages in each edition except the 1994 Games. Despite their expertise on the mountain and their deep knowledge of the terrain, the rescue team was put through a series of workshops soon after the team was formed on November 1, 2010. They learnt everything from how to “read” mountains and predict avalanches, to how to put a person on a stretcher without aggravating the neck or the spine. “During our training, when we used to sit in the car, one of our instructors told us that the driver in the rescue vehicle keeps his eye on the road,” said Gautam, 36, a trained mountaineer. “The rest of us are supposed to watch the slopes throughout, looking at angles, snow, observing wind speed…now when I am in a car, I scan automatically.” With 45 avalanche prone spots along the tunnel’s route, carrying out construction work through the year was a major challenge. January to May are the avalanche months—between November 2018 and March 2019, there were 288 avalanches in the area. In their decade at work, the rescue team was involved in six major operations and responded to at least 500 calls, but their primary, and most critical function, was to try and ensure there were no incidents at all. Every day for 10 years, it was their duty to forecast avalanches and frame safe timings for the work. “Every day, we used to recce the snow clad mountains, trekking to avalanche formation zones and carrying out snow testing for forecast,” said Lal Chand. “The workforce at the construction site had to carry avalanche beacons every time and the rescue team had detectors, so, in case anyone got buried inside the avalanche, that person could be tracked.” Chuni Lal recalls a day in April in 2016 when an Army vehicle got buried in an avalanche and the team had to rescue six army personnel. “There was heavy snowfall, and the main threat while carrying out the rescue operation was the risk of another avalanche,” he said. As the team became better known in the area for their work, they were sometimes called in at other rescue operations as well. In September 2018, when over 300 of tourists were stranded for days due to heavy snowfall near the Kunzum Pass at 4551m, 122km from Manali and Baralacha Pass at 4890m, 191km from Manali. The Indian Air Force (IAF) conducted a five-day rescue, airlifting the tourists—all except five people, who were stuck inside their vehicle in a place where the IAF’s rescue choppers could not reach. Instead, the IAF picked up the avalanche rescue team from Manali and airdropped them at the Baralacha Pass, from where they skied to the location and brought back the stranded group, which included a seven-year-old child.Also Read: Supplied 9,000 tonnes of steel for Atal Tunnel: SAIL “After being part of the rescue team of the tunnel, we were sought after rescuers,” said Joginder Paul, a former mountaineering instructor who was one of the rescuers in that operation. Paul is well known in the area for volunteering for rescue operations. His drive to help was born out of a tragedy. In 2004, when he was an instructor at the Atal Bihari Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports in Manali, the deputy director of the institute asked him to join him on a rescue mission. A car had fallen into a deep gorge; what Paul did not know was that all three occupants in the car—a newlywed couple and their driver—were dead. “When we trekked inside the gorge and reached the body, I realised they were dead,” Paul said. “There were lots of injuries; I had never seen a body in that condition. For a moment, I completely blanked out. Ever since then, I have been volunteering for rescues.” Like Paul, Raj Kumar, 43, also compulsively volunteers for rescue work after experiencing great loss. He was just three days old when he lost his mother, and was in his late teens, making a name as a junior skier, when he lost his father. It necessitated a scramble for survival, and for years, Raj did odd jobs to make ends meet—sometimes he was a shepherd, sometimes a porter, sometimes a tourist photographer at Rohtang. “I have seen the worst in my life,” he said. “I feel easily the pain of losing loved ones. I have never seen my mother, so by helping someone I remember her presence. As part of the rescue team, we remained at the forefront of danger for the entire duration of the construction.” Though the avalanche team enjoyed great success in their work, there is one tragedy that still haunts them—March 22, 2011, was the first and last incident that caused a casualty in the 10 years of the construction of the tunnel. On that day too, forecasting a heavy avalanche, the rescue team had flashed a message to stop work. But two unlucky construction workers—a local from Kullu and one from Odisha—missed the warning and continued moving in their vehicle towards Manali before they were struck by the avalanche. Though the rescue team was on the spot in 15 minutes and both workers were pulled out in another ten minutes, neither survived. “Their death still haunts us. Though it’s been more than nine years, the entire episode is fresh in our memories,” said Chuni Lal. The Olympian fell out with the company last year over a pay dispute and filed a case against them with the Central Government Industrial Tribunal cum Labour Court in Chandigarh. Now, as the tunnel has opened to traffic, the rescue team has been disbanded—only two of the seven continue to work as rescuers for the company. “Though our stint here has ended, the things we have learned about forecasting avalanches and rescue will always be a great use for us to help the people in need,” said Lal Chand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-chasing-medals-to-saving-lives/story-BnvGJBiQxF6rg9NYurVEXI.html
04-10-2020||India||India Inc may be allowed to procure Covid-19 vaccines for its employees||The Union government will consider a plan to allow companies, especially large ones in strategically important businesses, to strike direct deals with Covid-19 vaccine developers to secure doses for their employees, officials familiar with the matter said, detailing the current thinking in policy circles about the country’s vaccine plan.The officials, who asked not to be named, added that much of India’s vaccine plan will be funded by the state and cost around Rs 50,000 crore; they also confirmed what most experts and analysts have been saying -- that not everyone in India will be able to get a shot in 2021.Also Read: How Covid-19 has taken a toll on India’s districtsThe officials explained that the plan to allow companies secure vaccine doses is being considered because the government wants to ensure there is no disruption of key economic activities.WATCH | Covid update: Trump ‘doing well’; India’s 100k deaths; UK vaccine’s likely dateThe proposal, they emphasised, has to be cleared by the Prime Minister’s Office.If approved, this special window for India Inc will be available in an otherwise tightly monitored vaccine programme with limited supplies and clear priorities — health workers, patients with co-morbidities and the aged population may get a shot first.A separate channel for India’s industry majors is pitched as critical as the country is scrambling to push its economy after the first quarter’s domestic production contracted by 23.9%, raising questions about the Modi government’s management of Covid and the economy. The Centre has so far declared four stages of graded “unlocking” before announcing “re-opening” of activities on October 1. But while all industries have reopened, many are working below capacity due to lower demand. Also Read: 1 vaccine may have reached initial efficacy testTo be sure, the authorities are yet to take a call on which companies will be eligible to buy directly from vaccine makers -- but the officials hinted that those in key sectors such as petroleum, steel, pharma, cement and coal might be allowed to. This will also reduce the financial pressure on the Centre. “Their usage of vaccines will be under the overall, centralised monitoring of the Union government and data on the vaccinations will be collected and stored by the Centre too,” said an official.The government is putting in place logistics and infrastructure across India for a possible launch of vaccines by early next year. It is in touch with the states, potential vaccine makers and other stakeholders to draw a plan for distribution and administration of Covid vaccines. The challenge is that many of them will have to be transported in frozen form; and the others will require refrigeration.The British-Swedish company AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford’s candidate, co-produced in India by Serum Institute of India, is in third phase of trails. Indian drug maker Zydus Cadila has launched phase 2 trials for Covid vaccines on August 6. Another domestic pharma firm Bharat Biotech started its phase 2 trials from September.Also Read: Chronic respiratory illnesses, heart diseases among top three causes of death in India: 2017 dataThe expert group on a Covid-19 vaccine, headed by Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul and co-chaired by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan is also closely watching the vaccine development programmes in the US, Russia, Israel and Germany. US’s Moderna and Novavax, German company BioNTech (with Pfizer and Fosun pharma), pharma giant Johnson & Johnson and two Chinese drug farms are in the phase 3 trials and racing to launch the coveted vaccine. Russia’s Sputnik V and a Chinese Sinovac have already got emergency approvals for limited use in respective countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-sectors-to-get-priority-in-vaccine-plans/story-F94ri9DdWDq8skj36idarL.html
04-10-2020||India||Bhim Army chief invokes ‘Right to Life’ argument, seeks guns for community||The controversy over the alleged rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras spilled over to social media on Saturday, with Dalit activists seeking gun licenses and subsidised guns for the underprivileged sections of the country. Taking to Twitter, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad said that the constitution provides every citizen the right to live, which included a right to defend themselves. “Our demand is that the 20 lakh Bahujans of the country be granted gun licenses immediately. The government should provide us a 50 % subsidy to purchase guns and pistols. We will defend ourselves,” he said.Also Read : Thakur mahapanchayat held in Hathrasसँविधान में हर नागरिक को जीने का अधिकार दिया है, जिसमें आत्म रक्षा का अधिकार शामिल है। हमारी माँग है कि देश में 20 लाख बहुजनों को हथियारों के लाइसेंस तत्काल दिया जाए। हमें बंदूक़ और पिस्तौल ख़रीदने के लिए 50% सब्सिडी सरकार दे। हम अपनी रक्षा खुद कर लेंगे। #Gun_Licence_For_BahujanSeeking gun licenses, Dalit activist Suraj Yengde cited the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Rules, 1995, which empowers the state government to provide arms licenses to ensure the safety of person and property. Responding to Azad’s comment, Congress spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh said, “... I believe the Gandhian philosophy is the way to go. Non-violence will win you the fight against injustice.”Bharatiya Janata Party leader and MP Rakesh Sinha said, “Indian Constitution and our democratically elected government are committed to the protection of citizens judiciously and effectively. Such suggestions and demands (for guns) are ridiculously crafted just for gimmicks.” Meanwhile, in a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi demanded Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) cover for the family of the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhim-army-chief-seeks-guns-for-community/story-1vyOiv9d4cpU6KEAGa5JIN.html
04-10-2020||India||Hathras gangrape: Community being targeted, say kin of accused||“If my children are guilty, shoot them dead. But if they turn out to be innocent, I want to be compensated for my loss of reputation,” said Rakesh Singh, father of 35-year-old Ram Kumar, one of the four men arrested for allegedly gang raping and killing a 19-year-old Dalit girl in Hathras. The others are Sandeep Singh, Ravi Singh, and Luv Kush. His sentiment is echoed by many residents of the Bul Garhi village who are convinced that the four men are being framed.As it turns out, all four men belong to one large joint family consisting of about 30 members. They have a history of conflict with the family of the victim -- a history that has seen an FIR being registered, two men getting jailed and being acquitted.Also Read| Hathras gangrape: BJP MLA says instilling ‘sanskar’ in daughters could help stop rapesAccording to a senior police officer who didn’t want to be identified, in 2001-02, the two families were involved in a property dispute. “It ended in the victim’s father suffering a head injury. An FIR under IPC sections of attempt to commit culpable homicide, of assault and under the SC/ST Act was registered,” said the police officer.The murdered woman’s mother said that her family forgot all about it. “But the Thakurs did not forget.” Rakesh Singh said that his family was wrongly targeted even in that 18-year-old case.In the latest case too, Singh’s family insisted that the arrested men were innocent. “The dead woman’s family would borrow money from us and cut grass for their buffaloes from our fields, but now they want to frame us in another case,” said another relative who didn’t identify himself.They claimed that one of the suspects, Ram Kumar, wasn’t even in the village at the time of the crime. “He works for a dairy firm and was on duty at that time,” said a third relative.The atmosphere in the village, meanwhile, remained tense on Saturday even as the victim’s brother alleged that he has received threats from the Thakur community.“I don’t know why they feel threatened by us, but if they feel threatened, they’ll continue to feel that all their life. The threat is not from us, it’s in their minds,” said Rakesh Singh.Most villagers HT interacted with spoke out in support of the accused. Some offered alternative theories. But the woman, in her dying declaration, named the four suspects as her rapists and killers -- something that outweighs conspiracy theories. This village with about 450 voters has only half-a-dozen Dalit homes, even as Thakurs and Brahmins constitute about 80% of the population. “Our community has been maligned for no fault of our men,” said a local resident, Ravi Sharma.Awanish K Awasthi, additional chief secretary, said that authorities have met local leaders to ensure there is peace in and around the village. “The village will continue to receive police security. Senior police officers have been given the responsibility to ensure peace.” The few Dalit families of this village stayed indoors. “Once the police leave, it will only get tougher to survive as a minority here,” said a Dalit who didn’t want to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/community-being-targeted-say-kin-of-accused/story-bCw1uF4sUIqx8SxyydeTJM.html
04-10-2020||India||‘Having to prove that my daughter was raped’: Hathras victim’s mother recounts ordeal||The mother of the 19-year-old woman raped and murdered in Hathras says she can’t get two images out of her head -- one is her desperate attempt to cover her injured daughter’s naked lower body with her saree, and the other of being unable to lift her semi-conscious teenage daughter.“Until then, I didn’t even know the word, rape (in English). Today, I am having to prove that my daughter was raped,” the mother told Hindustan Times at her home after the Uttar Pradesh Police allowed the media to visit Bul Garhi village on Saturday.At around 7.45am on September 14 , the mother, along with her daughter and son, set out, sickles in their hands, to find fodder for their five buffaloes. “In an hour, we cut a lot of grass and I sent back my son with one heap...,” she said.WATCH | UP DGP meets Hathras victim’s family, ‘no comments’ over cremation controversy Also Read | Hathras gangrape: Community being targeted, say kin of accusedIt was around 9am that she suddenly realised that her daughter wasn’t responding to her calls. For a while, she believed that her daughter had returned home, but then she found one of her slippers by the side of the road. “That meant she was around, but something was wrong, I couldn’t spot her other chappal,” she recounted. Moments later, she was wading into the maize fields. “I found the fields trampled and sensed that my daughter was in the fields”.After about 20 metres she spotted her daughter, her chunni around her neck. “She was almost unconscious. Her lower clothes were thrown aside and she was bleeding from her private parts...,” the mother said, adding that her daughter was also bleeding from her chin and tongue, and her eyes were bloodshot.The mother let out a shriek, drawing a young Thakur boy into the fields. “My first instinct was to cover her lower body with my saree, but I couldn’t.” The Thakur boy ran into the village to call her brother for help even as the mother put on the pyjama on the victim and tried to carry her to the village. “I just couldn’t lift her, I cried helplessly.” Soon, her brother arrived at the scene and the mother-son duo sandwiched the victim between them on a motorcycle and took her to the local police station, about two kilometers away.At the police station, the woman was made to lie down on a cement slab as her brother was asked to submit a written complaint. “My mother was with my sister and I wrote whatever I knew. My mother didn’t have the heart to tell me that my sister was raped,” said the victim’s brother. The local police, meanwhile, realised that the victim was in a bad condition and urged the family to rush her to the district hospital. About four hours later, the victim was in an ambulance to the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh.By that time, the Hathras police had registered a case of attempt to murder and named Sandeep as the suspect.According to the victim’s family, on September 17, the woman regained consciousness and mentioned the gang rape and the names of the other suspects. “When I was alone, she hesitatingly told me about four men raping her,” the mother claimed.The victim’s two brothers said that the same day, they submitted a written complaint at the office of the Hathras superintendent of police. “But we got no receipt,” her brother said; the family couldn’t produce a copy of that complaint. This claim by the family contradicts the police version that no mention of rape or gang rape was made until September 22.The family alleged that after they filed the rape complaint on September 17, police officers met the victim to seek her statement. In any case, the victim’s allegations of gang rape were officially recorded only on September 22 in front of a magistrate and her medical examination for rape conducted after that -- a delay that could prove crucial. HT couldn’t reach the Superintendent of Police and Uttar Pradesh’s director general of police for their response. When Brahm Singh, the circle officer, was contacted, he said he wasn’t aware of any such complaint. “I was posted here after the crime took place.” The victim succumbed to her injuries in Safdarjung Hospital on September 29, two days after she was moved there from the Aligarh hospital. The body was brought back to her village in Hathras the same night even as her family returned separately after a brief protest in Delhi. “The police agreed that we would get to cremate her at 6am, but suddenly they went ahead and cremated her at 2.30am itself,” said her brother.The family then locked themselves inside their house in the hope that the absence of any relative would dissuade the police from cremating her.But that was not to be.Prem Prakash Meena, the joint magistrate of Hathras, said that the cremation was done in the presence of the victim’s family. “There is video evidence to show that her grandfather and uncle were among half-dozen of her relatives who attended the cremation,” said Meena.The victim’s family contested that claim. “My grandfather passed away in 2006,” said the victim’s brother. The family alleged that the days following the death were traumatic as they were “insulted and threatened” by the authorities even as the police occupied their house and “abused” them for leaking videos to media.Speaking to the media later on Saturday, Awanish K Awasthi, additional chief secretary, said that the SIT will work to ensure strict action against the culprits. “The concerns you are raising were raised by the family as well. The SIT will look into each of those points,” Awasthi told journalists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/helplessness-grief-hathras-victim-s-kin-recount-ordeal/story-NpdmppPrDoSUi1oQbi2loO.html
04-10-2020||India||‘Is there no woman police in Yogiji’s rule?’: Sanjay Raut on male cop grabbing Priyanka Gandhi’s kurta||Tweeting a photograph where Congress’ Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is seen being manhandled while on her way to meet the family of the Hathras gang-rape victim, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday asked if there were no woman police officers in Uttar Pradesh. Raut raised the question in a tweet by sharing a picture where a male police officer is seen grabbing Priyanka Gandhi’s kurta near her shoulder. The photograph was from earlier on Saturday when a delegation of Congress leaders comprising Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi left for Hathras village in their second attempt to meet the 19-year-old woman’s family. क्या योगीजी के राज में महिला पोलीस नही है? pic.twitter.com/nBx6YnQc9QRahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi had announced their plans to visit Hathras to meet the aggrieved family of the Dalit woman, who was gang-raped by four men on September 14. She later succumbed to her injuries two weeks later on Tuesday at a hospital in Delhi. Also read | ‘Will continue to fight till justice is served’: Priyanka Gandhi in HathrasAfter their visit, the Congress leaders said their party stands with the family. Priyanka Gandhi consoled the victim’s mother and said that they will together stand strong in the face of injustice against the family. “The family couldn’t see their daughter for the one last time. UP CM Yogi Adityanath should understand his responsibility. Till the time justice is delivered, we’ll continue this fight,” she said after meeting the victim’s family.Rahul Gandhi said that the state government must protect the grieving family. “I stand with the family. It is the responsibility of the state government to ensure their safety,” he said.The leaders stayed with the family for over an hour after they reached Hathras around 6.45pm following a series of dramatic events, including their brief detention by the UP police on Thursday on grounds of violating Section 144 and the coronavirus pandemic laws.On Saturday, the Congress delegation was stopped on their way at the Delhi-Noida border, triggering a minor altercation between the party’s workers and the police officers deployed at the border. Scores of police personnel in riot gear were lined up at the Delhi-Noida Direct flyway to prevent the Congress convoy from moving to Hathras, about 180km away.Also read: Nation wants justice for India’s daughter, tweets Rahul Gandhi hours after visiting HathrasEventually, as swarms of Congress workers and others jostled with each other amid loud honking, slogan shouting and Congress flags fluttering in the air, the Gautam Buddh Nagar Police finally allowed five people, including Rahul Gandhi, to go to Hathras. Congress workers – some who described what happened as “brutal repression” -- claimed police used batons to disperse the crowd.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-there-no-female-police-in-yogiji-s-rule-sanjay-raut-on-up-police-grabbing-priyanka-gandhi-s-kurta/story-ScUQzfECESE8XgdSWmsWuO.html
04-10-2020||India||India has ‘no first use’ of atomic weapons policy against nuclear armed states: Shringla||India espouses the policy of “no first use” of atomic weapons against nuclear weapon states and non-use against non-nuclear weapon states even as it backs global efforts towards strengthening the non-proliferation order, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla has said. Shringla made the remarks while representing India at a high-level plenary meeting to commemorate the International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons on Friday. Reiterating India’s long-standing commitment to universal, verifiable and non-discriminatory nuclear disarmament leading to the complete elimination of nuclear weapons, he said: “We believe that nuclear disarmament can be achieved through a step-by-step process underwritten by a universal commitment and an agreed multilateral framework.” Elaborating on the country’s nuclear doctrine, he said: “India espouses the policy of ‘no first use’ against nuclear weapon states and non-use against non-nuclear weapon states. India is a key partner in global efforts towards disarmament and strengthening the non-proliferation order.” India, he added, remains convinced of the need for meaningful dialogue among all states possessing nuclear weapons to build trust and confidence. The country’s approach to nuclear disarmament is contained in its working paper submitted to the UN General Assembly’s first committee in 2006 and to the Conference on Disarmament in 2007, he said. India’s annual resolution in the General Assembly on the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons, tabled since 1982, enjoys wide support and reaffirms that any use of nuclear weapons would be a violation of the UN Charter and a crime against humanity, Shringla said. The country has also tabled an annual resolution in the General Assembly since 1998 on “reducing nuclear danger” that calls for urgent steps to reduce the risks of unintentional and accidental use of nuclear weapons, including “through de-alerting and de-targeting”, he said. India supports the start of negotiations on a “Comprehensive Nuclear Weapons Convention” at the Conference on Disarmament. “Without prejudice to the priority attached to nuclear disarmament, India remains committed to the immediate commencement of negotiations on a Fissile Material Cut-off Treaty in the CD...,” he said. UN Secretary-General António Guterres told delegates gathered to commemorate the event that “the world continues to live in the shadow of nuclear catastrophe”. Progress towards total elimination of nuclear weapons has “stalled and is at risk of backsliding”, he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-no-first-use-of-atomic-weapons-policy-against-nuclear-armed-states-shringla/story-tjPi4gFZvXbcM6Yl7PjlPP.html
