05-10-2020||India||Kejriwal proclaims ‘war on pollution’||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced a “Yuddh Pradushan Ke Virudh” (war against pollution) campaign, with a seven-point action plan ranging from measures to control dust and mitigate hot spots, to a mobile application for complaints to a “war room” for monitoring.Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said the activities under this programme will continue through the winter months, when pollution peaks and plunges Delhi into a public health emergency year after year.He said keeping pollution levels low was even more crucial than usual this year because Covid-19 directly affects the lungs of those infected by it, and pollution could make the situation worse.“October has started, and we know that every year, the level of pollution rises in the months of October, November, and December in the Capital. One of the biggest reasons for this rise in pollution is the burning of crop stubble in Delhi and the nearby areas, due to which farmers and their families have to bear the maximum brunt of the pollution caused by stubble burning,” he said, reiterating the state government’s position that farm fires in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh were the biggest components to the spike in bad air in Delhi.The chief minister did not mention the odd-even road rationing scheme, which was one of the biggest innovations by the government to attempt to control vehicular emissions, and which is part of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) enforced under certain conditions by the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (Epca).When asked if Delhi will see another odd-even drive, a Delhi government spokesperson said, “We have stringently followed Grap in the past and will continue enforcing it in the future too.”Experts said that while the steps taken by the government were welcome, the real test would lie in their implementation.Unveiling the components of the anti-pollution campaign, Kejriwal said the first action point of the campaign was to control stubble burning within Delhi.“This year, Pusa Agricultural Research Institute has devised a very cheap and simple solution. They have formulated a fermented liquid solution which is to be sprayed on the fields to soften the stubble and prevent its burning. This year, the Delhi government will spray the solution on the basmati rice farm fields for free. If this technique is successful in Delhi, we can tell the other states to implement the same to prevent stubble burning. The Delhi government is preparing the mixture in Delhi on a large scale, and the process will start tomorrow under the guidance of the Pusa Research Institute,” Kejriwal said.The second point is an anti-dust drive in which construction sites will be strictly and regularly monitored, municipal corporations will carry out mechanical sweeping of roads, smog guns will be used, and road-owning agencies will be asked to fill potholes to prevent road dust. The government has identified 13 major hot spots across the city where Kejriwal said an “area-specific” action plan will be executed. The areas are Okhla Phase-II, Dwarka, Ashok Vihar, Bawana, Narela, Mundka, Punjabi Bagh, Wazirpur, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar, RK Puram and Jahangirpuri -- all classified as hot spots by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) last year based on high particulate matter (PM) concentration. “We will be launching the Green Delhi App this month. If you witness a source of pollution, including vehicular and industrial emissions, click a photo, and post it on the app. We have specified a deadline for each type of complaint. I will personally monitor the grievance redressal. We are also creating a ‘war room’ against pollution for monitoring of various measures that are implemented and have to be implemented in the coming days. I will get the daily report of the frequency, impact and success of these activities,” the chief minister said, adding that more activities will be added under the campaign in the coming months.He also talked about two policies which the Delhi government has been working on for more than a year now -- the Delhi tree transplantation policy, and the Delhi electric vehicle policy. “The tree transplantation policy will be passed in about 10 days. Under the policy, if an agency cuts a tree for, say, construction purposes, they have to ensure scientific transplantation of a minimum of 80% of affected trees, over and above the compensatory afforestation of planting of 10 saplings. Also, the subsidies under the notified EV policy will also be soon rolled out,” Kejriwal said.The head of the SC-appointed Epca, Bhure Lal, said several measures announced under the campaign were steps which authorities anyway have to carry out during the winter months under the Grap every year. “What is important is the enforcement -- be it burning of waste, use of unapproved fuels by industries or construction companies adhering to dust -control norms. The agencies, including municipal corporations have to ensure strict enforcement of all measures given in the action plan, especially during the prevailing Covid pandemic. Polluted air affects lungs, which can further complicate the situation with Covid-19 also affecting the lungs,” Bhure Lal added. Kejriwal also appealed to the neighbouring states to control pollution by supporting farmers in providing a free alternative to burning stubble, and called for problems being faced by thousands of brick kilns in Delhi’s vicinity to be addressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-proclaims-war-on-pollution/story-wplEFJfKFDDgxIc6XYzgFK.html
05-10-2020||India||Looking for some untold stories of UP: Ajit Arora||After making a critically acclaimed film ‘377: Ab Normal’, producer Ajit Arora is currently busy with a Marathi flick ‘Unaad’ and is all geared up for a Punjabi film which he may direct. But, for his Hindi directorial debut he is looking forward to set the story in Uttar Pradesh. “I did a recce in UP before the lockdown. I travelled to Lucknow, Varanasi and beyond. I was scouting for new stories or an existing content which is deep rooted in the culture. I met a lot of people, tried to gauge the flavour of the belt. Creatively, I am trying to pick-up a real story of athletes or achievers which I may direct,” he said. He was mesmerised with the richness of culture and heritage of Lucknow and Varanasi. “I want to incorporate Northern culture and make it a part of my script. Not just the protagonist, I want to weave in the culture part with multiple layered characters intertwined around it.” Exploring stories, he met Commonwealth Games bronze medalist weightlifter Swati Singh and others. Talking more about his work Ajit said, “I have directed couple of web films but for a feature film you need a big canvas and an untold story. I may even play a role in my directorial but that is still indecisive.” The state capital played a big role in his film ‘377: Ab Normal Hai’. “Yes, we did show the Lucknow-based Barosa Trust which led the fight for LGBT rights though we shot for the part in Mumbai.” He discreetly mentions that a sequel of the film is on the story-board stage. Currently, his Marathi film, directed by Aditya Sarpotdar, is being shot in Konkan belt and his production house is next gearing up for Punjabi film.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/looking-for-some-untold-stories-of-up-ajit-arora/story-C2nKIpdfBl0FaA1UaVUh2N.html
05-10-2020||India||Army JCO killed in Pakistan shelling along LoC in Jammu-Kashmir||A junior commissioned officer (JCO) of the army was killed in heavy shelling by Pakistani troops along the Line of Control in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, officials said. This was the fourth fatal casualty in ceasefire violations by Pakistan in the past five days. “A JCO was killed in unprovoked Pakistani firing and shelling in Nowshera sector of Rajouri,” the officials said, adding that further details were awaited. Earlier, a defence spokesperson said Pakistani troops opened fire and shelled mortars in forward areas in two sectors along the LoC in the twin districts of Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region.       Pakistan initiated the unprovoked ceasefire violation in Nowshera sector of Rajouri around 6.30 pm.          The Indian Army retaliated befittingly and the cross-border firing between the two sides continued for quite some time, the spokesperson said.Later at around 8.20 pm, he said Pakistani troops resorted to unprovoked firing and mortar shelling in Degwar sector of Poonch district, drawing strong retaliation by the Indian army.The cross-border shelling between the two sides was going on when last reports were received, a police official said. Three army personnel were killed and five others injured in Pakistani firing and shelling on forward posts in Krishna Ghati sector of Poonch and Naugam sector of Kupwara district on October 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-jco-killed-in-pakistan-shelling-along-loc-in-jammu-kashmir/story-yjlPgI7sWXGGrDl33k64ZK.html
05-10-2020||India||Maharashtra BJP leaders want onion export ban lifted: Union minister||BJP MPs and party’s leaders in Maharashtra have demanded that the ban on onion export be lifted, Union mnister of State for Electronics and IT Sanjay Dhotre said here on Monday.“In Maharashtra, all our party leaders and all our party MPs have demanded that the (onion) export ban be lifted,” the BJP leader told reporters here.“Our government will surely think over this (demand),” Dhotre said.The central government had last month announced the ban on the export of all varieties of onions with immediate effect, a move aimed at increasing availability and checking price of the commodity in the domestic market.“The export of all varieties of onions... is prohibited with immediate effect,” the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) had said in a notification.The DGFT, an arm of the commerce ministry, deals with exports and imports-related issues.The Maharashtra State Onion Growers’ Association (MSGAA) has demanded immediate resumption of exports.Before the ban was announced, prices of the kitchen bulb in Lasalgaon, the country’s biggest onion market in Maharashtra, had doubled to Rs 3,000 per quintal since March.Such restrictions should not be imposed as it is important to have consistency in the import-export agreement, Dhotre said, addressing media on the recently-passed farm bills.The farm bills are a historic step taken by the Narendra Modi government for the prosperity of farmers, the minister said.The Modi government aims to empower and protect farmers and to ensure fair prices by increasing agricultural production and income, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-bjp-leaders-want-onion-export-ban-lifted-union-minister/story-YSvPDBvQqBgarLPqiLTXDM.html
05-10-2020||India||AIIMS Sushant report ‘slap’ on those ‘defaming’ Maharashtra: Minister||The AIIMS medical board report ruling out murder angle in the Sushant Singh Rajput case is a “slap” for those who had “defamed” the Maharashtra government over the actor’s death, state Minister Jayant Patil said on Monday.Speaking to reporters here, the Water Resources Minister said the AIIMS report has also proved the Mumbai Police handled the case properly before it was taken over by the CBI.It (the AIIMS report) is a slap for those who had defamed the Maharashtra government over the entire episode, said Patil, who is also state president of the NCP, the second largest constituent in the Shiv Sena-led MVA government.He said the main objective before the Mumbai Police was to find out who was responsible for the actors suicide and the city cops were probing that angle.The New Delhi-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences’ (AIIMS) medical board last week ruled out murder in the death of Rajput, terming it “a case of hanging and death by suicide”.Rajput (34) was found hanging in his suburban Bandra apartment on June 14.The Mumbai Police probed the matter initially before the CBI began its investigation into the case in August following a ruling by the Supreme Court.The high-profile case also saw a tussle between the Maharashtra-Bihar cops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-sushant-report-slap-on-those-defaming-maharashtra-minister/story-eV9efPBWHOb57JrY1uyenL.html
05-10-2020||India||IAF chief Bhadauria does not rule out procurement of more Rafale fighter jets||Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Monday did not rule out procurement of more Rafale jets, and said the induction of the French-made multi-role aircraft has given the Indian Air Force an operational edge to strike “deep and hard”.The Chief of Air Staff also said the government is concentrating on procurement of 83 Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas (Mark 1A), 114 multi-role fighter aircraft (MRFA) and having upgraded versions of the LCA besides focusing on indigenous development of the ambitious advanced medium combat aircraft.Asked whether the IAF was keen on having at least two more squadrons of Rafale jets, Bhadauria said it is a complex subject and that “various options” are being deliberated upon based on the future requirement of the force.“The entire subject is under discussion and debate,” the Chief of Air Staff said at a press conference. On induction of the first fleet of Rafale, he said,”the integration of Rafales brings in a platform armed with weapons, sensors and technologies that is way ahead and gives us an operational and technological edge in this area. “Combined with upgraded op capabilities of our current fighter fleet, it gives us the ability to shoot first and strike deep and hard, even in contested airspace.” The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 of the aircraft at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore.There has been a view among some officials in the military establishment that the IAF should at least have four squadrons of Rafale jets considering its operational aspects. There are 18 aircraft in a squadron.They think it will be the “cheapest option” as the cost of research and development for all India-specific enhancements have already been covered in the previous deal.the Chief of Air Staff also cited budget constraints as one of the factors in taking any decision (regarding procurement), In April last year, the IAF issued an RFI (request for information) or initial tender to acquire 114 jets at a cost of around USD 18 billion, which is billed as one of the world’s biggest military procurements in recent years.The top contenders for the deal include Lockheed’s F-21, Boeing’s F/A-18, Dassault Aviation’s Rafale, the Eurofighter Typhoon, Russian aircraft MiG 35 and Saab’s Gripen.“Whether we go in for more Rafale or MRFA, it will be an open competition... The current status is that we have received all the RFIs (for the MRFA programme). All these issues are on the table now in terms of taking a final call....There are various issues that need to be considered,” he said.It is learnt that a preliminary discussion on a possible procurement of another batch of 36 Rafale jets by India from France figured during the talks between the two sides in the past one year, as the French officials are making efforts to push for a government-to-government deal.Ten Rafale jets were delivered to India so far and five of them stayed back in France for imparting training to IAF pilots. A second batch of four to five Rafale jets are likely to arrive in India by November.According to officials, Rafale jet would also take part in the Air Force Day parade on 8 October.Bhadauria said the IAF would get 3-4 Rafales after every 2-3 months till supply of the entire fleet of 36 is completed.The Rafale jets, known for air-superiority and precision strikes, are India’s first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 year after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia.Known for air-superiority and precision strikes, the Rafale jets are India’s first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 year after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia.The newly inducted fleet has been carrying out sorties in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese troops are engaged in a bitter border row for the last five months.“We have operationalised the recently acquired Rafale, Chinook, and Apache aircraft and integrated them into our current concept of operations in record time,” the IAF Chief said.“In the next three years we will see the Rafale and LCA MK1 squadrons operating with full strength, along with additional Su-30 and Mig 29 aircraft, that are being ordered in addition to the current fleets,” he said.Bhadauria said the mid-life operational upgrade of Mirage-2000, MiG-29 and Jaguar fleet would add to the IAF’s capability in this period, thereby further enhancing not only their operational capability but overall potential.“We have a focussed modernisation programme of our existing fleets to integrate and concentrate on latest weapons, systems, sensors, and technologies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chief-bhadauria-does-not-rule-out-procurement-of-more-rafale-fighter-jets/story-oSLPPLTCHJc1ggbcfCT0lI.html
05-10-2020||India||‘Unwarranted comments’: India rejects UN criticism of violence against women||India on Monday rejected the United Nations’ criticism of cases of sexual violence against women and girls, particularly those from disadvantaged social groups, saying the world body should avoid unnecessary comments while investigations are underway.The UN in India had expressed concern over the cases of sexual violence against women and said it is essential for Indian authorities to bring perpetrators to justice expeditiously. It had specifically referred to the recent cases of alleged rape and murder in Hathras and Balarampur in a statement.Responding to the statement, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, “Some unwarranted comments have been made by the UN resident coordinator regarding some recent cases of violence against women. The UN resident coordinator in India should be aware that these cases have been taken extremely seriously by the government.”Also read: Woman travels over 800 km from Uttar Pradesh to file rape case in Nagpur“Since the investigation process is still underway, any unnecessary comments by an external agency are best avoided. The Constitution guarantees equality to all citizens of India. As a democracy, we have a time-tested record of providing justice to all sections of our society,” Srivastava added.In its statement, the UN in India had said, “The recent cases of alleged rape and murder in Hathras and Balarampur are another reminder that despite the impressive progress made on a number of social indicators, women and girls from disadvantaged social groups face additional vulnerabilities and are at greater risk of gender-based violence.”It added, “The steps being taken by the Government of India to strengthen safety measures for women and girls are welcome and urgent. We support the Prime Minister’s call for strict action against the culprits. Entrenched social norms and behaviour of men and boys that lead to gender-based violence must be addressed.”A 19-year-old woman was allegedly raped at a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. She later succumbed to her injuries and her family accused the police of forcing them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night.Another 22-year-old woman died in Balrampur district after allegedly being raped by two men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unwarranted-comments-india-rejects-un-criticism-of-violence-against-women/story-alC071oosRAizeCehcA1YO.html
05-10-2020||India||India, Myanmar discuss operationalisation of Sittwe port, Indian side announces new initiatives||The operationalisation of Sittwe port by 2021 - to boost the connectivity for the northeastern states, joint production of a Covid-19 vaccine and development projects for Rakhine state - figured in a meeting on Monday between a high-level Indian delegation and Myanmar’s state counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and Indian Army chief General MM Naravane concluded a two-day visit to Myanmar on Monday with the focus on taking forward bilateral ties in areas ranging from economic cooperation to security. This was the first time an Indian delegation to Myanmar included both officials. Suu Kyi received a consignment of 3,000 vials of drug Remdesivir from the Indian side for treating Covid-19 patients. India announced a quota for importing 150,000 tonnes of urad dal from Myanmar till March 2021, and a grant of $2 million for building a bridge at Byanyu-Sarsichauk in Chin state to ramp up economic connectivity between Mizoram and Myanmar, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.During their meeting with Suu Kyi at the foreign ministry in Naypyitaw, Shringla and Naravane discussed the “possibility of joint production of Covid-19 vaccine, operationalisation of the Sittwe port in the early part of 2021 and conducting vocational training programmes for youth in Rakhine state”, Myanmar’s foreign ministry said in a Facebook post. The two sides discussed ways to further advance bilateral relations and strengthen cooperation in areas such as trade and investment, connectivity, transport, energy, development projects, capacity building and people to people linkages, the foreign ministry said. The Indian side proposed the construction of a petroleum refinery in Thanlyn area near Yangon with an investment of around $6 billion, the people cited above said. “This will ensure energy security and the project would be a win-win arrangement for both countries,” said a person who declined to be named.The Indian delegation also met the commander-in-chief of Myanmar’s defence forces, senior General Min Aung Hlaing in Naypyitaw, and discussed issues of bilateral importance. “Security and defence cooperation between the two sides is quite robust. Both countries are committed to not allowing the use of their territories against the security interests of the other. In this context, the handing over of 22 cadres of India insurgent groups by Myanmar was appreciated,” said the person cited above.During the visit, the project agreement was signed between Myanmar’s ministry of agriculture, livestock and irrigation and the Indian embassy for upgrading an agricultural mechanisation sub-station to promote custom hiring services under the Rakhine State Development Programme. The project will address challenges in agricultural productivity and is expected to improve the socio-economic status of the people in Rakhine, the people said.“India, as a close friend and partner of both Bangladesh and Myanmar, has a deep interest to see an early stabilisation of the situation in Rakhine state. India supports the safe, sustainable, and speedy repatriation of displaced persons from Bangladesh to Rakhine state based on the understanding between Bangladesh and Myanmar,” a second person said. “India fully understands the urgency of this situation and has committed itself to humanitarian efforts in Myanmar and Bangladesh to facilitate an early return of the displaced persons. India has provided five tranches of relief supplies to Bangladesh and is willing to do more,” the second person added.The Centre of Excellence in Software Development and Training (CESDT) at Myitkyina in Kachin state was also inaugurated. Under the ASEAN-India Cooperation Fund, New Delhi will set up IT infrastructure for advanced training using conventional and virtual classrooms and e-learning technologies. A liaison office of the Indian embassy in Naypyitaw was also inaugurated at a ceremony attended by Soe Han, permanent secretary of Myanmar’s foreign ministry, Shringla, Indian envoy Saurabh Kumar, and senior officials of both sides. The people described this as a significant step towards establishing an embassy in Naypyitaw.The operationalisation of Myanmar’s Sittwe port, as part of the Kaladan transit transport project, is part of India’s plans to boost connectivity with the landlocked northeastern states. India also wants enhanced security cooperation to counter the activities of militant groups, especially along the borders in Manipur and Nagaland, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-myanmar-discuss-operationalisation-of-sittwe-port-indian-side-announces-new-initiatives/story-gqnSFtu6qjABGzxK5i33AP.html
05-10-2020||India||India tests missile-assisted system to target submarines at long ranges||In a significant capability demonstration amid border tensions with China, India on Monday successfully tested supersonic missile-assisted release of torpedo (SMART) from a defence facility off the Odisha coast, the defence ministry said. The capability will allow India to target enemy submarines at long ranges, officials said. The system is a missile-assisted release of lightweight anti-submarine torpedo to strike targets way beyond the latter’s range. “All the mission objectives including missile flight up to the (desired) range and altitude, separation of the nose cone, release of torpedo and deployment of velocity reduction mechanism (VRM) have been met perfectly,” a ministry statement said. “This launch and demonstration is significant in establishing anti-submarine warfare capabilities,” it added. Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) chief G Satheesh Reddy said SMART was a “game changer” technology demonstration in the realm of anti-submarine warfare.Tracking stations (radars, electro optical systems) along the coast and the telemetry stations including ships monitored all the events related to the flight test, the officials said. The @DRDO_India has successfully flight tested the Supersonic Missile assisted release of Torpedo, SMART. This will be a major technology breakthrough for stand-off capability in anti-submarine warfare. I congratulate DRDO and other stakeholders for this significant achievement.Experts said it was an old idea that could find a new application as a land-based delivery system or a ship-borne weapon too. A rocket or missile-launched torpedo is a weapon delivery arrangement that was introduced decades ago by the Soviet as well as the US navies, said maritime affairs expert Rear Admiral Sudarshan Shrikhande (retd). He said these were capable of striking at relatively shorter ranges with torpedoes or even nuclear depth charges. He said as ship-borne helicopters improved and maritime patrol aircraft became better equipped with sensors; missile-launched torpedo systems did not find favour as onboard weapon and launcher volumes were prioritised for anti-ship, land attack and anti-air missiles. “However, if accurate submarine targeting info is available, then a long-range ordnance delivery capability, especially from ashore could be something that will be useful once again. After all, at this moment, land-based anti-submarine warfare patrol aircraft that can deliver ordnance at long ranges are amongst the most effective ways to target submarines. So, a supersonic missile capable of a few hundred kms flight can, in theory, drop a capable lightweight torpedo at the best-known position of an enemy submarine,” Shrikhande said. He said an effective torpedo as the payload was very important. “Ultimately, the deployment of the SMART system would depend on costs and mission needs of the navy,” he added. India has conducted a series of significant weapon tests in recent weeks. On Saturday, India tested a new version of the nuclear-capable hypersonic Shaurya missile that has a range of 750 km, days after the extended-range BrahMos supersonic cruise missile was successfully tested. The cruise missile can hit targets 400 km away --- its range increased from the existing 290 km.On September 7, India took the first steps towards developing a new class of ultra-modern weapons that can travel six times faster than the speed of sound (Mach 6) and penetrate any missile defence, with the DRDO carrying out a successful flight test of the hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time. Only the United States, Russia and China have developed technologies to field fast-maneuvering hypersonic missiles that fly at lower altitudes and are extremely hard to track and intercept.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tests-missile-assisted-system-to-target-submarines-at-long-ranges/story-E37QiFHLADDwHUiM0QmCBN.html
05-10-2020||India||‘Game of intimidation’: Congress after multiple CBI raids on DK Shivakumar||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday carried out simultaneous raids across the country against Karnataka Congress leader DK Shivakumar and his brother DK Suresh, alleging that they had amassed disproportionate assets (DA) worth Rs 74.93 crore, people familiar with the development said. The agency has alleged that while serving as a cabinet minister in Karnataka, between April 1, 2013 and April 30, 2018 – when Shivakumar held the portfolio of state energy minister his family members amassed illegal wealth to the tune of Rs 74 crore, which is 44.93% of their total income during this period. The CBI acted against Shivakumar on the basis of a sanction accorded to it by the Karnataka government on September 25, 2019 after the Enforcement Directorate (ED), during a money laundering probe, found that there is scope for an investigation under the Prevention of Corruption Act. After the state government gave a go-ahead to the CBI to investigate Shivakumar, the Centre too asked the agency to probe his role and others in February this year. The CBI filed a preliminary enquiry (PE) – a precursor to the FIR – in March this year, which, prime facie, revealed that DK Shivakumar amassed the ill-gotten wealth in his name and in the name of his family members. CBI spokesperson RK Gaur said that raids were conducted at 14 locations - including Karnataka, Delhi, Mumbai and at the premises of Shivakumar and others which led to recovery of Rs 57 lakh cash and several incriminating property documents, bank related information, computer hard disk, etc.Officials said that the searches started at 6 am at their residence located in Doddallahalli village in Kanakapura constituency, which is represented by Shivakumar in the state assembly. DK Suresh represents Bengaluru Rural in the Lok Sabha.According to the CBI FIR, reviewed by HT, preliminary inquiry revealed that Shivakumar and his family members had moveable and immovable assets worth Rs 33.92 crore before April 2013, according to his 2013 election affidavit. Between April 2013 and April 2018, the Congress leader and his family members acquired assets, movable and immovable to the tune of Rs 128 crore and the total value of the assets held by them at the end of the said period was at Rs 162 crore, said the CBI FIR. The FIR adds that their total income and receipts during these five years was Rs 166 crore while their total expenditure was Rs 113 crore. “Therefore, they are found to be in possession of assets disproportionate to the tune of Rs 74.93 crore which is 44.93% of their total income and the same cannot be satisfactorily explained by the accused,” the FIR adds. Congress instantly condemned the raids, calling it a political vendetta and an “insidious game of intimidation”.“The insidious game of intimidation & machinations of Modi-Yeddyurappa duo being executed by a puppet CBI by raiding @DKShivakumar won’t deter us. CBI should be unearthing the layers of corruption in Yeddyurappa Govt. But, ‘Raid Raj’ is their only ‘Machiavellian Move’!” Randeep Singh Surjewala, the Congress’ national spokesperson, tweeted.“Let Modi & Yeddyurappa Govts & BJP’s frontal organizations i.e CBI-ED-Income Tax know that Congress workers & leaders will not be cowed down nor bow down before such devious attempts. Our resolve to fight for people & expose BJP’s maladministration only becomes stronger,” he added.Shivakumar was arrested on September 23 last year by the ED. He is currently out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/game-of-intimidation-congress-after-multiple-cbi-raids-on-dk-shivakumar/story-Gqk4CFezGTfYuyGoMmGrPP.html
05-10-2020||India||Artificial intelligence should not become weapon of non-state actors: What PM Modi said at RAISE 2020||Inaugurating a five-day global virtual summit on artificial intelligence (AI), Responsible AI for Social Empowerment or RAISE 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighted how the use of AI will empower India and also warned against the pitfalls.In June, India along with Australia, the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Germany, New Zealand and others joined together to create the Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence (GPAI) for the responsible development and use of AI.Here is what PM Modi said:-- While we discuss AI, let also have no doubts that human creativity and human emotions continue to be our greatest strength.They are our unique advantage over machines.-- It remains our collective responsibility to ensure trust in how AI is used. Algorithm transparency is key to establishing this trust.-- We must protect the world against weaponisation of AI by non-state actors.-- Artificial Intelligence can be used for making our disaster management systems stronger.-- AI will have big roles in agriculture and in creating next generation urban infrastructure.-- The National Educational Technology Forum is being formed. This will create an e-education unit to boost the digital infrastructure, digital content and capacity.-- We launched ‘Responsible AI for Youth’ program this year in April. Under this programme, more than 11,000 students from schools completed the basic course. They are now building their AI projects.-- India has recently adopted the National Education Policy 2020. It focuses on technology-based learning and skilling as a major part of education. E-courses will also be developed in various regional languages and dialects.-- We want India to become a global hub for AI. Many Indians are already working on this. I hope many more do so in the times to come.-- The teamwork of AI with humans can do wonders for our planet.-- In India, we have experienced that technology improves transparency and service delivery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/artificial-intelligence-should-not-become-weapon-of-non-state-actors-what-pm-modi-said-at-raise-2020/story-RBPDxlMy095kbcw55oEWpL.html
05-10-2020||India||CM Yogi Adityanath again accuses opposition of stoking caste violence||For the second consecutive day on Monday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath accused the opposition parties of attempting to trigger caste and communal violence in Uttar Pradesh amid a nationwide outrage over the alleged rape-murder of 19-year-old Dalit girl from Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras.Over the last week, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi were able to meet the family of the Hathras victim on their second attempt. Citing imposition of Section 144, the police made Congress leaders return to Delhi on their first attempt. Yesterday, Bhim army chief Chandrashekhar Azad met the Hathras family and demanded ‘Y’ category security for them.Continuing his attack on the opposition, the CM lashed out at the Samajwadi Party rule, alleging it was synonymous with lawlessness. He also said that the Bahujan Samaj Party was synonymous with corruption and dismissed the Congress as a party without any political space or standing in the state. “That is why it’s clear that the BJP is up against none and would register an emphatic win in all the seven bypoll seats in the state,” he said. CM Adityanath was addressing cadres through a virtual connect campaign in Tundla, one of the seven assembly segments where bypolls will be held on November 3. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh also addressed the cadre. “There are forces that are not happy with development and progress the country and the state are making and are constantly engaged in whipping up caste and communal riots. In fact, in some recent incidents, conspiracies hatched by them have been detected and unravelled. We will have to respond to this through positive, development-oriented work,” the chief minister said. On Sunday, while virtually launching the BJP’s by-poll campaign from Naugawan Sadat assembly segment in Amroha, CM Adityanath had accused the opposition parties of attempting to whip up caste and communal riots/violence in the state and urged the cadres to be wary of their designs. The chief minister said due to Covid-19, there won’t be any big political meetings during the bypolls. He urged the cadres to focus on a door-to-door contact campaign. “Take up the door-to-door campaign while moving around in small groups and following all necessary precautions,” he told the cadre. The BJP is expected to declare its candidates for the bypolls soon. The state BJP chief also cautioned the cadres against what he called, “nefarious designs of the opposition to whip up trouble in the state”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-yogi-adityanath-again-accuses-opposition-of-stoking-caste-violence/story-2cxIOd9Bo87AI6kJaIpyqK.html
05-10-2020||India||‘China can’t get the better of India in conflict scenario’: Air force chief||China can’t get the better of India in any conflict and the air force, with its capability and intent serving as a deterrent for the adversary, is ready to handle any contingency, Indian Air Force chief RKS Bhadauria said on Monday, even as he acknowledged the strengths of the Chinese air force and gave a broad overview of how the IAF would counter it.Asked if the IAF was ready to take on China in the Ladakh theatre, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said, “Of course, we are. There is no question of not taking on the threat there. We are very well positioned there and China can’t get the better of us in any conflict scenario there.” He said India was fully prepared for a two-front war with China and Pakistan. The air force chief was responding to questions from reporters during his annual press conference ahead of the IAF Day on October 8. The IAF chief said there was no question of underestimating the capabilities of the People’s Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) as it had made huge investments in “technology, systems and numbers”. He also spoke about the IAF’s assessment of the Chinese J-20 fifth-generation fighter aircraft, calling it “work in progress”. “Their strength lies in the number of surface-to-air systems they have deployed in that area and air-launched long-distance weapons. All that we cater to in our matrix and ensure we are in a position to not only take on their strong points but also deploy our offensive action accordingly,” Bhadauria said, responding to a question from Hindustan Times. “What we do is we integrate our systems and we train to handle such threats based on our assessment. It’s all a combination of training, systems and integration and then the area that we are going to get deployed in,” he said.He added that the PLAAF’s J-20 was a fifth-generation fighter, with advanced sensors and latest technologies but its engine technology was still not fifth-generation. The IAF chief --- short of giving operational details --- has explicitly stated that the IAF is well deployed to meet any threat, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “That no adversary can be taken lightly was also acknowledged by him and that indicates a professional approach to a serious challenge that can come our way,” Bahadur added.Asked if the IAF had come close to launching airstrikes against Chinese targets after the June 15 Galwan Valley skirmish in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed, Bhadauria said, “No. But we were prepared for it.” The IAF chief said how things unfold in the Ladakh sector would depend on the outcome of the ongoing talks that were currently progressing slowly. “What we see is an increase in effort to dig in for the winter in terms of forces on ground, and the deployment of air assets. We hope that the talks will progress in the right direction,” he said.Responding to a question on the DBO airstrip in eastern Ladakh, the IAF chief said it was a “big threat” to the Chinese as India had the capability to operate aircraft so close to the Line of Actual Control (LAC).On China using air bases in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, including Skardu, and the possibility of a two-front war, the IAF chief said, “Whether China will use Skardu is an open-ended question. But if China needs Pakistan’s help to confront us, I have nothing to say. If Skardu gets used by China and we are in conflict with China, then it’s a collusive threat. And we will deal with it accordingly,” Bhadauria said. He said the IAF was prepared for any kind of conventional conflict, including a two-front war. “We have full capability for a two-front war,” he said. Earlier in his opening address, the IAF chief said the integration of Rafale fighter jets brought in a platform armed with advanced weapons, sensors and technologies that gave the IAF an operational and technological edge.“Combined with upgraded operational capabilities of our current fighter fleet, it gives us the ability to shoot first and strike deep and hard, even in contested airspace,” the IAF chief said.India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016, of which five jets have arrived. The IAF is operating its Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on high alert. “Our immediate offensive deployment of combat-ready units in response to the stand-off along the LAC in the north is indicative of our operational state. We are determined to handle any contingency --- undoubtedly our capability and intent would deter. Our airlift capability was also brought into focus as we supported the Indian Army in rapid mobilisation of troops and equipment to operational areas at a pace which our adversary didn’t expect,” Bhadauria said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-can-t-get-the-better-of-india-in-conflict-scenario-air-force-chief/story-AdJJIbyGRJEWxrINbaCuLJ.html
05-10-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: What home ministry, CBI and AIIMS are saying||After AIIMS forensic team allegedly asserted that Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide as they found no other marks to suggest otherwise, reactions have started pouring in from all corners. While there have been demands to get a second opinion on this, political parties of Maharashtra are unanimously questioning the need for a CBI probe. Minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy has said that the CBI probe is going on and unless CBI report is out, he won’t comment on this issue. “The CBI is still conducting its investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. As a minister of the Indian government, I would not like to present any of my observations in this matter until the CBI probe is completed and a report published,” the minister told ANI.The CBI also issued a statement reiterating that the probe is going on and no angle is being dismissed by the agency.  The CBI is still conducting its investigation into #SushantSinghRajput's death. As a minister of the Indian government, I would not like to present any of my observations in this matter until the CBI probe is completed & a report published: GK Reddy, Union Minister https://t.co/I8BQClJDV0AIIMS has also refused to comment on this controversy as the report has now been given to the investigating agency. “The Medical Board has submitted the report directly to the Central Bureau of Investigation as required. Being a legal matter, any inputs on the report submitted by the Medical Board would have to be obtained from the CBI,” it has said.While there are claims that the AIIMS foresnic team head Dr Sudhir Gupta changed his opinion, Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer Vikas Singh has officially said “the doctor who is part of AIIMS team had told me long back that the photos sent by me indicated 200% that it’s death by strangulation and not suicide.” Singh also said he would approach the CBI to constitute a fresh forensic team. Sena leader Sanjay Raut alleged that since the beginning there has been a conspiracy to malign the Maharashtra government and the Mumbai police, which were earlier investigating Rajput’s death.“It (AIIMS report) is as per the reports of Dr Sudhir Gupta, who is the head of AIIMS Forensic Medical Board in Sushant Singh Rajput death case. He doesn’t have any political connection or any links with the Shiv Sena,” Raut said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-latest-updates-what-home-ministry-and-aiims-are-saying/story-FXvUxFbWiT1UQ0j25v1B7H.html
05-10-2020||India||Child pornography spiked during lockdown, 41 arrested in Kerala: Cops||In a statewide crackdown on child pornographers, the cyber wing of Kerala police on Monday arrested 41 people, including some IT professionals, and registered 268 cases, said additional director general of police Manoj Abraham.Most of the arrested were found to be using all kinds of encrypted handles to upload and download such material and circulating them on social media platforms. Many electronic devices and phones were seized from them. Some of the arrested include IT professionals.The accused were identified and arrested with the help of Cyberdom (specialised wing of cyber police), Interpol and other agencies, said Abraham. Most of the seized material pertains to children between the age group of 6-15 years. Officials have code-named the operation ‘P Hunt 20.2’ and carried out intense searches at various places across the state in the last three weeks.“The biggest impact of the pandemic, besides health issues, is online crime. True, lockdown has increased digital usage and this also spiked use in pornography, especially involving minor children. Many think that darknet use will go unnoticed but they are mistaken. In many cases, it looks like sickness that requires medical treatment as many are repeat offenders,” said Abraham, a decorated specialised officer in cyber crime.During the raid, Cyberdom also found that some of the users had formatted their smart phones every three days to avoid detection. Use of malwares to activate the webcams of the victim and to steal information of children was also detected. “Many obscene pictures, videos inside homes have been uploaded in recent times, which clearly show that most of the pictures have been taken from Kerala,” he said, adding abuse of children locked up in their homes was quite evident in many cases. Last year, the Kerala police had constituted a special wing called Counter Child Sex Exploitation (CCSE) with special emphasis on preventing online child exploitation and child pornography. The team works in close contact with different agencies - Interpol, Crime Against Children unit and International Centre for Missing and Exploited Children (ICMEC).Watching and sharing child pornographic images, videos and literature is a crime in the country and offence can invite a five-year-jail term and maximum fine of Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/child-pornography-spiked-during-lockdown-41-arrested-in-kerala-cops/story-gni3MpcT4jGdzWqnnIGlbP.html
05-10-2020||India||Shivakumar amassed disproportionate assets worth Rs 74.93 crore, says CBI||After conducting several raids at multiple locations throughout Monday, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) accused Congress leader Shivakumar of amassing disproportionate assets worth Rs 75 crore.“The CBI has registered a case against former Minister of Karnataka Government(Presently MLA) on the allegations of possession of disproportionate assets to the tune of Rs.74.93 crore(approx) in his name and in the name of his family members,” the agency said issuing a statement.“It may be recalled that Government of Karnataka has issued a Notification u/s 6 of DSPE Act and it was followed by a Notification u/s 5 of DSPE Act issued by Government of India after which CBI had initially registered a Preliminary Enquiry during March, 2020 against the said MLA and others in the matter,” the statement read.“Searches were conducted today at 14 locations including Karnataka, Delhi, Mumbai at the premises of said MLA and others which led to recovery of cash of Rs.57 lakh(approx) and several incriminating documents including property documents, bank related information, computer hard disk etc. Investigation is continuing,” it said. The CBI conducted simultaneous raids at multiple locations across the country, including residences as well as business establishments, connected with Karnataka Congress leader DK Shivakumar and his brother DK Suresh. These 14 locations that the probe agency raided include 9 in Karnataka, 4 in Delhi, one in Mumbai.Shivakumar was arrested on September 23 last year by ED in the money laundering case and was lodged in Delhi’s Tihar Jail under judicial custody. He was released a month later after Delhi High Court granted him bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivakumar-amassed-disproportionate-assets-worth-rs-74-93-crore-says-cbi/story-vo1GIzREbBfBLhWpFL5clK.html
05-10-2020||India||Virtual BRICS Summit on Nov 17; PM Modi, Xi set for a face-off||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping are set to come face-to-face during the 12th summit of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS) grouping to be held virtually on November 17 via video conference. This is also set to be the first virtual multilateral meeting to be joined by the two leaders since the border standoff in Ladakh in May. India’s foreign ministers and defence ministers have participated in other meetings that featured their Chinese counterparts in recent weeks. The BRICS Summit will focus on further strengthening cooperation among the member states amid the Covid-19 crisis, according to a formal announcement on Monday from Russia, the current chair of the grouping. The theme for the meeting will be “BRICS partnership for global stability, shared security and innovative growth”. In May, Russia postponed the BRICS Summit amid Covid-19 pandemic. The Summit was supposed to take place in St Petersburg, Russia, along with a meeting of the heads of state council of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) during July 21-23.Russia, the current chair of the BRICS, had been keen on hosting the leaders of the five countries but several members had expressed apprehensions about holding an actual summit given the risk of infections, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.The Russian side formally announced on Monday that the BRICS Summit will be held virtually on November 17 with the theme of “BRICS partnership for global stability, shared security and innovative growth”.“Despite the current global situation due to the spread of the Coronavirus infection, the activities under the Russian BRICS chairmanship in 2020 are carried out in a consistent manner,” said Anton Kobyakov, adviser to Russian President Vladimir Putin and executive secretary of the organising committee to prepare and support Russia’s SCO presidency in 2019-20 and BRICS chairmanship in 2020.Also read: China can’t get the better of India in any conflict, we’re fully capable - IAF chief“Since January 2020, more than 60 events have been organised, including via videoconferencing. The BRICS Summit will be the jewel-in-the-crown event of the Russian BRICS chairmanship which will provide an impetus for further strengthening cooperation with our partners to ensure the well-being of the BRICS countries,” he said.Russia has focused on multifaceted cooperation between the BRICS nations to contribute to raising living standards and quality of life, the official statement said.During 2020, the five countries in the grouping continued their close strategic partnership on three major pillars - peace and security, economy and finance, cultural and people-to-people exchanges, it added.Russia has also helped facilitate meetings between India and China, such as the foreign and defence ministers’ meetings on the sidelines of the SCO meet in Moscow last month. The meeting of external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow led to a five-point roadmap for taking forward disengagement and de-escalation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). A meeting of the BRICS’ foreign ministers last month had expressed concern on violence and conflicts in different parts of the world and said such situations should be resolved peacefully through political dialogue. The joint statement issued after the virtual meeting of the foreign ministers didn’t refer to any particular conflict. The grouping has a convention of not taking up bilateral issues between its members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brics-summit-to-be-held-virtually-on-nov-17-cooperation-strengthening-global-stability-on-agenda/story-Io02j2Xpb81KAx03C13O1M.html
05-10-2020||India||Modi govt destroying farmers, slashing their throat: 10 things Rahul Gandhi said in Punjab||In a sustained attack at the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said that not a single policy introduced by the Centre in the last six years has benefitted the poor people.Panning government policies and laws like GST and demonetisation, Rahul Gandhi said, “They passed the three black farm bills amid the coronavirus outbreak. What was the haste to do it at this time? They did it because they thought the farmers won’t be able to do anything, but they don’t know the power of a farmer.”The Congress leader was addressing ‘Kisan Bachao Rally’ in Punjab’s Sangrur.Led by Gandhi, the Congress party is holding tractor rallies from October 4-6 across the state in protest against the three contentious legislations that were passed by Parliament last month and got presidential assent.Here is what Rahul Gandhi said in his rally:- For six years, this government has been attacking the poor, labourers and farmers one after another. If you look at their policies, there is not a single policy that can benefit the poor people.- They said they would do demonetisation to fight black money, but the nation had to stand in long queues outside banks. You put your money in the bank, but Modi ji waived the debt of India’s richest billionaires by taking your money.- GST brought after demonetisation, now you ask any small shopkeeper or small businessman what happened to GST. Till date, the small shopkeeper or businessman has not understood GST.- Demonetisation, GST etc. is all a way to target the small shopkeepers or small and medium businesses. You have to understand that Narendra Modi ji is making the way for Adani and Ambani.- At the time of Corona, we asked Narendra Modi to help the poor, hungry labourers walking thousands of kilometers. We said help small traders, but Modi ji still did not take any step.- This country will not be able to provide employment to its youth in the coming time because Modi ji has ruined the system of employment generation.- Everyone knows that this system needs to be changed, farmers need to be given infrastructure, markets need to be created but Narendra Modi is not even trying to strengthen this system. Narendra Modi ji is only destroying this system. While he should guarantee MSP, with these three laws he is killing farmers and labourers, slashing their throats.- Today, if a farmer has a problem in the mandi, then he can put his point across or approach another businessman, but tomorrow our farmers will have Adani on one side and Ambani on the other. The farmer will have only two options - Adani or Ambani. Now you tell whether a farmer can fight them. Can you talk to them? Not at all.- Those who think this will only harm farmers and labourers do not understand the food system of this country. If Adani and Ambani get hold of the agricultural system, every family will have to pay twice the amount of money for food.- I am not standing here just for farmers and labourers, but for all the people of India because not only the working class, the whole country is going to be hit by these laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-destroying-farmers-slashing-their-throat-10-things-rahul-gandhi-said-in-punjab/story-6hws15Rj6v28ElZjcQCIuN.html
05-10-2020||India||Feluda Covid-19 testing kit: Here’s all you need to know about it||A team of Indian scientists has developed a coronavirus test, which, they say, would give result in less than an hour. It has been described as a ‘simple, precise, reliable, scalable and frugal test.’Here’s what you need to know about it:(1.) The testing kit has been named ‘Feluda,’ after a famous character--a detective--created by legendary director Satyajit Ray, though its full name is Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR) Feluda test.(2.) It has been developed by researchers at New Delhi’s CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) and the TATA Group. It has been priced at Rs 500 and, scientists say, would give a test result in 45 minutes.(3.) Based on a gene-editing technology called Crispr, Feluda, CSIR scientists say, was tested on samples of 2,000 people, including those who had already tested positive for coronavirus. It was found to have 96% sensitivity and 98% specificity.(4.) A ‘sensitive’ test is one which detects almost everyone who has the disease. A ‘specific’ test, on the other hand, rules out almost everyone who doesn’t have a disease. The accuracy of any test is based on these two aspects.(5.) The Feluda test kit is quite similar to a pregnancy strip test in that it changes colour on detecting a virus. Having already received approvals from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for a commercial launch, it could also be the world’s first paper-based Covid-19 test kit available in market.(6.) India is currently conducting Covid-19 testing through the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test and the rapid antigen test (RAT). While an RT-PCR test gives a result in 1.5 hours, a rapid antigen test takes 30 minutes.(7.) ‘Feluda’ is actually an acronym for FNCAS9 Editor-Limited Uniform Detection Assay.(8.) India is currently the second worst Covid-19 affected country in the world, after the United States, with a caseload of 66,23,815. This includes 55,86,703 recovered cases and 102,685 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/feluda-covid-19-testing-kit-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-about-it/story-i54p2RFTBGCmbuGI5W8cjN.html
05-10-2020||India||Is YSR Congress joining NDA? CM Jagan flies to Delhi to meet PM Modi amid buzz||The YSR Congress Party chief and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is set to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, sparking buzz that the party from Andhra Pradesh could join the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance. Speculation has been gaining ground that such a move is in the offing.Just last week, Shiromani Akali Dal, NDA’s oldest ally, junked the alliance over its opposition to the controversial farm bills. Last year, it was the Shiv Sena, who jumped ship over the issue of chief ministership in Maharashtra.Jagan Reddy left for New Delhi on Monday evening and is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 10.30 am on Tuesday. “The Prime Minister is likely to invite the YSRCP into the NDA to strengthen his hands,” the party leader said.This is the second visit of the Andhra Pradesh chief minister in the last two weeks. On September 22, Jagan had a two-day visit to Delhi and met Union minister Amit Shah, supposedly to have preliminary discussions on the YSRCP joining the NDA, besides issues pertaining to the state. He, however, could not get the appointment of the Prime Minister then.VDP Associates, a data-analytics firm involved in election surveys, tweeted on Monday: “BJP has reportedly offered 2 cabinet and 1 Minister of State (Independent) to YSRCP. Jagan asked to rush to Delhi for exclusive talks with PM Modi.”However, the YSRCP leader quoted above said PM Modi might offer one cabinet and one minister of state post to the party in the government.With 22 MP seats, the YSRCP is the fourth largest national party. It also has six MPs in Rajya Sabha. From day one of coming into power in Andhra Pradesh in May 2019, Jagan has been maintaining friendly relations with the NDA government.The YSRCP has been supporting every decision of the Modi government both in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. While the NDA’s long-term ally Akali Dal strongly resisted the farm bills, the YSRCP voted in favour of the same. The YSRCP MPs extended support to the BJP in the election of Harivansh Narayan Singh as deputy chairman of the Rajya Sabha last week. The Jagan government also accepted the option given by the Modi government for going in for additional borrowings to offset the GST compensation payment by the Centre, though more than 12 states, including Telangana, opposed the same. Jagan also accepted Modi government’s condition to implement power sector reforms as part of Atmanirbhar Bharat package, including fixing of meters to the agriculture sector so as to enhance its borrowing limits.“If YSRCP joins the NDA, it will be a win-win situation for both Jagan as well as the BJP,” says political analyst from Visakhapatnam Mallu Rajesh.The BJP is looking for new political allies after the quitting of Shiv Sena and Akali Dal and the YSRC can come in handy in passage of crucial bills, particularly in the Rajya Sabha. On the other hand, the YSRCP needs the support of the Modi government at the Centre to sustain the state’s financial position. “At the same time, Jagan is still facing the CBI case in an alleged quid pro quo case, while his kin are under CBI scanner in connection with the murder of his uncle YS Vivekananda Reddy. Jagan is also keen on getting a CBI probe ordered into the alleged land scam in Amaravati involving his bete noire N Chandrababu Naidu. So, joining the NDA will make things easy for him,” Rajesh said.In an interview to HT last month, Jagan made it clear that his party would place the interests of the state above everything else.“Our support will be issue-based and will involve the betterment of our state in every aspect,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-ysr-congress-joining-nda-cm-jagan-flies-to-delhi-to-meet-pm-modi-amid-buzz/story-iiDTlDrIqtQ26FZyph1VsN.html
05-10-2020||India||No assessment till up to 2 to 3 weeks after schools reopen, says education minister||As all state government and Union Territories are gearing up for the reopening of the schools in a phased manner after October 15, the education ministry has issued a detailed guideline according to which there will be no assessment till up to two or three weeks after schools reopen. In its latest guideline for reopening, the ministry of home affairs has asked the state government to take decision on reopening of the schools fro, October 15. But it will not be mandatory and online classes will go on, the MHA had said. No assessment till up to 2-3 weeks of school reopening. Use of #ICT & online learning shall continue to be encouraged. The SOP also provides for guidelines on ensuring emotion well being of students and teachers with a reference drawn to #Manodarpan initiative.#SchoolGuidelinesThe education ministry has now come up with a detailed plan where schools have been asked to set up various task teams to ensure proper hygiene is maintained.1. Arrange for thorough cleaning and disinfecting of all areas in school campus and ensure air flow in indoor space.2. Schools will have to form task teams such as emergency care support, general support team, hygiene inspection team etc. with earmarked responsibilities.3. Schools may make their own SOPs. 4. Physical distancing to be ensured while planning the seating plan, staggering entry and exit timings.5. Wearing of mask during the class.6. Sensitise students, parents, teachers, community members and hostel staff.7. Plan for academic calendar changes for all classes.8. Ensure availability of a full-time trained health care attendant/nurse/doctor.9. Flexible attendance and sick leave policies for both students and staff.10. No assessment till up to 2-3 weeks of school reopening. “Use of ICT & online learning shall continue to be encouraged. The SOP also provides for guidelines on ensuring emotion well being of students and teachers with a reference drawn to Manodarpan initiative,” education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said.“Students may attend schools only with the written consent of parents. There will be flexibility in attendance norms. Students may opt for online classes rather than physically attend school,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-assessment-till-up-to-2-to-3-weeks-after-schools-reopen-says-education-minister/story-Le9sSNMr8P67wVBFBqTPCO.html
05-10-2020||India||Woman hacked to death in Kaushambi, accused nabbed||A 42-year-old woman was hacked to death by a man in Chaupurwa village under Saraiakil police station of Kaushambi district on Monday morning. The accused tried to flee but was nabbed by the villagers, said police. According to police, Suresh Kumar used to work as a labourer but he had been on the bed for the last two years after being paralyzed. His wife Shivkumari used to beg alms for a living. In the wee hours of Monday, Shivkumari was going towards the fields when one Ashok Kumar allegedly attacked her with a chopper multiple times. Villagers rushed to the scene after they heard Shivkumari’s cries and tried to rescue her but she had died by then. The accused, Ashok, tried to escape from the spot but was overpowered by villagers and was handed over to the police. Also read: Covid-19 disrupting mental health services in most countries - WHO surveySaraiakil police reached the scene and sent the woman’s body for post-mortem examination. “The accused has been arrested and the weapon used in the murder has also been recovered. He is being questioned further to ascertain the motive behind the murder,” said Vijay Vikram, station house officer (SHO) Saraiakil police station. Youth shot at over petty issue In another incident, a youth was shot at by his neighbour in a dispute over construction of a gate in Beli area under Cantonment police station of Prayagraj city on Sunday night. The injured was admitted to a hospital and an FIR has been lodged against one named and some unidentified persons, police said. According to police, Amit Yadav of Beli was constructing a gate to which his neighbour Bhaiyyalal Srivastava objected. After an argument, both groups clashed. Cantonment police reached the spot and took both groups to police station. However, they again clashed when they were released after a warning in the night. It is reported that Bhaiyyalal opened fire at Amit with a country-made pistol, resulting in bullet injuries to him in the chest. SP (city) Dinesh Kumar Singh said that raids were being carried out to arrest the assailant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-hacked-to-death-in-kaushambi-accused-nabbed/story-SjbimmQebtbwsThPZDC8WO.html
05-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bombay High Court reserves order on Kangana Ranaut’s plea and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Court reserves order on Kangana Ranaut’s compensation for demolition pleaThe Bombay high court on Monday reserved its order in actor Kangana Ranaut’s petition seeking compensation as damages for demolition at her Mumbai bungalow by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation last month. Read moreChina can’t get the better of India in any conflict, we’re fully capable: IAF chiefAir Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, the Indian Air Force (IAF) chief, said on Monday India was fully capable of handling any threat from China over the border standoff along the Line of Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and that there was no question of the neighbouring country besting us in any conflict scenario. Read moreInk thrown at AAP leader Sanjay Singh in HathrasInk was thrown at Aam Aadmi leader Sanjay Singh at Hathras on Monday when he was speaking to media after meeting the family members of the 19-year-old gang-rape victim who died of her injuries in Delhi on September 29. Read moreKia Seltos SUV continues to be carmaker’s second best-selling global modelKia Motors has announced that it has registered a growth of more than 10 per cent in September, compared to same month last year. The Korean auto giant sold 260,023 units in September, a rise of 10.3 per cent compared to September, 2019. Read moreAnkita Konwar gives befitting reply to trolls asking if Milind Soman does not have a different T-shirtTaking to her Instagram handle recently, Ankita Konwar once again gave a befitting reply to trolls, this time for taking a jibe at husband Milind Soman’s signature grey Pinkathon tee in ever picture and video or their same pair of footwear.Mukesh Khanna slams Kapil Sharma Show, calls it ‘vulgar, the worst’: ‘I refused to join it with Mahabharat cast’Veteran television actor Mukesh Khanna is not a fan of The Kapil Sharma Show. In an Instagram post shared on Sunday, Mukesh revealed why he didn’t join the recent Mahabharat cast reunion on the comedy show and wrote down all the complaints he had against the show. Read moreMan designs intricate layout to dunk basketball, video will make you hold your breathAmong the various videos available on the Internet that showcase one’s talent of creating something unusual, one particular video has grabbed netizens attention. It shows a detailed and interesting layout to dunk a basketball. Shared on Instagram by Samuel Grubbs, the clip is definitely is a must-watch. Read moreAnti-submarine weapon system ‘SMART’ successfully test-firedIndia successfully fire-tested the ‘Supersonic Missile Assisted Release of Torpedo’, SMART from Wheeler Island off the coast of Odisha. SMART is a missile assisted release of lightweight Anti-Submarine Torpedo System for anti-submarine warfare (ASW) operations for far beyond torpedo range. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bombay-high-court-reserves-order-on-kangana-ranaut-s-plea-and-all-the-latest-news/story-wIUlkoYqqX3NNLYo5eQY2K.html
05-10-2020||India||Former Union minister, veteran leader Rasheed Masood passes away||Former Union minister and veteran leader Qazi Rasheed Masood died at a private hospital in Roorkee, Uttarakhand, on Monday morning, his nephew and Congress leader Imran Masood said. He was 73. Rasheed Masood’s last rites would be performed at his native town Gangoh in Saharanpur district.Imran Masood said Rasheed Masood had undergone treatment after getting infected with Covid-19 on August 27 and recovered later. However, he complained of a sore throat two days ago and was admitted in a hospital in Roorkee where he passed away on Monday morning due to multi-organ failure.Born in Gangoh on August 15, 1947, Rasheed Masood played a pivotal role in the politics of west Uttar Pradesh for decades. He had been a member of Parliament (MP) nine times while he was associated with different political parties, including the Janata Dal, the Lok Dal, the Janata Party, the Rashtriya Lok Dal, the Samajwadi Party and the Congress. He had also served as the Union minister of state for health (independent charge) in the VP Singh government from April to November 1990.Also read: Ink thrown at AAP leader Sanjay Singh in HathrasMasood started his political career by contesting from Nakur assembly seat in Saharanpur in 1974 and lost. He then won the Saharanpur Lok Sabha seat on the Janata Party ticket in 1977. He parted ways with the Janata Party later. After joining the Lok Dal, he became an MP again in 1980. In 1986, the Lok Dal sent him to the Rajya Sabha.In 1989, he won the Lok Sabha election from Saharanpur on a Janata Dal ticket. He later joined the Samajwadi Party and won the 2004 Lok Sabha election after facing defeat in 1996, 1997 and 1999. He lost the 2009 Lok Sabha election.Rasheed Masood was also the candidate of the United National Progressive Alliance in the election for the Vice President’s post in 2007. He finished third.He was awarded a four-year jail term in an MBBS seat scam case in 2013 after which he was disqualified from Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-union-minister-veteran-leader-rasheed-masood-passes-away/story-WxXb7pSUe3WRArg5k5ELpO.html
05-10-2020||India||Kejriwal backs Sanjay Singh after ink thrown on him, cites ‘injustice, atrocities of UP government’||Backing his party’s senior leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that the attack on the former in Hathras shows defeat and disgrace of the Uttar Pradesh government. “Sanjay ji has been speaking fearlessly against the injustice and atrocities of UP government. They made 14 FIRs on you, sealed the office but did not dare to arrest you, then attacked them today. This shows the defeat and disgrace of the people sitting in the UP government. It means you’re on the right track,” Kejriwal wrote in a tweet shortly after ink was thrown on Singh during his visit to Hathras.One person, Deepak Sharma, has been identified as the attacker and a probe has been initiated.Singh was speaking to the media after meeting the family members of the 19-year-old Dalit gang-rape victim who succumbed to her injuries last week. The AAP leaders is among the Opposition leaders who have paid a visit to the aggrieved family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-backs-sanjay-singh-after-ink-thrown-on-him-cites-injustice-atrocities-of-up-government/story-WhXd8cvQL0pVLWTxQg3MjJ.html
05-10-2020||India||EC announces by-elections to 3 Manipur constituencies, voting to be held on November 7||The Election Commission of India on Monday announced by-elections to three Manipur constituencies for November 7. The votes polled will be counted on November 10, EC’s notification confirmed. The elections to the legislative assembly will be held in Wangoi, Saitu and Singhat. Announcing the schedule for the polls, EC has stated that the decision to hold polls in these Manipur constituencies has been taken after considering factors like local festivals, weather conditions, movement of forces and the coronavirus disease outbreak. The Commission has also stated that adequate number of EVMs and VVPATs have been made available for the upcoming polls. With almost a month left for the polls, the Model Code of Conduct will come into force immediately, EC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-announces-by-elections-to-3-manipur-constituencies-voting-to-be-held-on-november-7/story-g002llyRZrYurcDQIcybUN.html
05-10-2020||India||Court reserves order on Kangana Ranaut’s compensation for demolition plea||The Bombay high court on Monday reserved its order in actor Kangana Ranaut’s petition seeking compensation as damages for demolition at her Mumbai bungalow by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation last month.The actor had also alleged that the demolition was a counterattack to the tweets exchanged between her and Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut after her criticism of the Maharashtra government and Mumbai police.The Mumbai civic body and Raut had refuted the actor’s claims, arguing that the demolition was carried out after 14 unauthorised additions and alterations which were not as per sanctioned plans were detected in the bungalow on September 5.On Monday, the advocates of all parties informed the division bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and RI Chagla that they had filed written submissions in compliance with the September 25 directions of the bench. The submissions elaborated the arguments forwarded by the respective parties in the course of the hearing which started on September 9. After Kangana Ranaut approached the court, it ordered a stay on any further demolition exercise at the actor’s Pali Hill bungalow. It also allowed the actor to amend her petition as the one before it was not filed in the proper format and was incomplete. In the amended petition, she not only sought a stay on the demolition but also a compensation of Rs 2 crore for the damage caused to the bungalow. Senior counsel Dr Birendra Saraf for the actor had argued that the demolition was illegal as she was given only 24 hours to respond to the stop work notice issued by the designated officer on September 8 and even though she had responded to the notice, the civic authority did not pay heed and went ahead with the demolition. Dr Saraf had submitted that the demolition was premeditated and undertaken at the behest of Raut. Dr Saraf had also submitted that the invocation of section 354 (A) of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act by the civic body was not valid as there was no ongoing work in the bungalow except for waterproofing and the alterations and additions alleged by the BMC had been completed in January. However, senior counsels Aspi Chinoy and Joel Carlos for the BMC refuted the allegations and stated that the detection on September 5 and the inspection on September 7 had revealed that there was ongoing work of finishing on the illegal alteration and addition undertaken by the actor. They also contended that since the actor had not shown any permissions for doing the same, the BMC was justified in demolishing the structure and that a 24-hour notice was served.The BMC also denied that the demolition was at the behest of Raut and stated that the detection on September 5 was made at 1 pm and the Twitter spat between the actor and Raut started at 5pm. Raut, in his affidavit filed through advocate Pradeep Thorat, refuted the actor’s allegation that he was behind the demolition. While admitting that he had referred to the actor in a TV interview he had not abused her but only meant to say that she was dishonest as she was speaking against Mumbai and Maharashtra. Senior counsel Anil Sakhare for designated officer of the H West Ward of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, Bhagyawant Late, had submitted that the allegation of malice made by the actor was unfounded and the claims for compensation could not be dealt with in the writ petition. He said the actor has the option of filing a suit for claims. After hearing all sides, the bench had observed that the BMC had shown exceptional swiftness in carrying out demolition and had it been so efficient in other cases Mumbai would have been very different. The court had then asked all parties to submit their arguments in writing. After receiving the written submissions on Monday, the court said that it was reserving the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-reserves-order-on-kangana-ranaut-s-compensation-for-demolition-plea/story-2iwuCxxHMn9K7RPGoV340L.html
05-10-2020||India||Ink thrown at AAP leader Sanjay Singh in Hathras||Ink was thrown at Aam Aadmi leader Sanjay Singh at Hathras on Monday when he was speaking to media after meeting the family members of the 19-year-old gang-rape victim who died of her injuries in Delhi on September 29. The police has detained one Deepak Sharma, identified as the attacker. Interrogation is on. The AAP leader’s visit to Hathras comes a day after Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad visited the family. A day before Azad’s visit, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi met the family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ink-thrown-at-aap-leader-sanjay-singh-in-hathras/story-VH1BHDfnEg0qEhze0C0sGK.html
05-10-2020||India||India conducts successful flight test of SMART; ‘Game-changer,’ says DRDO chief||India on Monday conducted a successful flight test of the Supersonic Missile Assisted Release of Torpedo (SMART) from Wheeler Island off the coast of Odisha.All mission objectives, including missile flight upto the range and altitude, separation of the nose cone, the release of Torpedo and deployment of Velocity Reduction Mechanism (VRM), were met perfectly in the flight test, the Press Information Bureau, the government’s nodal agency, noted in a release.“The tracking stations (Radars, Electro Optical Systems) along the coast and telemetry stations including down range ships monitored all the events,” the release further noted.Watch: Anti-submarine weapon system ‘SMART’ successfully test-fired Congratulating the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted, “The DRDO has successfully flight tested the Supersonic Missile assisted release of Torpedo, SMART. This will be a major technology breakthrough for stand-off capability in anti-submarine warfare. I congratulate DRDO and other stakeholders for this significant achievement.” The @DRDO_India has successfully flight tested the Supersonic Missile assisted release of Torpedo, SMART. This will be a major technology breakthrough for stand-off capability in anti-submarine warfare. I congratulate DRDO and other stakeholders for this significant achievement..SMART is a missile assisted release of lightweight Anti-Submarine Torpedo System for anti-submarine warfare (ASW) operations for far beyond torpedo range. This launch and demonstration are significant in establishing ASW capabilities.Dr G Satheesh Reddy, chairman, DRDO, described SMART as a ‘game-changer’ technology demonstration in anti-submarine warfare.Monday’s test comes after the DRDO successfully tested Laser-Guided Anti Tank Guided Missile on September 23 in Ahmednagar, Maharashtra.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-successfully-flight-tests-supersonic-missile-assisted-release-of-torpedo/story-W9pJlC9KtQiXslItHoRt9K.html
05-10-2020||India||Ashes of 4,896 unknown people from Delhi-NCR immersed in Ganga in Haridwar||Amid chanting of Vedic hymns, local priests in Haridwar immersed the ashes of 4,896 unknown people which were lying in various cremation ghats and religious places of National Capital Region (Delhi) and nearby areas for the past few years. Along with ashes brought in urns, 100 kilograms of milk was also offered by volunteers of the Delhi-based Shri Devothan Sewa Samiti, which has been organising collection of ashes of unknown people and the immersion of the same for the past two decades. Owing to Covid-19 restrictions since mid-March, the Samiti volunteers faced problems in collecting remains but after restrictions were eased, a large number of volunteers arrived and took part in the immersion rituals. On Sunday, prior to leaving for Delhi, Samiti volunteers hoped that more and more people join them in this social initiative so that no urn remains unattended. “It’s a spiritual feeling when we immerse these mortal remains collected from across the country for the past year. In Hindu Sanatan dharma, the immersion of ashes paves way for the salvation of the soul of the deceased. So, we felt these unattended urns need to be immersed in Ganga so that these people find salvation. We feel immense spiritual satisfaction by doing this and this motivates us to continue doing this in the coming years too,” said Anil Narendra, president of the Shri Devothan Sewa Samiti. Local organisations of Haridwar like Nishakam Sewa trust, Aggarwal Sewa Sadan, Kanwad Sewa Samit, Mahamai Sewa Nyas, Siddhdata Manav Sewa Samiti also assisted the Delhi-based volunteers in ash immersion rituals at Sati Ghat in Kankhal. “As per Vedic scriptures like Garuda Purana, last rites rituals are completed only after the ash immersion rituals are performed properly. Deity Ganga is the salvation provider and immersion of mortal remains in the holy river provides immediate salvation to the deceased souls,” said Mahamandaleshwar of Shri Panchayat Akhada Bada Udasin Harichetnanand Maharaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashes-of-4-896-unknown-people-from-delhi-ncr-immersed-in-ganga-in-haridwar/story-MDzSeh32SG7on6iImJuIyH.html
05-10-2020||India||Secret proceedings in UK delaying Mallya’s extradition, Centre tells Supreme Court||Liquor baron Vijay Mallya’s extradition from United Kingdom (UK) to India has been delayed again due to fresh “secret” proceedings which have commenced in the UK, the central government told the Supreme Court on Monday. The next hearing will be on November 2. The government told the Apex Court that though the extradition proceedings had been complete after the UK’s highest court had rejected Mallya’s appeal, fresh proceedings have started, the exact nature of which is unknown to the Government of India. “After extradition proceedings were complete, another secret proceeding has commenced but we have not been notified and we are not a party to the proceedings. The extradition which was upheld by the highest court of the UK is not happening (due to the new proceedings),” advocate Rajat Nair who is representing the Centre told a bench headed by justice UU Lalit.The court then asked Mallya’s counsel, Ankur Saigal, about the nature of the fresh proceedings but Saigal said that he did not have any instructions from his client regarding the same. The bench which also comprises Justice Ashok Bhushan took objection to Saigal’s response.“As his counsel, you must be completely aware. You cannot say you are not aware,” the court remarked.The court has ordered Mallya’s lawyer to give concrete response on November 2 about the nature of the fresh proceedings in UK, when those proceedings are likely to conclude and when Mallya will appear before the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/secret-proceedings-in-uk-delaying-mallya-s-extradition-centre-tells-supreme-court/story-9HXjruvyuyitVKjKSUCioN.html
05-10-2020||India||Woman travels over 800 km from Uttar Pradesh to file rape case in Nagpur||A 22-year-old Nepalese woman travelled all the way from Lucknow to file a rape case here in Maharashtra against a man, police said on Monday.Since the man warned her against approaching police in connection with the alleged offence that took place in the Uttar Pradesh capital, the woman fled from there and somehow managed to reach Nagpur, located over 800 km from Lucknow.She came to a friend here who helped her in lodging a zero FIR, they said.A zero First information Report (FIR) can be filed in any police station and it can be later transferred to the appropriate police station having competent jurisdiction.As per the woman’s complaint, she came to India from Nepal in 2018 for a job.Since March this year, she was staying with a woman friend in the latter’s rented flat on Faizabad Road in Lucknow, senior police inspector Wazeer Sheikh, from Nagpur’s Koradi police station, told PTI.The friend introduced the victim to the accused, Pravin Rajpal Yadav, a Lucknow native who worked as software engineer in Dubai, on a video call.According to the victim, she had kept Rs 1.5 lakh with her friend and when she asked for it, the latter did not return the money and started beating and harassing her.The victim complained about this to Yadav, who then booked a room for the victim at a hotel in Lucknow and asked her to shift there, the official said.After a couple of days, the accused also came to Lucknow from Dubai. He met the victim at the hotel, where he allegedly drugged her and raped her, the official said.The accused also shot some objectionable photographs and videos of the victim. He also took her to a friend’s place in Lucknow where he allegedly again gave her drugs and raped her, the official said.The accused later uploaded the victim’s photos on her social media accounts and threatened to make them viral if she did not listen to him or approached police, the official said.The woman somehow managed to escape from Lucknow and came to a Nepalese friend in Nagpur on September 30.They went to Koradi police station here and lodged a complaint against Yadav and the victim’s woman friend from Lucknow, the official said.Based on the complaint, the police on Saturday lodged a zero FIR against the accused under Indian Penal Code Sections 376 (rape), 354 (molestation), 392 (robbery), 342 (wrongful confinement), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating), he said.The victim along with a police team, the case papers and a cover letter of the Nagpur DCP left for Lucknow on Sunday night for registration of the case with Chinhat police in Lucknow, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-travels-over-800-km-from-uttar-pradesh-to-file-rape-case-in-nagpur/story-WSUYwStTIarTXrGOQ75EFM.html
05-10-2020||India||CPI (M) worker stabbed to death in Kerala, Marxists blame right wing groups||A 26-year-old Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader was stabbed to death in a clash between two groups in Thrissur on Sunday night, police said. The ruling CPI (M) said Sangh Parivar outfits were behind the murder of P U Sanoop but local people said a clash between two groups led to the murder. Police also ruled out political angles in the latest killing. “Police can find out the motive only after investigation. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) will probe the murder,” Thrissur police commissioner A Aditya said after visiting the crime scene.Police said they identified four accused and they would be arrested soon. Three other party workers were also injured in the clash. State Local Self government minister A C Moideen, who hails from the area, was first to blame Sangh Parivar outfits but BJP and RSS leaders denied any role in the murder. “It is a political murder. Bajrang Dal activists and some members of right wing groups committed this heinous crime,” said the minister after visiting the spot.CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan also said it was a political murder. But the Bajrang Dal said it did not have a unit or workers in the area where the murder took place. Local people said tension was brewing in the area between two groups and Sanoop, CPI(M) branch secretary, came there to broker peace but it fizzled out and clashes began. “It was a clash between two groups of goons. The ruling party is on the back foot after a number of corrupt deals including gold smuggling, drug seizure and Life Mission project. It wants to divert attention from these incidents so all criminal incidents are being branded as political violence by the party,” said BJP spokesman B Gopalakrishnan. On August 30 two activists of the Democratic Youth Federation of India, the youth wing of the CPI(M), were stabbed to death in a similar incident in Venjarammoodu in Thiruvananthapuram and the party had blamed the Congress for the twin murders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpi-m-worker-stabbed-to-death-in-kerala-marxists-blame-right-wing-groups/story-Yzah57CsNjd6e44PgZY2HJ.html
05-10-2020||India||Delhi airport changes quarantine ink after Congress leader posts ‘before and after’ photos||After Congress leader Madhu Goud Yaskhi complained about the quality of the ink being used for stamping international passengers arriving at the Delhi international airport, a fresh batch of ink is now being used from Monday. “Dear @HardeepSPuri Ji, can you please look into the chemical being used at Delhi airport for stamping on passengers coming from abroad? Yesterday I was stamped at @DelhiAirport and this is how my hands look now,” Congress national secretary and spokesperson tweeted on Sunday. All international passengers have to undergo seven days of institutional quarantine followed by seven days of home quarantine post arriving in Delhi. However, certain categories of passengers like those with Covid-19 negative certificates from a test done 96 hours prior to the journey are exempted from institutional quarantine. Passengers who have to undergo quarantine at home are stamped “home quarantine” on their hands at the airport.  Dear @HardeepSPuri Ji, can you please look into the chemical being used at Delhi airport for stamping on passengers coming from abroad? Yesterday I was stamped at @DelhiAirport and this is how my hands look now. pic.twitter.com/Gt1tZvGc8LAfter the Congress leader raised the issue, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri thanked him on Twitter and promised to look into the issue.  Thank you for drawing my attention to this. A have spoken to CMD AAI.“We deeply regret the inconvenience caused. The ink used for stamping is a standard indelible ink. We’ve reported the issue to the Delhi State Authorities,” Delhi Airport tweeted. “Currently, this batch of ink is being kept aside for testing by the supplier and further desired action. Thank you for highlighting this issue,” it said. Senior government officials said on Monday that the Delhi state authorities at the airport have started using a fresh batch of ink to stamp the incoming international passengers.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-changes-quarantine-ink-after-congress-leader-posts-before-and-after-photos/story-3KAafH80vEhVOTO7cZZLEO.html
05-10-2020||India||UP panchayat polls 2020: Amethi Police prepare blueprint for safe conduct of polls||Police in Amethi have prepared a blueprint for safely conducting the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls in the district, which will now be held next year, according to a report on Monday. Under the blueprint, every beat constable has been directed to prepare a village tour report in which every little detail regarding a village shall be recorded, HT’s sister publication Hindustan reported.The report will contain details like the population of a village, the status of the population on religious grounds, names of gamblers and alcoholics, history-sheeters, those accused of serious crimes, number of temples and mosques, liquor shops etc, according to Hindustan. A copy of the report will be maintained by the SP’s office as well.Here’s all you need to know about the UP panchayat polls:1. The state election commission will publish the final voter list for the polls on December 29. This is a confirmation that, as expected, the panchayat polls will not take place this year, as earlier scheduled, due to the coronavirus pandemic.2. Booth-level officers (BLO) started conducting door-to-door visits from October 1 to check the voter list. The exercise will continue till November 12.3. Names of those who have turned 18 since the last panchayat polls, in 2015, or will attain this age by January 1, 2021, will be added to the voter list. Names of those who have passed away in this duration, as well as duplicate voters, will be removed.4. Voters can be get added to the voters’ list also by applying online. This can be done from October 1 to November 5 by downloading application forms from the commission’s official website sec.up.nic.in. Door-to-door visits will be conducted from November 6-12 to check these applications.5. Draft voter list will be published on December 6 and voters can check for their names and other details till December 12. In this period, people can also raise objections to the draft voter list.6. These claims and objections will be inspected from December 13 to December 19 and the final voter list published on December 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-panchayat-polls-2020-amethi-police-prepare-blueprint-for-safe-conduct-of-polls/story-61a2eb5OPZ2iB1f7I1Cz0N.html
05-10-2020||India||NDRF rescues man stranded mid-river on a rock overnight in Jharkhand||A 45-year-old man who was marooned on a large rock in the middle of a river in Jharkhand’s Simdega district Sunday evening, was rescued by the NDRF around 1.20 pm on Monday, police said.Police said Wilson Madki who had gone fishing with three others Sunday evening was swept away in a sudden flow of water and was stranded on a large rock mid-river.The incident took place at Ramjol village in Bano block of Simdega district, around 200 km from capital Ranchi and 72-km from Simdega district headquarter.“Wilson has been rescued by an NDRF team, who came from Ranchi, around 1.20 pm. He is in good health and spirit,” Simdega’s superintendent of police (SP) Shams Tabrez said. A local person had tweeted a video of the stranded man and tagged chief minister Hemant Soren whose retweet set in motion the rescue attempt.A 15-member NDRF team from Ranchi, led by inspector Peter Paul Dungdung had left for Bano this morning to rescue Madki after Soren’s retweet. “Madki went to catch fish along with three other fellow fishermen of the village in the river around 6 pm on Sunday. Madki was swept away in a sudden flow of water in the river while the other three fishermen managed to swim back to the river bank,” Tabrez said earlier.He said Madki was seen on a rock in the middle of the river after a few minutes of the incident. He remained there through the night and half of Monday before the NDRF rescued him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-rescues-man-stranded-mid-river-on-a-rock-overnight-in-jharkhand/story-YF3VwSfvudlYeZ71mNLzdJ.html
05-10-2020||India||‘Luxury rally’: Protesting farmers in Amritsar say Rahul Gandhi’s protest just a stunt||As Rahul Gandhi continued to target the Centre over the farm laws during his second tractor rally in Punjab, farmers agitating in Amritsar’s Devi Dasspura village on Monday termed the Congress leader’s rally as a ‘luxury rally’ adding that protests by political parties were stunts ahead of the upcoming elections.The Congress party’s three-day ‘Kheti Bachao Yatra’has entered its second day and Gandhi is expected to cover a distance of 20 kilometres during the day.“The tractors used by Rahul Gandhi are not the ones most farmers use, rather they are luxury tractors. The protest is a ‘luxury rally’. He is using this issue only for political gains in the upcoming 2022 elections. This is just a political stunt. If they really wanted to do something, they should have done it in Parliament,” Sukhwinder Singh Sabran, a farmer leader, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.As the ‘rail roko’ agitation against the farm laws passed by the Centre entered its 12th day on Monday, protesting farmers also announced the extension of the agitation till October 8.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi’s Facebook page sees 40% more engagement than Narendra Modi’sOn the first day of the tractor rally, Gandhi was joined by chief minister Amarinder Singh and several senior party leaders including Navjot Singh Sidhu. The rally on Sunday saw huge crowds of farmers. The two Congress leaders met the protesting farmers and assured them of full support in their fight against these laws. While addressing a gathering at the Lamme Jattpura village in Ludhiana’s Raikot, Gandhi said that the Narendra Modi-led BJP government has been attacking the poor.The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, were passed during the monsoon session of Parliament.Also Read| ‘Modi govt bent on snatching land, bread from farmers’: Rahul GandhiThe government has maintained these laws will help small and marginal farmers to sell produce outside ‘mandis’ and sign agreements with agri-business firms and also do away with stock-holding limits on key commodities.However, protesting farmers especially in states such as Punjab and Haryana have said that these laws could allow the government to stop buying food-grains at the Centre’s Minimum Support Price (MSP) and further push farmers into a trap of exploitation by agribusinesses and other corporates.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/luxury-rally-protesting-farmers-in-amritsar-say-rahul-gandhi-s-protest-just-a-stunt/story-WCOtuySaUPOlrXXKEjdfLJ.html
05-10-2020||India||Bad Boy Billionaires: Sid Mallya says his father is a ‘political pawn who was made an example of’||Former liquor baron Vijay Mallya’s son Siddharth Mallya, appearing in the Netflix docuseries Bad Boy Billionaires has said that his father is a “political pawn” as “they (the government) need a man to make an example of”. Mallya has spoken for the first time since the bank fraud worth Rs 9,000 crore involving his father came to light. The controversial docuseries was released on Monday morning with three episodes on Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Sahara India chief Subrata Roy after a month-long legal battle. However, the fourth episode on the founder of Saytam Computer Services founder B Ramalinga Raju has not been released by the over-the-top (OTT) platform as a Hyderabad court had ordered a stay on its release. Netflix’s plea challenging the Hyderabad court’s decision is still pending. Mallya said in the docuseries “They are saying he didn’t pay his employees, he looted the banks, he fled from the authorities, he money laundered, he siphoned funds…it’s political and they need a scapegoat. They need a political pawn; they need a man to make an example of.” Also Read: Netflix releases controversial series ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’, sans episode on Ramalinga RajuMallya, who is an actor, added that his father was an easy target because of his lifestyle. “Everyone wants scandal, everyone wants a bit of spice, everyone wants a bit of controversy. You know, he was in a sexy business, making alcohol. It’s not like he was, you know, making steel somewhere or something, it’s a lifestyle brand. Therefore, it’s much easier to target him,” said Mallya. He added that his father revolutionised air travel in India and genuinely tried to save the airline. On his father’s lavish parties, Mallya said, “He (Vijay Mallya) was one of the first people in India who wasn’t afraid of spending his money.” “He was unapologetic (about it),” Mallya added. Vijay Mallya had fled to London in March 2016 and is facing extradition to India. Indian agencies have already won the case in the UK courts but Mallya is learnt to have applied for asylum, which is pending with British authorities. Canadian Indian filmmaker Dylan Mohan Gray, who has directed the opening episode on Vijay Mallya, told Hindustan Times, “I am very happy that the series has finally been released. These films are very important in many ways—both in terms of showing the legal aspect and the fact that Indians will see powerful figures whose stories can be told without them having control over it. I think it’s a very important landmark for freedom of expression in India and all kind of filmmaking in India.” Gray said the film on Vijay Mallya has been made using accounts of people who have had some connection with his life. “There was no preconceived agenda in the film and we have been able to produce an authoritative account on Mallya’s life. I think people will appreciate the film”. Netflix officially refused to comment on the release of film. Bad Boy Billionaires was set to be released originally on September 2 but it hit a legal hurdle with Mehul Choksi, whose name appears in the series; Roy and Raju approached courts seeking stay on the docuseries saying it would affect their trial. A lower court in Araria, Bihar had asked Netflix not to use the name of Subrata Roy, which was challenged by Netflix. Roy had argued that series was an attempt to tarnish his image. Choksi, currently living in Antigua and Barbuda, had approached the Delhi high court through advocate Vijay Aggarwal saying his reputation would suffer great injustice should the series be allowed to stream with references to him and the legal cases pending against him. The Delhi high court had dismissed Choksi’s plea while asking the Centre to regulate digital content. Netflix had rigorously defended the allegations saying the government does not regulate content on OTT. The company also relied on the laws of freedom of speech and expression to argue that the series is like a documentary referring to facts which are widely discussed in the public domain even otherwise and aren’t sub-judice in these circumstances. The Centre had also refused to intervene in the matter saying it does not regulate content on OTT platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bad-boy-billionaires-sid-mallya-says-his-father-is-a-political-pawn-made-an-example-of/story-LcIwPOF2ue6MULYYoEoWYL.html
05-10-2020||India||Ransomware attackers threaten to sell narcotics on Pooja Bedi’s e-commerce website||Television and film personality Pooja Bedi became a victim of a ransomware attack with the attackers demanding she pay off an undisclosed sum in order to restore her access to her company’s e-commerce website “happysoul.in.” According to a complaint she has filed with the Goa Police, the actress who lives and works from Goa along with her husband, said that the attackers have threatened to use her site to sell narcotic drugs if she doesn’t pay up. “Dear @DGP_Goa my ecommerce website http://happysoul.in HACKED AGAIN last night & this time they state if i don’t pay ransom they will sell DRUGS on my website. I have registered [an] FIR in Old Goa Police Cyber Cell last week but no action from Cops. My company regd in Goa @goacm,” the actress said in a tweet. A complaint has been registered with the Cyber Cell of the Goa Police. In a separate tweet, the actress revealed that it wasn’t the first time that her site was the target of attacks. Bedi earlier was in the news after in a series of social media posts had complained about the quarantine facilities in Goa that she had to undergo after she entered the state during the lockdown at a time when the state was only allowing for those with a registered address in Goa to enter the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pooja-bedi-files-complaint-with-goa-police-for-ransomware-attack/story-sfB8Fhm82Ot6YUs7QXqGnK.html
05-10-2020||India||Body of soldier who died mysteriously cremated with full military honours in Jammu||Amid gloom the body of a young soldier, who died under mysterious circumstances in Uri sector on Thursday, was cremated with full military honours at Jammu’s Shastri Nagar crematorium on Sunday. On Saturday his family members had placed his body at the busy Satwari Chowk in Jammu and disrupted traffic movement for over two hours. Rifleman Rakshit Choudhary (21), was the son of Kuldeep Singh of Barota Camp in Ramgarh sector of Samba district of Jammu and Kashmir. The family currently lives in Sanjay Nagar area of Jammu city. The family had alleged that something wrong was done to the soldier, who had a “passion to join the army and was a C certificate holder”. The Army had stated that the soldier had died by suicide. However, the soldier’s mother had outrightly refuted the Army’s claims saying, “How could he kill himself? I talked to him that morning at 8 am and he sounded cheerful. He was a bachelor and had no problem back home.” “The mortal remains of the soldier were consigned to flames with full military honours”, a Defence spokesman said.The family was outraged on Saturday morning when the body arrived in a private vehicle escorted by two soldiers in civilian clothes and who headed to their homes on leave. The Army has already ordered a court of inquiry into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/body-of-soldier-who-died-mysteriously-cremated-with-full-military-honours-in-jammu/story-UpqhILvOqluM5EVCDsPMQK.html
05-10-2020||India||Rafale’s induction gives us edge to strike first: IAF chief RKS Bhadauria||The integration of Rafale fighter jets gives the country an edge and the capability to strike first and deep, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Monday three days ahead of the Air Force Day parade on October 8.“Integration of Rafales brings in a platform which is way ahead and would give us an edge and capability to strike first and deep,” Bhadauria, the Indian Air Force (IAF) chief, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Bhadauria added that India has operationalised fighter jets Rafale, helicopters Chinooks and Apache and integrated them as per IAF’s concept of operations in record time. “In the next 3 years, we’ll see Rafale and LCA Mark 1 squadrons operating with full strength, along with additional MiG-29 being ordered in addition to current fleets, ‘’ he said.He also shared the vision to continue to scale up IAF’s combat capability and credibility as a force to reckon through modernisation and operational training, and substantially increase indigenous equipment to achieve self-reliance and strategic autonomy.During the IAF day flypast, all eyes will be on the Rafale jets that are set to take part for the first time. A total of 56 aircraft, including 19 choppers and seven transport aircraft, will fly during the parade.“Rafale is a 4.5 generation, twin-engine omnirole, air supremacy, interdiction, aerial reconnaissance, ground support, in-depth strike, anti-ship and nuclear deterrence fighter aircraft, equipped with a wide range of weapons,” IAF had tweeted on Saturday.The newly-inducted Rafale fighter jets have been made operational in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on its highest state of alert amid the border standoff with neighbouring China. The IAF currently has a fleet of five Rafale fighters. India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016.Jaguar, Sukhoi-30, Mig 29, Tejas, Mirage 2000, Mig 21 Bison will be part of the parade in addition to Mi 35 gunships, Apache attack choppers, C 17 heavy lifters, C130 J Special Ops planes. The Chinook multi-mission choppers will also make an appearance during the flypast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-s-induction-gives-us-edge-to-strike-first-iaf-chief-rks-bhadauria/story-yJWwrRtlySh1rwSh6GylpI.html
05-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Shiv Sena reacts to AIIMS report in Sushant Singh Rajput case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘We’re speechless if CBI probe isn’t trusted’: Sena after AIIMS report on SushantDays after a panel of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) looking into the autopsy report of Sushant Singh Rajput ruled out murder, Shiv Sena on Monday said that it was “speechless” if people still questioned the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI’s) probe into the case. Read moreGST Council meeting starts, spotlight on compensation to statesThe Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting, chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, got underway on Monday in Delhi. Apart from Nirmala Sitharaman, Union minister of state (MoS) for finance Anurag Thakur and finance ministers of states and Union territories (UTs) are also attending the virtual meeting. Read moreIndian foreign secretary, army chief meet Aung San Suu KyiForeign secretary Harsh Shringla and Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane met Myanmar’s state counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi for talks on taking forward bilateral relations in a wide range of areas. Read moreIPL 2020, CSK vs SRH: Shane Watson and Faf du Plessis etch their name in elite IPL list with 181-run standShane Watson and Faf du Plessis ensured that Chennai Super Kings scrapped their losing streak in the 13th season of the Indian Premier League on Sunday. CSK had lost their last 3 matches and were heading on a downward slope. But Watson and du Plessis rose to the occasion against Kings XI Punjab and secured a 10-wicket victory for CSK. Read moreBobby Deol says he was supposed to play Akshay Kumar’s role in Ajnabee: ‘This industry is ruthless’calling the film industry ‘ruthless’, has said that projects he set up were taken away from him in the past. The actor in recent years has been making a steady comeback into the mainstream, and has spoken frankly about dropping out of the limelight for several years. Read more‘Never knew you made out while watching Shah Rukh Khan’s films’: Ekta Kapoor on reviewing Tahira Kashyap’s book ‘The 12 Commandments of Being a Woman’Putting fans rising anticipation to rest, Juggernaut Books is all set to drop Tahira Kashyap Khurrana’s fourth book, The 12 Commandments Of Being A Woman and television producer-director Ekta Kapoor cannot stop gushing over it. Read moreTweeple were asked to name a dish they couldn’t understand why others liked. Here are the answersWhen it comes to food, everyone has their own preferences. Some like a specific dish prepared in a certain way. Others may have their choices in terms of what dish goes best with which other item. However, there are some dishes that are enjoyed by many and there will still be those who don’t like them at all. Read moreIndia’s active Covid cases hit first-ever plateau; Mecca reopens after curbsHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far; India’s Covid active cases hit first-ever plateau; govt targeting 400-500 million vaccine doses by July ’21; Mecca reopens after curbs over Covid-19. Watch the full video for more. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-shiv-sena-reacts-to-aiims-report-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case-and-all-the-latest-news/story-s4lF6Yr4FxoSGyNcb6hKDI.html
05-10-2020||India||Stranded mid-river on a rock overnight, man in Jharkhand awaits rescue||A 45-year-old man, who went fishing on Sunday evening was swept away in sudden flow of water and was marooned on a large rock in the middle of the river in Jharkhand’s Simdega district, is still waiting to be rescued, officials said on Monday.The incident took place at Ramjol village in Bano block of Simdega district, around 200 km from capital Ranchi and 72-km from Simdega district headquarter.A local person tweeted a video of the stranded man and tagged chief minister Hemant Soren whose retweet set in motion a rescue attempt.A 15-member NDRF team from Ranchi, led by inspector Peter Paul Dungdung headed for Bano this morning to rescue the man identified as Wilson Madki. Simdega superintendent of police (SP), Shams Tabrez, said, “Madki went to catch fish along with three other fishermen of the village in the river around 6 pm on Sunday. Madki was swept away in a sudden flow of water in the river while the other three fishermen managed to swim back to the river bank.”He said Madki was seen on a rock in the middle of the river after a few minutes of the incident. “Since then, he has been there and spent the night on it. A 15-member team of NDRF will be there for his rescue,” he said.He said officer in-charge of Bano police station Prabhat Kumar along with Simdega police force has been camping on the spot since last night and they also tried to rescue Madki but without any success.“I talked to the director general of NDRF in Delhi, SN Pradhan early this morning and requested for a rescue team. The 15-member NDRF team left for the spot with rubber boats and other disaster related equipment,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stranded-mid-river-on-a-rock-overnight-man-in-jharkhand-awaits-rescue/story-uKshYIp7ks01sQSrIRATtM.html
05-10-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Shiv Sena says ‘we’re speechless if CBI probe isn’t trusted’||Days after a panel of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) looking into the autopsy report of Sushant Singh Rajput ruled out murder, Shiv Sena on Monday said that it was “speechless” if people still questioned the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI’s) probe into the case.Sena leader Sanjay Raut alleged that since the beginning there has been a conspiracy to malign the Maharashtra government and the Mumbai police, which were earlier investigating Rajput’s death.“It (AIIMS report) is as per the reports of Dr Sudhir Gupta, who is the head of AIIMS Forensic Medical Board in Sushant Singh Rajput death case. He doesn’t have any political connection or any links with the Shiv Sena,” Raut said over the AIIMS report saying that the 34-year-old actor died by suicide, according to news agency ANI.“Since the very beginning, in this case, there has been a conspiracy to malign Maharashtra government and Mumbai Police. If now CBI inquiry is also not being trusted, then we’re speechless,” he added.Raut’s remarks came as Rajput’s family plans to request CBI that a new forensic team be formed as they alleged the AIIMS team’s report was inconclusive. “Highly perturbed with AIIMS report. Going to request CBI Director to constitute a fresh Forensic team. How could AIIMS team give a conclusive report in the absence of the body, that too on such shoddy post mortem done by Cooper hospital wherein time of death also not mentioned,” Vikas Singh, the lawyer of Rajput’s father KK Singh, wrote on Twitter.The lawyer had previously claimed that a doctor who part of the AIIMS panel had told him “long back” that the actor’s photos indicated that it was death by strangulation and not suicide. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-shiv-sena-says-we-re-speechless-if-cbi-probe-isn-t-trusted/story-UUx3rXppjD5h8dHd7lEfBL.html
05-10-2020||India||Hathras case: FIR registered against Chandrashekhar Azad for violating Section 144||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and 400 to 500 others have been booked under multiple sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Epidemic Diseases Act for violating prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Code of Procedure during his visit to Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras on Sunday, news agency ANI reported on Monday.Azad had gone to meet the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who was gang-raped in Bul Gargi village on September 14 by four men who belonged to an upper caste. She was initially admitted to a hospital in Aligarh and was moved to the Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi after her condition worsened. She died on September 29.Also Read: AAP to visit Hathras, SP delegations in Balrampur, Bhadohi todayAfter meeting her family, Azad demanded they be provided with ‘Y’ security cover adding that an inquiry should be done under the inspection of a retired judge of the Supreme Court. He said that he would take the victim’s family to his house if the requisite security cover is not provided.Azad’s visit to Hathras comes at a time when several leaders of opposition parties, including Congress Party’s Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi, met the victim’s family. Priyanka Gandhi had posted five demands on behalf of the family including an investigation into the role of the Hathras’ district magistrate.Last Friday, the Bhim Army chief led a protest march in New Delhi and he was joined by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and CPI leader D Raja were also a part of the protest march.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-fir-registered-against-chandrashekhar-azad-for-violating-section-144/story-kTfXMKi6LraiyYuEt5I0JI.html
05-10-2020||India||Indian foreign secretary, army chief meet Aung San Suu Kyi||Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane met Myanmar’s state counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi for talks on taking forward bilateral relations in a wide range of areas. As part of India’s efforts to help Myanmar fight the Covid-19 pandemic, Shringla and Naravane handed over a consignment of 3,000 vials of the drug Remdesivir to Suu Kyi, officials said. The foreign secretary and the army chief began two-day visit to Myanmar on Sunday, the first time an Indian delegation to the neighbouring country has included both officials. Their meetings with Myanmar’s top civil and military leadership are meant to take forward ties in areas ranging from security to connectivity. Shringla and Naravane discussed “important bilateral issues” during their meeting with Suu Kyi at the foreign ministry in Naypyitaw, the Indian embassy said in a tweet without giving details. 🇮🇳 India Myanmar 🇲🇲 Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane and @harshvshringla, Foreign Secretary along with @AmbSaurabhKumar called on State Counsellor H.E. Daw Aung San Suu Kyi @MyanmarSC at @MOFAMyanmar NayPyiTaw on October 5, 2020. They discussed important bilateral issues. pic.twitter.com/3xnUMFCVsZThe operationalisation of Myanmar’s Sittwe port as part of the Kaladan transit transport project to boost connectivity with India’s northeastern states and enhanced security cooperation to counter activities of militant groups, especially along the borders in Manipur and Nagaland are among the key issues on the agenda of the Indian delegation, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Also Read: Army chief, foreign secretary to seal shipping agreement and security ties with MyanmarIn August, India provided Myanmar $5 million as the annual contribution under a border area development programme that was started in 2012. The programme was initially meant to last five years, and it was later extended till 2022. It has led to the implementation of around 140 projects in Myanmar’s Chin state and Naga Self-Administered Zone. The safe return of Rohingya refugees from Bangladesh to Myanmar is also expected to figure during the visit. Dhaka has been pressing New Delhi to use its good relations with Naypyitaw to push forward the process, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-foreign-secretary-army-chief-meet-aung-san-suu-kyi/story-DMWE8yX5JMV4bqDNEK8bJN.html
05-10-2020||India||Protests, blockades in Barrackpore in BJP’s 12-hour bandh after leader’s murder||Bharatiya Janata Party workers and supporters staged protests and blocked roads at multiple points in Barrackpore and adjoining areas in North 24 Parganas as a part of the 12-hour bandh called by the party on Monday, police said. On Sunday, a BJP leader Manish Shukla was shot dead by some masked assailants at Titagarh in North 24 Parganas. Shukla was also an outgoing councillor of the Titagarh municipality. Elections are due in around 110 civic bodies in the state. BJP national general secretary and election observer for West Bengal, Kailash Vijayvargiya has demanded a CBI probe into the incident. While a section of the shops was closed and there were less people on the roads public transport were operating normally. Large contingents of police including RAF personnel have been deployed to maintain law and order, a senior police official in Barrackpore said. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar took up the issue and summoned the home secretary and Director General of Police to the Raj Bhawan at 10 am on Monday. Shukla, who defected from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) two years ago, was a popular organisational leader. The news of his death led to tension in large parts of the Barrackpore Lok Sabha constituency of which Titagarh is a part. TMC’s Panihati legislator, Nirmal Ghosh, said the ruling party had no role in the attack. “This is a fallout of rivalry inside the BJP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-blockades-in-barrackpore-in-bjp-s-12-hour-bandh-after-leader-s-murder/story-kb9cA0RoDUKeBBCOvAHBZM.html
05-10-2020||India||AAP to visit Hathras, SP delegations in Balrampur, Bhadohi today||The opposition build-up against the Adityanath government on the alleged gang rape and murder in Hathras as well as crime against women in other parts of Uttar Pradesh is set to continue on Monday. The Samajwadi Party has decided to send delegations to various parts of the state where several women have been assaulted while an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) delegation is scheduled to visit Hathras on Monday to meet kin of the Hathras victim. Delhi Cabinet Minister Rajender Pal Gautam along with AAP Rajya Sabha MP, Sanjay Singh, will lead a delegation of the party’s UP unit to Hathras. Sanjay Singh had also demanded a CBI probe into the matter under supervision of a sitting Supreme Court judge. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath who has already recommended a CBI probe into the incident, has accused the opposition of attempting to incite caste and communal riots in the state. The 19-year-old woman died last week following a brutal assault which left her with a broken spine among other serious injuries. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi met the kin of the deceased in Hathras on October 3. Samajwadi Party (SP) delegations would go and visit three different districts on Monday involving three different cases of crime against women. A four-member delegation of the Samajwadi Party would visit Majholi village to meet the family of a Dalit woman who died after alleged gang grape in Balrampur, another delegation would go to the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) hospital and meet another girl who is being treated after she was assaulted.This delegation with six members would probe the case and on its return would submit its report to the state headquarters in Lucknow, said a statement released by the party on Sunday. The statement said that yet another delegation will go to Tiwaripur village in Bhadohi to probe the incident of gang rape and murder of a minor girl. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday asserted that “those who have families” should unite to protect their sisters and daughters. “Only then the arrogance-induced slumber of the rulers would end,” he said in a series of three tweets after a day of protests by almost all opposition parties in connection with the alleged gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras.In the tweets in Hindi, Akhilesh said: “In cases of rape, be it Hathras, Balrampur or Banda, every government should rise above the politics of religion, caste, class, vote, influence, biases and pledge for women’s safety and security.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-to-visit-hathras-sp-delegations-in-balrampur-bhadohi-today/story-yI4qxYFBIDA9cGSxntVwaJ.html
05-10-2020||India||‘Raid Raj BJP’s only Machiavellian Move’: Cong reacts to DK Shivakumar raids||The Congress Karnataka unit on Monday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of using the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) as an electoral weapon following the agency’s raids at multiple locations linked to state party leader DK Shivakumar and his brother DK Suresh.The CBI is conducting raids at 14 locations including the leaders’ residence and business establishments. As many as 60 CBI men are involved in the raids, police officials familiar with the matter said. Locations being raided include the brothers’ premises in Bengaluru, Ramanagar, Kanakapura, Delhi and Mumbai.“The CBI attack is the BJP’s permanent electoral process. BJP’s fear of losing the by-election. We condemn the CBI attack on hate politics,” the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee wrote on Twitter in Kannada. Also Watch | CBI raids premises linked to DK Shivakumar; Congress says it’s a witch-huntThe party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala called the CBI a puppet of the Modi-Yeddyurappa duo and said that they won’t be deterred by the move. “The insidious game of intimidation & machinations of Modi-Yeddyurappa duo being executed by a puppet CBI by raiding @DKShivakumar won’t deter us. CBI should be unearthing the layers of corruption in Yeddyurappa Govt. But, ‘Raid Raj’ is their only ‘Machiavellian Move’ !” Surjewala tweeted.In another tweet, he added that Modi and Yeddyurappa’s “devious attempts” will only strengthen the Congress party’s resolve to fight for people and expose BJP’s “maladministration.” “Let Modi & Yeddyurappa Govts & BJP’s frontal organizations i.e CBI-ED-Income Tax know that Congress workers & leaders will not be cowed down nor bow down before such devious attempts. Our resolve to fight for people & expose BJP’s maladministration only becomes stronger,” he wrote.The insidious game of intimidation & machinations of Modi-Yeddyurappa duo being executed by a puppet CBI by raiding @DKShivakumar won’t deter us.CBI should be unearthing the layers of corruption in Yeddyurappa Govt. But, ‘Raid Raj’ is their only ‘Machiavellian Move’ !1/2Leader of opposition and former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah also took to the microblogging site to criticise the CBI raids and accused the BJP of indulging in vendetta politics. “@BJP4India has always tried to indulge in vindictive politics & mislead public attention. The latest CBI raid on @KPCCPresident @DKShivakumar’s house is another attempt to derail our preparation for bypolls. I strongly condemn this,” he tweeted.State Congress working president Saleem Ahmed told reporters, “Afraid of losing Sira and RR Nagar by-polls, BJP is resorting to these tactics. We won’t be cowed down and will fight this.”The Congress will hold a protest meet at its headquarters in Bengaluru against CBI’s move on KPCC chief Shivakumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-has-become-bjp-s-electoral-weapon-congress-reacts-to-dk-shivakumar-raids/story-KpKpDQKge5nqkARu9SuZqN.html
05-10-2020||India||CAG slams Centre for not monitoring funds for ‘Fortified Police Stations’ in Naxal-hit states||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has slammed the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for its failure to monitor the unutilised funds lying with at least 10 states for the construction of fortified police stations or outposts in 83 districts affected by Left-wing extremist (LWE) violence. The federal auditor has said that the funds amounting to Rs 52.18 crore out of Rs 623 crore was released between 2012 and 2016 for the construction of 400 police stations or outposts in 83 LWE-hit districts of 10 states. Also read: Kanha National Park now a Maoist habitat, say policeBut the funds were still lying unused even three years after the scheme had ceased to be in operation, the CAG has said in a report. The CAG has pointed out that Madhya Pradesh (MP) spent about Rs 3.79 crore on the construction of two additional police stations, which were not part of the scheme, and has cited them as “irregular”. Under the Fortified Police Stations (FPS) scheme, the MHA was tasked to assist the state governments in the construction and strengthening of 400 police stations at a cost of Rs 2 crore each for a police station. The allocation of funds between the Centre and state governments was on a ratio of 80:20.The scheme was aimed at securing the police personnel from the Communist Party of India (Maoist) rebels. The scheme stipulated that high boundary walls, sophisticated control rooms and watchtowers were to be built in each of the 400 designated police stations or outposts in 83 LWE-hit districts of 10 states. The report stated that the MHA had released Rs 623.89 crore between 2011-12 and 2015-16 to 10 states as a part of the Centre’s share. Data showed that until August 2019, 397 police stations were constructed at a cost of Rs 751.33 crore, while the building of three more were still in progress in Bihar. The scheme had ceased to be in operation from April 2016. “The audit has noticed that the MHA while monitoring the scheme through progress reports submitted by the states had failed to recover the unutilised Central share lying with them (the states) on completion of the projects in contravention of the GFRs (General Financial Rules). On this being pointed out by the audit, the MHA sought information about the unutilised Central share from the state governments in May 2018. The status as of September 2019 revealed that in eight states, there were savings, including interests, to the tune of Rs 52.18 crore, while MP had utilised the unutilised Central assistance of Rs 3.79 crore on the construction of two additional police stations,” the report said. The MHA has recovered Rs 22.69 crore, but Rs 33.28 crore is still outstanding from at least eight states, it added.The MHA is yet to respond to HT’s queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cag-slams-centre-for-not-monitoring-funds-for-fortified-police-stations-in-naxal-hit-states/story-9bB7zApBVnl1pQDPZp589N.html
05-10-2020||India||India exceeds WHO’s Covid-19 tests advisory by 6 times: Govt||India has exceeded the 140 tests per day per million population for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) recommendation by World Health Organization (WHO) by nearly six times, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Monday.“India has exceeded 140 tests/day/million population as advised by @WHO by nearly 6 times. Several States/UTs have demonstrated better performance than the national average,” the health ministry said in a tweet.According to a graph posted along with the tweet, India is on an average conducting 828 tests per day per million population, with Delhi, Goa and Karnataka performing the highest number of average daily tests at 2,717, 1,319, and 1,261 respectively while Rajasthan was the lowest with 280 tests.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Nine states are conducting more than 1,000 Covid-19 tests per day per million population, according to the ministry. As of Sunday, a total of 7,99,82,394 tests had been conducted in the country with 989,860 samples on that day, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR’s) data.The government has also credited massive testing across states for the country’s sustained low Covid-19 fatality rate (CFR). India had conducted the first test for the viral infection on January 23 at ICMR’s Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV). The country has now expanded its testing network by 1,751 laboratories, including those from the government and private sector.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage India recorded a one-day jump of 74,442 Covid-19 cases and 903 fatalities in the last 24 hours pushing its tally past 6.6 million, the health ministry’s data showed on Monday morning. Recoveries from the viral disease have soared past 5.58 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-exceeds-who-s-covid-19-tests-advisory-by-6-times-govt/story-UUdfyYSDZbejZB88c1aZSO.html
05-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi’s Facebook page sees 40% more engagement than Narendra Modi’s||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s Facebook page recorded over 40% more engagements than Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s from September 25 to October 2, the Congress has said. The party’s assessment is based on data mined from Facebook analytics, which allows monitoring of up to five pages. It shows 13.9 million engagements with Gandhi’s posts during this period. The engagements include comments, likes, and shares. The four other pages monitored as part of the exercise include that of Modi, the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP), the Congress, and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Also Watch | Rahul Gandhi rides tractor, addresses farmers on Day 1 of Punjab protestModi, who is among the top five most followed world leaders on social media, has 45.9 million followers compared to Gandhi’s 3.5 million on Facebook. His engagements last week, according to Congress data, were only 8.2 million. Also Read: Congress to hold ‘satyagraha’ across states to demand justice for Hathras rape victimBJP’s official page with 16 million followers had responses from 2.3 million people, compared to Congress’s 3.6 million. The Congress has 5.6 million followers on Facebook. Gandhi’s followers also grew by 3.5% and he posted 52 times during this period.Modi attended major events, addressed the UN general assembly, and posted 11 times from September 25 to October 2.A Congress functionary said the key variable is engagement. “…although Rahul Gandhi has far fewer followers than Narendra Modi, the former’s engagement levels are much higher that include likes, comments, shares, etc,” the functionary said on condition of anonymity. “It is a key indicator of how audiences are relating to the content.” The functionary added the spike has coincided with protests against the alleged gang-rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras. Gandhi has led Congress’s protests from the front. He managed to meet the woman’s family along with Priyanka Gandhi on Saturday after they were prevented from doing so a day earlier. “I met Hathras victim’s family and understood their pain,” Gandhi posted on Facebook. “I assured them that we will stand by them in this difficult time and help them get justice. UP [Uttar Pradesh] government will not be able to do whatever it wishes even if wants to, because now the whole country is standing to get justice for the daughter of this country.” The post had over 450,000 likes as of Monday morning. Also Read: Rahul Gandhi vows to scrap contentious farm laws once Congress returns to power at CentreGandhi has gone from being a sporadic user of social media to a relentless critic of the government on Twitter and Facebook. He has also gone live on issues like the Kheti Bachao Yatra that he has led against farm laws passed in Parliament last month. Gandhi has also put out a series of video conversations with global and Indian thought leaders to discuss the Covid-19 crisis and its consequences on the country’s economy. Dilip Cherian, a communications consultant, said there may be three factors for the surge. “The first is what we call the issue factor. The prime minister has not spoken on Hathras issue and engagement on the same has been very high on Facebook. The second is the ‘newbieness’ factor, which works for Rahul as we have not seen this level of activity from him before; it tends to attract a wider audience. And the third is ‘anti-establishment’ aspect, wherein people gravitate towards a discourse against the ruling dispensation,” he said. “The prime minister is very consistent in his social media posts. Perhaps, his lack of engagement on the issue has led to the surge.”HT reached out to BJP’s IT cell chief Amit Malviya for comments but did not immediately get a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-s-facebook-page-sees-40-more-engagement-than-narendra-modi-s/story-IJP07yRm0vor9N9UetPjAM.html
05-10-2020||India||Netflix releases controversial series ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’, sans episode on Ramalinga Raju||Netflix, the world’s world’s leading streaming entertainment service, has released its controversial docu-series, “Bad boy Billionaires,” which showcases the alleged fraud committed by business tycoons such as Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Sahara India chief Subrata Roy, after a month of legal tussle. However, the episode on Satyam Computer Services founder B Ramalinga Raju has been held by the over the top (OTT) platform. The digital platform released three episodes on Mallya, Modi and Roy after a court in Bihar’s Araria district on Saturday vacated the stay it had imposed on the release in September from airing the series. “Bad Boy Billionaires” was set to be released originally on September 2, but it had hit a legal hurdle after Mehul Choksi, whose name appears in the series, Roy and Raju approached courts seeking stay on the docu-series saying it would affect their trials. Also Watch | Henry Cavill interview: Enola Holmes star appreciates fan support for Man of SteelPeople familiar with the developments said Raju’s matter is still pending in Hyderabad court, and as a result, the episode on him has not been released.A lower court in Araria had asked Netflix not to use the name of Roy, which was challenged by Netflix. Roy had argued that the series was an attempt to tarnish his image. Choksi, who has taken the citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in the Caribbean islands, had approached the Delhi high court (HC) through advocate Vijay Aggarwal saying his reputation would suffer should the series be allowed to stream with references to him and the legal cases pending against him. The Delhi HC had dismissed Choksi’s plea and had asked the Centre to regulate the digital content. Netflix had defended the allegations saying the Indian government does not regulate content on OTT platforms. The American technology and media services provider also relied on the laws of freedom of speech and expression to argue that the series is like a documentary, referring to facts, which are widely discussed in the public domain and aren’t sub-judice. The Centre also refused to intervene in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/netflix-releases-controversial-series-bad-boy-billionaires-sans-episode-on-ramalinga-raju/story-5VNA6uQHGcC1f7Hv3bia8N.html
05-10-2020||India||CBI raids Congress’ DK Shivakumar, DK Suresh in alleged corruption case; party calls it political vendetta||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday conducted simultaneous raids at multiple locations across the country, including residences as well as business establishments, connected with Karnataka Congress leader DK Shivakumar and his brother DK Suresh in alleged a corruption case, officials said.The raids by the central agency were immediately condemned by the Congress party, which called it a political vendetta and an “insidious game of intimidation”. The Karnataka government had on September 25, 2019, given sanction to CBI to probe DK Shivakumar under the prevention of corruption act. The case emanates from an ED probe and the anti-money laundering probe agency had arrested Shivakumar last year.“CBI has registered a case against then Minister of Karnataka Government and others on the allegations of acquisition of Disproportionate Assets. Searches are being conducted today at 14 locations including 9 in Karnataka, 4 in Delhi, one in Mumbai. Details will follow,” the agency said in a statement. The case against Shivakumar is for amassing disproportionate assets, it added.The raids by CBI started at 6am at their residence located in Doddallahalli village in Kanankapura constituency, which is represented by Shivakumar in the state assembly. DK Suresh represents Bengaluru Rural in the Lok Sabha. Officials familiar with the development said the locations, including the Delhi residences of Suresh, are being raided by at least 60 officials of the central agency. One of the residences being raided is that of Iqbal Hussain, a close aide of Shivakumar. Officials said CBI has recovered Rs 50 lakh from premises it has searched in the corruption case related to Shivakumar.Several leaders of the Congress party tweeted to condemn the raids.“The insidious game of intimidation & machinations of Modi-Yeddyurappa duo being executed by a puppet CBI by raiding @DKShivakumar won’t deter us. CBI should be unearthing the layers of corruption in Yeddyurappa Govt. But, ‘Raid Raj’ is their only ‘Machiavellian Move’!” Randeep Singh Surjewala, the Congress’ national spokesperson, tweeted.“Let Modi & Yeddyurappa Govts & BJP’s frontal organizations i.e CBI-ED-Income Tax know that Congress workers & leaders will not be cowed down nor bow down before such devious attempts. Our resolve to fight for people & expose BJP’s maladministration only becomes stronger,” he added. The insidious game of intimidation & machinations of Modi-Yeddyurappa duo being executed by a puppet CBI by raiding @DKShivakumar won’t deter us.CBI should be unearthing the layers of corruption in Yeddyurappa Govt. But, ‘Raid Raj’ is their only ‘Machiavellian Move’ !1/2Karnataka Congress tweeted that CBI has become a permanent electoral weapon for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “We condemn this politics of vendetta,” it said.The Congress party said it will hold a protest meet at its headquarters against the CBI raid. “Afraid of losing the Sira and RR Nagar by-polls, the BJP is resorting to these tactics. We won’t be cowed down and will fight this,” Saleem Ahmed, the Congress state working president, said.The CBI raids were also condemned by senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah. “@BJP4India has always tried to indulge in vindictive politics & mislead public attention. The latest CBI raid on @KPCCPresident @DKShivakumar ‘s house is another attempt to derail our preparation for bypolls. I strongly condemn this,” Siddaramaiah tweeted. .@BJP4India has always tried to indulge in vindictive politics & mislead public attention.The latest CBI raid on @KPCCPresident @DKShivakumar's house is another attempt to derail our preparation for bypolls.I strongly condemn this.“After ED and I-T they have unleashed CBI. This is vendetta for what DKS did during the RS polls of our leader Ahmed Patel. We have belief and trust in the judiciary. We will fight it out,” Lakshmi Hebbalkar, former minister and Congress MLA, said.Hundreds of supporters of the Congress leader gathered at the posh Sadashivnagar residence of Shivakumar and Suresh. Suresh appeared on the balcony of his residence and asked the supporters with folded hands to disperse, saying that the officials should be allowed to do their job.Shivakumar was arrested on September 23 last year by ED in the money laundering case and was lodged in Delhi’s Tihar Jail under judicial custody. He was released a month later after Delhi High Court granted him bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-conducts-raids-at-14-locations-related-to-karnataka-congress-leader-dk-shivakumar-brother-dk-suresh/story-F98179bUbamF2KJ4zGrJMM.html
05-10-2020||India||Congress works to sustain Hathras momentum in Uttar Pradesh||The Congress might have leveraged the Hathras incident (the rape and subsequent death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman), but the party now faces the challenge of sustaining the momentum in the country’s politically important state of Uttar Pradesh where it has been relegated to the margins in the past three decades. Images of the Uttar Pradesh Police manhandling Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday and his sister and party general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who were on their way to Hathras on Saturday to meet the family of the woman who died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday a fortnight after she was allegedly gang-raped in her village, have been shared widely on social media. They also appear to have emboldened party leaders and workers to sharpen their attack on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) both in the state and Centre. Also Read: Congress to hold ‘satyagraha’ across states to demand justice for Hathras rape victim“These images are disturbing and have agitated not only Congress leaders and workers but the entire country. How can a policeman misbehave with any woman? And this happened to somebody who has Z plus security cover,” said Youth Congress president Srinivas BV. Several Congress leaders, including former Kerala chief minister Oommen Chandy, compared the Gandhi siblings’ Hathras visit to Indira Gandhi’s visit to Belchi in Bihar in 1977. It is said to have revived the electoral fortunes of the Congress after its humiliating defeat in the 1977 national elections. Indira Gandhi travelled by train, jeep and tractor and rode an elephant to reach Belchi village where 10 Dalits had been massacred. Three years later, the Congress stormed to power in the 1980 Lok Sabha elections. But the BJP described the Gandhi siblings’ visit to Hathras as “political tourism” and accused the Congress of politicising the issue. At the centre of the storm, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said those against development were trying to stoke caste and communal riots in the state. Congress leaders say the party plans to aggressively raise the Hathras issue in the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar and other states (including Uttar Pradesh) where by-polls are going to be held next month. Also Read: Rahul Gandhi vows to scrap contentious farm laws once Congress returns to power at CentreBut the big task for the opposition party will be to ensure that the momentum generated by the Hathras incident is sustained in the run up to the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. In the past too, the party created a buzz on a few occasions but failed to sustain it. The Gandhi siblings, especially Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, were at the forefront of the agitation against the amendment to the citizenship law late last year, visiting families of those killed in violent protests over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the proposed pan-India National Register of Citizens (NRC) exercise. The Congress sought to tap the anger of the youth, especially students, against the BJP, but the drive soon fizzled out. Similarly, the party clearly stole the limelight from the Samajwadi party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on the crisis over migrant workers travelling back to Uttar Pradesh during the coronavirus disease-induced nationwide lockdown with its aggressive posturing against the BJP. While the BJP and the Congress slugged it out in the open, the two regional parties – SP and BSP – surprisingly watched the developments from a distance. But after few video messages, the Congress seemingly lost the tempo. This time, however, Congress leaders say they will not let the BJP government go unchecked in UP. “The Hathras incident has shocked India. It has highlighted the state of affairs in UP. Such incidents take place almost every day in the state and law and order has completely collapsed. The BJP government wants to brazen it out but this will not be allowed,” said senior Congress leader Jitin Prasada. “Politics is one thing and the other is actually feeling for the aggrieved. We will be doing what an opposition party has to do but this incident is heart-breaking. We will not allow the BJP government to go unchecked in UP,” he added. One of the reasons identified by political experts for the lack of momentum on any issue is the lack of organisational structure on the ground, given that the party has remained out of power for over three decades since 1989. “Over the years, Congress has ceded its political space to other parties and its traditional vote base has shifted. While its Dalit vote went to BSP, the Muslims sided with SP and the upper castes aligned themselves with the BJP. The Congress has also not taken any concrete steps to strengthen the organisation over the years,” said Allahabad-based political analyst Professor Ramkishor Shastri. “In 2009 Congress won 22 Lok Sabha seats. It could have used that opportunity to build up its organisational structure but it failed to do so,” he added. Having been decimated in UP in the 2017 assembly elections and this year’s Lok Sabha polls, the Congress is struggling to make its presence felt in the state’s political landscape. The party had dominated the politics of UP till the emergence of Mandal-Mandir issues in late 1980s. Over the years, it has been relegated to the political margins. The party even lost its traditional bastion of Amethi in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections with BJP’s Smriti Irani defeating Rahul Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-eye-on-up-by-polls-congress-works-to-sustain-hathras-momentum/story-b67SEj0FT3DYEdpaICA6ZM.html
05-10-2020||India||Phoolbagan station of Kolkata’s East-West metro starts functioning||The Phoolbagan station of Kolkata’s East-West Metro, which was inaugurated by Union railways minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday, began functioning from 8 am on Monday. Authorities said that this would be a major boost for the city’s infrastructure because the Phoolbagan metro station is located close to the Sealdah railway station which caters to more than a million passengers every day and is one of the busiest railway stations in India. Local trains connect Kolkata with the suburban areas. “Once complete, the East-West Metro will connect two of India’s busiest railway stations – Howrah and Sealdah. With the Phoolbagan station operational, the passenger count of the East-West metro corridor will rise significantly as it is located less than 2.5 km from Sealdah station, which connects Kolkata with the suburban areas and other districts,” said a metro railway official. Phoolbagan is the first underground station in the East-West metro to be commissioned. Travel time from Phoolbagan to the IT hub in Salt Lake’s Sector V will be 16 minutes. By road it takes an hour. The station has platform screen doors, ticket vending machines and toilets While the North-South metro came into being in 1984 and was India’s first metro rail, the East-West metro started running in February 2020. Phoolbagan will increase the passenger count of East-West metro and help lakhs of people in the coming days as it is located close to Sealdah station. Local train services from Sealdah haven’t resumed yet. The entire 16.5 km of the East-Westmetro is expected to be completed by the end of 2021.  After resumption of metro services from September 14, even though the North-South metro, which has become the city’s lifeline over the years is getting more than 50,000 passengers, the East-West corridor is getting less than 200 passengers per day. Authorities had said that the count would rise once Phoolbagan becomes operational and local train services resume at Sealdah. The entire 16.5 km of the East-West metro is expected to be completed by the end of 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phoolbagan-station-of-kolkata-s-east-west-metro-starts-functioning/story-w1BLtUYHZJTe84w3x4RiOL.html
05-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rahul Gandhi to continue attacking Centre over farm laws on Day 2 of tractor rally and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On Day 2 of tractor rally, Rahul Gandhi to continue his attack on Centre over farm lawsCongress leader Rahul Gandhi will continue his attack on the Centre over the recently-passed farm laws when he will begin his second round of tractor rally in Punjab on Monday, a day after it saw massive participation from party leaders and farmers supporting the protest. Read moreMercury drops, Delhi’s air begins to worsenThe Capital is inching towards an air pollution spike, with winds slowing down and the mornings getting colder. On Sunday morning for instance, winds in the city were calm and the minimum temperature was 18.5°C, three degrees below normal. Read moreOpposition attempting to spark riots in Uttar Pradesh: CM Yogi AdityanathChief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday virtually launched the BJP’s campaign for the November 3 by-polls by accusing the opposition of attempting to spark caste and communal riots in UP for political gains. Read moreBihar Assembly Election 2020: Congress set to finalise first list of candidates todayThe Congress is expected to finalise its first list of candidates for the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar at a meeting of the party’s central election committee (CEC) on Monday, people familiar with the development said. Read moreOil rises more than 1% after upbeat signals from Trump’s doctorsOil prices rose more than 1% on Monday, lifted by comments from doctors for US President Donald Trump suggesting he could be discharged from hospital as soon as Monday, just a few days after his positive test for Covid-19 sparked widespread alarm. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Beyond my understanding why KKR is doing this,’ Aakash Chopra baffled by Dinesh Karthik and Co.’s strategyFormer India opener Aakash Chopra was baffled at the strategies adopted by Kolkata Knight Riders against Delhi Capitals in an IPL 2020 match in Sharjah. Chopra questioned captain Dinesh Karthik and the KKR team management’s logic of sending England captain Eoin Morgan as low as No.6 when they were chasing 229 for victory. Read moreCan you guess what connects Anand Mahindra and Harsh Goenka in these images?Harsh Goenka and Anand Mahindra are two business tycoons who have huge fan followings on Twitter. They often share tweets that prompt people to post all sorts of reactions. Now, Goenka has posted a tweet which also involves Anand Mahindra and it has created a buzz among tweeple. Read moreTaapsee Pannu takes a dig at news channels: ‘You held the fort of entertainment long enough on our behalf’Taapsee Pannu took a jibe at certain news channels which, according to her, prioritise entertainment over news. She sarcastically said that the film industry can reclaim the responsibility of entertaining people, now that the Ministry of Home Affairs is allowing movie theatres to reopen with 50% occupancy from October 15, in areas outside containment zones. Read moreWatch| Covid: ‘Ups & downs’ in Donald Trump’s condition, being given 2 medicines||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rahul-gandhi-to-continue-attacking-centre-over-farm-laws-on-day-2-of-tractor-rally-and-all-the-latest-news/story-sPTJZ53F9OH8dzKnPCAT5M.html
05-10-2020||India||Bengal BJP calls for 12-hr bandh in Barrackpore over party councillor’s murder||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) West Bengal unit has called for a 12-hour bandh in Barrackpore city on Monday to protest the alleged murder of its councillor Manish Shukla in Titagarh area of the state’s North 24 Parganas district.Shukla was shot multiple times on Sunday and died at a private hospital in Kolkata later. BJP workers, who were present at the spot, claimed the attackers came in a motorcycle and that their faces were covered.An official release of the BJP stated that general secretary Sanjay Singh, vice-president Arjun Singh and president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha Saumitra Khan will be a part of various protests that will be held across Barrackpore.The BJP’s Bengal unit blamed the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) for Shukla’s murder and demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the matter. It also pointed out that West Bengal is being turned into a place where murders are being normalised.Also Read: BJP district leader shot dead in Bengal, Guv Jagdeep Dhankhar summons home secretary“Bengal is now being turned into a place where murders are normalised! Manish Shukla, BJP councillor from Titagarh was shot by TMC goons. These series of murders clearly indicates towards your inevitable end of TMC,” Bengal BJP tweeted.Dilip Ghosh, the BJP’s Bengal unit president, described Shukla’s killing as “political terrorism” of the TMC and questioned whether any justice can be expected from the state government.West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has summoned West Bengal additional chief secretary (home) and the DGP to the Raj Bhawan at 10am on Monday. “ACS Home @MamataOfficial and DGP @WBPolice have been summoned at 10 am tomorrow in the wake of worsening law and order situation leading to dastardly killing of Manish Shukla, Councillor, Titagarh Municipality in political party office,” he tweeted on Sunday night.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-calls-for-12-hr-bandh-in-barrackpore-over-party-councillor-s-murder/story-O6kLVjPnSsVQYiULa6cNBN.html
05-10-2020||India||Depression likely to form over Andaman Sea; widespread rains can delay monsoon withdrawal||A fresh low-pressure area is likely to form over northern Andaman Sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal around October 9. It is likely to move north-westwards towards northern Andhra Pradesh (AP) and Odisha coasts with gradual intensification into a depression, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin.Though it’s unlikely that the low-pressure area will intensify into a cyclone, there will be widespread and heavy rainfall due to it between October 11 and 13.Also read: After 61 years, India records two consecutive years of ‘above normal’ rainIMD has declared the end of monsoon season on September 30, but showers are continuing in both eastern and southern India, while north-west India is largely dry. Usually, monsoon is expected to withdraw completely from all parts of the country by October 15, but this year there is likely to be a delay due to widespread rainfall in October.The withdrawal line of monsoon continues. It is passing through latitude 28°N and longitude 82°E, which includes places such as Bahraich, Gwalior, Sawai Madhopur and Jawai dam. The conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of monsoon from Rajasthan, some more parts of Uttar Pradesh (UP), Madhya Pradesh (MP) and Gujarat during the next two days. The withdrawal of the monsoon is likely to slow down because widespread rainfall is also expected in central India.“As of now, it appears that the low-pressure area will move northwest wards and intensify into a depression. There will be heavy and widespread rainfall in AP and Odisha under its influence,” said Sunitha Devi, who is in-charge of cyclones at IMD.A low-pressure area is also lying over the northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha coast. It is likely to persist until Monday and become less marked thereafter. However, its associated cyclonic circulation is very likely to move over to southern Chhattisgarh on Tuesday and will remain active until the following day.Under the influence of the current low-pressure area over the northwest Bay of Bengal, fairly widespread and heavy rainfall is likely over Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal during the next four days. Isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Odisha until Tuesday, in Jharkhand until Wednesday, over Bihar and Chhattisgarh on Tuesday and Wednesday. Under the influence of a fresh low-pressure area, rainfall activity is very likely to increase over Odisha and coastal AP during October 11 to 13.Fishermen are advised not to venture into the Andaman Sea, east central and adjoining south-east Bay of Bengal on October 9 and 10; over central Bay of Bengal on October 10 and 11 and over northern Bay of Bengal on October 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/depression-likely-to-form-over-andaman-sea-widespread-rains-can-delay-monsoon-withdrawal/story-t7RtnLCwKllv66n0flXGhN.html
05-10-2020||India||On Day 2 of tractor rally, Rahul Gandhi to continue attack on Centre over farm laws||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will continue his attack on the Centre over the recently-passed farm laws when he will begin his second round of tractor rally in Punjab on Monday, a day after it saw massive participation from party leaders and farmers supporting the protest.On the second day of the party’s ‘Kheti Bachao Yatra’, Gandhi will cover a distance of 20km, beginning with a reception at Barnala Chowk in the Sangrur district, from where the Congress leader and his team will travel by car to Bhawanigarh to address a public meeting. They will then head to Samana in Patiala district on tractors. Their receptions will be held at Fatehgarh Chhana and Bahmna, before ending the day with a public meeting at Grain Market, Samana.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi vows to scrap contentious farm laws once Congress returns to power at CentreGandhi had expressed solidarity with the agrarian community on the first day of the tractor rally and called out the Centre asking if the farmers were happy why were they protesting against the legislation passed during Parliament’s monsoon session. “And if farmers are happy with these laws, then why are they agitating across the country? Why is every farmer of Punjab agitating?” he asked.The Congress leader also released a ‘kisan-mazdoor ekta’ (farmer-labourer unity) flag.He was joined by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, and a battery of senior Congress leaders. The chief minister urged Gandhi to bring the farmers from across India under one roof for an organised protest against the Centre. “The Akalis sold off the farmers’ interests as part of the Central government, with Bathinda MP Harsimrat Badal being party to the decision as a minister. The Centre might pay MSP for a couple of crops, but eventually it would scrap the system completely,” he added.The protest march in Punjab covered a distance of approximately 22km on the first day, starting from Badni Kalan in the state’s Moga district, then headed to Ludhiana’s Jagraon and moved ahead to Chakar, Lakha and Manoke before concluding in Raikot.The Congress team’s 50km tractor rally will end in Punjab on Tuesday. They will start from Dudhan Sadhan in the Patiala district with a public meeting, then head for Pehowa border, which is at a distance of 10km.Gandhi will then enter Haryana for a two-day tractor rally and roadshows in the state against the three farm laws - The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-day-2-of-tractor-rally-rahul-gandhi-to-continue-his-attack-on-centre-over-farm-laws/story-XGmoqDVhPQo5wCkui2HbiL.html
05-10-2020||India||UP power dept staff boycott work in protest against privatization||Employees in the power department of the Uttar Pradesh government began an indefinite complete work boycott from Monday in response to a call given by the UP Vidyut Karmchari Sanyukt Sangharsh Samiti to protest against the proposed privatization of the Varanasi discom.The government, meanwhile, said it had made all the preparations to deal with the agitation On Sunday, the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) management held talks with the sangharsh samiti leaders to persuade them to withdraw the work boycott call but talks broke down after the management rejected their proposal for effecting reforms in the energy sector without privatizing it. “After the UPPCL management turned down our reform proposal, we have asked all the power personnel to begin the full day work boycott from Monday as per the pre-declared plan,” All-India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) chairman and sangharsh samiti leader, Shailendra Dubey said. He claimed the country’s 15 lakh power employees will resort to work boycott as a mark of solidarity to their UP counterparts on Monday. Accusing the management of misleading the government, Dubey appealed to chief minister Adityanath to intervene into the matter to stem the growing unrest in the industry.The UP Power Officers Association president, KB Ram and acting president, Avadhesh Kumar Verma on Monday met BJP state president, Swatantra Dev Singh, state Congress president, Ajay Kumar Lallu and BSP leader, Satish Chandra Mishra and submitted memorandum to them seeking their supports to stop privatization. “Essential services like hospitals have been exempted from the work boycott of the staff. We will be meeting the power minister in the evening,” Verma said.On the other hand, the state government has hardened its stand on the issuing and has warned of strict action against protestors if they tried to disrupt power supply. Chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari held a videoconference with divisional commissioners, district magistrates as well as senior police officers and issued directions to deal with the situation that may arise from the power staff’s proposed work boycott from Monday. He asked them to ensure hat power supply was not disrupted in the state. A government spokesman said all preparations are in place to deal with the protestors. “The government has identified critical power stations for beefing up security around them and also chalked out an action plan to hand over power transmission and distribution system to alternative staff if so warranted. Round-the-clock emergency control rooms too have been set up and activated in each district.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-power-dept-staff-to-boycott-work-in-protest-against-privatization/story-k9QjXoQmYPVeS8pDXRMcMK.html
05-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Country’s active case load remains under one million||For 13 consecutive days, country’s active coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases have remained under one million, shows Union health ministry data released on Sunday.The number of active cases is important as it tells the actual disease burden nationally.According to Sunday’s data, the number of active cases was 937,625, which is 7,371 cases less than what Saturday’s data reflected. Before September 22, the country was reporting at least one million Covid-19 positive cases each day.Also read: Covid-19 recovery rate in Maharashtra improving, says health minister TopeTen states account for 77.11% of the active cases in the country. As on date, the percent contribution of active cases to the positive caseload of the country has reduced to only 14.32%.The low number of active cases mean that Covid-19 recoveries are steadily going up. Currently, the national recovery rate is around 83%. India’s total recoveries have crossed 5.5 million, and 75.44% of the newly recovered cases are recorded in 10 states, according to the government data.However, case positivity rate, which is the number of people who test positive as compared to who get tested in a day, remains a concern, with the current positivity rate standing at 8.29%. According to experts, anything above 5% is a cause for concern, and efforts should be targeted at bringing the national positivity rate below it fast. Also, despite the extended weekend, India posted high daily testing numbers, with at least one million samples tested each day for Covid-19 during past three days.“There has been an exponential rise in India’s daily testing capacities. More than 1,500,000 tests can be conducted every day. An average of 1,150,000 tests were done on a daily basis during the past ten days,” said a health ministry statement.India’s total number of Covid-19 tests has crossed 70.8 million so far. According to the health ministry very high levels of testing has led to early identification, prompt isolation and effective treatment of Covid-19 cases in the country, and which has eventually resulted in a sustained low death date. The national case fatality rate remains around 1.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-country-s-active-case-load-remains-under-one-million/story-HU7FUwKbrmxQrpdPckAhLO.html
05-10-2020||India||6 SIMI members on hunger strike in Bhopal jail moved to hospital||Six members of the banned Students’ Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) who began a hunger strike in the Bhopal central jail a week ago were shifted to the jail hospital late Saturday night, the prison’s superintendent said Sunday. Saduli PA and Shibily from Kerala, Qammruddin Nagori, Mohammad Ansar, Hafij Hussain and Safdar from Madhya Pradesh, were found guilty of sedition, collecting arms and waging war against the government of India, bomb blast and being a member of terrorist gang and organisation three years back. Different courts including NIA special court and CBI special court sentenced them life imprisonment in 2017 and 2018. Bhopal central jail superintendent Dinesh Nargave said, “They are demanding better food, opposing regular frisking and freedom from high-security block. In all 28 SIMI members are lodged in the Bhopal central Jail. Out of them, 18 had been shifted to solitary confinement to avoid a recurrence of the jailbreak incident that happened in October 2016.” On the intervening night of October 30-31 in 2016, eight SIMI operatives escaped the jail by killing a guard and later on October 31, they were killed in an encounter in a village near Bhopal, said Nargave. “They are not allowed to come out of the special cell as they shout anti-national slogans and also disrespect the Constitution of India that led to tension among jail inmates. We had been convincing them to end the fast for the past one week but they didn’t listen to us. Hence, they were shifted to the jail hospital where doctors are treating them,” said Nargave. The six prisoners were lodged in Ahmedabad jail but in 2017, they were shifted to Bhopal central jail. “Since then, they are being harassed by jail authorities. Not only them, but all SIMI members are facing inhuman treatment after the October 2016 jailbreak,” said a family member. “The SIMI members have been harassed by jail authorities for the past three years. Recently Qammaruddin moved an application in Ahmedabad court, where he and other five are facing a trial for Sabarmati jailbreak, against physical and mental torture on him,” said Madhuri, a human rights activist. “Even, National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in its report submitted in March 2018 clearly said that SIMI operatives were being tortured physically and mentally in the Bhopal central jail. But the state government and jail authorities did not improve the condition. The jail authorities have only custodial rights and they don’t have any right to torture them,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-simi-members-on-hunger-strike-in-bhopal-jail-moved-to-hospital/story-FtEFrrtzgi22XnhNhOxtEJ.html
05-10-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate global AI summit RAISE 2020 today. What you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate a five-day global virtual summit on artificial intelligence (AI) on Monday. Responsible AI for Social Empowerment or RAISE 2020 is being organised by the government in partnership with the industry and academia. It will aim for the transformation of health, education and agricultural areas.In June, India along with Australia, the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Germany, New Zealand and others joined together to create the Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence (GPAI) for the responsible development and use of AI.Also read | AI: A force for social empowerment“We firmly believe that AI can help transform lives. India is developing AI-based solutions for social empowerment across spheres like healthcare, education, finance, agriculture and governance. On the strength of its data and innovation prowess, India can become the AI laboratory of the world, delivering intuitive solutions to a wide range of societal issues,” Amitabh Kant, NITI Aayog CEO, said at the press conference.Here is what you need to know about RAISE 2020:1. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the keynote address along with minister of electronics and IT Ravi Shankar Prasad, NITI Aayog’s chief executive officer (CEO) Amitabh Kant, Reliance Industries Ltd’s chairperson and managing director Mukesh Ambani, and IBM’s CEO Arvind Krishna.2. RAISE 2020 is being held to exchange ideas and charter a course to use AI for social empowerment, inclusion, and transformation in key areas like healthcare, agriculture, education and smart mobility amongst other sectors.3. The summit will call for global participation from key opinion makers, academia and government representatives.4. The aim of the summit is to encourage the discussion on AI in public infrastructure, build responsible AI for social empowerment, transformation and inclusion of society.5. So far more than 38,700 stakeholders from across academia, the research industry and governments representatives from 125 countries have registered for the summit.6. Industry analysts predicted that the summit will add more than $957 billion to India’s economy by 2035.7. RAISE 2020 will discuss vital topics such as data and AI-powered financial services, Atmanirbhar Bharat AI start-up pitch fest, education and awareness for responsible AI, leveraging AI for pandemic preparedness, the impact of data and AI in smart cities and mobility, the role of government in AI enablement, role of data for responsible AI, building a future-ready agricultural supply chain with AI will be discussed.8. Rishad Premji, the chairperson of Wipro Limited, Brad Smith, the president of Microsoft Corporation, J Satyanarayana, the chief advisor at Centre for 4th Industrial Revolution (India Centre) at World Economic Forum, Rahul Panicker, the chief innovation officer at Wadhwani Institute for Artificial Intelligence, and Shameek Kundu, the chief data officer at Standard Chartered Bank, will also be speaking during the five-day summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-global-ai-summit-raise-2020-today-what-you-need-to-know/story-2Jb9kVQYO4jNEa4yQsrA4M.html
05-10-2020||India||Congress to hold ‘satyagraha’ across states to demand justice for Hathras rape victim||A day after Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met the family of the Hathras victim, the party announced it will stage ‘satyagraha’ in the district headquarters of states across the country on Monday to demand justice for them.“The Pradesh Congress Committees will be organising silent Satyagraha sit-in, at Mahatma Gandhi/Ambedkar statues and any other place of significance, against the brutal and arbitrary actions of the UP Government, demanding justice for the victim and her family,” AICC general secretary, Organisation, KC Venugopal said in a statement.He said senior leaders, MPs, MLAs, office bearers, party functionaries and ordinary workers will participate in full strength in the ‘satyagraha’.“The brutal gangrape and murder of a Dalit girl from  Hathras in Uttar Pradesh has shaken the conscience of the nation,” Venugopal said.He alleged that the “casual and cavalier attitude” in taking cognisance of her complaints and delay in providing her immediate medical attention “smacks of attempts at brushing under the carpet” as well as “complicity” on part of the UP administration.Venugopal alleged that the 19-year-old girl was denied justice and dignity in both life and death, as her body was cremated without the consent of the family in the dead of night.   Also Read: Cong wants Yogi to answer 5 points raised by Priyanka on behalf of Hathras victim’s kin“The brazen inhumanity and illegal high handedness shown by the BJP government of UP in denying basic dignity to the victim even in death and afterwards towards the family has left everyone beyond shock,” he said.  The Congress leader also criticised the UP government for the events of October 1 when Rahul Gandhi and the party’s UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi along with other leaders tried to go to Hathras to meet the victim’s family and the delegation was stopped at the UP border itself.  “Most convolutedly, the police manhandled Shri Rahul Gandhi in a most heinous way and arrested Shri Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka ji and other leaders. The police brutally lathicharged on the Congress party workers and other party functionaries. The leaders were not only forcibly stopped but FIR was also lodged against them,” he said in the statement.Also Read: Hathras gang-rape accused defended at meeting held at ex-BJP MLA’s residenceHe said it was only after continued pressure from the Congress party on October 3 when thousands of party workers, MPs and senior leaders led by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi announced to leave for Hathras, that the UP administration relented and allowed five leaders to meet the victim’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-hold-stayagraha-across-states-to-demand-justice-for-hathras-rape-victim/story-YcYrI7mqik8ZHLdZAXLN9J.html
05-10-2020||India||Over 3,000 bank employees test positive for Covid-19 in Odisha||As many as 3,066 bank employees in Odisha have tested positive for Covid-19, while 14 of them have lost their lives as on September 30, according to an official on Sunday.In a letter, Arupananda Jena, State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) convenor informed that State Bank Of India has reported highest 968 Covid-19 positive cases with one death when it comes to public sector bank. Axis Bank has reported highest 390 Covid positive cases, with no deaths in private banks.When it comes to the death toll, maximum 3 staff of Odisha Gramya Bank have lost their lives due to Covid-19.According to the Union health ministry, there are 30,301 active Covid-19 cases, 1,98,194 discharged and 892 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-3-000-bank-employees-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-odisha/story-yT5f7hPVd0yKtYqUW9bT0I.html
05-10-2020||India||Minister calls rape of minor ‘small’ incident||Chhattisgarh minister and Congress leader Shiv Kumar Dahariya has termed the alleged rape of a 14-year-old girl in the state’s Balrampur district as a “small” incident while talking about the Hathras case.After the BJP criticised Dahariya for the comments, the minister said that his remarks were “misconstrued”.“(Former Chhattisgarh chief minister) Raman Singh is unaware that the big (rape) incident has occurred in Balrampur of UP and not in Balrampur of Chhattisgarh,” he said. “Such a tragic incident occurred in Hathras, but why Raman Singh did not tweet about it?And when any small incident happens in Balrampur in Chhattisgarh, he (Singh) is not doing anything else except criticising the state government,” the urban administration minister told reporters. He was responding to a query on tweets posted by Singh on the rape incident in Balrampur.However, he later clarified that his remarks were misconstrued and he did not call the Balrampur rape a small incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-calls-rape-of-minor-small-incident/story-EAjrpWmar1YaG9bh1q73LJ.html
05-10-2020||India||Independent woman who forged own path||A retired school teacher, a devout follower of Arya Samaj, a Partition refugee, and a feminist, Kaushal Nagpal died of Covid-19 disease in June aged 78. She is survived by two sons and three grandchildren.Her journey began with a major milestone: at age eight, Nagpal was the first girl in her village to go to school. That was in Dujana, then in the district of Rohtak, Haryana, and her father, an officer in the Indian Railways, had to take special permission from the principal to get her admitted.Most of the subsequent life-shaping experiences happened while she pursued her higher studies: she got married to an advocate working at the district court in Karnal, became a mother of two boys and a caregiver to her elderly parents-in-law. Nagpal eventually became a school teacher specialising in History, Hindi and English. As a young independent working woman in the 1980s, in an otherwise conservative town, Nagpal had to combine a career with the traditional expectations from a woman of her milieu. It was no small thing.Nagpal would get up each morning at 4.30 am, prepare breakfast and lunch for the family and leave home at 6 am, first in a rickshaw to the bus stand, and from there, in a bus to the government school. She would return by 4.30 pm. After a short nap, she would take care of the domestic errands, including helping her sons with their school homework. She would sit with one of the boys, and her husband, Prithvi Raj, with another — they shared household chores. After she would leave for school in the morning, he would set the kitchen in order, make tea for his parents, and help his sons get ready for school, making it a habit to daily oil and comb their hair.In 1997, Nagpal took early retirement and moved with her husband to Faridabad’s Sector 28, in the house shared by sons Subhash and Gajendra and their families.Her life became more quiet, and more spiritual. She developed a particular interest for the writings of Swami Dayanand Saraswati, became more active in the Arya Samaj, and got a corner —the Yag Shala —especially built in the house to daily perform yagnas and havans. Each morning she would preside for two hours over the ceremony, offering ghee and scented “samagri” to the sacred fire. The comforting fragrance spreading through the air would appease her, as if the world around was getting purified.But Nagpal also remained a teacher. Every afternoon she would summon Shivani, the young daughter of the house maid Anita, to her room. The lessons would be delivered from her bed, cross-legged, her back resting on the pillow.Born in August 1942 in what is now Pakistani Punjab, Nagpal often recounted the train journey her family took to a newly independent India during Partition. Her mother wore a locket filled with poison to quickly end their lives in case their coach was attacked.As Nagpal was placed on a ventilator in Delhi’s Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, she never learnt of her husband’s demise on June 9 in a hospital in Faridabad. He, too, had died of the coronavirus. She died five days later. Their ashes were buried in an Arya Samaj park in Faridabad. Her children planted a mango and a neem tree over the spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independent-woman-who-forged-own-path/story-WhT3isffFqRT7XHZohqKcN.html
05-10-2020||India||SP Balasubrahmanyam: Prolific voice of Indian melodies||Wearing a white N95 mask, S P Balasubrahmanyam (or SPB, as he was often called) walked on to a quiet platform on July 18 and folded his gloved hands bowing down to a virtual audience before bowing down thrice to greet the orchestra surrounding him. He pulled down his mask to his chin to check the mic in what would be his swan song at a concert to raise funds for those affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. “Corona is a curse for all our wrongdoings,” he said at the end of the concert. “We have destroyed nature. We are handing over a graveyard for our future generations. We have to undergo its consequences.” As much as SPB was revered as one of India’s iconic singers, he was also endearing to his contemporaries and fans alike for his flamboyant and cheerful disposition, his humility and philanthropic moorings. On August 5, SPB, 74, tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to MGM Healthcare in Chennai. His condition deteriorated and he was shifted to the ICU on August 13 and put on a ventilator and an Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO). Though he tested negative on September 4, he continued to be on life support and died of cardio-respiratory failure on September 25 at 1.04 pm. During his time in hospital, long-time collaborator, friend and music director Ilaiyaraaja sent a message in Tamil that said, simply, “Get up and come soon, Balu.” A separate ICU room was created for SPB for his family to visit and his son, S P Charan played the video messages to him. Speaking to HT, Dr Deepak Subramanian, senior consultant at MGM who is among the team of doctors who treated SPB for 52 days said, “Only for Ilayaraaja’s video, he told Charan to come closer, replay the video and he kissed the phone.” Born in Konetammapeta village (present day Andhra Pradesh) in 1946, SPB had no formal training in classical music though he was musically inclined since childhood. His father, SP Sambamurthy was a Harikatha (a popular art form of storytelling in Andhra Pradesh) exponent. He was spotted by popular Telugu composer SP Kodandapani after SPB had won a singing competition in the early 60s. SPB made his debut in playback singing in 1967 in a Telugu movie Sri Sri Sri Maryada Ramanna. That was the start of SPB’s colossal career spanning five decades, recording more than 40,000 songs in 16 languagaes (a Guinness Record) while straddling Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam and Kannada films. SPB idolosied singer Mohammed Rafi, whom he often quoted. On Sonu Nigam’s show, Sa Re Ga Ma Pa, on Zee TV, SPB spoke of how Rafi’s Dewaana Hua Badal (Kashmir Ki Kali, 1964) moved him to tears. “You can see that the man is coming to your ears and caressing and singing with a smile,” SPB said after rendering his version of the song. SPB won the Padma Shri in 2001 and the Padma Bhushan in 2011. He was also a popular actor, playing a single father, a doctor and even a Bharatnatyam dancer alongside choreographer Prabhu Deva. SPB was Grandmaster Viswanathan Anand’s first sponsor when he donated an amount to his chess team for their national championship in 1983. A cricket fan, SPB watched IPL matches in the hospital. SPB was homesick after his wife visited him and asked the doctors (by writing a note) if the ICU could be set up at home but understood when the doctors explained his critical situation. “But, he was never scared,” said Deepak Subramanian. The team was worried not to affect his vocal chords while they did a temporary tracheostomy under sedation and checked his voice post the procedure. “His voice was intact,” said Subramanian. “He said hello, I’m fine and things like that.” At his last virtual concert, SPB said in the future it seemed like his musical relationship with his audience will be virtual. “I’m grateful; for you have travelled along with me for all these 55 years. I’ll be there still for a while. Please bless me and be with me.” “Pedananna (uncle in Telugu) was happiest when he was immersed in music,” SPB’s nephew, SP Abhishek, a music composer and voice artist told HT. “Whether it is a 3-year-old girl or a nonagenarian singing, he will enjoy their music and he is so kind to everyone.” After Abhishek’s father (SP Jagadish) passed away in 2012, SPB offered to record all his songs in their studio. “It was his way of helping me. He was the only moral support and fatherly figure I had.” SPB was known to prefer audio notes over messaging on WhatsApp. He sang a wish for their birthdays or told them to stay safe during the pandemic in his voice chat recordings. SPB’s family organised a condolence meeting on September 30 where his songs were performed and the film fraternity eulogised him. “It was too painful to listen to his voice while I was preparing to perform.” Abhishek said. “I miss him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prolific-voice-of-indian-melodies/story-SNubp7hA5GwI7CWP88YttI.html
05-10-2020||India||What green future without the Adivasis?||Even as the world is debating how to reopen schools and conduct examinations amid a global pandemic, Covid-19 is also claiming the lives of the rarest knowledge-bearers like the indigenous people.We know about the Great Andamanese, a particularly vulnerable tribal group with a population of just over 50. They live on the tiny Strait Island, where outsiders have been banned to protect the Sentinelese way of life and avoid exposing them to infectious diseases. However, recently, 11 members of the tribe tested positive for Covid-19 while travelling to Port Blair for work. One might want to ask why such an endangered tribe must seek work? Why isn’t the community supported to live in its own territories? When we spend hundreds of thousands showcasing classical dance, why not invest in conserving an ancient culture?The tragedy is, the world isn’t nurturing indigenous populations. Even tribes in the Amazon have been hit by the virus— almost 9% might be dying. Globally, indigenous people are fighting back by wearing masks, isolating, spreading awareness. But they are vulnerable. Most of them don’t have the immunity against infectious diseases. They tend to step out of their known ecosystems for work or health care or other services, exacerbating their vulnerability.As we continue to fight the coronavirus, we must acknowledge that indigenous people around the world know how to live in complex ecosystems, with close exposure to the kind of creatures from whom the virus could have reached humans. How have they shielded themselves? We won’t know, if they continue to be marginalised and culturally wiped out like this. And without their knowledge, wisdom and skills, we will lose out on key knowledge we need to our green future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-green-future-without-the-adivasis/story-mFFBgjCQHx5gEtWq28KvOJ.html
05-10-2020||India||Key challenges faced by Covid-19 tests | Opinion||Both contestants in the US Presidential race have been tested for Covid-19 very recently. One has been hospitalised after a positive test result, despite his being protected by regular testing for himself and anyone who he meets at home, work or a rally. The other has been cautioned by experts that a negative viral test result in his case is no assurance that he is free of the virus and that he should be tested again. In the same week, the latest antibody survey in Delhi was reported to show a decline in the percentage of persons showing evidence of past infection with Covid-19, compared to the previous month! How do we explain these oddities related to the tests? Virus detection tests for the Saars-CoV2 virus are principally of two types. The molecular tests depend on nucleic acid amplification from the virus which is usually extracted from the nose or throat through a swab. The test is then performed in a qualified laboratory using the Real Time RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction) or an equivalent process. This takes several hours and reports are received after a day or more- sometimes with even greater delays, as reported in the US. Frustration at these delays has led to the emergence and use of the Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT). These detect known antigenic fragments of the virus and can yield reports within half-an-hour. Easier to perform and earlier to report.However, neither test is perfect for detecting the virus in all the persons who are infected. RT-PCR can miss between 30-40% of cases, mainly because the sampling with a swab was done too early in the infection when the virus replication is not prolific or too late in the infection when the viral counts are dwindling. Also, the swab collection technique may have been defective. These can be problems with the RAT too. Compared to the RT-PCR, the rapid test misses even more cases. While these estimates vary, between the manufacturers who test in laboratory conditions (technical sensitivity) and those who test in real world conditions (clinical sensitivity), there is a danger of missing half the infected cases with RAT. Hence the recommendation for repeated testing if the report is negative. It is now known that the US President and the persons he met were screened only by RAT.Antibody tests are employed for random surveys of the population through sampling survey techniques, to determine what fraction of the population has already been exposed to the virus and has recovered with a detectable level of immunity in the blood. The test does not tell us if these are neutralising antibodies capable of arresting the virus nor does it give an indication of T cell immunity which is the other, and probably longer lasting, component of the immune response.Unfortunately, the antibody response to the Covid-19 virus appears to fade away in three months. Hence, persons infected during March to May may not be identified by a survey in September. The sampling design, and the participant responses, too can produce variations in the nature of persons tested. Also, every estimate (point estimate) needs to be reported with 95% confidence intervals which represent the range of probabilities which that point estimate represents in a given sample size. Unless the sample is large, the confidence intervals can be wide and overlap even for seemingly different point estimates.While the concern with virus detection tests is about false negative results, the challenge with antibody surveys lies in estimating the false positive results. Other corona viruses can present cross-reactive antibodies and recently some overlap with Dengue too has been reported. When the lab test is used for a large population survey, where prevalence of the infection is lower than the clinical setting where it has been validated, the number of false positive results get amplified. The estimated prevalence will be higher than the truly infected proportion of the population. This error band can vary from survey to survey, depending on the actual prevalence and the sample size. Population surveys can still provide a broad understanding of how the epidemic has advanced over time, if we don’t regard each point estimate as the absolute truth. One thing is for sure- don’t take anything for granted in these Covid times! (The author, a cardiologist and epidemiologist, is President, PHFI. He is the author Make Health in India: Reaching a Billion Plus. Views are personal.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-challenges-faced-by-covid-19-tests/story-GxvVfnEVFhpWvvcqKYfItM.html
05-10-2020||India||Govt seeks legal status for elephant reserves||The Union environment ministry has proposed an amendment to the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 to accord legal status to elephant reserves and corridors on the lines of tiger reserves. The ministry has sought responses from 10 elephant range state governments in south, east, north-west India on the proposed amendment and measures to mitigate human-animal conflict to prepare a comprehensive national elephant action plan, said environment ministry forest department officials of multiple states. Under the Wildlife Protection Act, state forest departments have to prepare a tiger reserve management plan with an adequate number of forest staff and strategies in place to protect the big cats. The law also says that no mining or industrial activity will be allowed in the vicinity of the reserves and that their boundaries cannot be changed without approval from the National Board of Wildlife. The law also gives legal status to the National Tiger Conservation Authority, the regulatory body for around 50 tiger reserves in India. With the proposed amendment, the ministry proposes to have a similar legal framework for 30 elephant reserves across 15 states and statutory status for Project Elephant. India is home to about 30,000 elephants, or 60% of the global Asian elephant population.Meetings are taking place to prepare an elephant action plan, confirmed Soumitra Dasgupta, inspector general of forest (wildlife), under the Union ministry of environment. He added that he isn’t, however, aware of an initiative to confer legal status on elephant reserves by amending the Wildlife Protection Act. “They (elephant conservationists) have been fighting for legal status to elephant reserves for more than a decade. But no state is ready for this. Once the legal right is given, several restrictions would come into place,” said DS Srivastava, a former member of the steering committee of Project Elephant. “Then the states will not be able to allow mining and other activities in these areas, which could cause huge monetary loss to state exchequers.” In 2019, a committee was formed to prepare a National Elephant Action Plan; it held its first meeting in November last year. The committee made several suggestions including the proposed amendment to the Wildlife Protection Act. “Till date the country has no action plan, whereas countries such as Bangladesh and Nepal, which have a much smaller {elephant} population, have developed their own action plans,” said Prajna Panda, national coordinator of the union environment and forest ministry’s elephant cell. Jharkhand’s chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Vishwa Nath Shah, who participated in the 2019 meeting, said: “We are studying it (the amendment). Besides, we are also evaluating the status of elephant reserves of Jharkhand.” On the benefits that will come about by conferring legal status on elephant reserves, he said: “Actually, we still do not know in which form this legal status will be introduced. Until the legal framework is done, it will be too early to say anything.” West Bengal forest minister Rajib Banerjee said several steps have been taken to protect elephants such as fencing elephant habitats and digging trenches to restrict the movement of elephants outside their habitats in south Bengal. “We will response to the proposed changes in law when the draft is presented,” he said. Rising human-elephant conflict as elephants lose their traditional habitat and corridors is another key issue of discussion with states for the national action plan, officials said. The aim is to put in place a coordinated effort to reduce conflict through mitigation measures in elephant corridors. According to data shared with the Lok Sabha on September 23, close to 2,300 people were killed by elephants in the past five years until 2019, which was 10 times the number killed by tigers. Also, 400 elephants were killed by poachers or through poisoning by local residents. The Lok Sabha reply revealed that at least 433 people have been killed across West Bengal between April 2014 and September 2019. In Odisha, Jharkhand and Chhattishgarh, the death toll was 447, 391 and 329, respectively, during the period. Raman Sukumar, an elephant expert who has backed the proposal to provide legal status to elephant reserves, said that to reduce conflict, states need to ensure that the elephants stay within the elephant reserves and do not stray outside in search of food and water. “The states also need to remove hurdles from the elephant corridors. If necessary, some elephants can be relocated to reserves having lesser elephant population,” he added. The first meeting on the action plan was held with forest officials from south zone on September 15. The latest discussion was held with forest officials from the east-central region on September 22. “Various issues related to mitigating man-elephant conflict are being discussed,” Panda said. The zones demarcated for the action plan are east-central, covering states such as Odisha, south Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Bihar, north Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh; north-east-south, which includes south Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka, and north-west zone, comprising Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. India’s first elephant reserve was created in Jharkhand in 2001 under Project Elephant. Spread over 4,529 square kilometers area, the Singhbhum Elephant Reserve in Kolhan division, which comprises three districts --east Singhbhum, west Singhbhum and Saraikela-Kharswan -- has around 280 elephants, according to the 2017 elephant census.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-seeks-legal-status-for-elephant-reserves/story-m7JbFZJjv9NnmqSSLncb5L.html
05-10-2020||India||Ex-MP says Covid stamp at airport caused skin burns||Former Member of Parliament and national spokesperson for Congress Madhu Goud Yaskhi on Sunday said he has sustained skin burns and infection from the indelible ink used for stamping international passengers on arrival at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport.Yaskhi was stamped when he arrived at the airport from New York, on Saturday, to catch a connecting flight to Hyderabad.Currently, all the international passengers arriving at the Delhi airport who are approved for home quarantine are stamped by the officials of their respective states. All those who are to be quarantined in Delhi are stamped by Delhi government’s health department.An official from the airport said it is being looked into if Yaskhi was stamped by Delhi government health department officials or by his Telangana state health department officials.At present, all international passengers arriving Delhi need to undergo mandatory institutional quarantine. However, passengers can apply for an exemption from institutional quarantine by uploading their recent Covid-19 negative report on Delhi airports portal Air Suvidha ahead of their flight. Once approved, the passengers will only require home quarantine. Passengers can also get themselves tested for Covid-19 upon their arrival at the Delhi airport and if found negative may head straight for home quarantine. Yaskhi, who had arrived at the IGI airport around 12pm on Saturday had to board a connecting flight to Hyderabad. Before he headed for his flight, he was stamped on his left arm and was to undergo home quarantine in Hyderabad.“The moment I was stamped I started feeling itchy. I thought it was normal. By 4.15pm when my flight took off, the irritation grew and I felt a burning sensation. Gradually, it turned black and it became intolerable,” he said.After reaching Hyderabad, Yaskhi said he immediately contacted one of his dermatologist friends for medical advice. “My doctor told me that gradually my skin will peel off and that complete recovery may take more than a month,” he said.Yakshi, a former MP from Nizamabad constituency in Telangana, tweeted on a picture of his hand on Sunday, tagging Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri and asking him to look into the matter.Yaskhi tweeted, “Dear @HardeepSPuri Ji, can you please look into the chemical being used at Delhi airport for stamping on passengers coming from abroad? Yesterday I was stamped at @DelhiAirport and this is how my hands look now.”Responding to his tweet, Puri wrote, “Thank you for drawing my attention to this. A have spoken to CMD AAI.”Yaskhi said he tweeted the picture to bring this to everyone’s attention and to ensure that no other passenger goes through the same experience.DIAL, the Delhi airport operator, also responded to Yakshi’s tweet. “We deeply regret the inconvenience caused. The ink used for stamping is a standard indelible ink. We’ve reported the issue to the Delhi State Authorities. Currently, this batch of ink is being kept aside for testing by the supplier and further desired action. Thank you for highlighting this issue.”Officials from the Union health ministry did not respond to calls, texts or emails. When contacted, Delhi government also did not comment on the matter.Somesh Gupta, a dermatologist at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) said such it could be a case of dermatitis. “If you apply any dye, it may react with skin. Stamping in this way is not a good practise. They must find a substitute like in AIIMS they put a paper band on the wrists for identification,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-mp-says-covid-stamp-at-airport-caused-skin-burns/story-WVVFfMLMSgJsqbfZMLjdYK.html
05-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||That the Sars-CoV-2 virus has got the most powerful man in the world is yet again proof that no one is safe. Sure, it’s not kryptonite, he’s not Kal-El, and in every possible way, US President Donald Trump has no one to blame but himself, but still, if it can get him, it can get anyone.Trump mocked his rival in the US presidential election next month, former vice president Joe Biden, for always wearing a mask in a debate last week, emphasising that there was no need to wear one in safe environments such as the one where the debate was being held — the Western Reserve University’s Health Education Campus in Cleveland, Ohio, with a live studio audience, largely the entourages of the two candidates, officials of the university, and reporters. Everyone had been tested, Trump said, and there was social distancing.NO ONE IS INVULNERABLEIn every possible way, US President Donald Trump has no one to blame but himself, but still, if it can get him, it can get anyone. Trump even mocked his rival in the US presidential election, Joe Biden, for always wearing a mask in a debate last week. Subsequent reports, and also video footage shows the first family violating the rules by taking off their masks during the debate, and keeping them off. And subsequent reports also mentioned, citing White House officials, that the President, his entourage and their guests, underwent a rapid antigen test ahead of the debate.These are the new Abbott Laboratories rapid antigen tests that perform as well as molecular tests (such as the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction or RT-PCR) in the laboratory, but which have a false negative rate of 20% in the field, according to some studies. That is still a whole lot better than the up to 50% false negative rate of many other rapid antigen tests. Indeed, Abbott’s tests, fast (15 minutes) and cheap, were considered a breakthrough among antigen tests, all of which (including those used widely in India) were fast and inexpensive, but with a high false negative rate.A REMINDER The US President and his supporters have also made the mask a political issue in the US; Trump has encouraged large campaign rallies and meetings with utter disregard for social distancing; and he is rarely seen wearing a mask when with his inner circle. Trump’s illness is a reminder to everyone that testing, wearing masks and social distancing hold the key to staying safe from the virus. I’ve written a lot on rapid antigen tests. There is a context for their use — in a containment zone for instance, where cases are peaking; or in an airport, to test passengers before they board a flight, or test those who have just alighted from one; even ahead of a public or publicly private event (such as the debate). But to use them in any other context is downright foolish.There’s a theory doing the rounds that because rapid antigen tests recognise only moderate to high viral loads, they identify the truly infectious patients — a completely misguided and dangerous theory. There’s another theory doing the rounds that molecular tests such as RT-PCR are bad because they have a high rate of false positives. A false positive is when a test identifies an uninfected individual as infected — something that, no doubt, causes anguish to that person and also results in them being placed in some sort of quarantine. A false negative, on the contrary, identifies an infected person as uninfected, allows them to move around freely, and perhaps infect others, including those from vulnerable sections of the population who, in turn, may succumb to the disease. It’s easy to see which is more harmful.But back to the debate: media reports say that after people in the Trump camp took off their masks (the minute they were seated; no one was allowed in without masks), they were approached by a health worker from The Cleveland Clinic who offered them masks, only to be shooed away. Trump and his supporters have made the mask a political issue in the US; the President has also encouraged large campaign rallies and meetings with utter disregard for social distancing; and he is rarely seen wearing a mask when with his inner circle. This behaviour, US media reports say, extends to other White House officials.There are anti-maskers in India as well, but they are a fringe group, best known for a video posted online and pamphlets inserted in newspapers distributed in a few Mumbai neighbourhoods (and both were widely criticised).Trump’s infection — there are conflicting reports on how serious it is, although he has been hospitalised — is a reminder to everyone that testing (using the right kind of tests,ideally), wearing masks and social distancing hold the key to staying safe from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-jCkYKvdDGVzpsxfVOiFXUN.html
05-10-2020||India||LJP will go solo as 50-50 deal likely for BJP, JD(U)||After much dithering on seat-sharing, the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) on Sunday took a call to contest the upcoming three-phase assembly election in Bihar on its own. The decision to not contest as a partner of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) was taken at a meeting of the party’s parliamentary board, which adopted a resolution that the LJP will not contest the polls under the leadership of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar.The party said the differences it had were limited to the Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), or JD (U), and that it continues to support the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as an NDA ally at the Centre. It went on to say that the party will work to “strengthen Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government”.The developements came on a day the BJP and the JD(U) agreed to contest the three-phase elections in the state as equal partners, according to a BJP functionary. The functionary, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that the BJP was likely to contest on 121 seats and the JD(U) on 122. The leader added that the JD(U) was likely to assign five seats to the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) from its quota. There are 243 seats in the Bihar assembly.The resolution also mentioned that since it had ideological differences with the JD(U), it will contest against it at the three-phase election set for October 28, November 3 and November 7. LJP president Chirag Paswan, who chaired the party’s parliamentary board meeting, told reporters that the party will perform well in the elections and that the decision to go solo was a “happy one”. This is not the first time that the LJP has decided to contest state polls independently of the NDA. It chose not to be part of the NDA while contesting the 2017 Manipur assembly election, but later its only MLA joined the BJP government. It contested the 2014 assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir and the 2019 assembly elections in Jharkhand on its own. In Bihar, the party had been threatening to break away from the NDA if its demand that it be allowed to contest 42 seats in the 243-member assembly was not met. The BJP played down the differences between the LJP and the JD(U), but Paswan trained his guns at the party and has been critical of the Bihar CM, whom he has accused of failing to meet the poll promise of ushering in economic development. On Sunday, the BJP leadership remained tight-lipped about the LJP’s decision. To a question on whether this will impact the electoral outcome, a leader said it would “have a limited impact on a few seats” as the LJP is only contesting against the JD(U). “The move will not impact the BJP or the NDA. Both the parties are going strong and will win a majority. However, BJP leadership has already announced that its workers will ensure the win of all NDA allies; so even as the LJP claims it will support and strengthen BJP’s hands, it cannot bank on support of the workers during canvassing,” a party functionary said on condition of anonymity. JD (U) questioned the “ideological differences”. News agency ANI quoted JD(U)’s state unit working president Ashok Chaudhary as questioning why these differences hadn’t come up during the Lok Sabha elections, which the LJP contested as part of the NDA. “We want to know the specific ideological difference that the LJP has with us. During Lok Sabha polls, they partner with us and request Nitish Kumar’s presence in their constituency and win the elections. Now for Bihar assembly polls, they claim ideological difference,” he said. To be sure, LJP may have never been a major force in Bihar politics, but has made its presence felt since its inception in 2000, when Ram Vilas Paswan set up the party after splitting from the Janata Dal on the issue of joining the BJP-led NDA. Its politics have revolved mostly around the Dalits, who constitute over 16% of the votes in Bihar. Though it could never win enough seats in Bihar to expand its footprint, LJP has remained a party that could not be ignored: Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad once described Ram Vilas Paswan as the “mausam vigyanik” (weather scientist) for his uncanny knack of predicting the poll outcome much in advance of the polls and setting his sails accordingly. Two decades later, LJP has undergone a generational shift with Chirag taking over as its national president, and his cousin and former MP Ramchandra Paswan’s son, Prince Raj, becoming the state president. The party has also coined a new slogan: ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’. Chirag identifies himself as a ‘yuva Bihari’ (young Bihari) on Twitter to bond with the young and to break the image of the party being a family enterprise. Chirag is being seen in his party as a potential CM candidate in a state where Kumar is projected as a leader with no competition from within and outside the NDA. Chirag is apparently aware that this could well be the last innings of Kumar as the Bihar CM. Chirag’s aggressive posturing against Nitish Kumar, while maintaining a soft approach towards the Narendra Modi-led BJP, could be an indicator of his ambition and the political craft he inherited from his father, who has always gotten along well with parties with contrasting ideologies, depending on the situation. Soon after taking over the party’s reins, Chirag had said that the 2020 Bihar assembly elections would be his big test and his objective would be to “expand the footprints of the party in Bihar and even beyond in states with a sizeable support base like Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh”. “Chirag is doing deft politics like his father. With age by his side, he is in for a tough bargain, but he is taking a calculated risk by not antagonising the BJP. He knows what he needs to do and it may be part of a larger strategy. He speaks against Nitish Kumar, but praises Narendra Modi. He has a plan and he is working accordingly,” said NK Choudhary, a political analyst and former head of the department of economics at Patna University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljp-will-go-solo-as-50-50-deal-likely-for-bjp-jd-u/story-hBz7yxbsvlNrU7jY56tKfL.html
05-10-2020||India||India-US 2 plus 2 on Oct 26-27, geospatial pact BECA to be signed||The third India-US two plus two dialogue is expected to take place here on October 26-27 with the Narendra Modi government ready to sign the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) for geo-spatial cooperation. The last of four military communication foundational agreements, BECA is an important precursor to India acquiring armed drones such as the MQ-9B from the US as the unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) uses spatial data for pinpointed strikes on enemy targets.The India-US interaction at the ministerial level will expand sharply this month with external affairs minister S Jaishankar meeting his US counterpart Mike Pompeo at the Quad security dialogue in Tokyo on October 6. This will be followed by the visit of US deputy secretary of state Stephen Beigun in mid-October and finally US defence secretary Mark Esper and defence minister Rajnath Singh will join the two foreign ministers in the two plus two dialogue.While the dates for the two plus two are being finalised, the signing of BECA will be a very significant development as it allows India to use global geo-spatial maps of the US for accuracy of stand-off weapons like cruise and ballistic missiles. Already the two countries have activated all the three foundational agreements with both using each other’s designated military facilities for refuelling and replenishment. The communication agreement allows both countries to share military information about threats on land and the Indo-Pacific.During the two plus two, both the US ministers will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well as his National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, who has a direct line to his US counterpart Robert O’Brien.While the global security environment will be addressed by the defence and foreign ministers, the Chinese aggression in Ladakh and in the South China Sea will be discussed in detail with both sides sharing their assessment. Just as the People’s Liberation Army is continuing to aggressively posture on Taiwan in the South China Sea, it is showing no intentions of drawing down from the Ladakh sector despite talking about disengagement and de-escalation.The dialogue will coincide with the Chinese Communist Party plenary on October 26-29, where the 370 Central Committee members will interact with the paramount leader Xi Jinping to review important policy decisions including the next five-year plan.The situation in Afghanistan will be discussed during the two plus two with India circumspect about peace in Kabul despite fully understanding the American decision to withdraw after 19 years. Even though India engaged the Taliban leadership at the Doha dialogue in September, it wants the Sunni conservative group to reduce violence in Afghanistan so that the country remains a republic and does not become an Islamic Emirate.Unabated cross-border terrorism from Pakistan will be also a topic of discussion, with proscribed groups like the Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Tayebba continuing to target both innocent civilians and security forces in Jammu and Kashmir. Despite Pakistan trying to use its all-weather ally China to walk out of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) grey list, the Islamic state continues to export terrorists and jihadists from Kashmir to Azerbaijan with the help of Turkey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-india-us-2-2-talks-likely-on-october-26-27-pact-on-geo/story-fSBiUWocOwIZ9wfgzw8d4K.html
05-10-2020||India||BJP district leader shot dead in Bengal, Guv Jagdeep Dhankhar summons home secretary||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manish Shukla died at a private hospital on EM Bypass in Kolkata on Sunday night less than three hours after he was shot multiple times in the back and upper torso at Titagarh in North 24 Parganas. The assailants came on motorcycles and their faces were covered with masks, said BJP workers present at the spot. Two BJP workers also sustained injuries. Shukla, who defected from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) two years ago, was a popular organisational leader. The news of his death led to tension in large parts of the Barrackpore Lok Sabha constituency of which Titagarh is a part. Shukla was shot not far from Titagarh police station and sophisticated weapons were used, alleged BJP’s Barrackpore Lok Sabha MP Arjun Singh, who too defected from the TMC in 2018. “We were at a programme together earlier in the evening. He was attacked after returning to his office,” Singh said. “Police were behind the attack. We saw more than eight bullet injuries on his body. I am also a target,” Singh said while making the allegations. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar took up the issue and summoned the home secretary and Director General of Police to the Raj Bhawan at 10 am on Monday. “ACS Home @MamataOfficial and DGP @WBPolice have been summoned at 10 am tomorrow in the wake of worsening law and order situation leading to dastardly killing of Manish Shukla, Councillor, Titagarh Municipality in political party office,” Dhankhar tweeted at 11.40pm. “Shukla was murdered. We demand a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the role of the police. Arjun Singh’s life is also in danger. Mamata Banerjee cannot rule the state with terror,” said BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, who was in Kolkata. TMC’s Panihati legislator, Nirmal Ghosh, said the ruling party had no role in the attack. “This is a fallout of rivalry inside the BJP,” he said. BJP national secretary Arvind Menon, who was also in Kolkata, rushed to the hospital with senior leaders. Barrackpore police commissioner Manoj Verma deployed rapid action force (RAF) on the streets in view of the tension. “We cannot say anything without conducting a proper investigation,” he said. BJP workers set up a blockade on BT Road, demanding the arrest of the culprits. The party also announced a 12-hour bandh along the entire stretch from Kanchrapara to Titagarh on Monday. Shukla was also an outgoing councillor of the Titagarh municipality where the term of the elected civic body has ended. Elections are due in around 110 civic bodies in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-district-leader-shot-dead-in-bengal-guv-jagdeep-dhankhar-summons-home-secretary/story-iAEhbpfB2RHTSlOF7C6KPJ.html
05-10-2020||India||Several crops sell below MSPs amid legislation debate||A range of kharif, or summer-sown, crops are selling below federally fixed minimum support prices (MSPs), or floor rates, as record output dampens prices at a time when farmers are protesting against a set of laws enacted recently to liberalise farm trade in the country. Crops, such as soyabean, ragi, maize and cotton, are selling up to 30% below MSPs, data from Agmarknet, the agriculture ministry’s portal that tracks prices in mandis or wholesale markets, show. Poor returns from crops have been a lingering problem for farmers, especially during episodes of gluts, such as now. MSPs, which are fixed at 50% over cost for nearly two dozen crops, don’t necessarily lead to higher farm incomes as the government’s procurement at MSP rates is largely restricted to wheat and rice. For most other crops, farmers are mostly price takers, meaning they are forced to accept whatever the markets dictate. Also Read: Rahul Gandhi vows to scrap contentious farm laws once Congress returns to power at CentreOutput of kharif foodgrains this year is likely to touch a record 144.5 million tonnes, marginally higher than last year’s 143.4 million tonnes. The unprofitable sales come despite the government’s assurances of robust procurement at MSP rates. For example, the government last week announced that it would procure 1.4 million tonnes of pulses and oilseeds at MSP rates. However, at just about 15% of the total production, this is too small a quantity to make a difference in prices offered by private entities. For efficient farm markets, the government recently enacted three laws, allowing farmers to bypass state-controlled market yards run by agricultural produce market committees (APMCs) and enter into five-year farming contracts with agribusinesses. The government also freed up several commonly consumed food items from strict stocking limits that discouraged private investment in cold storages. Farmers’ groups are protesting against the reforms, including the move to end the monopoly of APMCs, because they fear deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before. They also fear the reforms may weaken the MSP mechanism. The average wholesale price for soyabean during September 16-23 in nine states worked out to Rs 3,683.02 per quintal (100 kg), against the promised MSP of Rs 3,880 per quintal, data from the ministry shows. In Madhya Pradesh, average soyabean prices during the period stood at Rs 3648.09 per quintal, while in Maharashtra it was Rs 3719.81 per quintal. Maize has seen a sharp fall in prices this year. The MSP for maize has been set at Rs 1,850 per quintal. Against this, the average wholesale price of maize in 17 states was nearly 30% below MSP at Rs 1,295 during September 16-23. In one of the biggest growers, Bihar, which abolished the regulated markets system in 2006, maize has sold for a pittance. “The average prices were 60% lower than MSP because of poor demand,” said Mintu Kushwaha, a trader from the state’s Purnea district. Also Read| Union govt to spend Rs 1 lakh crore to boost agri infrastructure: MoS KatariaRagi, a millet grown by small farmers, too is selling below its minimum price of Rs 3,295 per quintal. The average ragi wholesale price in Karnataka between September 24-30, for instance, was Rs 2,062.61 a quintal. The MSP for cotton for 2020-21 has been fixed at Rs 5,515 per quintal. In states such as Gujarat, however, in the third week of September, cotton sold at an average wholesale price of Rs 4,500 per quintal, while in Punjab, the rates ranged between Rs 4,500 and Rs 5,000. “Part of the problem is how MSPs are fixed. They are fixed by a formula based on 50% over A2 + FL ( a measure of cultivation costs). So, MSPs are cost-based and they have nothing to do with market conditions and, arguably, demand conditions,” said economist Abhijit Sen. Economists say if the government wants to ensure a price higher than private markets are willing to offer, then it has to procure sufficiently. Often, the government resorts to token purchases, such as of pulses and oilseeds, which doesn’t help. The solution to poor returns is to have a market-clearing mechanism, which is the price at which quantity demanded equals to quantity supplied, economists say. “Nudging the private sector towards triggering a market-clearing price that is closer or equal to MSP will depend on the extent of government’s procurement,” Sen said. The latest reforms, however, are no silver bullet, experts warned. “The expectation with these reforms is, once you allow markets to determine both production and prices and what to produce, it will help farmers with better price discovery. That’s the assumption but we need to see how things go from here,” said NR Bhanumurthy, the vice-chancellor of Bengaluru BR Ambedkar School of Economics. Bhanumurthy said the opening up of state-run APMC markets to private competition alone won’t work if it is not accompanied by other factors, such as an efficient crop insurance, expansion of food processing, storage infrastructure and better market information systems. Prices could further dip in October, potentially intensifying farmer protests. “We have called a general meeting on October 8-9 of major farm organisations to take our agitation forward. MSP is our main concern. The recent laws will ruin the MSP system,” said Gurnam Singh, the Haryana president of Bharatiya Kisan Union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-crops-sell-below-msps-amid-legislation-debate/story-AFHH0NHbFcAGYgrXWA9B1J.html
05-10-2020||India||Govt targeting 400-500 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine by July ’21||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government plans to receive and utilise 400-500 million doses of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, when one is ready, to induce protection against the virus in about 200-250 million people by July 2021, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said.“A list of citizen groups that will require vaccine administration on priority is being drawn up by the health ministry in association with the state governments. There is a high-level expert body going into all aspects of vaccine procurement and delivery,” Harsh Vardhan said in response to Covid-19-related queries of social media users.“For this, a format is being currently prepared in which states will submit priority population groups to receive vaccine, especially health care workers engaged in the management of Covid-19 such as testing, tracing and treating {patients}. We have placed a realistic target of end-October {2020} to complete this humongous exercise,” he added in a recorded video of him answering questions that were sent to him by people. The video was played on Sunday on his social media accounts on Twitter and Facebook as well as YouTube.The list of frontline health care workers includes doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and sanitary workers, both from the government and the private sector. It will also include accredited health activists, surveillance officers and other workers who are engaged in managing Covid-19 patients.Apart from health care workers, priority will also be given to the elderly — those who are above 65 years of age — and people who have underlying medical conditions.Currently, the states are being closely guided to also submit details about cold chain facilities and other related infrastructure that will be required down to the block level for vaccine storage and delivery as part of the government’s immunisation programme.The Centre is also working on plans for building capacities in human resource training and supervision on a massive scale, and also keeping an eye on immunity data with regard to Covid-19 while finalising these plans, the minister said.A high-level committee under the chairmanship of Dr VK Paul, member (health) at the government’s policy think tank Niti Aayog, is looking into the entire process. After various discussions, it has been decided that the vaccine will be procured centrally, and each consignment will be tracked in real-time until delivery to ensure it reaches those who need it the most.“The vaccine will be distributed based on pre-decided priority and in a programmed manner and it will be appropriately controlled to avoid any diversion or black marketing. To ensure transparency and accountability, details of the entire process will be shared in coming months,” the health minister said.He added that various committees were working on understanding the timelines of availability of various vaccines under development in the country and obtaining commitments from vaccine manufacturers to make available the maximum number of doses for inventory and supply chain management.India currently has two indigenous vaccine candidates in advanced stages of clinical trials. Bharat Biotech International Ltd is carrying out trials on Covaxin, which is being developed using a virus isolated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National Institute of Virology, Pune; and Cadila Healthcare Ltd is testing a candidate called ZyCov-D.Harsh Vardhan also said that while clinical data on the vaccine candidates was still emerging, it wouldn’t be prudent at this stage to comment on one vaccine’s superiority over another.“… even if we have multiple vaccines available, they will all be safe and will elicit the requisite immune response against novel coronavirus”.The vaccines developed and tested outside India that have proven to be safe, immunogenic and efficacious in clinical trials would need to undergo bridging studies to prove their safety and immunogenicity in the Indian population “although these studies can be conducted with much smaller sample size and end quickly,” he added. On the Russian vaccine Sputnik V, the minister said that it was still under consideration by the government.“The matter is still under consideration, and no decision has been taken as yet on the Phase 3 trials,” he said.On the subject of conducting human challenge experiments in India, wherein participants are exposed to the virus in a laboratory controlled setting to test the vaccines, the minister raised ethical concerns.“India is not planning to venture into such trials until the method is proven to have an established benefit as per global experience. India has robust processes in place to ensure the vaccines that successfully complete the clinical trials are safe and effective against the novel coronavirus,” he said.“When conducted, human challenge studies should be undertaken with abundant forethought, caution, and oversight. The value of the information to be gained should clearly justify the risks to human subjects,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-targeting-400-500-million-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-by-july-21/story-gVrbl7U0nvy2iUdsm5C0dM.html
05-10-2020||India||For Bihar polls, BJP focuses on farmers, women||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) plans to woo farmers and women voters in Bihar by reaching out to them with a long-list of policy interventions that have been announced in the past six years of the NDA government at the Centre , and the over three-year rule of the BJP-JD(U) alliance in the state.The turn-out of women voters , at 60.48% and 59.58% in the 2015 assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha elections respectively, was more than that of men. Women are considered an important vote bank in Bihar; the party also wants to take no chances in pacifying farmers in the wake of the protests over the new farm laws. According to the state government’s data 70% of the population is engaged in agricultural operations. The turn-out of male voters in the two elections were 53.32% and 57.33%.According to BJP leaders familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity, the party plans to hold town halls targeted specifically at women and farmers in the run-up to the three-phase election starting October 28. These will be supplemented by more focused outreach efforts where the party will reach out to small groups of farmers -- keeping in mind the protocol for physical distancing during the campaign for the first major elections in the country behind held under the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic.The BJP is hoping to tap the female vote by emphasising the benefits of central schemes such as the Jan Dhan Yojana frills-free bank accounts; the Ujwala cooking gas cynlinder scheme; and the ongoing project for providing piped water supply to the households.Though the party claims that the ongoing agitation against farm laws has no resonance on the ground in Bihar, it is taking preemptive steps to woo the farmers as the opposition is sure to rake the issue.“Farmers in Bihar are not complaining. The state already abolished the APMC system in 2006, which is in line with what the new farm legislation, which also speaks about, giving farmers the choice to sell outside the mandis,” said a party functionary in Delhi.However, a second functionary in the state said the feedback from the ground indicates that there has not been enough private investment as was promised during the abolition of the APMC system, which coupled with the economic slowdown accentuated by the global pandemic is expected to be “a cause for concern”.Several critics of the farm laws have in fact held up Bihar’s poor acquisition of wheat under MSP -- according to the Food Corporation Of India data, only 0.05 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of wheat was procured from Bihar in 2020-21 against the revised target of 7 LMT -- as an indication of how the laws may actually hurt farmers. As per data from the ministry of agriculture, about 5.638 million hectares of land in the state is sown . The total number of land holdings in Bihar are 10.43 million out of which 8.65 million are held by marginal farmers; only 7.81lakh units are larger than 2 hectares.The state is the third largest producer of vegetables and fourth largest producer of fruits in the country and exports litchi, basmati rice and snow pea.With an eye on the rural vote bank the central government recently announced a spate of projects in the state worth Rs 16,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-bihar-polls-bjp-focuses-on-farmers-women/story-hvPwlNWnlvcm0j1ZCQX1ZP.html
05-10-2020||India||Hathras family against CBI probe, demands Supreme Court inquiry||Family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who died in a New Delhi hospital on September 29 after she was allegedly gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras and left partially paralysed said they were against a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe ordered by the Yogi Adityanath government and instead sought a Supreme Court-monitored inquiry.“We do not require a CBI probe... we want an investigation to be held under a retired Supreme Court judge,” said the brother of the woman.A Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by the state government, meanwhile, continued its probe and recorded statements by family members of the woman, who was allegedly raped and left partially paralysed by four dominant-caste members on September 14 when she had gone to the fields to collect cattle fodder.“We are open to anyone who wants to present himself before SIT and get his or her statement (recorded),” said senior Indian Police Service officer Bhagwan Swaroop, who heads the three-member team.Scores of people held a meeting Sunday outside the house of a former BJP MLA in Hathras where they defended the accused in the alleged gangrape of a Dalit woman who later died, and demanded registration of an FIR against her family members.Heavy police force was deployed in the vicinity of the residence of former BJP MLA Rajvir Singh Pehalvan, located around 8-9 kilometres from the victim’s village.One of the organisers of the meeting and Pehalvan’s son Manveer Singh denied that the gathering comprised members from the upper castes and said they were from “different sections of society”.“We welcome the CBI inquiry ordered by the Uttar Pradesh chief minister. We have faith in the investigation,” Singh said, and claimed that the victim’s family members were “changing their stand”.“The entire scenario has been created to blame the government. The accused persons are in favour of any type of inquiry. But the victims are changing their stand every now and then. They do not want a narco test or a CBI probe. Now they want other kinds of inquiries,” he claimed.On September 22, the victim of the gang rape— who died in New Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital where she had been shifted after her condition failed to improve in an Aligarh hospital where she was initially treated— recorded had her statement, claiming she had been raped and naming the four accused. Her mother’s statement echoed the claim.On Sunday, Dalit leader and Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad visited the family of the Hathras woman and demanded that a high-level security cover be provided to her relatives“I demand ‘Y security’ for the family or I’ll take them to my house, they aren’t safe here. We want an inquiry to be done under the supervision of a retired Supreme Court judge”, he said.Azad’s demand came a day after Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi visited the victim’s family and said the state government should take responsibility for the family’s safety.“If ‘Y Plus’ category security cover can be provided to actor Kangana Ranaut, then why can it not be provided to the family of the victim,” Azad said, adding that if his demand was not met, he will organise a gherao of the state assembly. Amid criticism of the government and the police’s handling of the case, CM Adityanath on Sunday asked officials to handle cases related to women, girls, Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) with sensitivity.The CM said this to police and administrative officers during a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) review meeting. “The most complicated of problems could be solved through dialogue,” he said.“Attempts must be made to sort out various problems through dialogue with the affected people. The police should act promptly and deal with sensitivity in cases related to women, girls, SCs and STs,” he said.On Saturday, Adityanath had said his government was committed to ensuring justice to each and every victim. He said that efficient and sensitive policing was needed to strengthen the foundation of good governance, curb crime and maintain law and order in the country’s most populous state.The CM had also sent senior officials including additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi and director general of police HC Awasthy to the village on Saturday to meet the woman’s family. Awasthi said any group with no more than five people was allowed to meet the victim’s family, a remark that came after journalists and politicians were previously turned away from the village.Other accusations of missteps include allegations that the woman’s body was cremated by the police in the early hours of Wednesday without the family’s consent, triggering demonstrations across the country.Chaotic scenes were witnessed on Sunday in Boolgarhi village of Hathras district when a Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD)delegation was about to enter the village and a Samajwadi Party (SP) team was leaving. Five SP leaders had gone inside the village. Anxious SP workers soon went out of control and jumped the barricades when RLD vice president Jayant Chaudhary and his supporters arrived at the spotWhen some unidentified people started throwing stones, the police charged the crowd with batons while Chaudhary was interacting with a reporter. RLD workers rushed to rescue Chaudhary. The RLD leader downplayed the incident, but criticised the police for the lathi-charge on his delegation. “This lathi-charge on Jayant Chaudhary reflects the jungle raj in Uttar Pradesh. He had gone to condole the death of the Hathras girl and was targeted in a planned manner,” said Kaptan Singh Chahar, a former spokesperson of RLD.“Some RLD workers, including Pradeep Chaudhary, sustained major injuries,” Chahar said.Sub-district magistrate Prem Meena denied a planned lathi-charge, and said that the police had resorted to a baton-charge to bring the situation under control after SP and RLD workers threw stones at the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-family-against-cbi-probe-demands-supreme-court-inquiry/story-vWxnaYJmCiXAoZew5OgeZJ.html
05-10-2020||India||Congress-ruled states may pass legislation to override farm laws||Congress-ruled states are likely to summon a special session of their assemblies soon to pass a legislation that will override the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government’s new farm laws, people aware of the development said. While Congress-ruled Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh are expected to put in place their own legislation, the union territory of Puducherry will bring in a resolution in this regard, a party leader said, requesting anonymity. No specific dates for the special sessions have been finalised yet, he added. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi has already drafted a “model bill” to help the party-ruled states override the new farm laws and ensure that no farmer gets less than the minimum support price (MSP) for their produce. Last week, Congress president Sonia Gandhi advised party-ruled states to explore the possibilities to pass legislation under Article 254(2) to negate the BJP-led central government’s “anti-agricultural laws” and prevent the “grave injustice” from being done to farmers. The opposition party cited the BJP government’s move in 2015 when it asked party-ruled states to bring their own laws to override the Land Acquisition Act of 2013 passed during the tenure of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) or boosting infrastructure development. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government pushed three bills to deregulate agricultural trade, which were passed controversially by Parliament, overriding demands by the Opposition for greater scrutiny and voting.Big farmers’ groups, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, are protesting the bills, fearing deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful corporate agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before.The reforms have cost the BJP one of its oldest allies, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which has quit the ruling alliance. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 sought to liberalise farm trade, enable modern supply chains, allow agribusinesses and farmers to enter into contracts, break interlocked markets and enable seamless commodities trading. Alll three bills have been signed into law by President Ram Nath Kovind.The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 allows barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade of primary agricultural commodities, bypassing notified markets under the agricultural produce market committees. The bill will enable food traders to buy farmers’ produce from any market, rather than bind them to the specific markets where they are licensed to operate. Earlier in the day, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi vowed to scrap the new farm laws if the Congress returns to power at the Centre, and alleged that the BJP-led government was acting at the behest of select corporate entities to “destroy” farmers. Leading a protest tractor rally in Punjab against the farm legislations, Gandhi attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and questioned the need for bringing in the new farm laws at the time of the coronavirus pandemic. Union minister Jitendra Singh accused the Congress and other opposition parties of spreading “false propaganda” about the farm laws. “Apart from guaranteeing a fixed price for farmers, the new legislations prohibit the sale, lease or mortgage of farmland. Therefore, there is no substance in the allegation by Congress leaders that big companies will exploit farmers in the name of the contract,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-ruled-states-may-pass-legislation-to-override-farm-laws/story-oNNtSklswNjfmpkgmfhuIN.html
05-10-2020||India||If farmers are happy, why are they protesting, asks Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi sharpened his attack against the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government over three new farm-related laws on Sunday, saying the legislation would promote corporate and not farmers’ interests, as he launched a “kheti bachao yatra” (save agriculture journey) in the heartland of Indian agriculture.“The prime minister says the laws are being framed for farmers. If the laws are being made for farmers, then why didn’t you debate in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha,” he said, flagging off the three-day campaign of tractor rallies in Punjab’s Moga district.“And if farmers are happy with these laws, then why are they agitating across the country? Why is every farmer of Punjab agitating?” Addressing a public meeting in Badhni Kalan in village of Moga district, Gandhi said the contentious laws would be revoked if the Congress was voted to power. He also questioned the “hurry” and the need to implement the legislations amid the coronavirus pandemic.“Their target is to end the MSP and food procurement system. They know the day that happens, farmers of Punjab and Haryana will be finished,” Gandhi said. “But the Congress will not allow this to happen, we stand firmly behind you {farmers}. We will not back down an inch,” he added.President Ram Nath Kovind has given his assent to the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, which were passed by Parliament last month.Claiming that they will lead to more efficient farm markets, the government last month enacted the three laws, allowing farmers to bypass state-controlled market yards run by agricultural produce market committees (APMCs) and enter into five-year farming contracts with agribusinesses. The government also freed up several commonly consumed food items from strict stocking limits that discouraged private investment in cold storages. Farmers’ groups are protesting against the reforms, including the move to end the monopoly of APMCs, because they fear deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before. They also fear the reforms may weaken the MSP mechanism. The central government has maintained that the MSP system will remain and has accused the Congress and other opposition parties of misleading farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has alleged that those opposing the bills want “middlemen” to thrive, while his government is concerned about the interests of farmers who will now be able to get a better price for their produce. It was merely “opposition for the sake of opposition”, he has said. Gandhi, the Congress MP from Kerala’s Wayanad, alleged that corporate houses were setting the agenda for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government.“A couple of chosen corporate houses are issuing diktats to the central government on policy formation. Lands of farmers in states such as Punjab and Haryana that have contributed significantly to the national food security for decades are now facing the threat of acquisition by the powerful corporate houses.”“For six years, Narendra Modi has been speaking lies. When he brought demonetisation, he had then said black money will be curbed. When GST {goods and services tax} was implemented, it hit small shopkeepers, traders and the poor.,” he said.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, state Congress president Sunil Jakhar, party’s Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat and other leaders were present at the launch of the campaign. Former minister and MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has stayed away from all Congress programmes since he resigned from the state cabinet last year, too addressed the gathering.The Punjab chief minister urged Gandhi to bring farmers at the national level under one roof for an organised protest against the Centre. “The Congress will fight back unless the black laws on farm sector are withdrawn,” said Singh.Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma, meanwhile, hit out at the Congress and said that the farming community has been misinformed about the new legislations. The BJP, he said, has started a campaign to explain the benefits of the laws to farm leaders. “These are the visionary rules where the existing food procurement exercise including, purchase by the government agencies and MSP will continue. Rahul Gandhi owes an explanation on an electoral promise made by the Congress in 2014 Lok Sabha and Punjab assembly in 2019 promising liberalization of the farm sector. The Congress leadership is exposed for opposing the provisions that it backed earlier,” said Sharma.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-farmers-are-happy-why-are-they-protesting-asks-rahul/story-OqirfjsAnFtSyCjFWLeBEN.html
05-10-2020||India||Active Covid-19 cases hit first-ever plateau in India||With 936,089 active cases of Covid-19, as of Sunday night, India appears to have stemmed the rise in the crucial statistic for the first time as the figure remained below the million mark for 14 consecutive days. This is the first time since the start of the pandemic that the total number of active cases in the country have seen a sustained decline for two weeks. A look at how this trend has changed, and which states are driving the trend:FOR THE FIRST TIME ACTIVE CASES STOP RISING The total number of active cases of Covid-19 in India breached the million mark for the first time on September 16. This came on the back of months of new cases outstripping the pace of those recovering from Covid-19. But this has changed through the second half of September, resulting in a much-needed plateau in active cases.The number of active cases remained above the million mark for five days, touching a peak (so far) of 1,020,813 on September 17 and have since then dropped to 936,089. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();IN DAILY TRAJECTORY, A REVERSAL The seven-day average of growth of active cases as of October 4 stands at -0.4%. In fact, active cases on average have seen a sustained negative growth for the last 14 days — the first time since the start of the pandemic that this has happened. In the past two weeks, active cases have decreased by 40,398. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();For the week ended October 4, active cases in India decreased by 4,290 per day on average. The lowest this number touched was when active cases dropped by 8,021 on average every day for the week ended September 26.WHERE THE TREND CHANGED (AND WHERE IT DIDN’T) Among the states with the most overall cases, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi have seen active cases drop steadily over the past few weeks. Active cases appear to have hit a plateau in crucial states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Telangana. However, some states such as Karnataka, Kerala and Rajasthan are still seeing a rise in active cases. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-cases-hit-first-ever-plateau-in-india/story-5BEzaHBcwh4oqQ3zzyVgIP.html
05-10-2020||India||Key GST Council meet today, 9 states yet to pick borrowing option||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting on Monday to finalise modalities to compensate states for their revenue shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the current financial year is expected to be stormy as opposition-ruled states - Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal - have not yet opted either of the two borrowing options, two officials aware of the development said on Sunday.So far, 21 state governments have opted to borrow Rs. 97,000 crore to plug a shortfall in revenue from the GST rather than borrow the entire deficit of Rs. 2.35 lakh crore, the officials said requesting anonymity.The government has projected a Rs. 2.35 lakh crore shortfall in GST revenue this financial year, Rs. 97,000 crore accruing from implementation issues and the rest from the pandemic, and prompted the states to borrow from the market to cover the deficit.Also read: 400 to 500 million Covid vaccine doses by July 2021 - All you need to knowAt the 41st GST Council on August 27, the Union government gave two borrowing options to the states to meet the revenue shortfall - the states would not have to pay either the principal or the interest if they borrow only Rs 97,000 crore to meet the GST revenue gap because of implementation issues, but they would have to bear significant interest costs if they choose the larger borrowing option of Rs 2.35 lakh crore that includes revenue shortfalls due to an ‘Act of God’ - the Covid-19 pandemic.Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Puducherry, Sikkim, Tripura, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh have so far, opted for the first borrowing option of Rs 97,000 crore, officials said.“A final decision on this matter is expected on Monday at the 42nd meeting of the GST Council. It is for the members to work out a legal and viable solution to this crisis. No outside agency can interfere in the Council’s decision-making process,” one of the officials said.The proposal to form a dispute resolution mechanism had been already rejected, he said, adding that some council members could raise this matter on Monday.A second official said, “A proposal to create a dispute settlement authority consisting of retired judges was mooted in 2011, even before the implementation of GST regime, but it was rejected by the then Parliamentary Standing Committee. Later, the then GST Empowered Committee headed by Sushil Modi also rejected the proposal arguing that any such authority would undermine the sovereignty of the GST Council which essentially consists of the Centre and states and whose recommendations are binding on state legislatures and the Parliament.”Apart from the Fitment Committee and the Law Committee, the Council can form groups of ministers (GoMs) and committees of officers (CoOs) to resolve any matter, he said. “Therefore, to say that the GST Council has not set up any dispute resolution mechanism is without any basis,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/compensation-issue-to-states-likely-to-be-resolved-at-gst-council-meet-on-monday/story-6ajDi1WaF4RjBipwnZY39I.html
05-10-2020||India||Unlock 5: Schools, temples, restaurants -- What is opening where from today||With state governments taking cautious steps in unlocking keeping in mind the state’s Covid-19 situation, it is not a uniform process across the country. Several new measures of unlocking will start from October 5 — the first Monday after Centre announced its latest reopening guidelines. Here is state/city/UT-wise list of what is opening on October 5Maharashtra: Restaurants, bars, cafes will reopen in Maharashtra after being shut for seven months. Though the Centre allowed states to reopen restaurants, Maharashtra — the hotbed of the infection and still the highest contributor to the country’s caseload — took time before taking the decision. Puducherry: The Union Territory has allowed schools to reopen from October 5 only for the students of class 10 and 12. Tripura: Schools in Tripura are allowed tp reopen on a voluntary basis from October 5 for students between classes 9 and 12. Bengaluru: The ISKCON temple of Bengaluru will open its doors for the public on October 5. The temple will remain open from 9.30am to 12.30 pm and from 4pm to 8pm on weekdays. On weekends, the temple will remain open from 9.30am to 8pm. Kolkata: The Kolkata Metro will increase service time from October 5. The authorities will run more trains from tomorrow. Chennai: Essential staff will be allowed to travel in ‘workmen specials’ services in Chennai local trains from October 5. At present, only railways and central government officials are allowed to travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-5-schools-temples-restaurants-what-is-opening-where-from-tomorrow/story-VrYgRImXFUP6Wb2qmPWF9J.html
