06-10-2020||India||With 338 new Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand crosses 52,000-mark, 8 more die||Uttarakhand on Tuesday reported 338 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 52,329. According to the medical bulletin released by the state health department on Tuesday evening, a maximum of 123 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district followed by Haridwar (55), US Nagar (39), Uttarkashi (32), Nainital (20), Pithoragarh (20), Bageshwar (19), Chamoli (9), Rudraprayag (8), Pauri (7), Champawat (3) and Tehri Garhwal (3). Dehradun district has reported the maximum of 14,273 Covid-19 cases so far followed by Haridwar (9971), US Nagar (8698) and Nainital (6180). Out of 52,329 who have tested positive so far, a total of 42,968 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 82.11%. Also, 600 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Tuesday with a maximum of 262 from Dehradun district. The state reported the death of eight Covid-19 patients. With this, the death toll of Covid-19 patients increased to 677 in the state. Out of the 677 deaths, 212 are due to coronavirus, while the others died due to co-morbidities. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 61.05 days, while the positivity rate is 7.13%. The state has so far tested over 7.63 lakh samples of which results of over 14,400 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 230 containment zones in eight districts including a maximum of 96 in Haridwar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-338-new-covid-19-cases-uttarakhand-crosses-52-000-mark-8-more-die/story-oub85D8fpWlYIIdIzmaFxJ.html
06-10-2020||India||Maoists kill five of their own members in Chhattisgarh||Five naxals carrying rewards ranging from Rs 1 lakh to 3 lakh on their heads were killed by their colleagues in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district over the last two weeks, police said on Tuesday.These killings are the fallout of an ongoing rift within the outlawed CPI (Maoist) over recent murders of civilians by some naxals in south Bastar, they said.Police had last week said top naxal leader Modiyam Vijja had been gunned down by his juniors at the beginning of this month.“We have got information about the killing of five more naxals by their own outfit members in Bijapur,” Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI.The deceased were identified as Sandip alias Budhram, janmilitia platoon section commander, Lakhu Hemla, Maoists jantana school in-charge, Santosh, head of Dandakaranya Adivasi Kisan Majdoor Sangthan, Dasru Mandavi, head of janatana sarkar group and Kamlu Punem, militia platoon commander, he said.All the five deceased were carrying rewards ranging from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 3 lakh on their heads, he said. Of them, four were active in Gangaloor area committee of Maoists, which was being headed by Vijja while Santosh was active in Pamed area committee, the IG said, adding that more details on the killings are being collected.Vijja, a ‘divisional committee member’ cadre who was involved in killing of villagers in Bijapur, was shot dead on October 1, Sundarraj said.“Police had been receiving information about differences between senior and lower-rung cadres with regard to the brutal approach adopted by top ultras towards local villagers from a couple of months.“The recent killings of villagers by naxals in Bijapur after branding them as police informers further escalated the tension,” the IG said. He said the killing of six naxals, including Vijja, seems like eruption of a gang war between different groups within the banned outfit.Terming it as a “crucial” development, the senior police officer said security forces have been keeping a close watch on happenings within the Maoist organisation and are taking strategic action accordingly.Since the beginning of this year, 43 civilians have been killed in naxal-related incidents in Bastar division, including 11 in four districts in September, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-kill-five-of-their-own-members-in-chhattisgarh/story-PcvmSpkFFAUNSYyQcycysO.html
06-10-2020||India||Mike Pompeo, Jaishankar meet in Tokyo, review bilateral ties and plans to tackle Covid-19||External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his US counterpart Mike Pompeo reviewed bilateral relations, including efforts to counter the Covid-19 pandemic, and planning for the upcoming 2+2 ministerial dialogue during their meeting in Tokyo. This was the first face-to-face meeting between Jaishankar and Pompeo since the Covid-19 outbreak snapped foreign travel by world leaders, though they have spoken on several occasions and participated in virtual multilateral meetings in the past few months. During their meeting on the margins of the consultations of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, Pompeo and Jaishankar discussed ongoing bilateral and multilateral cooperation on topics of international concern, said US state department spokesperson Cale Brown. “They reaffirmed the strength of the US-India relationship, reviewed our efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, and asserted the need to work together to advance peace, prosperity and security in the Indo-Pacific and around the globe,” Brown said. Jaishankar and Pompeo also agreed to continue close cooperation on a range of regional and international issues and looked forward to the 2+2 dialogue of the foreign and defence ministers of the two sides later this year, he added. “Began my Tokyo visit with a bilateral meeting with @SecPompeo. Pleased to see the progress of our partnership in so many fields. Will work together for stability and prosperity in the Indo- Pacific,” Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting. Jaishankar is also set to hold bilateral meetings with his Australian counterpart Marise Payne and his Japanese counterpart Toshimitsu Motegi. Pompeo, Payne and Jaishankar also met Japan’s Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga before the Quad consultations. Suga outlined the challenges facing the world community following the Covid-19 outbreak and said it was “all the more necessary to further deepen ties with many more countries which share the vision of a ‘free and open Indo-Pacific’ and build concrete cooperation with them, according to Japan’s foreign ministry. The visiting foreign ministers agreed on the importance of “reinforcing a rules-based, free and open international order through cooperation among Japan, Australia, India and the US”. They also confirmed further collaboration among the four countries for the peace and stability of the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mike-pompeo-jaishankar-meet-in-tokyo-review-bilateral-ties-and-plans-to-tackle-covid-19/story-IcMvuBhc7GZKrtkMZXCJeI.html
06-10-2020||India||Odisha dithers over its farming ordinances as monsoon session ends||Having opposed the farm bills on opening of agricultural sale and marketing outside the APMC mandis for farmers, as well as allowing contract farming last month, the Biju Janata Dal in Odisha may have quietly shelved two of its own farm ordinances with similar provisions from being converted to laws.Though the Naveen Patnaik government had listed Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, and Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, among the 10 ordinances, in the monsoon session of the Assembly for converting them into bills, it has now quietly shelved the idea.The two ordinances promulgated in May this year aimed at registration farmers with contract farming companies for improving production and productivity and amendment of Odisha Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1957, for geographically restriction-free trade and transaction of agricultural produce including livestock across the state and country. With the monsoon session of the Assembly adjourned today, a day ahead of the schedule, the chance of the twin ordinances becoming law may be a remote possibility now.Also read: NDA seat-sharing pact sealed, Nitish Kumar jabs ex-ally Chirag PaswanSenior Congress leader Narasingha Mishra said by shelving the twin ordinances, the government may be hoping to get some breathing time as there is anger brewing against the twin farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act - passed by the Parliament last month.“The Naveen Patnaik government brought two of its farm ordinances in May this year ahead of the central ordinances. There is not much difference between the central ordinances as well as state ordinances. During the all-party meeting last month, I had raised the issue with the parliamentary affairs minister but I did not get a satisfactory reply. Now, it is clear that the BJD government does not want to confront the farming community of the state by converting the ordinances into laws during the pandemic. It would have been better had they been forthcoming about it. But it’s unfortunate that they are hush about the whole thing,” said Mishra.Last month, the BJD had opposed the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of the Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, alleging that they had little provision for small and marginal farmers as well as sharecroppers. “We can’t support the bill till we are sure that farmers’ interest will be protected,” said BJD leader and Rajya Sabha member Prasanna Acharya.However, the Odisha cooperation department, which had piloted the twin farm ordinances in a comparative analysis done in July, had admitted that there is not much difference between the central ordinance (now enacted into law) and state ordinances. As per the comparative analysis, the Odisha ordinance allows a farmer to enter into a written farming agreement for any farming produce which is same as per the central Act. The Odisha ordinance has only provisions of state government collecting a facilitation fee of maximum 4 percent from the corporate houses that come for contract farming while there are no such features in the central law.Similarly, the period of agreement for contract farming in the central Act is minimum of one crop season/one production cycle (for livestock) to maximum of 5 years, while in the state ordinance the minimum agreement period is of one crop season.Parliamentary affairs minister Bikram Keshari Arukh said the two ordinances were supposed to have been introduced as bills in the monsoon session but for some reasons, they could not be introduced in the Assembly session. “We may introduce the bill in the winter session. But nothing has been decided as yet,” he said. Minister and secretary of cooperation department, however, did not respond when asked why the two ordinances were not brought in as bills despite the initial announcement.BJP leader Bhrugu Buxipatra said the BJD’s rethinking on the two ordinances may have been a ploy to hoodwink the people of the state. “The BJD would have supported the farm bills in the Parliament but for the CBI raids in the chit fund scam. The similarity of state government’s ordinances on farming with the central laws speaks much about the BJD’s confusion,” he said.However, BJD MP Amar Patnaik said Odisha ordinance on farming was different from central laws. “Our ordinance takes care of small and marginal farmers which is lacking in the central law. There is still time for the state ordinances to get passed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-dithers-over-its-farming-ordinances-as-monsoon-session-ends/story-KHbqhVJI3xKgthCzAib1HL.html
06-10-2020||India||DCGI nod to Phase-1 human trials of ‘antisera’ with potential to treat Covid-19||The Drugs Controller General of India has given permission for conducting Phase-1 human clinical trial for an “antisera” that was developed by injecting inactivated SARS-CoV-2 in horses and can be a potential treatment for Covid-19, ICMR officials said on Tuesday.The ‘antisera’ has been developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in collaboration with a Hyderabad-based bio-pharmaceutical firm. “With Biological E Limited we have developed an horse ‘antisera’ and we have just got clearance for conducting clinical trials for that,” ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava said at press briefing on Tuesday.The ‘antisera’ is yet to undergo human clinical trials to establish safety and efficacy.Antisera are blood serum high in antibodies against specific antigens and are injected in humans to help kickstart the immune system to fight specific infections. “The ICMR and Biological E Limited, Hyderabad, have developed highly purified antisera (raised in animals) for prophylaxis and treatment of Covid-19,” the apex health research body had earlier said in a tweet.   The pre-print version of the study regarding the development of the equine antisera has been posted on the Research Square platform.“The study provides evidence of the potential of generating highly purified F(ab’)2 from equines against SARS-CoV-2 that can demonstrate consistent and high neutralisation activity,” the study paper said.  “Further, in-vivo testing for efficacy of this indigenously developed, cost effective product will pave the way to clinical evaluation. Additionally, being a donor independent method, this may prove as an efficient alternative to convalescent plasma for treatment of Covid-19 patients,” it said.   Earlier such measures were used for controlling several viral and bacterial infections.   “Although, plasma recovered from patients experiencing Covid-19 could serve similar purpose, the profile of antibodies, their efficacy and concentration keep varying from one patient to another and therefore, make it an unreliable clinical tool for patient management,” the ICMR had said in a tweet.“Standardisation achievable through equine sera based treatment modality thus stands out as yet another remarkable public health initiative supported by ICMR in the time of Covid-19,” it said.As part of the study, 10 healthy horses were immunised with inactivated SARS-CoV-2 and after 21 days of immunisation, plasma samples were tested.The results of the plasma samples indicated presence of SARS-CoV-2 specific IgG antibodies as detected in ELISA with neutralising capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcgi-nod-to-phase-1-human-trials-of-antisera-with-potential-to-treat-covid-19/story-rWJg4y02cjXBXxE1630MyN.html
06-10-2020||India||‘I enjoy every bit of being in front of the camera’||Dehradun-lad actor Abhishek Chauhan feels theatre and films are two sides of a same coin. “Yes they are connected but not quite the same. I come from a hardcore theatre background and am habitual of performing in front of live audience while for TV, web or films we have to emote for camera. I took time to adjust with the change but now I enjoy every bit of it. After a few projects now, I’m all game performing for the camera,” he said.Abhishek started his digital career with the series ‘Cubicles’. Talking about his early days, he said, “Since my school and college days in Delhi, I knew my calling was acting. So, I relocated to Mumbai and did one-year theatre course and then I was all set to kick-start my career. I auditioned for several projects and after few months I got a call for a web series. And that’s how ‘Undekhi’ happened. I’m glad that my character Rishi earned so much love and recognition. Both my series proved to be a turning point in my career. I miss not being part of the further seasons.” Currently, Abhishek is enjoying the success of his recently released Varanasi-based film ‘Bahut Hua Samman’ and is busy shooting for his next series. “All my previous work has been very close to what I wanted to do as a beginner and at present whatever projects I am doing or being offered have a strong storyline and well-carved characters. So, let’s wait and watch,” he shared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-enjoy-every-bit-of-being-in-front-of-the-camera/story-UvjSJ8IugIKNBvDBD8aPMP.html
06-10-2020||India||Rajniesh to resume shoot in Lucknow||Actor Rajniesh Duggall is back in Lucknow to restart the shoot for the upcoming film ‘Bagawat’ that got stalled due to pandemic. He left a day before ‘Janta Curfew’ and returned lately to join the crew shooting at a club in the suburb. “A lot of changed since then. From a crew of 200 we are down to 120 only. We were supposed to shoot at an old haveli but now a set has been created on the same campus. Outsiders are not allowed and utmost safety is been taken,” said the actor. The shoot began with actors like Shishir Sharma, Aham Sharma and others from Sunday while his schedule will start from Friday. The film, directed by Sanjiv Jaiswal, is a sequel to ‘Shudra: The Rising’. “I came early to prepare myself a bit. I visited the set and saw the entire crew following all safety measures. Earlier, the unit was quarantined and rapid tests were also done. ‘Ab bhagwan ka naam lekar kaam karna hai’ because self-safety is the key. Due to the pandemic everything has gone haywire. One of the actors got stuck so we had to replace him and now have to re-shoot some portions.” Before this he shot for a government commercial in Delhi. “I stayed there for a few days and then headed for Vrindavan for a day to meet my mother. When I returned, I quarantined myself for two days and got a Covid test done and met others after testing negative,” he said. After this month-long schedule he will be shooting for a web-series. “The line-up is ready and I hope all goes well. Next, I’m shooting for a web series but since I am in a particular look I want to complete ‘Bagawat’ first. It’s a very interesting project and its story is the real hero the film.” He will be next seen in an OTT series ‘The Ghost Thesis’ which also stars Shishir Sharma. “It’s a paranormal thriller based on a mind game.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/rajniesh-to-resume-shoot-in-lucknow/story-O8BtHZUETyB5ViRnkyF6WN.html
06-10-2020||India||CM Pinarayi Vijayan, medical experts lock horns as Covid-19 cases mount in Kerala||Amid mounting Covid-19 cases and a steep hike in test positivity rate, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and medical experts on Tuesday locked horns over the pandemic control measures in the state.While the CM maintained that the state’s Covid-19 control measures have paid dividends, experts want the government to streamline its plans and engage more professionals in the fight against the pandemic. They warned the government that Covid-19 cases may peak by this month-end and the state needs more curbs to meet the situation and more tests. They said the government was framing policies as suggested by the bureaucracy without consulting medical experts.The Union Health Ministry statistics show after Maharashtra and Karnataka, Kerala has got the highest active cases (87,738) and test positivity rate has gone up to 13.01while the national average is 8.3. The state has also got the maximum new cases per million. But the CM brushed aside criticism saying the state has got the lowest mortality rate in the country 0.36% while the national average is 1.55 per cent. He also came down heavily on the Indian Medical Association Kerala chapter which earlier said the “state health system was weak sans deep study and proper management”. “We are making suggestions to improve the system and minimise damage. But the government is taking them personally and targets those who criticize it. It is not a healthy trend. It should see the writing on the wall and redraw its strategies accordingly. It is no time for publicity gimmicks,” US-returned medical expert Dr S S Lal wrote on Facebook criticizing what he called the government’s intolerance. After he made some remarks, health minister K K Shailaja chided him saying the state has got better health records than the United States.“At present 80% of the ICUs are filled. And the government hospitals are shooing away non-Covid-19 patients. Bureaucracy is framing policies overlooking public health experts and others,” said IMA president Dr Abraham Varghese. But the CM retorted saying IMA was only a doctors’ trade outfit not an expert body.Meanwhile, the state reported 7,871 new cases taking the total to 2,42,779. The active cases now stand at 87,738 and 1,54,092 patients have recovered. With 25 deaths, the toll has gone up to 885. Among the infected are 111 health workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-pinarayi-vijayan-medical-experts-lock-horns-as-covid-19-cases-mount-in-kerala/story-GrgJiuaadZNXiclErsyg1J.html
06-10-2020||India||Chief secretaries of Delhi, NCR states to appear in SC over stubble burning||Concerns over stubble burning turning out to be a potent killer in times of Covid-19 pandemic echoed in the Supreme Court on Tuesday with a concerned bench moving swiftly to post two applications and a separate petition on the issue for October 16 and asking chief secretaries of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh to remain present on that day.The three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde sensed the urgency of the situation as it said, “It is an important issue or else the whole air will go bad.”The Court was hearing a petition filed by two young environmental activists – a Class 12 student, who under his initiative ‘Plant a Million Trees’, has planted 1.5 lakh trees in Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR), and a third-year law student who is an active campaigner against the use of single-use plastic. The petition demanded the Court to bring a stop to stubble burning by farmers in Punjab and Haryana which pose a threat to the health of citizens in Delhi-NCR.Along with the petition, the Court heard two applications as part of the MC Mehta case which deals with environmental pollution in Delhi-NCR. Vikrant Tongad, member of the Zila Samiti on the issue of crop burning for Gautam Buddh Nagar district, UP, demanded ‘Happy Seeder’ machines, meant to mechanically remove the stubble, to be mandatorily issued to farmers either for free or on subsidized rates. For preventing crop fires, he suggested satellite-based geospatial technology that is already in use by the Centre for mapping and preventing forest fires. Also read: Lockdown hit food security of children, says rights bodyAlthough in the past, the Supreme Court had ordered the states of Punjab, UP and Haryana to provide cash incentives to farmers who do not resort to crop burning, Tongad suggested that the Court may consider making payment of minimum support price (MSP) to farmers subject to verification that they have not resorted to stubble burning. The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said, “Let Union of India file reply… Let the chief secretaries of the States viz., Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab, be present before this Court on the next date of hearing.” The second application was filed by a Supreme Court lawyer Manali Singhal who, through her plea, sought immediate curbs on stubble burning. She produced international research which showed how air pollution can “exacerbate” spread of Covid-19 infection, posing high risk to senior citizens, children and people with respiratory illness. The application suggested the appointment of an officer or Commissioner to enforce the Court’s past orders to end stubble burning. Such powers are available to an officer appointed under Section 5 of the Environment Protection Act, 1986, the application stated. The bench asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta if such an officer has been appointed. Mehta said he will seek instructions and inform the Court. Senior advocate Aparajita Singh, who is assisting the Court as Amicus Curiae (friend of the Court), responded by saying that over the past years, the Court is getting assistance on stubble burning and related environmental issues from a statutory authority called the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA), which has been submitting regular reports to the Court. Just before Tuesday’s hearing, the EPCA filed a report showing how the state governments had assured the Supreme Court in November 2019 that all measures are in place. This assurance was recorded by the Court in its order of July 30 and August 24 this year. “The chief secretaries of the neighbouring states are present here. The Court must ask them as to why despite repeated assurances in the past, stubble burning continues to happen?” The Court was of the view that the issue required an expert to deal with the situation. “Suggest impartial people who can examine this issue. How can courts go into this,” the bench remarked. One of the applicants suggested appointing former Supreme Court judge Madan B Lokur. Amicus curiae informed the Court that the EPCA is the expert body constituted under Section 5 of the Environment Protection Act. Delhi government, represented by advocate Dinesh Dwivedi, informed the Court that the issue need not require a separate agency to supervise as the Court has been “hand-holding” the issue over the past many years. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who appeared for the separate petition by the two young environmental activists, told the Court that he will suggest names of few independent experts. In his petition, Singh argued, “The consequence of allowing any stubble burning to take place in the times of this pandemic will be catastrophic… enhanced pollution level can offer “direct pathway for airborne transmission” of Covid-19 virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chief-secretaries-of-delhi-ncr-states-to-appear-in-sc-over-stubble-burning/story-aLbN6xnf67nI3aCXJ3l2PM.html
06-10-2020||India||India Covid-19 recovery rate 84%; 77% active cases in 10 states: Health Ministry||Active Covid-19 cases have been below 10 lakh for the last two weeks while the recovery rate of India is 84%, Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday.Addressing a press briefing, Bhushan said, “Recovered cases have crossed 56 lakh mark which is the highest in the world. Active cases are below 10 lakh for the last two weeks and the recovery rate is 84%. Over 8 crore tests have been conducted and approximately 80 lakh tests were done in last week.”Bhushan said average daily positivity rate has been coming down while new recoveries have been more than new cases in the recent days.“The average daily Covid-19 positivity rate has been coming down. Between September 2 and 8 it was 8.28 per cent and later it came down to 6.82 per cent between September 30 and October 6. New recoveries have been more than new cases in the recent days. The highest recovery was reported on September 26 when over 93,000 patients were cured. The highest new cases were recorded on September 27 when 88,000 people were tested positive,” Bhushan said.He said that in 10 states, 77% of the active cases are concentrated out of which three states account for 50% active cases.“10 states including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh account for 77% of the active cases in the country out of which Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala account 50% active cases,” he said.The union health secretary said that 48% of Covid-related deaths were reported from 25 districts in the country. Out of 25 districts, 15 districts are from Maharashtra. Health Ministry is in talks with these states to control the Covid-19 deaths. The target is to bring fatality below 1%.Presenting trend analysis of cases in 10 states with highest case load, Bhushan said, “It is too early to take a call on the trend of active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, whether it is stabilising or not, we need to observe for more time.”(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-covid-19-recovery-rate-84-77-active-cases-in-10-states-health-ministry/story-rOnxwCkhv8VcotJL7nVbPL.html
06-10-2020||India||Plea before SC seeks release of Kerala journalist detained by UP Police||A Habeas Corpus petition was filed before the Supreme Court on Tuesday seeking the release of a journalist from Kerala who was detained by the Uttar Pradesh police near Hathras, when he was on his way to cover the rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit woman.The term Habeas Corpus literally translates to “produce the body” and it is a plea seeking directions to be issued to the government to produce a detained person before the court and to release such person if the detention is found to be illegal. The plea moved by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists, a registered union of journalists based in Kerala and having operations in Delhi sought the release of Sidhique Kappan, a journalist with more than 10 years of experience presently working for a news portal, www.azhimukham.com. Kappan, who is also the secretary of the New Delhi unit of KUWJ was arrested at the toll plaza near Hathras while he was travelling to Hathras to report about the incident.“Despite best efforts, the petitioner (KUWJ) could not gather any information about the place of detention or other details. Neither the family members nor colleagues of Kappan were informed about his arrest or place of detention,” the petition said.The arrest was made with a view to obstruct Kappan’s discharge of duty in his capacity as a journalist, the plea added.The petitioner submitted that Kappan’s mobile phone is switched off and his family members or others are not able to gather any information regarding Kappan’s arrest due to restrictions on movement due to Covid-19.“Issue orders directing the Central and UP government to release Sidhique Kappan from illegal detention,” the petitioner prayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-before-sc-seeks-release-of-kerala-journalist-detained-by-up-police/story-kiiCrwgsp9gHDDDMfJOeDI.html
06-10-2020||India||India’s wildlife, biodiversity equally imperative as its developmental needs: PM Modi||India’s developmental needs are paramount but wildlife and biodiversity are equally imperative, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday. In his message to the nation to mark the celebration of the ongoing Wildlife Week, the prime minister said India’s commitment to wildlife protection and conservation is strong. “Wildlife conservation is ingrained in our ethos and has always been an integral part of our tradition and culture. Our holy Constitution also enshrines this philosophy by including conservation of forest and wildlife as one of the fundamental duties of every Indian. “India harbours 17 per cent of world population within 2.4 per cent land area of the world. Developmental needs of the country are paramount. However, we believe wildlife and biodiversity conservation are equally imperative,” Modi said in a written message. He said that with a robust and wide network of protected areas, the country’s commitment to words wildlife protection is as strong as ever. “Eco-sensitive zones provide a peripheral support and act as a buffer around national parks and sanctuaries. Taking great strides in this direction, several such zones have been notified to enhance the space availability for thriving wildlife,” Modi said. He said India remains a natural home to a variety of migratory species and for this reason, Gandhinagar declaration, which was adopted during the 13th Conference of Parties to Convention on Migratory Species in February this year, prioritised the integration of the concept of ecological connectivity into the ‘Post 2020 Global Biodiversity Framework’.  “We are emphasising on the conservation of migratory birds and marine species,” he said. Prime Minister Modi also took pride in India being home to wild Asiatic lions and tigers, saying the result of the concerted efforts of the nation in conserving wildlife are showing. “Our country hosts the last wild population of Asiatic lions. It also possesses the distinction of having the highest number of tigers in the world. The result of the concerted efforts of the nation towards conserving our wildlife are showing. The resolve of doubling tiger numbers has been fulfilled. We have achieved this target well in advance. “Encouraged by the success stories of Project Tiger and Project Elephant, we are now making efforts to conserve other endangered species through Project Lion and Project Dolphin. Contribution from people from all walks of life will help attain the desired goals of these projects,” he said. He also said that India gives a special attention to plastic waste management.  “We are resolute in our efforts to reduce single use plastic and micro plastic pollution for sustainable development along with a prospering biodiversity,” he said. Lastly, he said that “coinciding with the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the apostle of peace and nonviolence, the celebration of ‘Wildlife Week’ is an ideal location to reaffirm our commitment towards conservation of wildlife and harmonious coexistence of all living beings”.  Wildlife Week is organised from October 2-8 every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-wildlife-biodiversity-equally-imperative-as-its-developmental-needs-pm-modi/story-JRFJNzsVyrAHhNPm3ap1mK.html
06-10-2020||India||48% of total Covid-19 deaths concentrated in 25 districts of 8 states: Health Ministry||About 48% of total Covid-19 deaths in the country are concentrated in 25 districts of 8 states, out of which 15 districts are in Maharastra alone, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday. Addressing a press briefing, Union Health Ministry Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said India has recorded the highest number of recoveries from Covid-19 at over 56 lakh and India has also conducted the second highest number of tests in the world at 8.10 crore. “New recoveries have been more than new cases over the last two weeks. New cases being reported in last 14 days are below previous highs of 90,000 cases per day,” Bhushan said. Giving figures on Covid deaths, Bhushan said about 48% of total Covid-19 deaths in the country are concentrated in 25 districts of 8 states. “Out of these 25 districts, 15 districts are in one state alone that is Maharashtra. Two districts each are in Karnataka, West Bengal and Gujarat and one each in Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh,” Bhushan said. He further said that the average daily Covid-19 positivity rate has declined from 9.21 per cent recorded between September 16-22 to 6.82 per cent registered from September 30 to October 6. “Average daily new cases of Covid-19 have declined from 84,179 registered from September 2 to September 8 to 77,113 recorded between September 30 to October 6. Ten states including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh account for 77% of the active cases in the country,” he added. Under the Rs 50 lakh insurance scheme for frontline healthcare workers engaged in Covid-19 duty, Bhushan said payments have been made in 95 cases, while 176 claims are under process. “In 95 cases of death of frontline healthcare workers engaged in Covid-19 duty, insurance claim of Rs 50 lakh has been paid and 176 claims are being processed. In addition, 79 claims are yet to be received from different states,” he said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/48-of-total-covid-19-deaths-concentrated-in-25-districts-of-8-states-health-ministry/story-PoJwK5Q4upJt8LFFz9VK1K.html
06-10-2020||India||Man kills married woman for rejecting his proposal; arrested: Cops||A 21-year-old man was arrested for allegedly murdering a married woman who rejected his proposal for an illicit relationship, said police.The accused, identified as Herento Tripura, is a neighbour of the deceased.According to police, the incident happened late on Monday evening at Rashidhanpara village located at Baikhora in South district in Tripura.The woman had gone to a forest near her house on Monday to collect firewood. When she didn’t return till evening, her husband Dhananjoy Tripura searched the forest and discovered her body.According to a preliminary investigation, the woman was strangled.“The deceased’s husband lodged a complaint at our police station without accusing anyone. We took a murder case and during our investigation, we arrested Herento and found few ornaments of the deceased from his possession,” said Baikhora officer in-charge Rajib Saha.The police official, quoting the deceased’s husband, said that Herento had proposed to her for an illicit relationship. Though she declined his proposal, Herento used to stalk her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-kills-married-woman-for-rejecting-his-proposal-arrested-cops/story-zAsY0si9X5HnTkbrOu55hI.html
06-10-2020||India||Yes Bank case: ED arrests CFO, internal auditor of Cox and Kings||The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday arrested Anil Khandelwal, chief financial officer of global tours and travel company Cox and Kings Group (CKG) in connection with the Yes Bank money laundering probe, the agency said in a statement. Besides Khandelwal, the agency also arrested Naresh Jain, the group’s internal auditor. The arrests have been made under section 19 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA). Both the accused were produced before the Special Judge (PMLA) and were granted seven days of ED custody. The ED had claimed that the firm defaulted on loan payments worth Rs 3,642 crore. During the seven-day custody, ED officials intend to grill the two in relation with the irregularities and collect more evidence. Earlier this year, the ED conducted raids at premises belonging to the senior management of Cox and Kings Group (CKG) in connection with the money laundering probe.On March 8, the agency arrested the bank’s former chairman and managing director Rana Kapoor. The travel company was sent to bankruptcy court last year in October after defaulting on payments to the bank. The ED had been scanning its transactions to its borrowers.Also read: Days after meeting Amit Shah, Jagan Reddy meets PM Modi; seeks Centre’s help for 3 capitalsPMLA investigation in the Yes Bank case revealed that the CKG forged it’s consolidated financials by manipulating the balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries. Besides, some board resolutions submitted to banks for sanctioning the loans were also found to be forged. “Further investigation revealed that the loan sanction from Yes bank was driven by Kapoor and was given bypassing the norms. The ED gathered the evidence regarding Kapoor’s direction to the concerned bank officials to get the said loan continued and not to take efforts to recover it,” the agency statement noted. As per the investigation, sales worth Rs 3,908 crore was made to 15 non-existent/fictitious customers during the financial years (FY) 2015 to 2019. Majority of collection shown in ledgers from Ezeego (another group entity of CKG ) was not found in the bank statements. It was also found that fifteen fictitious high-value debtors reflected in the books of accounts. Another 147 sets of customers also appeared to be suspicious and not existent. The group was found to have diverted Rs 1,100 crore to another company without any approval of the board. It was also found that Khandelwal and Jain acquired the mortgaged property amounting to Rs 63 crore in their owned business entity named M/s Reward Business Solutions without paying a penny from their pocket. The agency stated that the duo had also purchased various immovable properties from the funds diverted from the group. “Investigation conducted so far has revealed that the bank transactions of Cox and King Group are not matching with the books of accounts and Anil Khandelwal and Naresh Jain creating disparities between the books of accounts and the bank statements to camouflage the fraud. Further investigation is in progress,” the press statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yes-bank-case-ed-arrests-cfo-internal-auditor-of-cox-and-kings/story-0k5xoGqKnbMPfa9lhBgp1I.html
06-10-2020||India||6 killed, 24 injured in road accident in Madhya Pradesh||Four migrant labourers and two minors were killed while 24 others sustained injuries in an accident that took place in Dhar district, 251 km south west of Bhopal, on Monday night when a tanker transporting LPG rammed a vehicle from behind. All the victims were travelling in the second vehicle, said police.The injured were rushed to the district hospital in Dhar where their condition is stated to be stable.Superintendent of police, Dhar district, Aaditya Singh said the migrant labourers from Kodi village of the district had gone to Keshar village which is also situated in the same district, for harvesting of soybean crop.“About 40 labourers were returning home in a pick-up vehicle but the tyre of the vehicle had a puncture near Chikhliya village. The vehicle was stationary on the road when the tanker that was running on high speech rammed it. About 10 of the group were not affected by the accident as they went away looking for a tyre repairing shop. The tanker driver fled the spot.”Police are investigating the incident to know whether the victims were travelling in the vehicle on their own or some contractor forced them to do so in the overcrowded vehicle which is not meant for carrying passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-killed-24-injured-in-road-accident-in-madhya-pradesh/story-Lq1t0QkSkm8L8ZmMTMLLBM.html
06-10-2020||India||Days after meeting Amit Shah, Jagan Reddy meets PM Modi; seeks Centre’s help for 3 capitals||Andhra Pradesh chief minister and YSR Congress party president Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday sought the cooperation of the Centre in the formation of three capital cities for Andhra to facilitate a decentralised administration. In a 40-minute meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi, the chief minister is believed to have explained in detail why the state government had to take the decision to form three capitals for the state and how it would help the state achieve all round development. Jagan was accompanied by YSRC parliamentary party leader V Vijay Sai Reddy and another MP P Mithun Reddy. Though it was widely speculated in the media that the discussion on YSRC joining the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) would come up at the meeting between Jagan and Modi, there was no confirmation from either YSRC or the BJP. “The chief minister explained to PM Modi on the prevailing political atmosphere in the state and the legal hurdles being faced by his government in implementing various decisions including the decentralisation of administration and distribution of house sites to the poor,” a YSRC functionary familiar with the development said. An official in the CMO said Jagan had sought liberal financial assistance from the Centre in the decentralised development of the state. He also brought to the notice of the Prime Minister that several issues had been pending unresolved with the Centre since YSRC came to power in May 2019. “Apart from the promises made to the state as per the AP Reorganization Act, including funds due to the state to offset the revenue deficit, the chief minister took up several other issues with the Prime Minister. The meeting took place in a completely cordial atmosphere and the response from the PM was quite encouraging,” the CMO official said. It was the second time Jagan had met Modi this year. The last time the chief minister met the Prime Minister was on February 12, with a long wish list of demands including special category status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/days-after-meeting-amit-shah-jagan-reddy-meets-pm-modi-seeks-centre-s-help-for-3-capitals/story-mZHNO6IqSK4hShDXdgtBvN.html
06-10-2020||India||‘If Andhra does not stop...’: KCR during meet on Krishna water sharing||The Telangana government on Tuesday threatened to construct a new project across the Krishna river on the foreshore of Srisailam reservoir if Andhra Pradesh goes ahead with the construction of Rayalaseema lift irrigation project on the river. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao made it clear at the apex council meeting convened by Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat through video conference in which Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy participated. KCR accused the Andhra Pradesh government of unilaterally deciding to construct Rayalaseema lift irrigation project on Srisailam reservoir to draw an additional three tmc (thousand million cubic feet) of water from Krishna river. “If Andhra Pradesh does not stop the Rayalaseema lift scheme, we, too, will be compelled to construct a new barrage between Alampur-Pedda Marur in Jogulamba Gadwal district to lift three tmc of water from Krishna river,” KCR told the Union minister at the meeting. He said during the combined Andhra Pradesh regime, great injustice was done to Telangana in river water sharing. “Even after bifurcation, if Andhra Pradesh behaves irresponsibly and tries to loot Krishna waters according to its whims and fancies, we will not tolerate. We can also go to any extent to protect the interests of our state,” KCR said. He said the Telangana government had written to the Centre in 2014 itself seeking constitution of a fresh tribunal to decide water sharing between Telangana and Andhra in the wake of bifurcation. “Since there was no response from the Centre, we had to approach the Supreme Court seeking legitimate share to the state in Krishna waters,” he pointed out. While agreeing to the demand of Telangana for a fresh tribunal, Shekawat, however, said no decision could be taken as the issue was before the Supreme Court. KCR said if the Centre agreed to constitute the tribunal, his government would withdraw the petition in the SC. The Telangana chief minister demanded that the Centre allocate river water to the two states project-wise and opposed Andhra Pradesh government’s move to divert Krishna water to Pennar basin. “Even the Krishna river management board also agreed to this principle,” he said. Meanwhile, Shekawat told the reporters in New Delhi that both the Telugu states had agreed to submit to the union government the detailed project reports (DPRs) of all the new irrigation projects they had taken up in the last six years after bifurcation of states. He said the two states had also agreed to shift the Krishna River Management Board’s office to Vijayawada from Hyderabad. The Centre will soon decide the purview of the two river boards, he said. Ends//||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-andhra-does-not-stop-kcr-during-meet-on-krishna-water-sharing/story-5hRzmFbfLdCdg6aKeDZVVJ.html
06-10-2020||India||Railways restore earlier system of issuing second reservation chart 30 min before train departure||The Indian Railways Tuesday decided to restore from October 10 the earlier system of preparation of second reservation charts 30 minutes before the scheduled departure of trains from stations. The system was modified to two hours in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic for the last few months.In a statement, the national transporter said as per the established pre-Covid period instructions, the first reservation chart was prepared at least four hours before scheduled departure of trains. Thereafter, the available accommodation could be booked across PRS counters as well as through the internet on a first-come-first-serve basis till preparation of second reservation charts. The second reservation charts were prepared between 30 minutes to 5 minutes before scheduled/rescheduled time of departure of trains. Cancellation of already booked tickets was also permitted during this period as per provisions of Refund Rules.Due to the coronavirus pandemic, instructions were issued to shift the time of preparation of the second reservation chart to two hours before scheduled/ rescheduled time of train departure. “As per request of Zonal Railways for ensuring convenience of rail passengers, the matter has been examined and it has been decided that the second reservation chart shall be prepared at least 30 minutes before scheduled/rescheduled time of departure of train,” the statement said. “Accordingly, ticket booking facility, both online and on PRS ticket counters, shall be available, before preparation of second chart. CRIS will make necessary modifications in the software accordingly so as to restore this provision with effect from October 10,” it said. The Railways had suspended all passenger trains services due to the imposition of the nationwide lockdown from March 25. However, it resumed services in a staggered manner beginning with Shramik Special trains to help stranded migrant workers reach their home states from May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-restore-earlier-system-of-issuing-second-reservation-chart-30-min-before-train-departure/story-FbZKoG8fCHzFgtWS5WQ6iN.html
06-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Plea in Allahabad HC challenging UP Special Security Force Act and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Petition filed in Allahabad High Court challenging UP Special Security Force ActA writ petition, filed in the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court on Tuesday, challenged the legality of the Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force (UPSSF) Act-2020, which was recently passed by the Uttar Pradesh legislature. Read moreADIA to invest ₹5,512.50 crore in Reliance RetailMukesh Ambani’s Reliance Retail on Tuesday announced that Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) will be investing ₹5,512.50 crore in Reliance Retail Ventures Limited or RRVL. This will give the company a 1.20% stake in Reliance Retail. Read moreMukesh Khanna was a flop actor before Mahabharat, attacks prominent people for publicity: Gajendra ChauhanThe war of words between two actors from the popular 80s show Mahabharat, Mukesh Khanna and Gajendra Chauhan, has intensified. It all started when Mukesh put out an Instagram post explaining his absence from the reunion of the Mahabharat cast from The Kapil Sharma Show. Mukesh called the show vulgar and objected to innuendos and men dressing up as women to elicit laughs. Read moreBigg Boss 14 contestant Nikki Tamboli called out by Diet Sabya for wearing ‘gandi’ copy of Kendall Jenner’s dress from 2018Bigg Boss Season 14 has only just started but not so surprisingly the contestants are already making waves, and not for the right reasons. Instagram-based, self-appointed industry watchdog Diet Sabya called out contestant Nikki Tamboli for wearing a ‘gandi’ copy of a dress seen on Kendall Jenner. Read moreTwitter reacts to Donald Trump removing mask for photos after returning to White HouseUS President Donald Trump returned to the White House on Monday night after a four-day stay at the Walter Reed National Medical Center where he received treatment after testing positive for Covid-19. Read moreWatch: Lion in middle of road in Gujarat, caught on camera by forest guardA video of a forest guard ‘pleading’ with a lion in Gujarat’s Gir Forest has gone viral. The forest guard encountered the lion on his way back home at night. Blocking his way, the king of the jungle was sitting in the middle of a pitch-dark road. The bone-chilling incident was captured by Guard Mahesh Sondarva. In the video, the forest guard is heard ‘pleading’ in Gujarati. After Sondarva’s several efforts, the lion made a move and walked into the forest. Later, the video was shared by Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer Dr Anshuman on his Twitter handle. Anshuman serves as the deputy conservator of forest (DCF) in Gir East. The video has garnered more than 5,000 views and hundreds of likes. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-plea-in-allahabad-hc-challenging-up-special-security-force-act-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9rR1IfajkcV91VjHTw2OtI.html
06-10-2020||India||Supreme Court judgment on scope of right to protest in public places tomorrow||The Supreme Court will pronounce its judgment on Wednesday regarding the scope of right to protest in public places and whether or not there can be limitations to such right.The verdict will be delivered by a 3-judge bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul in a batch of petitions concerning road blockade at Shaheen Bagh in Delhi by protestors who were opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).While the issue concerning Shaheen Bagh itself was rendered infructuous (pointless) since the protests ended after the Covid-19 pandemic broke out and lockdown was imposed, the court heard the parties on the larger issue of right to protest in public places and to what extent it can be regulated and balanced with the right of general public to move without hindrance.“The right to protest should be balanced with the right to movement of public. In a parliamentary democracy, there is a right to protest. But can a public road be blocked for a long time? When and where can protests be held? We will think about how it can be balanced,” the bench which also comprised Justices Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari had remarked during the hearing of the case on September 21.The petition before the Supreme Court was filed by advocate Amit Sahni in February seeking the lifting of the road blockade in the Shaheen Bagh–Kalindi Kunj stretch.The protestors at Shaheen Bagh were opposing the CAA, which was passed on December 12, 2019. The CAA amended Section 2 of the Citizenship Act, 1955 in a manner which made any person belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi or Christian communities from Afghanistan, Bangladesh or Pakistan eligible to apply for Indian citizenship by naturalization even if they were illegal migrants.However, the Muslim community did not find a place in the amendment thereby excluding Muslim illegal migrants from availing the opportunity to apply for Indian citizenship, a benefit which was extended to illegal migrants from the other six communities by this amendment. The exclusion of Muslim triggered widespread protests across the country, as did the linking of citizenship with religion.Shaheen Bagh was the epicenter of such protests in the national capital. The protests at Shaheen Bagh started on December 15, 2019 and continued for more than 3 months.The Supreme Court had tasked senior advocate Sanjay Hegde and advocate Sadhana Ramachandran, on February 17, to mediate with the protestors and come to a constructive solution to resolve the issue but no solution could be arrived at.Most of the protestors, however, left the site by March 23 due to the lockdown imposed in Delhi due to the Coronavirus threat.But the stage and other structures which had been put in place during the protests were retained and a few men and women remained at the site as a symbolic continuation of the protests. Later, the police had dismantled the same.Sahni stated that while people have the right to protest, the same is subject to reasonable restrictions and protestors cannot be allowed to occupy public roads indefinitely. He contended that the right to protest should not inconvenience the public at large.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta representing the Central government also concurred with the petitioner stating that the right to protest cannot be absolute and is subject to reasonable restrictions.“Every right is qualified,” Mehta had argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-judgment-on-scope-of-right-to-protest-in-public-places-tomorrow/story-sqedcjrNsJ61teNNDpYgHI.html
06-10-2020||India||11 RLD leaders booked for protest against lathi charge on Jayant Chaudhary||A First Information Report (FIR) was registered against 11 Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leaders and 190 unidentified people for staging protests on Monday against the assault on party leader Jayant Choudhary and his supporters in Hathras. The police had cane-charged RLD and Samajwadi Party workers in Hathras on Sunday after they allegedly broke the police barricade to reach the Hathras gangrape victim’s village in large numbers. Video footage showed cops raining lathis as RLD cadre formed a protective ring around Jayant Chaudhary. In the first FIR, cases have been filed against RLD district president Rahul Deo, SC/ST cell president Narendra Khajuri and 40 others under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 of the IPC and violation of Section 144 of the CrPC at Pallavpuram police station. Party leaders and workers had staged a dharna on National Highway 58 and blocked movement of traffic to protest against the assault on Jayant Choudhary and party supporters in Hathras on Sunday. The protesters also tried to burn the effigy of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. SP (city) Akhilesh Narayan Singh said the protesters hurled a fireball towards the SHO of Pallavpuram, which caused burn injuries on his neck. They also blocked traffic and therefore a case was registered under Section 307 of the IPC. RLD leader Narendra Khajuri and district president Rahul Deo rejected the allegations of the police, saying: “They have registered cases on serious charges to suppress the voice of dissent. But their misuse of power to please political bosses will not pressurise us to sit quiet.” They claimed that there was a scuffle between protesters and cops over burning effigy, but no one intended to hurt anyone. Meanwhile, another case was registered against RLD leaders Sachin Choudhary, Kanhaiya and 150 unknown protesters in the Civil Lines police station. These people had staged a protest outside the divisional commissioner’s office in Meerut on Sunday and burnt an effigy of the chief minister. They demanded the arrest of cops who assaulted Jayant Choudhary and his supporters in Hathras. Suraj Rai, circle officer of Civil Lines area, said a case had been registered on various charges after identifying protesters through video clips. “A few of them have been named,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-rld-leaders-booked-for-protest-against-lathi-charge-on-jayant-chaudhary/story-Bz0f7E4Dqjr6Z7tQUyQ62L.html
06-10-2020||India||As festive season approaches, govt releases SOPs on venue management, sanitation and hygiene||With the festive season approaching at a time when the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is spreading across the country, the Union health ministry on Tuesday issued guidelines for large gatherings, including ensuring adequate area for events with a detailed site map and proper markings to maintain social distancing and not allowing touching of idols and holy books, to prevent the spread of infection.Releasing the ‘Standard Operating Procedures’, the ministry said that the period from October to December witnesses large gatherings for religious worship, fairs, cultural functions, processions, etc, and it is important that necessary preventive measures are followed for such events which may last a day, a week or more.Here are the protocols on sanitation, venue management and hygiene:1. Keeping in view the physical distancing norms, event sites should have adequate floor area and proper markings at all locations which are likely to be visited by the public, the SOPs said underlining that only those staff and visitors who are free of symptoms shall be allowed inside the venue.2. All staff and visitors will be allowed entry only if they are using face cover/masks, which have to be worn by all at all times and physical distance of a minimum of six feet, when queuing up for entry and inside the venue, as far as feasible has to be followed. Specific markings for the purpose may be done.3. In case of events that run for days or weeks, the crowd density doesn’t remain the same throughout and usually peaks around certain hours of the day and some previously known auspicious days. Planning for the event should specifically factor this so that crowds are regulated and managed to ensure physical distance and frequent sanitization, the SOPs said.4. In the case of rallies and immersion processions, the number of people should not exceed the prescribed limit and proper physical distancing and wearing of masks must be ensured.5. Events such as rallies and processions spread over long distances may require the support of ambulance services.6. Disinfection of premises has to be undertaken if any person is found positive. “Identify spatial boundaries and prepare a detailed site plan which would facilitate compliance with thermal screening, physical distancing, sanitization etc,” it said.7. Close-circuit cameras etc. may be considered to monitor compliance of physical distance norms, wearing of masks at each venue.8. In the case of rallies and processions, route planning, identification of immersion sites, ensuring cap on numbers, physical distancing, etc. must be planned and measures for enforcement outlined.9. All events must plan for medical care arrangements with linkages to the nearest hospitals to attend to health emergencies, the guidelines stated.10. According to the SOPs, the event sites should have a designated isolation room or space for isolating any person found symptomatic during the events, till such time that medical help is available.11. Preferably multiple and separate entry and exit points for visitors shall be ensured, the ministry said adding the structure or venue for the event must also have adequate natural cross-ventilation and entrances should have mandatory hand hygiene and thermal screening provisions.12. Proper crowd management inside and outside premises like parking lots, waiting areas, stalls, eateries, etc. duly following physical distancing norms shall be ensured.13. For entry into religious places, footwear needs to be preferably taken off by the people inside their own vehicle. If needed they should be kept in separate slots for each individual or family by the persons themselves, the guidelines said.14. The SOPs outlined that seating arrangement in pandals, food courts and shows must ensure adequate physical distancing.15. Any shops, stalls or cafeteria outside and within the premises too shall follow physical distancing norms at all times and there should be arrangements for safe drinking water.16. Community kitchen managers and business owners of food outlets have been directed to ensure adherence to the highest level of personal and environmental hygiene all the time.17. Effective and frequent sanitation within the premises shall be maintained with particular focus on commonly touched surfaces and areas including lavatories, drinking and handwashing stations/areas.18. Cleaning and regular disinfection (using 1% sodium hypochlorite) of frequently touched surfaces (doorknobs, elevator buttons, handrails, barricades, seats, benches, washroom fixtures, etc.) should be made mandatory in all public utility common areas, the SOPs stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-festive-season-approaches-govt-releases-sops-on-venue-management-sanitation-and-hygiene/story-3Gcb2sDe36pQ4FTxe2Gy6I.html
06-10-2020||India||PM Modi speaks to Vestas CEO, highlights India’s efforts to harness renewable energy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday spoke to Henrik Anderson, president and CEO of Vestas, about a host of issues related to the wind energy sector and highlighted India’s efforts to harness renewable energy in order to build a cleaner future for the coming generations. In a tweet, the prime minister said, “Had an insightful interaction with Mr. Henrik Andersen, President and CEO, Vestas. We discussed a series of issues relating to the wind energy sector. Highlighted some of India’s efforts to harness renewable energy in order to build a cleaner future for the coming generations.” Vestas is among the biggest wind turbine companies in the world and is considered a pioneer in the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-vestas-ceo-highlights-india-s-efforts-to-harness-renewable-energy/story-9LFBhhqrXH1S1hoV8RhoQJ.html
06-10-2020||India||Athawale offers Rs 5 lakh to Hathras victim’s family||Visits by political parties to the village of the Hathras gang-rape victim continued on Tuesday with leaders of the Communist Party reaching her house to console the family members. Later, Union minister of state for social justice Ram Dass Athawale reached the village with workers of the Republican Party of India and offered Rs 5 lakh as monetary help to the family. He assured to talk with chief minister Yogi Adityanath on the issue. Earlier in the day, a three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) also reached the village and returned after investigating more facts. The SIT visited the site where the body of the victim was cremated in the dead of the night. It also went to the crime spot and interacted with people in the village. Athawale justified the CBI probe ordered by the UP chief minister. Also read: Affidavit copy-paste job in bid to cover-up Hathras gangrape, says CongTaking a dig at the Opposition, Athawale said that the Opposition would have sought a CBI probe if the CM had ordered a judicial probe. He consoled the family members and assured to take up the issue with the CM. On September 14, a 19-year-old woman from the Hathras village was gang-raped by four accused who are now in custody. She was and admitted to JN Medical College in Aligarh and was later moved Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Monday last week as her condition deteriorated. She died a week ago. There was much controversy after her body was cremated at 3 am on Wednesday despite family members saying no to the cremation at night and wanting to take her body to their house. Meanwhile, the state government constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) headed by senior IPS officer Bhagwan Swaroop who is posted as secretary of home department. Two other members of the SIT are deputy IG Chandra Prakash and Poonam, the commandant of 15th Battalion PAC Agra. The SIT has been asked to submit its report within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/athawale-offers-rs-5-lakh-help-to-hathras-victim-s-family/story-OtDFzi1jXDQvOjNRnOEvsL.html
06-10-2020||India||Lockdown hit food security of children, says rights body||The Covid-19 pandemic has likely exacerbated hunger and malnutrition among communities most vulnerable to food insecurity, especially children, an experts’ committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission has said. In an advisory, the rights watchdog has asked the Union ministries of food and public distribution, women and child development and education to urgently restore and expand coverage under various food handout programmes. The human rights commission, which had set up an experts’ panel to study the impact of the lockdown on food security among vulnerable sections, said poor data made it difficult to assess how effective ration services were during the lockdown. Essential nutritional programmes, such as mid-day meals and the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), ground to a halt during the lockdown, the rights body said, increasing risks for already vulnerable communities. According to the 2019 Global Hunger Index, India ranked 102nd out of 117 countries, with a score of 30.3. That correlates to a “serious” level of hunger. India’s poor record on nutrition comes despite several key interventions, such as the public distribution (PDS) system under the National food Security Act, ICDS services, anganwadi (child and maternal health) centres and the world’s largest school-meal programme. The ICDS, a federal programme, provides food and primary healthcare to children under 6 years and their mothers. According to the National Family Health Survey-4, 38% of the country’s children under five were stunted (had low height for age) and around 20% children were wasted (low weight for height). More than half of the country’s children are anaemic. “A range of social safety net adaptations went into play after the lockdown, which was good. However, a key challenge right now is a lack of data on the extent to which these efforts have reached poor households, and a lack of data on the current depth and breadth of the food insecurity,” said Purnima Menon, senior research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute, New Delhi. In March, the Supreme Court had ordered that mid-day meals in schools and supplementary nutrition under ICDS for children, pregnant and lactating women must be continued during the lockdown through home delivery of dry rations or cash transfers. “In most states, these have not been provided as schools and anganwadi centres remain closed,” the rights body said. Citing a June 2020 report, the rights body said “14 most populous states did not conduct community management of acutely malnourished children and eight states were unable to measure growth parameters of children under six years”. “While 80 crore (800 million) people are covered under the National Food Security Act 2013 (NFSA), the official projected population for 2019-20 is about 134.1 crore (1.34 billion). The coverage of 81 crore (810 million) persons means that only around 60% of the population is covered by priority ration cards, whereas the NFSA entitles 67% of the population to have priority cards.” Simply put, this means that when the food security law was rolled out in 2013, 67% of the population was covered. The PDS system has since not been expanded to account for an increase in population. This means currently only about 60% of the population benefits from food handouts. The rights body has advised the government to expand PDS coverage across states to be “compliant with the NFSA norms”, recognise ICDS as an essential service and reopen anganwadi centres. It has also called for a village-based mechanism to maintain data of migrant families and children between 3 and 18 years, returning from cities due to loss of employment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-hit-food-security-of-children-rights-body-tells-ministries/story-pzQYgrpgwX39WRPOO3jxbL.html
06-10-2020||India||Health min allows celebrations outside containment zones, issues SOPs ahead of festive season||The health ministry on Tuesday said that people living outside containment zones can take part in festivities that are set to begin across the country in the upcoming weeks. It also released a set of protocols explaining how to safely celebrate festivals amid the Covid-19 pandemic safely. It issued several guidelines on how to regulate movement of crowds in venues, ensuring crowd control through pre-planning and route planning ahead of immersion dates in view of Diwali, Durga Puja and Navratra. As the festival season comes nearer, the health ministry has asked festival committees to ensure that they have adequate amounts of face masks, hand sanitisers, thermal guns and stickers to paste on the floor to ensure social distancing. Health ministry has also asked organisers to devise a plan to regulate the number of visitors. The health ministry has also asked all stakeholders to conduct meetings and ensure CCTVs are installed in festival venues to keep check if devotees are following Covid-19 prevention rules. The guidelines also have requested people who are currently residing in containment zones to participate in festivities while remaining indoors. People from contaminant zones will be barred from entering the festivities. The health ministry has also asked committees, which will be overseeing preparations, to prominently display a chart of Dos and Don’ts in the venue. They have also been asked to ensure that multimedia and audio-video tools will be used to spread awareness regarding Covid-19 and for issuing continuous reminders to devotees to adhere Covid-19 preventative measures. Committees have also been asked to reserve a room which can be used as a designated isolation room for any person who is exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-festive-season-health-ministry-allows-celebrations-outside-containment-zones-issues-sops-for-venue-management/story-ZRJv21T53jfeDAUw8hapRO.html
06-10-2020||India||4-nation Quad gets cemented at Tokyo meet, sends stern message to China||Hours before heading into the Quad security dialogue in Tokyo, US secretary of state Mike Pompeo on Tuesday backed formalising the informal grouping to build a “true security framework” that could counter the challenge posed by an aggressive China. Other countries, Pompeo told Nikkei Asia in an interview, could become part of this framework at “the appropriate time.”Tuesday’s meeting was the first face-to-face interaction between the foreign ministers of the four Indo-Pacific countries - the US, India, Japan and Australia - since the coronavirus pandemic broke out in China’s Wuhan in December last.The foreign ministers had taken the first step to revive the security dialogue and upgrade it to a ministerial level in September last year when they met on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly. In his initial comments at the Quad meet, foreign minister S Jaishankar underlined that the world had “profoundly transformed” since then.India, which had been preparing to host Chinese President Xi Jinping, has spent the last 150 days engaged in a bitter standoff with China’s People’s Liberation Army that has led to deaths on both sides.Also Read: At Quad meet, Pompeo discusses China’s ‘malign activity’ with Australian counterpartChina’s relations with the three other Quad members have also nosedived over the last one year after Beijing, blamed for the spread of coronavirus disease that has infected 35 million and killed more than 1 million, adopted a hawkish approach elsewhere too.“This is the Chinese using coercive power. This isn’t how great nations operate. So our mission is to reduce that,” Pompeo told Nikkei Asia.Pompeo was particularly unsparing of China in his public comments ahead of the Quad meeting as well.“As partners in this Quad, it is more critical now than ever that we collaborate to protect our people and partners from the CCP’s (Chinese communist party) exploitation, corruption and coercion,” Pompeo said.“We see it in the South and East China Seas, the Mekong, the Himalayas, the Taiwan Strait.”Stephen Biegun, the US deputy secretary of state, had hinted what a formalised Quad could look like last month when he noted at an online seminar that the Indo-Pacific region didn’t have “strong multilateral structures”.“They don’t have anything of the fortitude of NATO, or the European Union… There is certainly an invitation there at some point to formalise a structure like this,” he said.In a statement issued after Tuesday’s Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, a statement by the Indian external affairs ministry said the foreign ministers would hold the consultations “regularly”.Also Read: Eye on China, Canada formulates new Indo-Pacific policy“The Foreign Ministers exchanged views about regional issues of mutual interest, and issues related to connectivity; humanitarian assistance and disaster relief; maritime safety and security; health security, and counter terrorism. They reaffirmed their collective vision of maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. They reiterated their firm support to ASEAN centrality and highlighted their readiness to work towards realizing a common vision for the Indo-Pacific. Appreciating the value of these consultations, they agreed to hold them regularly,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-meet-in-tokyo-takes-a-giant-leap-sends-a-stern-message-to-china/story-1L7Dbm10bcUfoHk6FTlNWI.html
06-10-2020||India||Three scientists share Nobel Physics Prize 2020 for their work on black holes||This year’s Nobel Prize for Physics was jointly awarded to two American and a German Researcher for their work on one of the most mysterious objects in the Universe – a black hole. This comes just a year after the world saw the first image of a supermassive black hole imaged by the Event Horizon Telescope, a global network of telescopes to create one the size of the Earth. One half of the award went to the American mathematician and physicist Roger Penrose who had in 1965 shown that Einstein’s theory of relativity led to the formation of black holes that engulf everything, including light because of the massive gravitational pull. Not even Albert Einstein thought that black holes could actually exist. To prove that black hole formation is a stable process, Penrose needed to expand the methods used to study the theory of relativity with new mathematical concepts. It is still regarded as the most important contribution to the general theory of relativity since Einstein. Earlier this year, researchers from Glasgow University used a ring of speakers and a sound-absorbing disk to practically demonstrate how energy can be obtained from a black hole as predicted by Penrose in 1969. The other half of the prize was shared by the German astrophysicist Reinhard Genzel and American astronomer Andrea M Ghez whose groups have been focussing at a region called Sagittarius A* at the centre of Milky Way galaxy. With this, Ghez became the fourth woman to have received the award since 1901 when it was first given out. The other three are Donna Strickland who got it in 2018, Maria Geopperts-Mayer in 1963, and Marie Curie in 1903. Curie is also the only woman and one of four people to have received a second Nobel Prize; she received the Chemistry prize in 1911. By mapping the orbits of the brightest stars in the region, both the groups observed that there was something both invisible and heavy forcing the stars to swirl around. This object has a mass of four million suns squeezed in a region not larger than our solar system. According to the current theory of gravity, there is only one candidate fitting the description – a supermassive black hole. “The discoveries of this year’s Laureates have broken new ground in the study of compact and supermassive objects. But these exotic objects still pose many questions that beg for answers and motivate future research. Not only questions about their inner structure, but also questions about how to test our theory of gravity under the extreme conditions in the immediate vicinity of a black hole”, said David Haviland, chair of the Nobel Committee for Physics in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-scientists-share-nobel-physics-prize-2020-for-their-work-on-black-holes/story-WNtxMPNujIS2ICKtz2XQZP.html
06-10-2020||India||Affidavit a copy-paste job in bid to cover-up Hathras rape incident, says Congress||Demanding immediate dismissal of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the Congress on Tuesday accused the state government of trying to “cover up” the Hathras rape incident through an affidavit in the Supreme Court. The opposition party also claimed that the affidavit appeared to be a “copy paste” job given that it has references about New York Police Department (NYPD), ‘Black Lives Matter’ and cities such as San Diego and Phoenix, which are in the US. WATCH| ‘State govt targeted Hathras victim’s kin, PM Modi stayed silent’: Rahul GandhiAddressing a joint press conference, Congress leaders Sushmita Dev, Rajani Patil and Supriya Shrinate said the entire country has seen the manner in which the Uttar Pradesh government has handled the Hathras incident, and done injustice to the victim again and again. They demanded that all officers, including the Hathras district magistrate, be dismissed, alleging they are part of a conspiracy for a cover-up of the case. “Every step taken by the Uttar Pradesh government was to cover up the Hathras incident. Today, this has been exposed in the affidavit. Its purpose is not for a court-monitored CBI probe but to cover up the incident that started on September 14,” Dev told reporters at the Congress headquarters in Delhi. “Stop the cover up. Congress party stands by its demand that Yogi Adityanath should be dismissed immediately. The district magistrate and every officer who is part of this conspiracy to hush up such a brutal case of rape should be dismissed and not given any other responsibility pending investigation,” she said. Patil alleged the Uttar Pradesh government’s act of a cover-up of the incident is “shameful” and urged the people to not allow any atrocities against women and pack up the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state. Shrinate said there is no official notification for a CBI inquiry into the Hathras incident as announced by the government while the SIT probe is on. “The manner in which victim-shaming is being done as part of a conspiracy and she is being trolled by BJP and the government and police, there should be a probe into this,” she said. Shrinate also cited the change in rape laws done by the UPA government that “presence of semen or penetration is not necessary now” and even an attempt is considered as rape. She alleged that the state government is trying to make it a case of international conspiracy through “fabricated evidence” and perpetrate caste violence. Shrinate read out certain parts of the affidavit that mentions about black people and cities such as San Diego and Phoenix, which are in the United States. There also mentions of the NYPD and ‘Black Lives Matter’ in it, she added. Shrinate said the same evidence attached as annexures in the affidavit has been “fabricated” by the Uttar Pradesh government and has been copied from the ‘Black Lives Movement in the US’. “It is happening as the entire media and opposition are asking questions and the government is talking of a cover up and international conspiracy. Stop those FIRs based on these concoctions,” she said. Dev asked the Uttar Pradesh government to prove to the victim’s family that the body cremated in a hurry by the police at 2.30 am actually is of their daughter’s. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi should immediately dismiss Yogi Adityanath,” she demanded. The Mahila Congress chief alleged that it is “shameful” that the state government is claiming that no rape took place and that her last rites were done in front of the family with proper rituals. “This is a clear case of contempt of court,” she said. Dev said the government has cited reports saying there is no sign suggesting rape but the teenager in her dying declaration stated that she was gang-raped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/affidavit-a-copy-paste-job-in-bid-to-cover-up-hathras-rape-incident-says-congress/story-qdgr5Np2SaGQpWwhaFo87H.html
06-10-2020||India||8 held in Uttar Pradesh for involvement in IPL betting||Eight men, including five in Meerut and three in Varanasi, have been arrested for their alleged involvement in betting in ongoing the Indian Premier League (IPL) matches, police said on Tuesday. In Meerut, the police nabbed five people, including the manager and the owner of a hotel, from a hotel in Civil Lines area on Monday evening. The arrested, all in their 30s, were allegedly involved in betting across different districts of western Uttar Pradesh. Confirming the arrests, circle officer, Civil Lines area, Suraj Rai said the hotel was raided after receiving inputs about organised betting there and five people, including kingpin Ram (he goes by single name), were arrested.“A case of betting has been registered against the arrested with the Civil Lines police station. The manager and the owner of the hotel prima facie helped in operating illegal betting racket from their hotel,” the circle officer added.The police also recovered 10 mobile phones, a laptop, a register and other material used in betting from their possession.The gang allegedly purchased a software from a Delhi-based bookie identified as Bunty for Rs 10,000 which provided them access to other bookies in Mumbai and Lucknow, he said.Also read: Ex-IPS officer, accused in Assam police job scam, nabbed on Indo-Nepal borderThey were betting in different districts of western UP and money was being rerouted online or through Paytm by some other person, Rai added.The police surveillance team first tracked their activities before taking action. The arrested members of the betting racket were sent to jail.In Varanasi, three people were arrested for their alleged involvement in betting from Kailashpuri colony under Lanka police on Monday night, police said. They added that Rs 6.23 lakh cash and six mobile phones were recovered from their possession.A senior police officer said the police received an input about a betting racket being operated from a house in Kailashpuri colony.Subsequently, a police team led by superintendent of police, city, Vikas Chandra Tripathi raided the house and arrested the three persons identified as Diwakar Agarwal, Siddharth Mishra and Abhay Pratap Singh, all residents of Varanasi.The SP city said a case was registered against the arrested trio under Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Gambling Act and further investigation was in progress.The money recovered from those arrested was collected from the people interested in betting in the ongoing IPL matches.The IPL 2020, which got underway on September 19, will continue till November 10 across three venues in the UAE - Abu Dhabi, Sharjah, and Dubai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-held-in-uttar-pradesh-for-involvement-in-ipl-betting/story-QYgln5a5BM76WhpHHJ9xNK.html
06-10-2020||India||Raped by minor cousin, 5-year-old Hathras girl dies at Delhi hospital||A five-year-old girl, raped by her 15-year-old cousin in Aligarh’s Iglas, about ten days back, died on Monday during treatment in Delhi, police said on Tuesday. Police have arrested the accused.The incident of rape took place in a village under Iglas police station of Aligarh on September 15. The girl belonged to Sadabad area of Hathras district but had been living with her maternal aunt after her mother died a few years ago, police said.As per the reports, the girl was held captive at the house after the incident and was rescued on September 17 after the intervention of a social organisation. She was admitted to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital for treatment, said SSP Aligarh Muniraj G.The girl was shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi after her condition deteriorated. She died on Monday, said the SSP.An FIR was registered by police on September 21 on the complaint of the girl’s father, a resident of a village in Hathras district, that he suspected the girl was raped in captivity. Police then arrested the 15-year-old relative who confessed to his crime, the SSP said. “The boy’s mother, who is the maternal aunt (mausi) of the victim, is reported to be an accomplice in the crime and is absconding,” he said. Also read: Hathras gangrape - NCW notice to Malviya, Digvijaya and Swara for disclosing woman’s identityStation house officer (SHO) of Iglas police station Praveen Kumar Mann was suspended by SSP Aligarh after the victim’s family staged a protest against police laxity in arresting her aunt.“A financial relief of Rs 10 lakh has been granted to the family of the victim and a case has been registered against the cousin and his mother (aunt of the victim),” stated Aligarh district magistrate Chandra Vijay Singh.“SHO Praveen Kumar Maan has also been suspended as he failed to arrest the aunt who took the minor victim girl along with her and failed to protect her,” stated Muniraj G. The incident has come to light amid a widespread outrage over the death and alleged gang-rape of a Dalit woman in Hathras by four “upper caste” men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raped-by-minor-cousin-5-year-old-hathras-girl-dies-at-delhi-hospital/story-Kx8e09KLUUQfOrJX9xwMSN.html
06-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: At farmer rally, Rahul Gandhi takes a jibe at PM Modi over Air India One and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.At farmer rally, Rahul Gandhi takes a jibe at PM Modi over Air India OneCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of wasting taxpayers’ money while addressing a farmer rally in Haryana’s Sirsa. Read moreBihar assembly election 2020: BJP tells LJP not to use PM’s photo in poll campaignThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has objected to the Lok Janshakti Party’s (LJP) bid to use Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pictures during the campaigning for the upcoming three-phase Bihar assembly election. Read moreQuad: India committed to a rules-based world order, says MEA JaishankarAgainst the backdrop of the India-China border standoff, external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday said New Delhi remains committed to a rules-based world order, respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty and peaceful resolution of disputes. Read moreNiti Taylor looks stunning in a pink lehenga at her secret ‘Covid’ wedding to Parikshit Bawa. See picsTV actor Niti Taylor has dropped some shocking news on her fans, she is married! The actor is one of the many people to have had a lockdown wedding, she married her fiancé Pariskshit Bawa in a small ceremony on August 13. Read moreMercedes to launch EQC: What does luxury electric power mean for IndiaThe electric landscape for mobility in India is at the cusp of a massive change with the central and state governments increasingly looking at ways to popularize both manufacturing as well as buying electric vehicles here.  Read moreRemember the viral Chaiwala from Pakistan? He now owns a cafe in IslamabadIn 2016 a blue-eyed tea seller from Pakistan went viral after a photographer named Jiah Ali shared a picture of him on social media. Now, the popular chaiwala (tea seller), named Arshad Khan, is making headlines again for a new and awesome reason. Read more‘PM Modi gave 1200 sq km land to China to protect his image’: Rahul GandhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi lashed out at PM Narendra Modi over Chinese aggression at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. Watchvc 12: This question for Rs 25 lakh stumped Pradeep Kumar Sood. Can you answer it?The 12th season off Kaun Banega Crorepati kicked off last week and it has already stumped contestants and the viewers with many difficult question. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-farmer-rally-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-jibe-at-pm-modi-over-air-india-one-and-all-the-latest-news/story-SLt1KL43VSm28xLU6YbexL.html
06-10-2020||India||Twitter user asked Gautam Gambhir if he is anti-Pakistan. Here’s what he said||Cricketer-turned-politician Gautam Gambhir on Tuesday interacted with his fans and followers on micro-blogging website Twitter. He hosted an ask me anything session on completing one year in politics and users posted questions with the hashtag #AskGG.A user on Twitter asked cricketer Gautam Gambhir why he is so anti-Pakistan. “I’m not! I don’t think any Indian is,” Gambhir responded to the user and wrote, “when we have to choose between the lives of our soldiers and anything else, we are all on the same side.” I’m not! I don’t think any Indian is. But when we have to choose between the lives of our soldiers & anything else, we r all on the same side! 🇮🇳 https://t.co/OuGgdL9lPaGautam Gambhir joined Bharatiya Janata Party in 2019. He fought Lok Sabha election from east Delhi seat and won after defeating Congress’ Arvind Singh Lovely and Aam Aadmi Party’s Atishi.Often Gambhir is seen critcising Pakistan on Twitter. In April, Gambhir slammed former Pakistan cricketer Shahid Afridi for his remarks on Kashmir.“Jokers like Afridi, Imran and Bajwa can spew venom against India &andPM @narendramodiji to fool Pak people but won’t get Kashmir till judgment day!” he had said after Afridi made a remark over Kashmir criticising India.In December last year, Gambhir criticised the behaviour of players who discriminated against Pakistan cricketer Danish Kaneria and said that the incident shows the actual face of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/here-is-what-gautam-gambhir-said-when-twitter-user-asked-him-why-he-is-so-anti-pakistan/story-CDrWlOJCZwa23vk6l6hRHJ.html
06-10-2020||India||LeT terrorists behind Monday’s attack on CRPF personnel in J-K identified: IGP Kashmir||The Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) terrorists behind Monday’s attack on a CRPF road-opening party in the Nowgam area on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway in Jammu and Kashmir, in which two personnel were killed and three were injured, have been identified, a senior police official said on Tuesday.“We have identified the militants behind the attack. They are from the Lashkar, led by a Pakistani terrorist named Saifullah. We are on the job and they will be neutralised soon,” Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir Zone Vijay Kumar said.He was speaking to reporters after the wreath-laying ceremony for the two Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawans, who were killed in the attack.“Two terrorists came on a scooter, most probably from the Pampore side, and opened indiscriminate firing from an AK rifle,” the IGP said.He admitted that the module of the Pakistan-based militant outfit had carried out an attack earlier in the Chadoora area of Budgam district as well, in which an assistant sub-inspector of the CRPF was killed.“We are conducting operations and soon, they will be neutralised,” the officer said.Responding to a question on terrorists using two-wheelers to carry out attacks, Kumar said it is easy for the ultras to move around on motorbikes on roads where the vehicle movement is heavy.“We cannot check every vehicle, vehicles are checked based on information mostly. Checking every vehicle will cause traffic jams,” he said.The IGP sought to assure people, saying there is no need to panic and “the situation is under control”.On the use of virtual phone numbers by terrorists, he said this technology is a cause of concern but it has been used for subversive activities for years now.“Virtual numbers have remained challenging since the beginning. It is challenging across the world. We are trying to find technological answers,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-terrorists-behind-monday-s-attack-on-crpf-personnel-in-j-k-identified-igp-kashmir/story-Hc9mHjFU2SWCtxovdrgkHO.html
06-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Health, Ayush ministries jointly launch National Ayush treatment protocol||The government on Tuesday released Ayurveda and Yoga-based protocols for management of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for treating patients with mild symptoms in Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Sidda and Homoeopathy) hospitals and by Ayush practitioners in the country. The aim is to bring in uniformity and consistency in the Ayush-based Covid-19 treatment across the country. “All the medicines included have shown good results and are scientifically validated by the task force and committees created to review them. It will be added as an exclusive chapter in our national Covid-19 management protocol,” said health minister Harsh Vardhan during the launch. Also read: Delhi past its second wave of Covid-19, says CM Arvind KejriwalThe guidelines offer standard treatment protocol to be followed by all Ayush practitioners treating mild to moderate Covid-19 cases, in line with the Union health ministry’s National Clinical Management Protocol for Covid-19 meant for treating allopathic doctors that was last revised in July, 2020. “Ministry of Ayush has undertaken many clinical, observational studies to understand the role of Ayush intervention in mitigation and management of Covid-19. The ministry set up an interdisciplinary committee for integration of Ayurveda and Yoga interventions in the ‘National Clinical Management Protocol: COVID-19’, which was chaired by Dr V M Katoch, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and group of experts,” said Ayush minister Shripad Naik. ALSO READ: These 5 yoga techniques will give your immunity an extra push“We call this first version of the protocol, which will be modified as more evidence is generated through further studies in future. This part is a result of 4-5 months of research activity on some of the antipyretic, antifungal, antibacterial and other medicines in Ayurveda that have been reviewed and backed by experts from the modern system of medicine. The protocol is thoroughly backed by scientific evidence,” said Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, secretary, Ayush. The mainstay of the Ayush protocol is to build body’s immune system to fight off the infection. “The current understanding of Covid-19 indicates that good immune status is vital to prevention and to safeguard from disease progression. Ayurveda and Yoga can certainly play a pivotal role to augment preventive measures…” the protocol says. Apart from general measures such as drinking herb-infused warm water or turmeric milk, steam inhalation, gargling and moderate exercise in the form of several yogic postures, the protocol also recommends a set of medicines to be used for prophylaxis and treatment. “It is a culmination of one of the various interdisciplinary efforts, and a part of new paradigm where Ayush ministry has collaborated with other ministries and experts of modern medicine,” said Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, health. Two herbs— guduchi a(Tinospora cordifolia or heart-leaved moonseed) and ashwagandha (Withania somnifera or Indian ginseng) form the base of most medicines advised in the protocol, in different forms and formulations. The medication is prescribed for different section of people—those who are taking as prophylaxis (high risk population or primary contacts), asymptomatic positives (for prevention of disease progression to symptomatic and severe form and to improve recovery rate); and mild positive cases (for symptomatic management of fever, dry cough, tiredness, sore throat, nasal congestion etc). “We can call it fusion mode where benefits of traditional medicines are made use of with modern medicine. It will be a good idea to have a meeting with authorities of all states to promote it on ground,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog. The medicines are also prescribed for post Covid-19 care in cases of people experiencing lung-related complications, fatigue and mental health issues. As part of mild to moderate exercise regimen, yoga postures have been prescribed to improve respiratory and cardiac efficiency, reduce stress and anxiety, and enhance immunity. “None of the treatments prescribed is to be taken without proper medical supervision. It is definitely not meant for self-medicating,” said Kotecha. Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-health-ayush-ministries-jointly-launch-national-ayush-treatment-protocol/story-q92G5LPu2H3HSTuJh7hsaI.html
06-10-2020||India||Aircrafts including Rafale, Mig-29 and Sukhoi-30 take part in IAF Day parade rehearsal||The Indian Air Force (IAF) on Tuesday conducted a full dress rehearsal ahead of the IAF day. The highlight of the rehearsal were the newly-inducted Rafale fighter jets which participated in the event at the force’s Hindon base in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh.The 88th IAF day will be observed on October 8. It is celebrated every year to mark the foundation day of the Air Force. The IAF was established in 1932.The Tejas LCA, Jaguar, Mig-29, Mig-21, and Sukhoi-30 aircraft were also part of the rehearsal. IAF’s helicopter fleet like Mi17V5, ALH Mark-4, Chinook, Mi-35 and Apache performed flypast during the rehearsal.A total of 56 aircraft, including 19 choppers and seven transport aircraft, will fly during the parade.Suryakiran aerobatic team and Sarang aerobatic team were also part of the flypast.In a major boost to India’s air force power, five Rafale fighter jets were formally inducted into the IAF on September 10. The jets are operating in the Ladakh region amid the tense standoff with neighbouring China over the border row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aircrafts-including-rafale-mig-29-and-sukhoi-30-take-part-in-iaf-day-parade-rehearsal/story-2raudB3PbXQkL5Am4ZQr2O.html
06-10-2020||India||GST Council cannot stop 21 states from borrowing against future cess receipts||Dissenting Goods and Services Tax Council members cannot stop 21 states from borrowing against their respective future compensation cess proceeds, and their borrowing plan will kick-off even if there is no unanimity at the council’s meeting on October 12, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.According to the Attorney General of India’s legal opinion on this matter, a state can borrow even on the strength of future receipts from the compensation fund. As the GST Council on Monday extended the levy of compensation cess beyond June 2022 for such period as may be required to meet the revenue gap, individual states can now monetise it with the help of the Reserve Bank of India and the department of expenditure (DoE), even without the Council’s approval, they said, requesting anonymity.The GST Council meeting on Monday deferred a decision on compensating states for the shortfall in their share of the indirect tax revenue by a week after states governed by opposition parties insisted that the Centre must borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore deficit and reimburse them.Also Read: States should stand firm, reject Centre’s options on GST compensation cess: ChidambaramThe Centre had placed two options before the states—borrow Rs 97,000 crore (the amount was raised to Rs 1.10 lakh crore on Monday) to bridge the shortfall in revenue from GST, equal to the shortfall resulting from issues related to its implementation, without repaying either principal or interest, or alternatively, borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore (the remaining deficit caused by the Covid-19 pandemic) and bear significant interest costs.While 21 state governments opted to borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore to repay the funds that would come out of the cess, states like Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal, rejected both the options. They instead proposed a third option—the Centre should borrow the entire shortfall, compensate states in full and retire the debt from the compensation cess fund.“It is unlikely that the ten [dissenting] states will agree to the Centre’s preposition at the GST Council’s meeting on October 12 unless the central government comes forward and share the burden,” said the finance minister of a state ruled by a non-BJP party who did not wish to be named.West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said the Centre’s arguments that borrowing would have adverse macro-economic consequences is untenable. “Why, borrowing by cash-strapped states would not have macro-economic consequences?” he said.“The Centre must understand that rating agencies consider the aggregate borrowing [by both the Centre and states] to downgrade... its arguments are erroneous,” he said, adding that states are facing acute financial crunch and the Centre should help them to come out of this difficult situation.Also Read: Maharashtra government ‘unwillingly’ accepts option of borrowing Rs 97,000 crore to make up for GST lossesIn fact, the third option is more practical as the Centre is better position to borrow, he said. “Centre has an institutional mechanism with RBI, we don’t have; it gets loans about 2% cheaper than the market rate and RBI will be saved from dealing with 31 entities [states] rather than one [the Centre],” he added.The state finance minister quoted above said the 10 states opposing the Centre’s move to thrust huge loan burden on them would be constrained to seek division of vote on October 12 if the Central government insists on its two options.One of the persons mentioned above said, “The GST Council has jurisdiction to extend the levy of cess to compensate for the shortfall in the compensation. It has done that. Now the ball rests in the court of individual states, not with the GST Council.” “When something which is not under the jurisdiction of the GST council, how can any voting or division be permitted on the subject. Voting can occur in GST council only on those matters which are under the express jurisdiction of the GST council,” the person added.Ayush Mehrotra, partner at law firm Khaitan & Co, said, “In terms of the Constitutional framework, the Union government’s intervention is required for borrowings from Consolidated Fund of India and not from the market. However, to ensure that the union government stands firm on its commitment pertaining to this market linked borrowing option, the states may require this to be blessed by the GST Council and approved by the union government.”Abhishek Jain, tax partner at consulting firm EY India, said it is the Constitutional obligation to compensate states for a period of five years and to ensure that the GST Council extended the levy beyond June 2020. “For deficits and other unforeseen situations impacting such collections, various avenues would need to be explored for meeting immediate requirements/handling short term requirements,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-council-cannot-stop-21-states-from-borrowing-against-future-cess-receipts/story-EkRh9iwENpXAAmcDJKpX0M.html
06-10-2020||India||Health Minister releases Covid-19 management protocol based on Ayurveda, Yoga||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday released a protocol for the clinical management of Covid-19, that lists dietary measures, yoga and Ayurvedic herbs and formulations such as Ashwagandha and AYUSH-64 for prevention of coronavirus infection and treatment of mild and asymptomatic cases.The ‘National Clinical Management Protocol based on Ayurveda and Yoga for Management of Covid-19’ was released by Vardhan in the virtual presence of Shripad Naik, Minister of State for AYUSH.“This protocol dealing with preventive and prophylactic measures is a significant step not only in management of Covid-19 but also in making traditional knowledge relevant to solving problems of the modern time,” Vardhan was quoted as saying in a statement.“Unfortunately, Ayurveda did not receive much attention after independence until Prime Minister Narendra Modi took up this cause with the importance it deserves,” he said while stressing that Ayurveda “had a significant impact in the foundations of modern medicine”.The AYUSH ministry, in the protocol document, pointed out that the current understanding indicates a good immune system is vital for prevention of coronavirus infection and to safeguard from disease progression.The protocol suggests use of medicines such as Ashwagandha, Guduchi Ghana Vati or Chyawanaprasha as prophylactic care for high risk population and primary contacts of patients.It recommends consumption of Guduchi Ghana Vati, Guduchi and Pippali or  AYUSH 64 for asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients for prevention of disease progression to symptomatic and severe forms and to improve recovery rate.Guduchi and Pippali, and AYUSH 64 tablets can be given to mild coronavirus infected patients, it said.The protocol also mentions the dose of these medicines that is to be taken. The guidelines stated that in addition to these medicines, general and dietary measures have to be followed.  Individuals with moderate to severe coronavirus infection may make informed choice of treatment options and all severe cases will be referred, the protocol said.Physicians have to decide useful formulations from the list or substitutable classical medicines based upon their clinical judgement, suitability, availability and regional preferences.  Dose may be adjusted based upon the patient’s age, weight, and condition of the disease, the ministry said.The document also listed Ashwagandha, Chyawanprasha or Rasayana Churna for post-Covid-19 management in order to prevent lung complications like fibrosis, fatigue and mental health.Further, to improve respiratory and cardiac efficiency, to reduce stress and anxiety and enhance immunity, the ministry has listed Yoga Protocol for Primary Prevention of Covid- 19.  The document also mentions Yoga Protocol for Post Covid-19 care (including care for Covid-19 patients) in order to improve pulmonary function and lung capacity, reduce stress and anxiety and improve muco-ciliary clearance.“This protocol and its annexure are approved by the Chairman, Interdisciplinary Committee for inclusion of Ayurveda and Yoga in the management of mild Covid-19 and approved by the empowered committee of the Interdisciplinary AYUSH Research and Development Taskforce on Covid-19, both constituted by the Ministry of AYUSH,” the document said.Effective management to address this infection is still evolving and attempts are being made to integrate traditional interventions along with standard of care, the preamble read.“Ayurveda and Yoga can certainly play a pivotal role to augment preventive measures provided in the guidelines by the Ministry of Health. The current understanding of Covid-19 indicates that good immune status is vital to prevention and to safeguard from disease progression,” it said.The ministry also recommended gargling with warm water added with a pinch of turmeric and salt, nasal instillation/application of medicated oil (Anu taila or Shadbindu taila), plain oil or cow’s ghee once or twice a day, especially before going out and after coming back home, steam inhalation with Ajwain, Pudina or Eucalyptus oil once a day, moderate physical exercises and following Yoga protocol as general measures.Dietary measures include use of warm water or boiled with herbs like ginger, coriander, basil or cumin seeds etc., for drinking purpose, drinking golden milk (half tea spoon turmeric powder in 150 ml hot milk) once at night (avoid in case of indigestion) and taking Ayush Kadha or Kwath (hot infusion or decoction) once a day.Vardhan expressed satisfaction with the inclusion of easily available and common Ayurvedic herbs and formulations like Guduchi, Ashwagandha, AYUSH-64 in treating mild and asymptomatic Covid cases, the statement said.Three aspects -- knowledge from Ayurveda classics and experience from clinical practices, empirical evidences and biological plausibility and emerging trends of ongoing clinical studies -- were considered while preparing this protocol, the ministry said.This consensus document is developed by expert committees from All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA), Delhi, Institute of Post Graduate Training and Research in Ayurved (IPGTRA), Jamnagar, and National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA), Jaipur, Central Council for Research in Ayurveda (CCRAS), Central Council for Research in Yoga and Naturopathy (CCRYN), other national research organizations, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-releases-covid-19-management-protocol-based-on-ayurveda-yoga/story-vE3G18zHrydrw9ZzthM0kM.html
06-10-2020||India||Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh to protest against ‘anti-worker’ provisions in new Labour Codes||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) will organise all-India agitation against what it alleges are “anti-worker provisions” in the new Labour Codes.At its 19th National conference, the BMS, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), passed six resolutions seeking the withdrawal of anti-worker provisions in the new Labour Codes; a consultation meeting with BMS and other trade unions to make the Labour Codes beneficial to both worker and industry and formulation of a national employment policy.In a statement, newly appointed general secretary of BMS, Binay Kumar Sinha, said the labour wing of the Sangh has resolved to organise country wide “warning week” programmes from October 10 to 16 and nationwide protests on October 28 against the codes. “If the government is not ready to hear the voice of workers, the BMS will hold a long and continuous agitation thereafter, including national level strikes to protect right to strike and other labour rights,” the first resolution passed at the meeting said.In a separate resolution, the BMS welcomed the Supreme Court decision of scrapping Gujarat labour reforms. The resolution demanded that central and state governments should stop the “brutal way of amending labour laws, desist from indulging in ‘ordinance raj’ in labour sector and respect the views expressed by social organisations.”A third resolution urged the government to call a roundtable of stakeholders and formulate a national employment policy. “The imported predatory economic and labour reforms and defective policies of the capitalist paradigm are responsible for landing our job generation in a sorry state of affairs,” the resolution said. In the fourth resolution, the demand for review of all pension schemes in favour of employees, including pension schemes under CCS Rules, NPS, financial sector schemes, EPS, unorganised sector was made. The BMS has demanded pension, not less than 50% of salary linked to cost of living index and medical scheme and minimum pension of Rs 5,000 for the unorganised sector.In view of the hardships faced by the migrant workers, the fifth resolution demanded effective changes in the law on migrant workers, national level registration, social security and other facilities for them.The sixth resolution demanded that the government should change the western GDP-based progress scale and opt for an Indian model.At the national conference inaugurated by RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, a new team of 31 office bearers was also announced.Hiranmaya Pandya has been elected as the national president of BMS and Binay Kumar Sinha as national general secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharatiya-mazdoor-sangh-to-protest-against-anti-worker-provisions-in-new-labour-codes/story-U0bSImpAhkLgsakZ5jEUNO.html
06-10-2020||India||One dead, 8 injured as truck ploughs through traffic near Pune’s Navale bridge||One person was killed and eight others were injured, four of them seriously, after a truck ploughed through several vehicles on Tuesday morning along the Pune-Dehu bypass near Navale Bridge on the outskirts of Pune, police said.The deceased was identified as Shubham Supekar (24) a resident of Narhe and a businessman who owned a travel business. He was on a bike. “His father was with him at the petrol pump from where he had left, taken a u-turn and was heading back towards his office. The truck crushed his head and killed him instantly. His father heard people speaking about the accident minutes after his son left so he called the phone number. When he did not answer, he went to the spot to check and found out,” said Ruturaj Shinde (39) maternal uncle of the deceased.Shubham Supekar was pursuing an ITI course. He is survived by his father and a younger sister.The four grievously injured people were identified as Prakash Ashok Arakh (32) a resident of Kopre in Uttam Nagar, Ravindra Rahane Swamilal (55) of Kondhwa Dhadave, Indre Nagnath Bharat (31) of Kondhwa and Vilas Sadashiv Jagtap, according to Vasant Kunvar, Senior police inspector of Bharti Vidyapeeth police station.“We were able to pull the vehicles off the road immediately and managed to keep traffic moving. We are now figuring out the way to pull out the vehicle that has gone off the edge of the road,” said Assistant commissioner of police Wadke of the traffic division.The part of the road where the mayhem took place is on an incline on the approach to the bridge at 11 am..Three cars, two SUVs, one pick-up truck and eight two wheelers including motorcycles and moped were damaged in the incident.“All the injured were rushed to Navale Hospital. Among the injured, one person was grievously injured and was moved to Bharti hospital. One was sent to Sassoon General Hospital and another to a private hospital in Bibwewadi, while one person is still at Navale,” said ACP Babar of Lashkar division of Pune police.“I came here and saw vehicles in disarray. The truck just bulldozed the other vehicles. One tempo fell off the edge of the road and the two wheelers were thrown in all different directions along with the riders,” said Akash Sadamate (21) an online grocery store delivery executive who was waiting on his bike near the accident spot.A case under relevant Sections of Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station against the truck driver who is at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-dead-8-injured-as-truck-ploughs-through-traffic-on-pune-s-navale-bridge/story-05yzhSgpR3wiljECy9mLgP.html
06-10-2020||India||World looking up to Indian ways of life amid Covid pandemic: Mohan Bhagwat||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Tuesday said the entire world is adopting the basic element of Indian ways of life for its growth and sustenance amid the corona pandemic. He said 50 years ago, a scheme of organic manure was dumped by the Centre because it was developed by indigenous brains but there is no alternative before the world today.  “The entire world is returning to the basic elements of Indian thought process to practice developmental ways while being environment friendly after being battered by coronavirus during the last six months,” said Bhagwat at an event in Kota. He was addressing a function on the 100th birth anniversary of Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh leader Dattopant Thengadi.  Praising Thengadi’s foresight and his works, Bhagwat said the agriculture was never a subject of trade in India but the world sees it as agriculture economics. “We have seen this as a means of worshipping Goddess Lakshmi, the goddess of glory, not as a means of conducting trade,” he said. He said the agriculture’s economics aspect is not bad but people fail to see that a section of people seeks to exploit others for the business. He said Thengadi’s birth anniversary celebration is for showing gratitude to the work done by him. He said there is a need to create an agriculture that nourishes the whole world. “We have to adopt ideal agricultural practices based on experience and proven evidence. India has ten thousand years of agricultural experience, so it is not necessary to take anti-environment practices from the West,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-looking-up-to-indian-ways-of-life-amid-covid-pandemic-mohan-bhagwat/story-11cPslHIhPVtMkzwb68bbN.html
06-10-2020||India||BJP hits out at RJD, TMC over killing of political leaders||The BJP on Monday hit out at the ruling TMC in West Bengal following the killing of one of its political workers in the state while also targeting the RJD on the murder of a Dalit leader.The party also raised the issue of incidents of rapes in Congress-ruled Rajasthan.BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said there had been several incidents of political killings in West Bengal.“Mamata Banerjee has been raising questions on the law and order in other states. When will she send a delegation to the house of Manish Shukla?” asked Patra, who addressing a press conference also put the question in Bengla. Manish Sukla, a BJP councillor, was shot dead by two bike-borne assailants on Sunday in Titagarh of North 24 Parganas district.The BJP has demanded a CBI inquiry into the killing.At the press conference Delhi, Patra said he would like to ask Mamata Banerjee -- “Is this the democracy in Bengal?” He said over a hundred BJP workers were killed in Bengal.“West Bengal has become the killing fields of BJP workers under the TMC government,” he said.Attacking the RJD in poll-bound Bihar, Patra said a young Dalit leader, Shakti Kumar Malik, was killed after he left the RJD.Patra claimed that Malik’s wife has accused top RJD leaders of demanding money from him. He said the names of top RJD leaders were in the FIR. “I want to ask Tej Pratap and Tejaswi ji, you talk about social harmony and justice. Why are you silent on this incident?” he said.The BJP’s attack came at a time when the opposition parties have been targeting the saffron party over the Hathras incident in which a Dalit girl succumbed to injuries after allegedly being gang raped by four men.Patra also claimed that incidents of rape had been happening in Rajasthan. He asked when “those who indulge in political tourism” will visit the victims in Rajasthan or the families of Manish Shukla or Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-hits-out-at-rjd-tmc-over-killing-of-political-leaders/story-MbH4V8Nx4IEw6jVz7TwigI.html
06-10-2020||India||How Delhi plans to combat pollution: All you need to know||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has announced a campaign to control pollution levels in the national capital. The campaign, ‘Yuddh Pradushan Ke Viruddh’, will be run by a mobile application through which citizens will be able to lodge complaints about the pollution level in their area.Every year in the month of October, Delhi witnesses a steep increase in pollution level due to stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, rise in vehicular activity ahead of Dussehra and Diwali, and crackers bursting in Delhi.“From today we are starting a campaign against pollution, “Yuddh Pradushan Ke Viruddh” to reduce pollution levels in the national capital. As a part of the campaign, we will be using technology developed by PUSA Agriculture Institute, to curb the menace of stubble burning,” Kejriwal added.Here are the points you should know about the campaign:1. A photo-based complaint lodging mobile application ‘Green Delhi App’ will be launched before the end of October for the redressal of pollution complaints by citizens in their area.2. On the pattern of battling the coronavirus disease, 13 pollution hotspots have been identified. Customized actions will be taken in each hotspot according to the requirement and the cause of pollution in the area.3. The Delhi government has also initiated an ‘anti-dust campaign’ to settle dust, especially at construction sites.4. As a part of the anti-dust campaign, agencies that cut down the tree will be asked to plant 80% of trees that have been brought down.5. The Aam Aadmi Party-led government will pay heed to air-pollution hotspots like Bawana, Narela, Mundka, Punjabi Bagh, RK Puram, among other areas, to boost air quality.6. It will spray ‘bio-decomposer’ invented by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa in the fields to deal with residue burning issue. The spray will decompose the stubbles and will turn it into manure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-delhi-plans-to-combat-pollution-all-you-need-to-know/story-AweSahWYoEJJzfiaRi2WDO.html
06-10-2020||India||States should stand firm, reject Centre’s options on GST compensation cess: Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Tuesday complimented the states that rejected the two options given by the Centre to bridge the gap in the GST compensation cess and asked them to stand firm at the next meeting of the GST council on October 12.The former finance minister said the states should not borrow as the liability to provide Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation as well as the onus to find resources fall on the Centre.“I compliment the 9-10 states that stood firm and rejected the two options given by the central government to bridge the gap in the GST compensation cess.“The liability to provide the GST compensation to the full extent falls on the central government, as reluctantly admitted by the FM yesterday. Naturally, the onus of finding the resources also falls on the central government,” he said in a series of tweets.“It is unfair and unjust to ask state governments to borrow the money. States must stand firm at the next meeting on 12th October,” Chidambaram said.At its meeting on Monday, the GST Council failed to reach a consensus on ways to compensate the states for the loss of tax revenue.The panel will meet again on October 12 to thrash out the state compensation issue, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said after a marathon eight-hour meeting.The council was divided on political lines, with 10 states ruled by non-BJP parties opposing the Centre’s proposal of states borrowing to meet the shortfall in receipts.The state compensation issue appears headed for voting in the council, with the option chosen by the majority being implemented.Sitharaman said 21 states accepted one of the two borrowing options suggested by the Centre but 10 did not agree.When the GST was introduced in July 2017, the states were promised a 14-per cent incremental revenue over their last tax receipts in the first five years. This was to be done through a levy of a cess or surcharge on luxury and sin goods, but the collections on this count have fallen short with the slowdown of the economy since the last fiscal.To make up for this, the Centre has suggested that the states can borrow against future compensation receipts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-should-stand-firm-reject-centre-s-options-on-gst-compensation-cess-chidambaram/story-tzXGZ3MJCBAdMB1bA6beUJ.html
06-10-2020||India||‘Hathras case of huge importance’, Supreme Court tell UP: Key highlights of hearing||The Supreme Court on Tuesday heard a petition seeking an investigation into the role of the police in the alleged gang-rape case of a Dalit woman by the four upper-caste men in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh. During the hearing, the court described the crime as “horrible and an extraordinary incident”.It also asked the Uttar Pradesh government to clarify whether adequate protection is being given to the witnesses in the case. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde, was hearing the petition.The woman succumbed to the brutal injuries on September 29 at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital. She was cremated by the state authorities in the dead of the night triggering massive outrage and criticism across the country.Here are the key highlights of the hearing:1. “We want to know from you (UP government) whether the witness protection plan is in place. File an affidavit,” CJI Bobde told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who was representing the state government.2. The top court also sought details of the scope of proceedings before Allahabad High Court. “We want to widen the high court proceedings and make it more relevant,” CJI Bobde said.3. It also asked the state to ascertain whether or not the family of the victim has access to a lawyer.4. It questioned the locus of some petitioners and said it is hearing them as the Hathras case is of huge importance.5. “Narratives after narratives being spread in Hathras case, this needs to be stopped,” Solicitor Mehta informed the court.6. Mehta on the state’s behalf informed the Supreme Court that a probe in Hathras gang-rape case may be conducted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) under the supervision of the top court.7. “CBI probe in Hathras case will ensure no vested interests will be able to create fake, false narrative with oblique motives,” said Mehta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-of-huge-importance-supreme-court-tell-up-key-highlights-of-hearing/story-MEhqRUdl0tGMzszwWHxhzK.html
06-10-2020||India||On next India trip, Myanmar Senior General to visit Darjeeling. It’s the tea||India has extended a standing invitation to Myanmar Army Commander-in-Chief Senior General Min Aung Hlaing to travel to Darjeeling on his next visit to India. The invite was extended by foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla during his informal conversations during his 24-hour visit to Myanmar capital Naypyidaw with Army chief Gen MM Naravane.It started with a pack of tea from Seeyok Estate in Darjeeling’s Mirik Valley that Shringla and Gen Naravane had brought as a gift for Myanmar’s most powerful man. Shringla told him that it was from his hometown, Darjeeling.Senior General Hlaing told the visitors that he loved Darjeeling Tea and had always wanted to visit the hill station that sits in the shadow of the snow-covered Kanchenjunga peak. The military commander’s guests immediately told him that Darjeeling would be included in his itinerary next time when he visits India.The senior general was also presented a statue of Vitarka Buddha hand carved by Tamil Nadu artisans. The Vitarka Buddha signifies the discussion and transmission of Buddha’s teachings and is depicted by joining the tips of the thumb and index fingers together while keeping the other fingers straight.State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi was also presented with a pack of award-winning tea from the Makaibari Tea estate in Darjeeling. Aung San Suu Kyi, who has lived in India for years, is no stranger to Darjeeling. As this conversation too veered around tea and her preferences, Suu Kyi said she preferred Lopchu, a 90-year-old tea brand that is famous for its aroma and smoky taste. It is grown in a tea estate situated between Darjeeling and Teesta at an altitude of 4,800 feet and is a gift of choice by Indian dignitaries such as Prime Minister Narendra Modi.For the people of Myanmar, the two top Indian officials handed over a consignment of 3,000 vials of the drug Remdesivir and promised more, should the need arise. This was Shringla’s first visit to Myanmar after his elevation as foreign secretary in January this year.The high-powered visit was designed as India’s outreach to countries in the neighbourhood and cement the ties between the two countries in areas ranging from security to connectivity.A statement by the Myanmar government later said the two sides had during this visit also discussed the possibility of joint production of Covid-19 vaccine being developed by India, operationalisation of the Sittwe Port in the early part of 2021, conducting vocational training programmes for youths in Rakhine State and exchange of visits of parliamentarians and the youths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-next-india-trip-myanmar-senior-general-to-visit-darjeeling-it-s-the-tea/story-9ts64N2VaXPAfBKD3CHV6J.html
06-10-2020||India||Political funding from unknown source still rampant: ADR report||Transparency in political funding remains a paper tiger because ground realities reveal the rampant use of black money during elections in the country. The total donations above Rs 20,000 declared by 11 political parties in their contribution reports analysed by the Association for Democratic Rights (ADR), a not-for-profit organisation that works for electoral and political reforms, between 2014-15 and 2018-19 was Rs 2777.97-crore.The lack of transparency in political funding assumes significance ahead of the three-phase Bihar elections, which start on October 28.Also read: Outgoing Bihar assembly has 136 MLAs facing criminal charges, says reportThe ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accounted for 80.12% of the total donations by collecting Rs 2225.66 crore, followed by its rival Congress at 13.64%, or Rs 379.02 crore, of the gross contributions.The latest ADR report cited that only three of the 11 mainstream parties analysed had submitted their reports of donations to the Election Commission of India (ECI) within the stipulated time frame.There were donations worth Rs 325.23 crore that were deposited without any Permanent Account Number (PAN), which is issued by the Income Tax (I-T) Department. The BJP accounted for the lion’s share of unaccounted source of donations at Rs 237.22 crore, or 72.94%, followed by the Congress (Rs 81.87 crore) and the Communist Party of India (CPI) (Rs 5.04-crore).Besides, Rs 15.75 crore was donated to the parties via incorrect PAN numbers. The maximum number of instances of donations without or incorrect PAN numbers was reported in the assessment year of 2014-15, when Narendra Modi became the Prime Minister for the first time.There were also instances of undeclared donor names and addresses, missing mode of payment details etc.The Congress, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) are the only three political outfits that have submitted their contribution reports to the ECI within the stipulated time frame. Eight parties were found to have delayed their submission at least once during the five-year period. The BJP delayed the submission each year between 17 and 30 days, the ADR report pointed out. The Rashtriya Lok Samata Party’s (RLSP) contributions are not available on the ECI website, and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) submitted its report after the due date four times during the past five years, the ADR stated.The ADR report published in January 2017, which analysed sources of funding of national and regional parties in the country between 2004-05 to 2014-15, had also underlined that the sources of income of big parties was largely unknown.It had found that the lack of transparency was more acute with national parties, as compared to regional outfits.At least 71% of the income of national parties during the analysed period was from unknown sources, while the corresponding figure for regional parties was 58%, the ADR data showed.The income for all political parties for the 11-year period was estimated at Rs 11,367.34 crore, including national and regional outfits at Rs 9,278.30 crore and Rs 2,089.04 crore, respectively.The ADR report showed that Rs.1405.19 crore was declared by six national parties through known sources of donation worth above Rs 20,000. The ADR cited a Supreme Court (SC) order of September 13, 2013, which had stated that “no part of a candidate’s affidavit and political parties’ disclosure of donations above Rs 20,000 should be left blank”.The not-for-profit organisation has proposed that ECI should upload the detailed status of the donations on its website and take action against the defaulting parties.Under section 29(1) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, all political parties are required to report on contributions in excess of Rs 20,000 in a financial year and submit it to the ECI by September 30 in a bid to avail 100% tax exemption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-funding-from-unknown-source-still-rampant-adr-report/story-8WGmh6dwWRNFsTaoleVmSP.html
06-10-2020||India||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee in hospital with Covid-19||Veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee was admitted to a private hospital in Kolkata on Tuesday after the octogenarian tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. “He is stable. It is just that he has some comorbid conditions that we admitted him to the hospital. He is 85 and was detected with pneumonia last year,” said Poulami Bose, the actor’s daughter. One of the most celebrated actors in Bengal, Chatterjee has received many awards and honours, including the Padma Bhushan, the Dadasaheb Phalke Award, National Awards and Sangeet Natak Akademi Tagore Ratna. He is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-actor-soumitra-chatterjee-in-hospital-with-covid-19/story-tTdl5ArVJtDkOgpDyQtKFJ.html
06-10-2020||India||Goods train damages FOB in Odisha, services disrupted on Kolkata-Chennai route||Train services have been disrupted on a section of the Kolkata-Chennai route as a goods train hit an iron angle hanging from a foot overbridge (FOB) and damaged the structure partially in Odisha’s Balasore district, a Railway official said on Tuesday.The accident took place on Monday night when a Haldia-bound coal-laden train from Dhamara was passing through Soro railway station under the jurisdiction of the South Eastern Railway (SER) zone, he said.The track has been shut for safety reasons as repairing is underway, the official said.Train services will resume soon, he said, adding the accident is being probed. PTI COR AAM ACD ACD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goods-train-damages-fob-in-odisha-services-disrupted-on-kolkata-chennai-route/story-fuQytl7mH23e065S8s74vL.html
06-10-2020||India||Quad: India committed to a rules-based world order, says MEA Jaishankar||Against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff, external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday said New Delhi remains committed to a rules-based world order, respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty and peaceful resolution of disputes. Jaishankar made the remarks in his opening speech at the second ministerial meeting of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad in Tokyo without naming China. The meeting focused on the issue of ensuring a free and open Indo-Pacific in the face of China’s increasingly aggressive behaviour across the region. He also said the events of this year have demonstrated how “imperative it is for like-minded countries to coordinate responses to the various challenges that the pandemic has brought to the fore”. “As vibrant and pluralistic democracies with shared values, our nations have collectively affirmed the importance of maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific,” Jaishankar told the meeting, which was also attended by Australian foreign minister Marise Payne, Japanese foreign minister Toshimitsu Motegi and US secretary of state Mike Pompeo. Also Read: Mike Pompeo seeks to show united front on China despite Covid-19 pandemic“We remain committed to upholding the rules-based international order, underpinned by the rule of law, transparency, freedom of navigation in the international seas, respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty and peaceful resolution of disputes,” he added. With India set to begin a two-year stint as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council next year, Jaishankar said the country looks forward to “seeking collective solutions to global challenges, including global recovery from the pandemic and reform of multilateral institutions”. Since May, tens of thousands of Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a tense standoff in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed on June 15 in a brutal clash at Galwan Valley, which also resulted in unspecified Chinese casualties. All four members of the Quad have serious differences with China – the Australian government has pledged to halt projects under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), Japan is worried about Chinese intrusions near the Senkaku Islands, and the US is engaged in a trade war and has opposed China’s aggressive activities in South China Sea. Jaishankar noted that the fact that the four foreign ministers were meeting in person, despite the global pandemic, is “testimony to the importance that these consultations have gained, particularly in recent times”. He added, “Our world is significantly different today than what it was when we last met in New York in September 2019.” India’s objective remains advancing the security and economic interests of all countries having legitimate and vital interests in the region, he said. “It is a matter of satisfaction that the Indo-Pacific concept has gained increasingly wider acceptance,” he said. Also Read: Eye on China, Canada formulates new Indo-Pacific policyJaishankar and his counterparts from Australia, Japan and the US were expected to discuss issues such as plans for manufacturing and distribution of a Covid-19 vaccine, connectivity, development of 5G technology, maritime cooperation, counter-terrorism, cyber security, and development of critical infrastructure and supply chains, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The issue of Australia’s inclusion in the Malabar naval exercise to be conducted by India, Japan and the US at the end of this year is also expected to figure in the discussions of the Quad, which was upgraded to the ministerial level in September last year. Ahead of the Quad meeting, Jaishankar held a bilateral meeting with US secretary of state Mike Pompeo in Tokyo. “Pleased to see the progress of our partnership in so many fields. Will work together for stability and prosperity in the Indo- Pacific,” he tweeted after the meeting. The Quad foreign ministers also called on Japan’s new Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga. Jaishankar is set to hold separate meetings with Australian foreign minister Marise Payne and Japanese foreign minister Toshimitsu Motegi. The external affairs ministry said last week that the foreign ministers of the Quad will discuss the “post-Covid-19 international order and the need for a coordinated response to the various challenges emerging from the pandemic”. They will also discuss regional issues and “collectively affirm the importance of maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific”, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-india-committed-to-a-rules-based-world-order-says-mea-jaishankar/story-Iel9FI1oQT8TgZRdZ5wopI.html
06-10-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Mohan meets PM Modi, discusses pending state issues||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and discussed issues related to the state, including release of pending funds for Polavaram irrigation project. Reddy’s meeting with Modi comes after eight months, amid strong rumours of his party YSR Congress joining the NDA. It is not known whether political issues were discussed during the meeting. In the 40-minute meeting, Reddy discussed the pending dues and approvals for various projects like Kadapa Steel plant, according to official sources. The CM requested Modi for early release of pending revenue grant of Rs 10,000 crore, Rs 3,250 crore funds for the Polavaram project besides setting up of a high court in Kurnool district, the sources added. After his meeting with Modi, Reddy will attend the Apex Council meeting with Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao over Krishna-Godavari river water sharing issue via video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-cm-jagan-mohan-meets-pm-modi-discusses-pending-state-issues/story-DEWMjiYwuaQbvx4F7NMnFL.html
06-10-2020||India||Hathras gangrape: NCW notice to Malviya, Digvijaya and Swara for disclosing woman’s identity||The National Commission for Women (NCW) has sent notices to Bharatiya Janata Party IT cell chief Amit Malaviya, Congress leader Digvijaya Singh and actor Swara Bhasker for allegedly disclosing the identity of the Dalit woman raped and murdered in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras.“@NCWIndia has served notices to @amitmalviya, @digvijaya_28 & @ReallySwara seeking explanation on their #Twitter posts revealing the identity of the #Hathras vicitm along with a direction to remove these posts immediately & to refrain from shairng such posts in future @sharmarekha,” the NCW tweeted on Tuesday.Also read: All you need to know about Hathras gangrape, midnight cremation and protests across nation Malviya, Bhasker, and Singh did not immediately respond to requests for comments.In its notices, the NCW has said the Supreme Court has held that a bar on disclosure of a rape victim’s identity under section 228 A (2) of the Indian Penal Code is not confined just to the name. NCW added it actually means that the “identity of the victim should not be discernible from any matter published in the media”. It has sought a “satisfactory” explanation from the three and also asked them to take down their posts immediately and refrain from sharing any further such picture/videos on social media as they are “prohibited by existing law”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gangrape-ncw-notice-to-malviya-digvijaya-and-swara-for-disclosing-woman-s-identity/story-m9DYzbOsKAdTXKUQLOq0VO.html
06-10-2020||India||Jaishankar holds talks with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in Tokyo||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday held talks with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in Tokyo, focusing on various aspects of bilateral ties and ways to deepen cooperation in the Indo-Pacific in the wake of China’s growing assertiveness in the region.Jaishankar and Pompeo are in Tokyo to attend a ministerial meeting of the Quad or Quadrilateral coalition comprising India, the US, Australia and Japan.The external affairs minister also called on Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga along with his counterparts from the US, Japan and Australia.“Began my Tokyo visit with a bilateral meeting with @SecPompeo. Pleased to see the progress of our partnership in so many fields. Will work together for stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific,” Jaishankar tweeted.About the meeting with Suga, the external affairs minister said he mentioned the bilateral and global dimensions of special partnership between the two countries.“Called on PM @sugawitter along with other Quad Foreign Ministers. Spoke about the bilateral and global dimensions of our special partnership,” he said.The meeting between Jaishankar and Pompeo comes at a time both India and the US are at loggerheads with China.While India’s ties with China have come under severe strain over the five-month border standoff in eastern Ladakh, the relationship between Beijing and Washington nosedived over trade dispute, the coronavirus pandemic and China’s military offensive in South China Sea.It is learnt that Jaishankar and Pompeo also deliberated on overall ties including evolving security scenario around India.In November 2017, the four countries gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the “Quad” to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence.The first meeting of foreign ministers of the four countries under the ‘Quad’ framework had taken place in New York in September 2019.The second ministerial meeting of the Quadrilateral coalition on Tuesday is expected to collectively affirm the importance of a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific in the backdrop of growing Chinese assertiveness in the region.Last week, the Ministry of External Affairs said the meeting of the foreign ministers of the four countries is expected to collectively affirm the importance of a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific.During his two-day visit to Tokyo, Jaishankar will also hold talks with his Japanese counterpart Toshimitsu Motegi and Australian foreign minister Marise Payne India is also expanding bilateral cooperation with Japan, the US and Australia in the Indo-Pacific region.The US has been pushing for a greater role for India in the Indo-Pacific which is seen by many countries as an effort to contain China’s growing clout in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-holds-talks-with-us-secretary-of-state-mike-pompeo-in-tokyo/story-Y3MZDinKc5rPluLafTkhwM.html
06-10-2020||India||Alwar gang rape generated political heat and led to an important decision||The gang rape of a Dalit woman in front of her husband in Thanagazi in Alwar on April 26, 2019, when the couple was going on a motorcycle for shopping, generated political heat during the 2019 Lok Sabha election and also led to an important decision in Rajasthan. It was after this case that the state government announced that a deputy superintendent of police (DySP) in every district would monitor cases related to violence against women, and said FIRs could be lodged in the offices of superintendents of police (SP) if police stations did not register them. The Ashok Gehlot government had faced flak for the delay in the registration of FIR in the Thanagazi case because the local police station did not lodge the case for five days. It took them another five days to arrest the accused. According to the family of the gang rape survivor, the woman went to the Alwar SP’s office with a complaint on April 30, 2019, after the local police station did not entertain her. The FIR was registered on May 2, 2019. The arrests took place on May 7, 2019. The family said video of the sexual violence began circulating on May 4, 2019, but police swung into action only on May 7. The family said the local police told them they would be able to act on the case only after the Lok Sabha election. Alwar went to the polls on May 6 in the fifth phase of the general election last year. The Rajasthan government also came under fire from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati during the election campaign, forcing the then Congress president Rahul Gandhi to visit the family on May 11, 2019, with Gehlot and the then PCC chief Sachin Pilot. Gehlot announced a government job to the survivor and compensation to the family. The survivor became a police constable on June 26, 2019. Bharatiya Janata Party Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament (MP) Dr Kirodi Lal Meena courted arrest to demand resignation of the chief minister and action against Alwar superintendent of police and Thanagazi SHO. The Gehlot government ordered police and administrative inquiry against the police officers of the district over their alleged laxity. The then Alwar SP Rajeev Pachar was removed and Thanagazi SHO Sardar Singh was suspended on May 7. The police took the case under the ‘case officer’ scheme, a special programme of Rajasthan police to monitor prosecution to take it to its logical conclusion. On June 7 last year, the state government ordered FIR against the SHO under section 166A(C) of the IPC, which covers a public servant failing to record any information given to him in relation to cognizable offence. Circle officer Jagmohan Sharma was transferred out of the district after presenting the charge sheet. Other staff of the police station was sent out of Jaipur police range. The administrative inquiry by Jaipur divisional commissioner KC Verma held Pachar guilty of negligence as he did not visit the spot within 24 hours of the incident after a police inquiry had given him a clean chit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alwar-gang-rape-generated-political-heat-and-led-to-an-important-decision/story-UzBOA0utr4JlNFndl5PytJ.html
06-10-2020||India||Covid-19 in India: Total active cases only 13.57% of overall tally, says health ministry||The Union health ministry said on Tuesday that active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which stand at 919,023 so far, in India contribute a mere 13.57% of the total caseload and the country continues to report a steady declining trend in the percentage of active cases.On Tuesday, India saw a significant dip in its daily tally as 61,267 Covid-19 cases were logged in the last 24 hours which pushed its tally to 6,685,082. The ministry highlighted that 75% of the fresh cases were added from 10 states and Union Territories (UTs). The health ministry said that more than 5.6 million people have recovered from Covid-19 till now and they exceeded the total active cases by 4,743,467.Maharashtra and Karnataka, which continue to be worst-hit from the pandemic, have contributed the maximum to the daily Covid-19 tally with over 10,000 and over 7,000 cases respectively.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicOver 75,000 recovered in the last 24 hours across India which pushed the recovery rate to 84.70%. Here also, the new recoveries exceeded the new cases logged in 25 states and UTs, the ministry said. It said 74% of the fresh recovered cases were reported from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Delhi, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal.Maharashtra, apart from adding the highest number of cases in a single day, has also seen the highest number of recoveries during the same duration.Also Read: India records lowest Covid-19 cases, deaths in a week; tally nears 6.7 millionMeanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Tuesday more than 80 million samples have been tested for Covid-19 till now out of which 1,089,403 samples were tested on Monday. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-in-india-total-active-cases-only-13-57-of-overall-tally-says-health-ministry/story-CBIVrRv75gUIMzMJesyodN.html
06-10-2020||India||Indian services sector activity broadly stabilised in Sept, but job losses widen: PMI||Indian service sector output broadly stabilised in September but remained in the contraction zone as incoming new business fell moderately due to the damaging impact of the pandemic on demand, leading to more job losses, a monthly survey said on Tuesday. The seasonally adjusted India Services Business Activity Index rose for the fifth straight month in September to 49.8 from 41.8 in August. However, the Indian services sector activity contracted for the seventh successive month in September. A print above 50 means expansion and a score below that denotes contraction, as per the IHS Markit India Services Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI). “The relaxation of lockdown rules in India helped the service sector move towards a recovery in September. Participants of the PMI survey signalled broadly stable business activity and a much softer decline in new work intakes,” said Pollyanna De Lima, Economics Associate Director at IHS Markit. Monitored companies that observed growth commented on the reopening of business units amid the loosening of lockdown rules. While, firms that reported a contraction mentioned the damaging impact of the pandemic on demand, the survey said. On the job front, the services sector witnessed decline in employment for the seventh month in a row, as per the survey. “Payroll numbers decreased further, but several firms reported that attempts to take on extra workers were hampered by a lack of available labour,” Lima said. “Backlogs data suggest that hiring efforts will continue in the near term, however, so we could see a better employment trend in coming months provided that people are willing to leave their hometown in search for vacancies,” she added. On the prices front, input prices rose in September, with monitored companies citing higher fuel, meat and vegetable costs. The overall rate of inflation was at a seven-month high. Going ahead, firms are optimistic regarding growth prospects. “In line with hopes that a vaccine for Covid-19 will be rolled out, companies were optimistic about the year-ahead outlook for business activity. September marked the first month since April in which service providers were confident towards growth prospects,” the survey said. Meanwhile, the Composite PMI Output Index, which measures combined services and manufacturing output rose from 46.0 in August to 54.6 in September, signaling a marked rate of activity growth across the private sector economy. “Taking into account the performance of the manufacturing industry, a better picture of the Indian economy is painted. Private sector output expanded for the first time in six months during September, and at an abovetrend rate, while the increase in sales was the first since February,” Lima said. Lima further said the news will be welcomed by policymakers, particularly following the pandemic related 23.9 per cent contraction in GDP in the opening quarter of fiscal year 2020/21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-services-sector-activity-broadly-stabilised-in-sept-but-job-losses-widen-pmi/story-6FCemb4qSATMzQogiluc4M.html
06-10-2020||India||4 sentenced to life in Alwar rape case; 5 years for man who shared video||A special court on Tuesday awarded life sentence to four men for gang-raping a 19-year-old Dalit woman in front to her husband in April last year in Alwar’s Thanagazi. The fifth person was given a jail term of five years for circulating a video of the crime, said the court. The verdict was pronounced by a special court under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.Special public prosecutor Kuldeep Jain said judge Brajesh Kumar Sharma held the five guilty of charges pressed against them and announced the sentence an hour later. “Four men have been pronounced guilty of gang rape and sentenced to life imprisonment. The fifth man, charged under IT Act, for circulating video of the crime, has been sentenced for five years,” he said.The Rajasthan government had received flak from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati during the Lok Sabha election campaign for delay in filing the FIR in the case and not taking action until the purported video of the sexual assault began circulating on social media. According to the FIR lodged on May 2, 2019, four men and a juvenile took turns to rape the woman near Duhar Chaugan between Thanagazi and Talvrikash for three hours after beating her husband. The accused demanded Rs 10,000 from the victim for not putting the video of the gang rape on social media. The FIR was registered on the day the video of the ghastly crime appeared on social media. Police presented a charge sheet against the accused on May 18, 2019, 16 days after the FIR. Chhote Lal (22), Hansraj Gurjar (20), Ashok Kumar Gurjar (20) and Indraj Singh Gurjar (22) were charged under sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 327 (Voluntarily causing hurt to extort property, or to constrain to an illegal act), 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354B (outraging the modesty of a woman), 365 (Kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 376D (gang rape), 384 (extortion), 395 (dacoity) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code; different section of the SC/ST Act and the IT Act. The fifth accused Mukesh Gurjar, 28, was charged under different sections of the IT Act for circulating the video. The prosecution produced 32 witnesses. Trial of the minor was underway in the district and sessions court. The state government removed the then SP Rajeev Pachar and suspended the Thanagazi SHO Sardar Singh for alleged laxity. On June 7, the state government ordered FIR against the SHO under section 166A(C) of the IPC, which covers a public servant failing to record any information given to him in relation to cognizable offence. Circle officer Jagmohan Sharma was transferred out of the district after presenting the charge sheet. Other staff of the police station was sent out of Jaipur police range. HT has earlier reported the findings of an administrative inquiry into the case in which Pachar was found guilty of negligence as he did not visit the spot within 24 hours of the incident. A police inquiry prior to this gave him a clean chit. The state government ordered an administrative inquiry by Jaipur divisional commissioner KC Verma on May 9 to fix accountability of police officers in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-sentenced-to-life-in-alwar-rape-case-5-years-for-man-who-shared-video/story-dJkJ5aODblWRbCaNSTEhEN.html
06-10-2020||India||Delhi past its second wave of Covid-19, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||As Delhi continues to record fewer cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday that the situation is now under control and the national capital is past the second wave of the pandemic.“Delhi hit the peak of the second wave of Covid on September 17 when 4,500 cases were reported across the city. The situation has been controlled to a large extent,” news agency PTI quoted the chief minister as saying.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDelhi was reeling under the second wave of Covid-19 as it recorded more than 4,000 cases for several days. The number has now dipped below 2,000. On Monday, Delhi reported 1,947 cases, pushing the total tally to over 292,000. While 32 new fatalities were also recorded in the Capital which pushed the death toll to 5,542. As of Monday evening, the total number of cases in Delhi stood at 2,92,560.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader also informed that 10,000 beds are now unoccupied in Covid-19 hospitals. He hoped that the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic will slowly pass, reported PTI. The number of hospitalisations has also reduced over the last 10 days from just over 7,000 to 5,802 as on Monday. With this, over 63% of the beds earmarked for the patients of the coronavirus disease are vacant.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday held a meeting with medical directors and medical superintendents of all Delhi government hospitals to review the status of testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-past-its-second-wave-of-covid-19-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-wy7CeGRQVOhaqSCwAlnUaP.html
06-10-2020||India||Former Union Minister Dilip Ray convicted in 1999 Jharkhand coal scam||Former Union minister of state for coal Dilip Ray was convicted on Tuesday by a special CBI court in New Delhi for his role in the irregularities of allocation of a coal block in Jharkhand in more than 20 years ago in 1999.Special CBI judge Bharat Parashar convicted Ray, who was minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in 1999, of criminal conspiracy and other offences. The court also convicted two former officials of Coal ministry Pradip Kumar Banerjee and Nitya Nand Gautam and director of Castron Technologies Ltd (CTL) Mahendra Kumar Agarwalla.“There was a concerted effort by way of criminal conspiracy to facilitate misappropriation of the important nationalised natural resources of the country,” the court said.“While discussing the role of Dilip Ray for the offence under section 13 (1) of PC Act, it has already been concluded that he acted with a dishonest and malafide intention and that too in clear violation of the unambiguous provisions of law. It clear that Dilip Ray dishonestly facilitated allocation of the abandoned non-nationalised coal mining area in favour of company CTL and that too in violation of the direction of law,” the court said.The judge convicted the four persons and two firms for the alleged offences under section 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating) and 409 (Criminal breach of trust) of IPC and under the relevant provisions of Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act. The court will hear arguments on the quantum of sentence on October 14. The case pertains to the alleged irregularities in allocation of Brahmadiha coal block in Giridih in Jharkhand to Castron Technologies Ltd in 1999. Ray is the first minister of the erstwhile NDA government who has been convicted in the coal scam case.In its charge sheet, CBI had said that CTL had applied in May 1998 to the coal ministry for allotment of Brahmadiha coal block, but Coal India Limited told the ministry that mining it could be dangerous as the coal block was an abandoned mine area and was full of water. The file was again sent to Ray’s office on April 23, 1999 and on May 12, 1999, CTL submitted a fresh representation to the minister saying that their application may be considered expeditiously.When the file came to the then union coal secretary from Ray’s office for re-examination on May 13, 1999 it was sent to additional secretary Nitya Nand Gautam’s desk. The CBI alleged that Gautam then made a complete u-turn from his previous observation after which the screening committee recommended CTL for allocation of the coal block subject to relaxation of guidelines by coal ministry. On the basis of the approval accorded by Ray, a letter of allotment of Brahmadiha coal block in favour of CTL was issued on September 1, 1999 by the coal ministry. It alleged that after allocation of the block, CTL started extracting coal illegally even without grant of any mine opening permission by the concerned authorities.Ray did not respond to messages seeking his response to the judgement.Sixty-six-year-old Ray, a hotel tycoon and one of the founding members of the Biju Janata Dal in the 1990s had parted ways with the regional party in 2002. He was elected to the Rajya Sabha that year as an independent candidate with the support of some BJP MLAs of Odisha. He then joined the Congress in 2004 but quit it in 2008. In 2009, he joined the BJP and was elected as an MLA from Rourkela assembly constituency in 2014.He, however, left the party in November 2018 after the Central Bureau of Investigation chargesheeted him in 2016 in the Brahmadiha coal scam case. Last year, there were wide speculations of his re-joining Biju Janata Dal before the elections after he met chief minister Naveen Patnaik a few times but nothing came off the meetings.He is currently not associated with any political party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-union-minister-dilip-ray-convicted-in-1999-jharkhand-coal-scam/story-8rBTL2mwJGEOGnNCDDtjhO.html
06-10-2020||India||Air Force conducts full dress rehearsal ahead of 88th IAF Day||The Indian Air Force conducted a full dress rehearsal on Tuesday, including a fly past by its aircraft, at its Hindon base in Ghaziabad for the 88th IAF Day on October 8.The Tejas LCA, Jaguar, Mig-29, Mig-21 and Sukhoi-30 aircraft were part of the rehearsal, besides the newly inducted Rafale fighter jet, an IAF official said.Five Rafale fighter jets were formally inducted into the IAF on September 10 in a major boost to India’s air power capability at a time when the country has been engaged in a months-long tense border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh.The official said IAF’s helicopter fleet like Mi17V5, ALH Mark-4, Chinook, Mi-35 and Apache were also part of the fly past. He added that planes like C-17, C-130, Dornier and DC-3 Dakota were also part of the full rehearsal day.Suryakiran aerobatic team and Sarang aerobatic team were also part of the fly past.The Air Force Day is celebrated to mark the day the IAF was established in 1932.The force will celebrate its 88th anniversary this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-force-conducts-full-dress-rehearsal-ahead-of-88th-iaf-day/story-jEAHiJW5f72Hk0O1WgSVbO.html
06-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape case: Supreme Court asks UP about witness protection||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said the Hathras gang-rape and murder of a Dalit woman was a horrible and extraordinary incident and asked the Uttar Pradesh government to clarify whether the witnesses in the case are being given adequate protection.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde, asked the Uttar Pradesh government to file an affidavit clarifying the same while saying that it will try to ensure that the investigation into the incident is smooth. “We want to know from you whether the witness protection plan is in place. File an affidavit,” CJI Bobde told solicitor general, Tushar Mehta, who was representing the state government.The court also asked the state to ascertain whether or not the family of the victim has engaged a lawyer. It further sought details of the scope of proceedings before Allahabad High Court. “We want to widen the high court proceedings and make it more relevant,” CJI Bobde said.Also read | Rahul Gandhi accuses PM Modi of ‘not saying a word’ on Hathras gang-rapeThe court was hearing a petition filed by social activist Satyam Dubey and two lawyers, Vishal Thakre and Rudra Pratap Yadav, seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or Special Investigation Team (CBI) into the crime.Tushar Mehta told the top court that the state government is not opposing the plea for CBI probe but requested that it should be done under the supervision of the Supreme Court. The state government also took exception to media outlets and political parties sensationalising the incident. “We are not treating this as an adversarial litigation. There are different narratives in the public domain. One innocent life has been lost. It should not be sensationalised,” Mehta said.Also read | ‘Y-plus’ security to actor, but not to Hathras victim’s kin: Shiv SenaSenior counsel Indira Jaising, who was representing a few woman lawyers, asked the Supreme Court to ensure that witnesses are protected. She also pointed out how certain lawyers were trying to secure the brief of the victim’s family and asked the top court not to allow that.The court listed the case for further hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-supreme-court-asks-up-how-witnesses-in-hathras-rape-case-are-being-protected/story-FfdVFkt9xLYluQVIIqwy5I.html
06-10-2020||India||Kerala art body under fire after Dalit dancer’s suicide bid over alleged discrimination||The Kerala Sangeeth Natak Academy, a state government-controlled apex body of artists, finds itself mired in a controversy after a suicide bid by a Dalit classical dancer who was allegedly denied permission to perform ‘Mohiniyattam’ as part of the academy’s online cultural festival.The male dancer is undergoing treatment in a hospital after he overdosed sleeping pills on Saturday. The opposition Congress and BJP have asked the government to act against the academy chairperson and secretary under the provisions of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Police recovered a note purportedly written by the dancer in which he said that he was denied the opportunity because he belonged to a lower caste. Kerala’s culture minister AK Balan has sought a report from the academy.“It is sad it happened under Left rulers who often speak about renaissance and cultural reform. We all know he is a committed dancer devoted his whole life to the dance. He was insulted by denying an opportunity to perform. The government is answerable for this grave injustice,” said Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan in a Facebook post. Congress leader Pandalam Sudhakaran also sought action against academy office-bearers. “They talk big about Dalits but treat them like outcasts,” he said. The dancer’s family members said the academy had rejected his application saying that male members can’t perform ‘Mohiniyattam,’ a classical dance form from of Kerala usually performed by women. But they said male dancers had performed the dance earlier and he was denied an opportunity due to his caste. But academy secretary Radhakrishnan Nair denied reports the academy rejected his application. “The academy has so far scheduled items like Thullal, Kathakali, Chenda and Mizhavu performances. Its experts in each field select dance forms and they are yet to take a call on other dance forms ,” he said. Academy chairperson K P A C Lalitha, a film and theatre actor, was not available for her comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-art-body-under-fire-after-dalit-dancer-s-suicide-bid-over-alleged-discrimination/story-sTDkH92nhFyeKp2UrmGQBN.html
06-10-2020||India||Top Afghan peace negotiator set to meet PM Narendra Modi, EAM Jaishankar||Afghanistan’s top peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah arrived in India on Tuesday afternoon for a five-day visit during which he will hold talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and external affairs minister S Jaishankar. Abdullah’s visit is part of an outreach to key countries in the region for support for the negotiations between the Afghan government and the Taliban at Doha in Qatar, people familiar with developments said. He will meet Modi at the prime minister’s official residence on Thursday and Jaishankar on Friday. Abdullah will also participate in an interaction at the Institute of Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA) on Thursday. Abdullah is also expected to have interactions with key members of India’s security setup, including National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, though details could not immediately be ascertained. Interactions with the Afghan community in New Delhi are also on the cards. The chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation in Afghanistan is travelling to India after a three-day visit to Pakistan last week. In Islamabad, he had met Prime Minister Imran Khan, foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa. Also Read: Where India stands on peace in Afghanistan | OpinionAbdullah told the Pakistani leadership that a message about reducing violence and showing greater flexibility in negotiations should be communicated to the Taliban leadership participating in the negotiations in Doha. This is Abdullah’s first visit to India after the formation of a new government in Kabul following last year’s troubled election. The people cited above said on condition of anonymity that Abdullah is expected to seek the Indian leadership’s support for the intra-Afghan negotiations. India had sent an official delegation to Doha to attend the event marking the launch of negotiations. The event was also addressed via video conference by Jaishankar, who said any new dispensation which emerges from the intra-Afghan dialogue process must ensure that Afghanistan’s soil is never used for anti-India activities. Senior Afghan leader Marshal Abdul Rashid Dostum visited India on September 25 and held talks on the peace process with Jaishankar, who told him New Delhi remains committed to Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled negotiations. India, the region’s largest provider of development aid to Afghanistan, has expressed concern at a recent spike in violence by the Taliban and terror attacks on minorities such as Sikhs. It has said the intra-Afghan negotiations must ensure the interests of minorities, women and vulnerable sections of society and reduce violence across Afghanistan and its neighbourhood. Since 2001, India has undertaken projects worth $3 billion in Afghanistan, including $1 billion pledged in 2016 under the “new development partnership” scheme for five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-afghan-peace-negotiator-set-to-meet-pm-narendra-modi-eam-jaishankar/story-OBncKTvBYenAMcm1JUXv6H.html
06-10-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty, brother Showik’s judicial custody in drugs case extended till Oct 20||The judicial custody of Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik in a drugs case related to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death was extended till October 20 by a Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act court (NDPS) in Mumbai on Tuesday. Apart from the Chakraborty siblings, the custody of 18 others arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the case has also been extended.After WhatsApp chats regarding the use of drugs surfaced, Rhea Chakraborty and her brother were arrested by NCB for procuring and financing drugs for Rajput on his instructions. “The actor was involved in the illicit trafficking of drugs and she financed drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput,” NCB has stated. With similar allegations against her brother, they were slapped with stringent conditions of the NDPS act.The bail applications were earlier rejected on September 11 by the NDPS court citing the possibility that the actor may alert others if released on bail and that might lead to contamination of evidence. However, Chakraborty maintains that she is innocent and has been falsely implicated in the case with the NCB coercing her into making “self-incriminatory” confessions.The verdict of the 28-year-old actor and her brother’s bail plea has been reserved but the date on which it will be pronounced isn’t known yet. The central agency, which is probing the drugs angle in Rajput’s death, does not want Rhea and her brother to be released in order to send out a strong message to the youth against the consumption of drugs.Chakrabortys’ lawyer advocate Satish Maneshinde has told the court that Rajput was in no dearth of funds. His house manager Samuel Miranda used to take care of “all” household expenses which is why Rhea has no role financing drug purchases for the deceased actor.The 34-year-old actor was found dead at his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. Apart from NCB, Rajput’s death case is being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) whereas the Enforcement Directorate (ED) is probing the alleged money laundering angle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judicial-custody-of-rhea-chakraborty-her-brother-showik-and-other-accused-in-drugs-case-related-to-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-extended-till-oct-20/story-aaXIAWN30hVadwMuLlE6DM.html
06-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi accuses PM Modi of ‘not saying a word’ on Hathras gang-rape||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of not speaking out after the gang-rape of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district in September.While interacting with the media in Punjab’s Patiala, Gandhi said he paid a visit to the family of the victim last week because he wanted them to know that they were not alone in seeking justice for their daughter. He said he told the woman’s family that he was not only there for them but their daughter and also for “lakhs of women in the country who face unruly behaviour every day, thousands of women who are raped in a day.”Taking a jibe at Modi, the Congress leader said, “It is, however, interesting that the woman was raped and murdered and the entire UP administration targeted her family but the Prime Minister hasn’t said a word on the issue.” PM Modi had earlier spoken with chief minister Yogi Adityanath seeking the strictest punishment for culprits. “Honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi has spoken to me on the incident and directed that strictest punishment be taken against the accused,” Adityanath had written on Twitter in Hindi.Gandhi along with a team of Congress leaders and his sister and the party’s UP general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday met the family members of the woman, who died at a hospital in Delhi a few days after the assault. The woman was cremated the next day by the UP Police at 2:30 am even as her family protested. They were then locked inside their house. The aggrieved relatives alleged that they couldn’t even see their daughter’s face before her body was burnt with petrol. The Congress team stayed with the family for over an hour and assured them of support.“The UP government will not be able to do anything arbitrary as it wants, because now the whole country is standing to bring justice to the daughter of this country,” Gandhi had tweeted after the visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-accuses-pm-modi-of-not-saying-a-word-on-hathras-gang-rape/story-WgJB9cBkqw4j3qiFnmXkiO.html
06-10-2020||India||Goa to file contempt plea against Karnataka in Mahadayi water dispute||The Goa government will file a fresh contempt plea against Karnataka for diverting waters of the River Mahadayi even as the matter is pending before the Supreme Court, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday. Sawant, who said that the issue of Mahadayi was “close to his heart”, accused previous regimes - both BJP and Congress - of having neglected the issue but assured that there was ample photographic and video evidence, which he said would be placed before the top court. “A contempt petition is being filed before the Supreme Court either tomorrow or the day after along with all photographic evidence, pursuant to reports of diversion being carried out by the State of Karnataka. This contempt is in addition to an earlier contempt filed in the Apex court in the Month of August 2018, when the state of Karnataka had engaged in a similar mischief,” Sawant told reporters at a special press conference. Photographs published in local media showed that Karnataka has already dug trenches to divert the flow of the River Mahadayi, which begins as a stream in the upper reaches of the western Ghats in North Karnataka before flowing into Goa via a brief detour into Maharashtra. On account of the trenches, the waters of the Mahadayi now flow eastwards and into the east flowing Malaprabha river in Karnataka rather than westwards into Goa from the point of diversion. The Sawant government has been on the backfoot over its inability to prevent Karnataka from diverting the water, and the “support” the central government is giving the Karnataka government to go ahead with the project. However, Sawant said it was the fault of earlier regimes that matters have come to this. “The Karnataka government built trenches and canals to divert the water but nothing was done to stop it back then. The Congress government of the time, from the beginning, failed to object to in-basin utilisation of waters of Mahadayi by the riparian states,” Sawant said. He also blamed the government, led by his predecessor Manohar Parrikar, for claiming as a victory the decision of the tribunal to allow Karnataka only 13.42 TMC (Thousand Million Cubic Feet) water. Karnataka had claimed 36.55 TMC water from the Mahadayi basin. The diversion project involves the construction of three dams, two canals to divert water and the diversion of 499.13 hectares of forest land including submergence of 406.60 hectares of forest land. The plan involves diversion of west flowing streams in the Mahadayi basin to the allegedly water deficit Malaprabha basin by construction of dams across the Haltara, Kalasa and Banduri streams. The project proposes to divert 7.56 TMC of water during monsoon season through Inter connecting gravity canals for crossing the ridges at the cost of Rs 840.52 crore.In its verdict passed in 2018, the tribunal awarded Karnataka 3.45 TMC (thousand million cubic feet) from their total claims of 7.56 TMC. According to the breakup, Karnataka has been allowed to divert 1.18 TMC from the Kalasa Nala and 2.27 TMC from the Banduri Nala from their claims of 3.56 and 4 TMC respectively. The award is yet to be notified by the central government and all states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa -- have challenged various portions of the award before the Supreme Court.“There was no decision taken to challenge this award at the relevant time for 10 months. When I took charge as the chief minister, and appointed new Advocate General, it was realised that the diversion of water from Mahadayi basin to outside basin is required to be challenged as the same is against the interest of the State,” Sawant said, indirectly blaming the government led by his predecessor Manohar Parrikar for the lapse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-to-file-contempt-plea-against-karnataka-in-mahadayi-water-dispute/story-j46tjinWCeCTJxmlSrMgtJ.html
06-10-2020||India||Rajasthan’s Congress MLA Kailash Trivedi dies of post-Covid complications||Congress legislator from Rajasthan’s Sahara constituency in Bhilwara, Kailash Trivedi, died of post-Covid-19 complications at a private hospital in Gurugram on Tuesday morning, doctors said.The Rajasthan government had moved him to the hospital five days ago by an air ambulance. He was 65. Trivedi tested positive for Covid-19 a month ago and was treated at Bhilwara and Jaipur government hospitals. He died at the Gurugram hospital around 8 am Tuesday. His family said Trivedi had tested negative for Covid-19 but continued to have problems in the lungs. Doctors said it was post-Covid-19 complication. He was MLA from Sahara thrice and had a political legacy. Most of his family members were elected to panchayati raj institutions. His father Bhanwar Lal Trivedi was pradhan of Raipur panchayat samiti. Kailash Trivedi was also elected pradhan from this panchayat samiti after his father, and he contested his first Assembly election in 2003, and won it.Trivedi lost his second election in 2008 but won 2013 and 2018 elections, representing Sahara for three terms. His wife, Gayatri Trivedi and uncle Shyam Trivedi also served as pradhan. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted, “Deeply saddened at the passing away of Sahara, Bhilwara MLA and Congress leader Kailash Trivedi. My heartfelt condolences to his family members and supporters. May they remain strong in this difficult time. May his soul rest in peace.” Rajasthan Assembly Speaker CP Joshi, state Congress president Govind Singh Dotasara, former Deputy CM Sachin Pilot and others Congress leaders also condoled the death of the legislator. Following Trivedi’s death, the strength of the Congress in the 200-member Assembly has come down to 106.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-s-congress-mla-kailash-trivedi-dies-of-post-covid-complications/story-L4UrPXd2RMxz9xFkAncbNK.html
06-10-2020||India||‘Y-plus’ security to actor, but not to Hathras victim’s kin: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday sharpened its attack on the Centre as it said that ‘Y-Plus’ security was provided to a Bollywood actor but the family of the Hathras gang-rape victim did not get any protection.The 19-year-old woman was gang-raped on September 14 in Bul Gargi village of Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district by four upper-caste men and she died on September 29. The Uttar Pradesh police and several members of the local administration have been under the scanner over their handling of the crime, which has sparked protests across the country.Also Read| Hathras case: Sanjay Raut says those who supported Kangana Ranaut’s comments are now silentThe party’s mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ claimed in its editorial that the family of the victim has been “receiving threats to life and is living under terror”. It further asked what was wrong if Y-plus security cover is being demanded for the family.“The Centre gave Y-plus security cover to an actress from Mumbai, but the family of the Hathras gang-rape victim does not get any. This is not the principle of equal justice. This justice is not in line with Dr Ambedkar’s Constitution,” the editorial said.Also Read| Hathras case: UP govt calls for court-monitored probe by CBI in Supreme CourtThe editorial was referring to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, who was given the security cover in September after she made comments against the Mumbai Police over the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Ranaut and Shiv Sena engaged in a war of words after the former compared Mumbai to Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK).The Sena’s mouthpiece also questioned the Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to recommend a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the Hathras case at a time when the victim’s family has sought a judicial inquiry into the matter. On what would be CBI’s course of action, it highlighted that the UP government “destroyed evidence” by cremating the victim.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government has filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court asking got for a court-monitored probe by CBI into the case. The affidavit also states that a “vicious campaign” has been unleashed to defame the state government, which is led by Yogi Adityanath.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/y-plus-security-to-actor-but-not-to-hathras-victim-s-kin-shiv-sena/story-kU1FoV4EDskcNkKoOvGxmN.html
06-10-2020||India||Cinema in Covid-19 times: I&B ministry releases norms||The Information and Broadcasting (I&B) ministry on Tuesday released Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for reopening of cinemas, making it mandatory to have six feet distance between people watching films. The SOPs mandate staggered entry, exits from cinema halls including during intervals. Sanitisation of halls after each screening would also be mandatory as cinemas are due to open for the first time in mid-October after seven-month closure due to the Covid-19 pandemic.I&B minister Prakash Javadekar released the SOPs that make the use of face masks and sanitiser mandatory in the touch-free mode at entry and exit points.The SOPs prohibit spitting and mandate thermal screening of cine-goers as well as staff. Only asymptomatic individuals will be allowed into the movie halls, as per the SOPs. The entrances to the halls need to have designated queue markers.Also Read: Theatres to reopen, at last! Film industry reacts to 50 percent occupancy limit and what it means for the businessThe cinemas have been allowed to reopen with 50% of the seating capacity from October 15.The SOPs make it mandatory for seats left vacant for social distancing to be marked with fluorescent markers. They call for avoiding overcrowding in lobbies, common areas, and lifts. The SOPs suggest longer intermissions to allow audiences seated in different rows to move in a staggered manner.In multiplexes, screenings, intervals, and exits will be timed to ensure that films are not screened together in different halls.Digital transactions for buying tickets, food, and beverages would be encouraged and contact numbers will be taken at the time of booking to facilitate contact tracing. Booking windows will be kept open throughout the day to avoid crowding.The halls will have to be sanitised after every screening and staff have to be provided with gloves, boots, masks, etc. Employees at higher risk like the elderly or pregnant will not be exposed to any front-line work.Arogya Setu contact tracing app will have to be installed and updated by all employees. Announcements on wearing masks, observing physical distancing, etc will have to be made. Air conditioning is required to be maintained in the range of 24-30°C.The norms also say that Covid-19 related stigmatisation or unruly behaviour shall be dealt with strictly through coordination between cinema managers and local authorities.Multiple counters for food and beverages will be made available and online packaged food will be allowed. No exhibition of films will be allowed in containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cinema-in-covid-19-times-i-b-ministry-releases-norms/story-uRDqwsoohG162hKs3xr34K.html
06-10-2020||India||With cops on overdrive, cannabis seizure in Odisha likely to cross 1,000 quintals this year||With a seizure of close to 1,000 quintals of cannabis so far, it has been a good year for the Odisha police, excise department and other agencies tasked to check the drug trade in the state. While the Special Task Force and district police officials have seized over 900 quintals of cannabis in little over the last 9 months, other agencies like Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), state excise department as well as Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) have seized over 25 quintals in the same period. The seizures have become frequent over the last 2-3 months as enforcement officials are intercepting more and more consignment of cannabis.On the evening of October 4 police in Ganjam district seized 2.5 quintals of cannabis covered in PPE kits while they were being transported in an ambulance near Budhamba village under Kabisuryanagar police station area. Similarly, excise department officials early Monday morning seized 7 quintals of cannabis during a raid at Sargiguda village in Malkangiri district. On October 3, Narcotics Control Bureau officials had seized 7 quintals of cannabis from a coir-filled truck near Godipada toll gate in Khurda. On September 8, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence seized 5.5 quintals of cannabis worth around Rs 80 lakh in Bhubaneswar while it was being illegally transported in a vegetable truck.“This year will be the most successful year for Odisha when it comes to enforcement activities to prevent cannabis smuggling. While Odisha police alone is likely to seize 1,000 quintals of cannabis by the end of this year, the combined seizure of other agencies would put Odisha in the top spot among all states when it comes to cannabis seizure,” said Jaynarayan Pankaj, deputy inspector general of police of Special Task Force that is mandated to go after cannabis smugglers.Though last year Odisha police seized 618.15 quintals of cannabis, Pankaj said Odisha DGP Abhay’s focus on going after the cannabis smugglers persistently has been the key to higher seizures this year .“As the DGP headed the Narcotics Control Bureau a few years ago he is laying greater stress on increasing the interception. So we are focussing more on districts like Koraput, Malkangiri, Kandhamal, Boudh, Rayagada and Gajapati where the crop is cultivated on a large scale in Maoist-affected areas. While Maoists are slowly losing control in the state, the pandemic also helped make things easy for us due to less number of vehicles on roads. It was easier for us to intercept the cannabis-laden vehicles as the traffic was less. But the biggest cause of higher seizure is due to sustained drive and better intelligence collection,” the DIG said.The cultivation of cannabis starts in September at the end of the monsoon season when there is less humidity and the temperature drops. It requires quite a bit of sunshine and colder temperature. When the plants start budding, cannabis becomes ready for harvest. The buds are dried in the sun to make ganja, the most popular form of cannabis that is exported out of Odisha.The hilly tracts of Maoist-affected Malkangiri, Koraput, Rayagada, Kandhamal districts have been the traditional areas for growth of cannabis. As it offers better returns than cereals, the tribals grow it with active patronage of the Maoists. The crop does not need much care and can withstand harsh weather conditions and water scarcity.Excise department officials said in 2019-20, cannabis crops over 18,000 acres of area, the largest so far, were destroyed in Odisha. A multi-disciplinary committee headed by chief secretary has been formed for regular interaction with various state and central agencies for better coordination and sharing of information about the drug situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-cops-on-overdrive-cannabis-seizure-in-odisha-likely-to-cross-1-000-quintals-this-year/story-Rprn3cKS6NiKbAEsuzg4vJ.html
06-10-2020||India||India ranks 4th in global survey assessing public perception of govt response to Covid-19||India, which scored 63.88 out of 100, is ranked fourth in a global survey to assess public perception of government responses to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.China scored 80.48, followed by South Korea (74.54) and South Africa (64.62) -- the only nations that are ranked ahead of India.Around 13,400 people were surveyed across 19 countries in June, whose findings have come out in PLOS ONE, a peer-reviewed open access scientific journal published by the Public Library of Science since 2006. The average score varied considerably between countries – from 35.76 for Ecuador to 80.48 for China, where the public response was found to be the most positive. Also Read: India likely to join Canada-led multilateral group tackling Covid-19 pandemicThe United States of America (USA) is ranked 17 among the 19 countries surveyed regarding the government cooperation with other nations and international organisations such as the World Health Organization (WHO).The average score for a country was strongly linked to the level of trust in its government.The Barcelona Institute for Global Health (ISGlobal), a centre supported by the “la Caixa” Foundation in coordination with the City University of New York Graduate School of Public Health (CUNY SPH) and other international institutions, developed an easy and reliable tool to evaluate the public perception of governmental response to the Covid-19 pandemic.The response has varied considerably among countries. Although most governments have implemented a series of common measures such as mobility restrictions, closure of businesses, places of worship and schools, their timing and approach have been varied, the researchers said.Also Read: Covid-19 could spread by airborne transmission: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention“We need basic tools to help us assess the public perception of government responses in key aspects such as communication, or access to healthcare services and social welfare,” said Jeffrey V Lazarus, a researcher at ISGlobal.Countries in Asia reported higher scores, unlike Latin American and European nations.Some of the questions that were asked to the public included whether the government communicated clearly to ensure that everyone had the information they needed to protect themselves and others from Covid-19, irrespective of their socio-economic conditions, migrant status, ethnicity or language.The questions also focused on whether the government had a strong pandemic preparedness team, including public health and medical experts, to manage national response to the Covid-19 epidemic, and if it made sure there was access to the healthcare services. The researchers hoped that the survey would help public health officials and other decision-makers identify and rectify weaknesses in key aspects of a country’s response, and track trends as the Covid-19 pandemic evolves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-ranks-4th-in-global-survey-assessing-public-perception-of-government-response-to-covid-19/story-I0gXSGfCs14vru9Sf9ymzO.html
06-10-2020||India||4 sentenced for life; 1 convicted for circulating video to serve 5 years in jail in Alwar gang-rape case||A special court on Tuesday awarded life imprisonment to four of the five men for raping a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Rajasthan’s Alwar last year. The fifth man, who circulated the video of the crime on social media, will spend five years in jail, the court said. The verdict was pronounced by a special court for hearing cases under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.The woman was raped by five men in front of her husband on April 26, 2019, in Thanagazi in Alwar. The crime sparked criticism by the opposition parties for the delay in lodging a First Information Report (FIR) and not taking action until the purported video of the gang-gape began circulating on social media.On May 18, police had filed the charge sheet against the accused-- 16 days after the FIR. As per the FIR, four men and a juvenile raped the woman while another man filmed the entire incident. They were then asking for Rs 10,000 from the woman for not putting the video on social media. Chhote Lal (22), Hansraj Gurjar (20), Ashok Kumar Gurjar (20) and Indraj Singh Gurjar (22) were charged under sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 327 (Voluntarily causing hurt to extort property, or to constrain to an illegal act), 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354B (outraging the modesty of a woman), 365 (Kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 376D (gang rape), 384 (extortion), 395 (dacoity) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.Police also invoked different sections of the SC/ST Act and the Information and Technology Act in the FIR.During the course of the investigation, the state government removed the then superintendent of police Rajeev Pachar and suspended the Thanagazi SHO Sardar Singh for alleged laxity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-5-accused-of-raping-19-year-old-dalit-woman-in-rajasthan-s-alwar-last-year-pronounced-guilty/story-uLksI6ZWQqQQQBejdwNxbJ.html
06-10-2020||India||Govt okays induction of nuke-capable Shaurya missile amid Ladakh standoff||The Narendra Modi government has quietly approved induction and deployment of 700-km range surface-to-surface supersonic Shaurya strategic missile even as forward movement has been recorded in development of 5,000 km range K-5 submarine-launched ballistic missile. Shaurya is the land version of the submarine-launched BA-05 missile and has been developed by the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO). The land version was discreetly tested for the final time before induction as part of user trials in Odisha’s Balasore on October 3.According to top missile experts, Shaurya is a delivery system stored in a composite canister for rapid deployment and minimum interaction with the elements for a long period. The strategic missile flies at a supersonic speed of Mach 7, or 2.4 km per second, at a height of 50 km (within atmosphere) and hits the designated target at Mach 4.The missile will be soon deployed at locations identified by the Indian Strategic Forces Command under guidance from National Security Council. The missile has a warhead weighing around 160 kg.While the Modi government’s decision to go for a land version is significant as the missile can be launched by a single vehicle, the DRDO is also making rapid strides in the development of a 5,000 km version of the submarine-launched ballistic missile (SLBM). With a range equivalent to Agni-5 land-based ballistic missile, the K-5 will be deployed on Arihant class of nuclear submarines.While missile scientists are tight-lipped about the K-5 SLBM, the weapon system is expected to be tested in the next 15 months and then deployed on the 6,000-tonne Arihant class of SSBNs. The second Arihant-class nuclear-powered submarine, INS Arighat, is to be operationalised within the next six months.The consecutive testing of hypersonic missile (September 7), Shaurya missile (October 3) and supersonic missile assisted release of torpedo (October 5) by DRDO from Balasore are clear signals from the government to the country’s adversary that India will not cow down to any coercion. The 800 km-range subsonic Nirbhay cruise missile will be tested in the next couple of weeks and will be inducted into the Indian Army and Navy. The tactical missile has already been deployed in limited numbers in response to the Chinese build-up in Tibet and Xinjiang.Coming at a time when India is engaged with a belligerent Chinese Army in Ladakh sector, a senior government official said the testing and deployment of short-range delivery platforms clearly conveys Modi Government’s intention of not backing down to any aggression or cartographical expansion plan of any adversary in the neighbourhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shaurya-missile-to-be-inducted-in-strategic-arsenal-agni-5-s-sea-version-by-2022/story-bS1100SkwoGLEXW5ANFQuO.html
06-10-2020||India||Rishikesh draws over 8,000 tourists for river rafting within 10 days of re-opening||Within just ten days of the resumption of river rafting after a gap of six months, over 8,000 tourists have flocked to Rishikesh in Uttarakhand to participate in adventure sports activity, officials said Tuesday. Dinesh Bhatt, president of Rafting Association in Rishikesh said that Rishikesh alone recorded over 6,000 tourists coming in for river rafting in the last three days “In the past ten days, since the Uttarakhand government allowed resumption of river rafting, Rishikesh has welcomed over 8,000 tourists, with almost 6,000 people coming to participate in river rafting in the past three days over the long weekend,” said Bhatt. He added that the response has been well with business picking up, but the rafting companies are still facing minor losses while practicing physical distancing. “Earlier, ten persons were allowed in a single raft, but now, only four tourists are going, with two guides in one raft. We have not increased our prices, so we are facing some loss, but safety is important for us,” Bhatt said. Dilip Jawalkar, secretary for tourism in Uttarakhand said adventure tourism is a major component in the state’s overall tourism industry. “I am happy that our step towards resuming the adventure sports activities have achieved the desired results and has attracted a large number of adventure seekers to the state,” he said He added that while activities for tourists are being opened up, the state government expects full cooperation from all the stakeholders to ensure effective implementation of rules and guidelines to control the spread of Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rishikesh-draws-over-8-000-tourists-for-river-rafting-within-10-days-of-re-opening/story-hp1abhrjzeMIhU6GL4TjOO.html
06-10-2020||India||Cremated Hathras victim to avoid violence: UP govt before Supreme Court||Uttar Pradesh has asked the Supreme Court to order a court-monitored probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the Hathras gang-rape case, which has triggered protests across the country, in an affidavit filed before the top court. The state government has already recommended a probe by the central agency.The state government also said in the affidavit, which was filed on Monday, that the body of the 19-year-old Dalit woman was cremated at night to avoid law and order problems. The government has blamed political parties and civil society organisations for attempting to create a caste divide in the aftermath of the crime in September.“The district administration took the decision to convince the parents of the victim to cremate her with all religious rites at night to avoid large scale violence in the morning. Once the post mortem of the deceased victim was already conducted at Safdurjung hospital, New Delhi, there cannot be any bad intention on the part of anyone to expedite the cremation except to obviate the political violent situation resulting from planned caste divide by certain vested interests,” the affidavit said.Also read | UP police arrest ‘PFI-linked’ men on their way to Hathras from Delhi: All you need to knowThe affidavit went on to blame the “vicious propaganda” unleashed on social media and by certain sections of print and electronic media and some political parties to deliberately mislead the public and to create caste and communal disharmony in the state.Besides the Hathras gang-rape, the state has also sought a CBI investigation into the alleged criminal conspiracy to spread caste conflict, instigate violence and into the propaganda unleashed by certain sections of media and political parties.Also read | Rectify mistake, focus on ensuring justice to Hathras victim’s family: Mayawati tells UP govt“The state government is committed to conduct free and fair investigation to reach the truth. The state govt seeks indulgence of this court to direct the CBI to investigate into the incident and into criminal conspiracy to spread caste conflict and instigate violence and incidents of propaganda by certain sections of media and political interests,” the UP government said in the affidavit.The woman was gang-raped on September 14 and she died in the hospital in New Delhi two weeks later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cremated-hathras-gang-rape-victim-late-at-night-to-avoid-large-scale-violence-up-govt-tells-supreme-court/story-cbDMN5eeNMEgiOcQGPHL2M.html
06-10-2020||India||Two arrested for BJP leader’s murder in Bengal, cops suspect old enmity||Sleuths of the Criminal Investigation Department arrested two persons on Tuesday in connection with the murder of a BJP leader who was shot dead near Kolkata, police said. The two have been identified as Md Khurram and Gulab Sheikh. Preliminary investigations have revealed that the BJP leader may have been killed because of some personal enmity and not because of any political reasons, a police officer said. Manish Shukla, an outgoing civic body councillor in North 24 Parganas was shot dead on Sunday by four motorcycle-borne masked assailants at Titagarh around 20 km from Kolkata. The probe was later handed over to the CID even though state BJP leaders have been demanding a CBI investigation. Police had found on Monday that several criminal cases were pending against Shukla. A few years ago, Khurram’s father was killed and the name of Shukla had cropped up in that case. “A person was shot dead last evening in Titagarh area of Barrackpore. Police is investigating the crime and looking into all possible reasons including personal enmity because the victim was accused in some cases of murder and attempt of murder,” West Bengal Police had tweeted on Monday. Shukla used to carry a pistol for personal safety till early this year but his arms licence was cancelled earlier this year.While BJP leaders had alleged that TMC-backed goons had killed Shukla and they were hand-in-glove with the local police, TMC leaders refuted the allegations and hinted that BJP leaders could be behind the crime. West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday stirred up a controversy by accusing the state police of trying to cover up the murder and called for an independent probe. The TMC described Dhankhar’s statement as “irresponsible” and alleged that Shukla was involved in extortion and murders and was propped up by a BJP MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-arrested-for-bjp-leader-s-murder-in-bengal-cops-suspect-old-enmity/story-pfEx1vzv94x6Rl8nKXUmgI.html
06-10-2020||India||‘Staggered show timings, 50% seating capacity’: Govt issues guidelines for reopening movie theatres||The Centre on Tuesday issued guidelines regarding the operations at cinemas and multiplexes that are set to reopen from October 15 after remaining shut for more than six months in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.According to the new guidelines issued by the Union ministry of information and broadcasting, cinema halls are allowed to operate with 50% occupancy so as to maintain adequate physical distance between people. “Seats not to be occupied” have to be marked for the purpose.Show timings of the screenings will also be staggered and a sufficient number of box office counters shall be opened to avoid overcrowding, the ministry has said. They have also advised the audience to avoid movement during the intermission.People have been encouraged to use digital modes of payment at the theatre. Advance booking has also been enabled to ensure there is no rush at the counters, which will remain open throughout the day, the government said. Floor markers will be used at the box office counters to ensure social distancing.The Centre has advised people to install and use the Aarogya Setu app. Hand wash and hand sanitisers will be made available at the multiplexes and people will undergo thermal screening before entering, only those who are asymptomatic will be allowed inside. They need to self-monitor their health and report in case of any illness. People’s contact details will be taken to facilitate contact tracing, the I&B ministry said.There will be multiple sale counters for food and beverages. People will be allowed to carry only packed food and no delivery will be permitted inside the auditorium, it added.Also, the theatres need to set the air conditioner’s temperature between 24 degrees and 30 degrees Celsius. They are also required to make public announcements about wearing marks, social distancing and hand hygiene before and after the screening and during the interval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/staggered-show-timings-increased-box-office-counters-govt-issues-guidelines-for-reopening-movie-theatres/story-qO7ZbLYPOZod1h3HIP7q1J.html
06-10-2020||India||Rahul’s tractor rally to enter Haryana today; heavy police deployment at Punjab border||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s Kheti Bachao tractor rally against the farm laws is set to enter Haryana from Punjab near Kyukar village of Pehowa sub-division of Kurukshetra district on Tuesday afternoon.As per his programme, Gandhi will lead a roadshow at Pehowa after entering Haryana. He is scheduled to meet farmers around 3 pm. Gandhi is also expected to lead a roadshow to Kurukshetra and hold another meeting at a mandi there. There were reports that he will also stop at Jyotisar village, where Lord Krishna is believed to have delivered the sermon of Bhagavad Gita.A heavy police deployment has been made at the Haryana-Punjab border ahead of Gandhi’s arrival.Kurukshetra’s deputy commissioner, Sharandeep Kaur Barar, said guidelines have been issued to the rally’s organisers and they have to follow the norms related to the Covid-19 pandemic.She said there is no limit on the tractors coming from Punjab but they have to follow all the guidelines strictly as the gathering of over 100 people are prohibited.The Kurukshetra district administration has written to Harayana Congress chief Kumari Selja and sought her cooperation on 16 points to help maintain law and order. It has asked the Congress to limit gatherings to 100 people, ensure the wearing of masks, and social distancing. The administration has told the party that the tractors should not affect the movement of traffic on the Delhi-Chandigarh highway.Gandhi’s schedule has been reworked and he will not visit Karnal as planned earlier.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said the state government does not have any problem if Gandhi holds tractor rallies and roadshows. He asked Congress to refrain from creating law and order problems.“Not acceptable if he comes to Haryana along with a big procession from Punjab. We have no problem with his visit if he holds his yatra along with the people of Haryana,” Khattar said when asked about home minister Anil Vij’s statement that Gandhi will not be allowed to enter Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-s-tractor-rally-to-enter-haryana-today-heavy-police-deployment-at-punjab-border/story-AmJ8LLTYsyFinoZDpDrcbN.html
06-10-2020||India||UP police arrest ‘PFI-linked’ men on their way to Hathras from Delhi: All you need to know||Police in Uttar Pradesh have claimed they have apprehended four people linked with the Popular Front of India (PFI) in Mathura, while they were on their way to Hathras from Delhi.The development comes amid allegations by chief minister Yogi Adityanath there is a big ‘international conspiracy’ to defame his government and attempts to spark caste and communal riots over the murder and gang-rape of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in the state’s Hathras district.Here’s what you need to know:1. The four men, according to the police, are linked with the PFI’s student wing Campus Front of India (CFI). They were identified as Atiq-ur-Rehman, Siddiqui, Masood Ahmed and Alam.2. In a press release late on Monday, the police said the four were moving towards Hathras in a car and were detained as suspicion grew around their movement. The four are being interrogated, the release added.3. On Monday, Adityanath alleged there is an ‘international conspiracy’ to defame his government over the Hathras gang-rape incident. Attempts are being made to stoke sectarian violence in the state, he further alleged.4. The UP police have filed 19 first information reports (FIRs) in seven districts, including those of sedition and promoting enmity between different groups, in this regard.5. The woman was allegedly gang-raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died in a hospital in Delhi on September 29 and was ‘forcibly cremated’ by the police in the early morning hours of September 30.6. Last week, there was a steady stream of political visitors to her village. Among those who met the victim’s family were Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday, two days after being stopped from going there.7. The UP government is facing severe flak for its handling of the incident. It has set up a three-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the case and also recommended a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Also, the case will be tried in a fast-track court.8. The UP police too are under intense scrutiny for cremating the victim’s body against her family’s wishes. It has also been accused of manhandling political leaders like Rahul Gandhi, Derek O’Brien and Jayant Chaudhary, and misbehaving with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.9.The PFI was formed in Kerala in November 2006 by merging three Muslim organisations, which were formed after the Babri Mosque in Ayodhya was demolished in 1992. In recent days, it has come under the scanner for its alleged role in anti-CAA (full version) protests in UP and communal riots in Delhi in February this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-arrest-pfi-linked-men-on-their-way-to-hathras-from-delhi-all-you-need-to-know/story-rkyRsYEmXps2c6iHzmij7O.html
06-10-2020||India||Goods train grazes sagging foot over bridge at railway station in Odisha||A major tragedy was averted in a railway station in Odisha’s Balasore district when a goods train grazed a foot over bridge bringing it down by a few feet and damaging several signal poles Monday night, a railways official said.No one was killed or injured as there was no one walking over the foot over bridge when the incident took place.The goods train which was on its way to Howrah station hit the foot over bridge at around 9 pm on platform no 2 in Soro railway station damaging it significantly. Soro railway station master Madan Mohan Behera said the foot over bridge suddenly sagged when the train was passing under it.The train also damaged several signal poles on the route affecting the railway services on the track.The train was later stopped at Mulisingh level crossing, around two km away from the Soro station.Behera said all train movements on the up line have been stopped.“It could have resulted in a major mishap had a lot of people been walking on the bridge. Luckily, there were no people at that time,” he said.On Tuesday, the railways began repair work on the foot over bridge and the signal poles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goods-train-grazes-sagging-foot-over-bridge-at-railway-station-in-odisha/story-70UOLA0x7LoD00ukaJXwSP.html
06-10-2020||India||India records lowest Covid-19 cases, deaths in a week; tally nears 6.7 million||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) increased by 61,267 in a single day, lowest in a week, and now it has 6,685,082 infections, Union health ministry’s dashboard showed on Tuesday morning. The country’s death toll mounted to 103,569 as 884 people succumbed to the respiratory disease, the ministry’s dashboard showed.The number of deaths due to the coronavirus disease across the country has also been the lowest in a week, according to the health ministry’s data at 8am on Tuesday. There were 1,179 fatalities on September 30 and 903 on Monday. Of the 903 deaths on Monday, 82% were reported from 10 states and Union territories and 36% reported from Maharashtra with 326 fatalities followed by Karnataka with 67 deaths.The number of active cases, which shows a country’s disease burden nationally, stands at 919,023. India has for two straight weeks recorded less than 1 million active cases. The active cases contribute only 14.11% to the positive caseload of the country and 10 states and Union territories account for 77% of the active cases, the health ministry had said on Monday.The health ministry said on Tuesday India has steadily maintained the positivity rate of Covid-19 cases below 10% and that the cumulative positivity rate stood at 8.28% while the daily figure was at 7.52%.Also read | 5 states saw big surge in Covid-19 cases despite fall in national averageThere were 75,787 recoveries in the last 24 hours in the country. As the new recoveries have been exceeding the new cases in recent days, India’s total recoveries stand at 5,662,490 on Tuesday morning. The recovery rate is currently pegged at 84.70%.The health ministry said on Monday that 75% of new recovered cases were recorded in 10 states and Union territories. Maharashtra has added more than 15,000 to the new recovered cases followed by Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh with more than 7,000 cases each, it said.Also read | Dr Reddy’s asked for fresh application, patent suit against Regeneron’s ‘antibody cocktail’: Latest on Covid-19 vaccineAccording to the government on Monday, 78% of the new Covid-19 cases are concentrated in 10 states and Union territories and that Maharashtra reported more than 12,000 of the new cases. Karnataka contributed more than 10,000, it added.Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Tuesday that 10,89,403 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Monday and 8,10,71,797 have been samples tested in the country till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-lowest-covid-19-cases-deaths-in-a-week-tally-nears-6-7-million/story-kALTXDb2oycJUKATybtEvJ.html
06-10-2020||India||Woman who failed to appear in UPSC exam in Jammu, found dead in Reasi||A 25-year-old woman who failed to appear in her UPSC exams in Jammu on Sunday and went missing, was found dead in Reasi district on Monday evening, police said. The deceased was identified as Sonam Manhas, daughter of Bhagwan Singh of Talab Tillo in Jammu. “Her body was recovered around 6 pm on Monday. We have registered a case at Talwara police post and have also initiated inquest proceedings under section 174 Cr PC,” Reasi district’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rashmi Wazir said.Her family had lodged a missing report at the Parade police post in Jammu on Sunday evening after she did not return home, the district police said.The police officer said the woman had to appear in her UPSC exam at SRML Higher Secondary School at Parade Ground in Jammu city. “The family claimed that she had left home to appear in the UPSC exams but then she didn’t turn up there at the SRML School. We also came to know that the woman had some relatives in the Sila area of Reasi.” “Her last location was traced to Siyad Baba in Talwara -- a religious place before her cell phone was switched off and this morning (Monday) our police teams launched searches in the area. They found her body in the Siyad Baba area. It appears that she had jumped off from a hill on the rocks and not in the stream,” said the SSP. “We found her body with a dupatta tied over her eyes. Prima facie it appears to be a likely case of suicide but we have to wait for the post mortem report and investigations,” she added The post mortem will be performed by a team of doctors in Reasi district hospital on Tuesday. The officer said that her family claimed that the deceased had been depressed for the past two months because she was not able to clear Kashmir Administrative Service (KAS) exams. “We don’t know how she reached Reasi from Jammu,” she added. Reasi is about 70 km north of Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-who-failed-to-appear-in-upsc-exam-in-jammu-found-dead-in-reasi/story-p7mL3w9xRTD8C1Mj897TOM.html
06-10-2020||India||Special websites likely for details of cases pending against 4,859 former, serving lawmakers||The Supreme Court is likely to consider a proposal asking all high courts to have special websites for details of cases pending against 4,859 former and serving lawmakers along with the progress in each trial as part of attempts to expedite them.The suggestion is among recommendations of Vijay Hansaria, the amicus curiae (friend of the Court) assisting the Supreme Court in connection with Bharatiya Janata Party leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay’s plea seeking fast-tracking of pending criminal cases lawmakers.Hansaria submitted a report to the court on Monday analysing the pendency of 4,859 cases at 25 high courts.The report said the number of cases pending against serving and former members of parliament (MPs) and legislative assemblies (MLAs) has increased over the last two years despite the Supreme Court’s monitoring for expeditious disposal. “It is therefore submitted that strict monitoring at the micro-level, by the High Courts, is necessary to ensure expeditious disposal of the cases against legislators.”Hansaria considered suggestions from various high courts on possible steps to expedite the trials. He cited Telangana high court’s move of creating a special website to update the pendency and status of the cases and called it useful. “A special website may be created for posting the details of cases pending against MPs and MLAs in various courts, including the case status, as has been done by the Telangana High Court.”A Justice NV Ramana-led bench will take up Hansaria’s suggestions on Tuesday.The Supreme Court on September 16 asked high courts to consider framing action plans for disposal of the pending cases within a year.In an earlier report submitted to the Supreme Court on September 15, Hansaria recommended special courts in each district to exclusively deal with cases against lawmakers. Such courts currently function in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Maharashtra, and Kerala.Except Tripura and Meghalaya high courts, others have filed their action plans and largely favoured setting up of special courts in each district. Some have proposed these courts at zonal levels. Almost all high courts have also registered suo moto writ petitions (on their own) to monitor the progress of trials pending against lawmakers within their jurisdictions and to give suitable directions.Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of such pending cases (1374), followed by Bihar (557), Odisha (445), Tamil Nadu (361), and Maharashtra (337). The status of cases pending with the Central Bureau of Investigation, Enforcement Directorate, and other central agencies under the Prevention of Corruption Act, etc, is still awaited. The Supreme Court has directed the Centre to furnish this information.In his latest report, Hansaria has said some high courts have written to the state governments seeking appointments of police officers as nodal prosecution officers and additional special public prosecutors as part of the Supreme Court’s September 16 directions.A nodal prosecution officer will be responsible for producing accused and witnesses and ensure execution of summons and non-bailable warrants. In case of any lapse, the officer would be liable for contempt of court apart from disciplinary proceedings, Hansaria said.Hansaria has also raised the issue of stays granted in the cases related to the lawmakers. The Supreme Court has granted stays in 10 such cases and high courts in 300 without finally deciding the matter. Most high courts informed the top court that special benches have been constituted to dispose of the cases.Hansaria requested the top court to pass directions for listing the 10 cases. He added this will require appropriate directions from the Chief Justice of India for urgent listing.In its action plan, the Kerala high court has said the police are reluctant to arrest legislators. It has called this one of the reasons for the pendency of six cases against legislators before vigilance courts and 310 cases before magistrates.Hansaria has recommended directions to the police superintendents to ensure execution of warrants/summons to accused legislators, failing which they shall be liable for contempt action and disciplinary proceeding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-websites-likely-for-details-of-cases-pending-against-4-859-former-serving-lawmakers/story-3KQMmShE2195QcuAWQVMeM.html
06-10-2020||India||Rectify mistake, focus on ensuring justice to Hathras victim’s family: Mayawati tells UP govt||BSP chief Mayawati advised the UP government on Tuesday to seriously concentrate on ensuring justice to the family of the Dalit woman allegedly gang raped and killed in Hathras or it will become difficult to prevent heinous incidents.She stopped just short of calling the Yogi Adityanath government’s claim of some people trying to incite caste conflict in the aftermath of the incident an “electoral trick”. However, she added, the government can “still rectify its mistake” and provide justice to the victim’s family.On Sunday, Uttar Pradesh police lodged at least 19 FIRs across the state on charges ranging from attempt to trigger caste conflict to sedition in connection with the incident.Also Read| Hathras fallout: Yogi Adityanath smells ‘international’ plot to destabilise UP govtOne of the FIRs lodged at Chandpa police station in Hathras district against “unknown persons” mentioned alleged attempts to foment cast conflict, promoting enmity between groups and tarnish the image of the government and invoked section 124A of the Indian Penal Code -- the serious charge of sedition.The FIRs also deal with content posted on social media.“Time will tell whether UP government’s charge against the Opposition that it was conspiring to incite caste and communal riots to impact development under the guise of Hathras case is right or electoral trick. But the public opinion demands that it is better if the government concentrates on bringing justice to the family of the victim,” Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi.The 19-year-old woman was allegedly raped by four “upper caste” men on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital where she had been brought for treatment.The victim was cremated near her home on September 30. But her family alleged they were forced by the local police to conduct her last rites in the dead of the night. Local police, however, said the cremation was done “as per the wishes of the family”.“There’s a lot of anger and outrage across the country over the wrong and inhuman treatment given to Hathras victim’s family. The government can still rectify its mistake and be serious about bringing justice to the victim’s family, otherwise it will be difficult to prevent heinous incidents,” Mayawati added in another tweet.Also Read: ‘CM Yogi playing ‘riots game’ to divert public attention’: Samajwadi Party leaderThe state government has recommended a CBI probe and quoting an FSL report, it has denied the woman was raped.In his address to BJP workers on Monday, chief minister Adityanath referred to “recent incidents” and said “anarchist elements” were trying to trigger communal and caste violence in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rectify-mistake-focus-on-ensuring-justice-to-hathras-victim-s-family-mayawati-tells-up-govt/story-eXc534HaE55NinctFuFA2N.html
06-10-2020||India||India reports lowest number of fresh daily Covid-19 cases in a month||The country reported the lowest number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in at least a month, as 59,980 new infections were reported on Monday.India has reported 6,681,937 Covid-19 cases to date, according to the data collated by HT’s dashboard.On Monday, 903 fresh Covid-19 deaths were reported, as the overall toll rose to 1,03,622.India had reported the first death due to the viral infection on March 12.Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s (MoH&FW) data showed that the country’s Covid-19 caseload has remained under one million.Also Read: India maintains below 10% Covid-19 positivity rate: GovtThe number of active cases is indicative of the national burden due to the viral infection. On Monday, around one million (m) tests were conducted, as the cumulative tally reached around 80 m. On January 23, when the first Covid-19 test was conducted in the country, India had a single laboratory, Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) National Institute of Virology in Pune.The Pune facility was only equipped to conduct Covid-19 tests, using the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technology.By April 1, 151 laboratories were approved by the ICMR authorities, whose count gradually went up to 254, 676, and 1,206 in May, June and July, respectively.At present, there are 1,874 laboratories, run by both government and private entities, which are approved by ICMR to conduct Covid-19 tests. In March, the country was testing 10,000 swab samples a day. Now, it has the capacity to conduct up to 1.5 million tests a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-lowest-number-of-fresh-daily-covid-19-cases-in-a-month/story-4mfqv4mJkxsFx2GESTTaEI.html
06-10-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty’s judicial custody in drugs case ends today||The judicial custody of Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with its probe into the drugs angle in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, will end on Tuesday. Chakraborty’s brother Showik and Rajput’s former manager Samuel Miranda will also be produced before the court along with the 28-year-old actor and 17 others arrested in the case. NCB has stated that Chakraborty and her brother financed and arranged drugs for Rajput at his instructions. The actor, however, maintains that she is innocent. She has alleged that she has been falsely implicated in the case and was coerced into making “self-incriminatory” confessions by the central agency. Meanwhile, Bombay High Court (HC) has reserved its verdict on the bail petition filed by Chakraborty, Showik and other co-accused in the drugs case. NCB contested their application saying a strong message must be sent out to the society, especially youngsters, to ensure they don’t consume drugs. Also Watch | Sushant case: Mumbai top cop ‘not surprised’; Sena sees plot after AIIMS reportIt added that the Chakraborty siblings and others arrested in the drugs case were “active members of a drug syndicate” and vowed to go to the roots of the case, an offshoot of probe into filmstar Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in June.Chakraborty’s earlier bail plea was turned down by a special court saying if the actor was released on bail she might alert others and they might destroy evidence. The arrests have been made under section 27A of the NDPS Act, which provides for punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders.Rajput was found dead at his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing his death while the Enforcement Directorate (ED) is looking into the money laundering angle. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-rhea-chakaborty-s-judicial-custody-in-drugs-case-ends-today/story-24bo1UPssfjmfjPADGYKWK.html
06-10-2020||India||Gun licence of slain Bengal BJP leader revoked 8 months ago, police say he faced murder charges||Manish Shukla, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader who was shot dead Sunday night by motorcycle-borne assailants at Titagarh in North 24 Parganas district, used to carry a pistol for personal safety till early this year. He knew that there was a threat to his life, said his father and local JP leaders. The weapon’s licence was revoked by the police about eight months ago, his father as well as the local BJP Lok Sabha MP, Arjun Singh, said on Monday. “Unlike other states, politicians from opposition parties face death threats in West Bengal. My son had to surrender his pistol after the licence was revoked by the Barrackpore police. He never fired a round but the police cancelled the licence without assigning any reason. Attempts were made on his life earlier also,” Chandramoni Shukla, father of the slain leader, said. “Shukla was not an exception. The police revoked the gun licences of my son and nephew as well. They did not show any reason. This was done to make them vulnerable to threats. We have learnt that Shukla was shot with a 9 mm carbine. These weapons are used by the police,” Singh told HT. Singh’s son Pawan Singh is the legislator from Bhatpara, which is part of the Barrackpore Lok Sabha constituency. Urban development minister Firhad Hakim alleged that Shukla was a victim of conspiracy. “He was pressured to join the BJP after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. He was not happy and wanted to return to the Trinamool Congress (TMC). He sent feelers to us. Singh is protected by Central security forces. Why wasn’t Shukla provided with the same security? I have heard that sharpshooters were brought from another state. Police will get to the bottom of this. Shukla was a favourite leader of mine,” said Hakim. Also read: Guv Dhankhar stirs another controversy, says ‘Bengal police trying to cover up BJP leader’s murder’BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and national secretary Arvind Menon demanded a CBI probe, saying law and order in West Bengal has collapsed and more than 20 BJP workers have been murdered in the last two months. The West Bengal police, however, said that Manish Shukla, who was an outgoing councilor of the Titagarh municipality, faced several charges of murder and attempted murder. The state police also said that his death could be related to personal enmity. “A person was shot dead last evening in Titagarh area of Barrackpore. Police is investigating the crime and looking into all possible reasons including personal enmity because the victim was accused in some cases of murder and attempt of murder,” tweeted the state police without naming Shukla. “Please do not jump on conclusion without proper investigation. Irresponsible comments on social media tantamount to interference in the investigation. Please refrain from this,” the state police said in a second tweet. Barrackpore police commissioner Manoj Verma refused to divulge details of the investigation but a senior police officer told HT on condition of anonymity that gun licences of many people in Barrackpore came under the scanner last year. “The Arms Act department found that these people had procured the licences from a north eastern state by declaring local addresses in that state as their permanent residence. This is punishable under the Indian Arms Act. Weapons were purchased from gun shops in West Bengal against those licences,” the officer said. “We are checking the sale records of all gun shops in Kolkata and the districts. This is a big investigation,” he added. While the BJP observed a bandh in Titagarh, agitated party workers attacked the police with stones. The police resorted to baton charge and lobbed tear gas shells to disperse the mob. No casualty was reported. Senior BJP leaders and a large number of party workers waited all day outside NRS Hospital in Kolkata where the post-mortem examination on Shukla’s body was conducted. The body was handed over to the BJP leaders around 6.45 pm Barrackpore constituency has witnessed numerous incidents of violence and deaths since Singh left the Trinamool Congress and joined the BJP in 2018. He defeated the TMC’s sitting MP Dinesh Trivedi in 2019. “In July, a professional hitman named Neeraj, who belongs to the gang of Mukhtar Ansari in Uttar Pradesh, was sent to kill me. I came to know of this and informed Union home minister Amit Shah. Last night I lost my brother,” Singh told HT. Hakim alleged that it was Singh who brought sharpshooters from other states. “He introduced this culture in Barrackpore,” Hakim told reporters. Three people were detained by the police on Monday evening for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gun-licence-of-slain-bengal-bjp-leader-revoked-8-months-ago-police-say-he-faced-murder-charges/story-3KgiRUPT886TeptkTitQSN.html
06-10-2020||India||Dr Reddy’s asked for fresh application, patent suit against Regeneron’s ‘antibody cocktail’: Latest on Covid-19 vaccine||The cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have mounted to over 35 million and 1,042,679 people have died across the globe even as the World Health Organization (WHO) said its “best estimates” indicate that 10% of people worldwide may have been infected by the coronavirus.Dr Michael Ryan, WHO’s head of emergencies, said on Monday the figures vary from urban to rural and between different groups, but that ultimately it means “the vast majority of the world remains at risk.” He said the pandemic would continue to evolve, but that tools exist to suppress transmission and save lives. “Many deaths have been averted and many more lives can be protected,” Ryan said.According to Ryan, southeast Asia faced a surge in cases, Europe and the eastern Mediterranean were seeing an increase in deaths, while the situations in Africa and the Western Pacific were “rather more positive.”Researchers across the world are racing against time to develop a vaccine against the coronavirus disease as several of them have in advanced stages of the clinical trial.Vaccine development usually takes years, but scientists have been racing to shorten that time.Here are the latest developments on Covid-19 vaccine:1. Dr Reddy’s Lab asked to revise protocol for Russian Covid-19 vaccine trialsDr Reddy’s Laboratories (DRL) has been directed by the expert panel of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to submit a revised protocol for performing phases 2 and 3 clinical trials of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, in India. Dr Reddy’s Lab had submitted an application to the top drug regulator seeking a nod to conduct clinical trials for the Russian Covid-19 vaccine in India.“The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) had a thorough evaluation of the application submitted by Dr Reddy’s Lab. The SEC has sought revised protocol from Dr Reddy’s Lab along with more information and now Dr Reddy’s Lab has to furnish a fresh protocol to the DCGI,” a government official said, according to news agency ANI.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayDr Reddy’s Lab has joined hands with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine as well as its distribution. RDIF has said it will supply 100 million doses of its potential Covid-19 vaccine to Dr Reddy’s Lab.2. Regeneron antibody cocktail used by Trump faces patent suitAccording to a lawsuit by a California company that patented the technology, the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc “antibody cocktail” given to US resident Donald Trump to treat his Covid-19 symptoms was developed with the unauthorised use of a fluorescent protein.Allele Biotechnology and Pharmaceuticals Inc sued Regeneron on Monday in White Plains, New York, seeking royalties for the use of its mNeonGreen protein in developing the experimental treatment. A separate federal lawsuit was filed in California against Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE, partners in the race to develop a Covid-19 vaccine.Also read | 5 states saw big surge in Covid-19 cases despite fall in national average: DataA fluorescent protein is injected into cells so researchers can watch what’s happening -- to determine, for example, how a virus reacts to an antibody. The patent for mNeonGreen, issued in March 2019, covers the use of the protein, which Allele said scientific journals have dubbed the “gold standard” for testing the efficacy of antibody and vaccine candidates.3. White House blocked tougher FDA guidelines on vaccine approvalThe New York Times reported on Monday that White House officials are blocking new federal guidelines for the emergency release of a coronavirus vaccine, including one that would likely ensure that no vaccine could be authorised before the presidential election on November 3.The US Food and Drug Administration submitted the guidelines to the Office of Management and Budget more than two weeks ago, but they stalled with White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, the Times reported, citing people familiar with the approval process.According to Reuters, an administration official that the approval process was still pending and denied any Election Day connection. The FDA is seeking other avenues to ensure that vaccines meet the guidelines, the Times reported.FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn has pledged that career scientists, not politicians, will decide whether any coronavirus vaccine meets clearly stated standards that it works and is safe. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-reddy-s-asked-for-fresh-application-patent-suit-against-regeneron-s-antibody-cocktail-latest-on-covid-19-vaccine/story-yXLROWGNyJVjCDMHAxLMwI.html
06-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Ahead of Bihar Assembly polls, BJP chief JP Nadda to meet party’s new office bearers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP president JP Nadda to meet party’s new office bearersBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda will meet the new office bearers of the party on Tuesday. The meeting, which comes weeks ahead of the three-phase Bihar assembly elections and a clutch of by-polls, is expected to discuss the electoral strategy and also how to strengthen the campaigns such as outreach programmes to address concerns over the recently passed farm laws. Read moreIndia maintains below 10% Covid-19 positivity rate: GovtThe Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Tuesday India has steadily maintained the positivity rate of the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) below 10%, adding that the cumulative positivity rate stood at 8.28% while the daily figure was at 7.52%. Read moreFund-starved zoos to be developed on PPP model Zoos across the country will be developed on a public-private partnership (PPP) model, Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar said on Monday, as the Central government seeks to tap private funding to run the animal parks. Read moreEmbark on 80-day campaign to attain goals, Kim Jong Un tells North KoreansNorth Korean leader Kim Jong Un has called on his country to embark on an 80-day campaign to attain its goals in every sector before a congress in January to decide a new five-year plan, state news agency KCNA said on Tuesday. Read moreIPL 2020, RCB vs DC: R Ashwin gives Mankad warning to Aaron Finch in Dubai - WATCHThe Mankad saga saw another new chapter in Indian Premier League 2020 on Monday during Delhi Capitals vs Royal Challengers Bangalore contest in Dubai. Last year, when R Ashwin was Kings XI Punjab captain, the debate over the controversial form of dismissal had started. Read moreJamia Millia Islamia researchers develop saliva-based Covid-19 testing kitResearchers at the Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) have developed a saliva-based testing kit to detect Covid-19 which can display results within an hour, a statement from the varsity said on Monday. The team of scientists from Multidisciplinary Centre for Advanced Research and Studies (MCARS) at JMI along with experts from other institutes have developed a RNA extraction free saliva-based detection technology for Covid-19, it said. Read moreHyundai quickens pace to make flying cars a reality by 2028South Korea’s biggest automaker is stepping up its pursuit of flying cars, planning a full lineup of aerial vehicles that it envisages zigzagging city skies within a decade. Hyundai Motor Group is developing models that will carry five or six people within metropolitan areas and a bigger version to fly between cities, Jaiwon Shin, head of its urban air mobility unit, said in an interview. Read morePriyanka Chopra wishes brother Siddharth’s rumoured girlfriend Neelam Upadhyaya a ‘wonderful’ birthday with sweet family photoPriyanka Chopra wished her brother Siddharth Chopra’s rumoured girlfriend, Neelam Upadhyaya, a happy birthday. Taking to Instagram stories, Priyanka shared a picture of Neelam with the entire family - including Nick Jonas and Madhu Chopra - and hoped for her to have a ‘wonderful’ birthday. Read moreMeet 103-year-old who holds the record for world’s oldest tandem parachute jumpThere are enough videos on the Internet of some inspiring people that remind us that age is just a number and doesn’t stop one from achieving what one really desires. This 103-year-old is yet another example. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ahead-of-bihar-assembly-polls-bjp-chief-jp-nadda-to-meet-party-s-new-office-bearers-and-all-the-latest-news/story-KDZCvaXsDrebrcNmHvHf0H.html
06-10-2020||India||Government to launch Ayurveda and Yoga protocols for management of Covid-19||The National Clinical Management Protocol based on ayurveda and yoga for the management of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be jointly released by Union health and family welfare minister Harsh Vardhan and minister for Ayush (ayurveda, yoga & naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy) Shripad Yesso Naik on Tuesday. The event will be held virtually. The government has been promoting medicinal herbs under the Ayush system for people to improve their immunity levels to be able to fight off infections.Last month, the Union health ministry issued guidelines on managing post-recovery symptoms of Covid-19 such as fatigue, body ache, cough, sore throat, breathing difficulty, etc., which largely promoted medicinal herbs for the purpose.Also Read: India maintains below 10% Covid-19 positivity rate: GovtFrom taking one teaspoonful of Chyawanprash and warm turmeric milk in the morning, to having mulethi (liquorice root) powder, Giloy (Tinospora cordifolia) powder, etc., many Ayurvedic medicines found mention in the health ministry’s post-Covid-19 management protocol.There was a rider, however, that all items were to be taken under strict medical supervision.“Take immunity promoting Ayush medicine… to be practiced and prescribed by a qualified practitioner of Ayush. If health permits, regular household work to be done. Professional work to be resumed in graded manner. Depending on the physical condition, mild to moderate exercise daily such as yogasana, pranayama and meditation… breathing exercises as prescribed by treating physician and daily morning or evening walk at a comfortable pace as tolerated,” the ministry’s guidelines advise.The Ayush ministry also approved a clinical study last month to assess the role of medicinal herbs vasa and guduchi in the therapeutic management of symptoms in Covid-19 cases.“In view of the need for accelerated solutions for Covid-19, the Ministry of AYUSH has taken up systematic studies on different possible solutions through multiple channels. As part of this effort, a proposal for a clinical study to assess the role of Vasa Ghana, Guduchi Ghana and Vasa-Guduchi Ghana in therapeutic management of symptoms in Covid-19 positive cases has recently been approved…,” the Ayush ministry had said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-to-launch-ayurveda-and-yoga-protocols-for-management-of-covid-19/story-gUMkMOSoXIE3KQ5zMuAayO.html
06-10-2020||India||70-year-old Covid-19 patient in Jabalpur dies by suicide, say police||A 70-year-old Covid-19 patient allegedly died by suicide on Monday in Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh, police said. The deceased was quarantined at home from September 20 after he tested positive for Covid-19 that day, said Rajesh Tiwari, Garha police station-in-charge.“The man used to live with his son. On Sunday, his quarantine period was over and the doctor concerned asked his son to get him tested again to see if he tested negative for the virus. On Monday morning, his grandson went to his room to give him juice but he found his grandfather hanging from the ceiling,” Tiwari said.The deceased’s son said his father was depressed after testing positive for Covid-19.“My father was in a state of depression for the past 10 days. He was also tense when he came to know about the re-test for coronavirus but we didn’t know that he would take such a drastic step,” he said. Police said the cremation took place as per Covid-19 protocol after a post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-year-old-covid-19-patient-in-jabalpur-dies-by-suicide-say-police/story-vuk23UzuQzz2Hmyze3WFeL.html
06-10-2020||India||Hathras gangrape: Supreme Court to hear plea for CBI probe||The Supreme Court will hear a plea seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a special investigation team (SIT) probe into the Hathras gangrape and murder on Tuesday.The petition by a social activist Satyama Dubey and two lawyers Vishal Thakre and Rudra Pratap Yadav alleging failure by the Uttar Pradesh (UP) authorities in dealing with the matter will be heard by a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde.The petitioners submitted that a grave injustice had been done to the woman and her family as her body was buried by police without their consent.Also Read: Hathras fallout: Yogi Adityanath smells ‘international’ plot to destabilise UP govt“Police personnel after getting the dead body of deceased cremated the same without the consent of the family members of the deceased. Police authorities have not performed their duties towards the victim and (are) trying to shield the accused persons. Grave injustice had been done to the victim and the system is silent on the issue,” the petition said.The 19-year-old Dalit woman was gang-raped and brutalised by four upper caste men on September 14 and died on September 29 at Delhi’s Safdurjung Hospital.Her body was allegedly cremated by Uttar Pradesh Police in a hurry without the consent of the family members though the UP police has refuted this claim.The plea before the top court also sought a transfer of the trial in the case from UP to Delhi.“The case may be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation or an SIT be formed to investigate the matter under a sitting or retired Supreme Court or High Court Judge, (and) trial of the matter may be transferred from Uttar Pradesh to Delhi,” the petitioners prayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gangrape-supreme-court-to-hear-plea-for-cbi-probe/story-NHDHNwQlZa0ITJyNuNHyRN.html
06-10-2020||India||BJP president JP Nadda to meet party’s new office bearers||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda will meet the new office bearers of the party on Tuesday. The meeting, which comes weeks ahead of the three-phase Bihar assembly elections and a clutch of by-polls, is expected to discuss the electoral strategy and also how to strengthen the campaigns such as outreach programmes to address concerns over the recently passed farm laws.In Bihar, the first list of candidates for the three-phase polls, beginning October 28, is also expected to be announced later in the day. The office-bearers are likely to discuss the public outcry over the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government’s actions following the alleged gang-rape and subsequent death of a Dalit teenager (19) by four upper caste men in Hathras district. By-polls for eight constituencies are also slated to be held in UP and the unrest over the criminal incident is expected to cast a shadow on the upcoming by-elections. The BJP has been blaming the Opposition for stoking unrest over the incident.Leaders cutting across party lines, who wanted to meet the victim’s family members in Hathras, were also denied access by the UP Police.An action plan will also be discussed to counter the growing opposition to the farm laws. The non-BJP ruled states are considering options to bypass the laws amid resentment in agrarian states such as Punjab and Haryana. On Monday, Nadda met the newly appointed national general secretaries. In September, a new BJP team, which consists of 12 vice-presidents, eight general secretaries, three national joint secretaries and 13 secretaries and 23 spokespersons, was announced.Tuesday’s meeting will also take stock of the party’s ties with its allies. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has snapped ties with the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre because of the farm laws. While the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) has decided to contest the Bihar assembly elections outside the NDA fold, citing ideological differences with the Janata Dal (United). To be sure, the LJP has asserted that it would continue to support the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-president-jp-nadda-to-meet-party-s-new-office-bearers/story-Ob8ssXaiZDo51AdoFUO7lI.html
06-10-2020||India||Fund-starved zoos to be developed on PPP model||Zoos across the country will be developed on a public-private partnership (PPP) model, Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar said on Monday, as the Central government seeks to tap private funding to run the animal parks.A policy to upgrade 160 zoos on a PPP model would be announced in the next Union budget, which is expected to be presented on February 1, Javadekar said.State governments, civic bodies, businesses and private individuals would all be key elements of the PPP model, he added.Also read: Delhi zoo generated ecosystem services worth Rs 422.76 crore in 2019-20, reveals studyThe Central Zoo Authority (CZA), which oversees India’s zoological parks, has a budget of less than Rs 12 crore, of which a meagre amount is set aside for zoos, a CZA official said on condition of anonymity.“Zoos cannot be sustained on a shoestring budget. Out of the 160 zoos in the country, 10 have been selected for the vision plan. A private consultant is working on how they can be developed on a PPP model,” the official said.“We have a handful of private zoos and very few civic body and society-run zoos. It’s a new concept in India. The PPP model will follow the finance ministry’s rules. We are in talks with private partners,” he added.Javadekar also released a first-of-its-kind study on the economic evaluation of the National Zoological Park in Delhi. The annual economic value of various ecosystem services provided by the park in 2019-20 is estimated to be Rs 422.76 crore, and the one-time cost of services and land provided by the zoo is estimated to be Rs 55,209.45 crore, the study said.The CZA had commissioned The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) to make an evaluation of the services provided by the zoo. Almost 77% of the contribution comes from the recreational and cultural services of the zoo, while education and research -- the next most important service -- contributes only 9% to the total economic value.“Every service is important, as it contributes towards the improvement of the local environment. The benefits of the zoo are not only restricted to its visitors but also reach Delhi’s citizens. As a result, it is necessary to ensure the proper maintenance of the zoo to improve its services,” the report said.The zoo houses 73 Indian species and 26 exotic species of mammals, birds, and reptiles in its enclosures. Plans are afoot to add other species of amphibians and insects. In 2017-18, the zoo had incurred an expenditure of Rs 40 crore towards the management of the animals.The number of tourists visiting the Delhi zoo has grown consistently over the years, according to the analysis. In 2018-19, 19,568 and 2,692,730 foreign and domestic tourists had visited the zoo. The total revenue generated by the zoo in 2018-19 was Rs 10.09 crore.“Zoos have two roles, one for creating awareness about animals and the other, more scientific, ex-situ conservation, or actions taken involving removing the species from its natural habitat. Endangered or vulnerable animals that are bred in zoos, after testing their genetic profile, can be reintroduced back in the wild following appropriate national and international protocols. There are successful examples of zoos involved in ex-situ conservation. However, this can only be achieved if the natural habitats of the target species are intact and free from disturbances,” said Dipankar Ghose, director, wildlife and habitats, World Wildlife Fund (WWF)-India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fund-starved-zoos-to-be-developed-on-ppp-model/story-MAL0rkBppEK6zBjJ20VS2N.html
06-10-2020||India||5 states saw big surge in Covid-19 cases despite fall in national average: Data||Five states across the country have been reporting a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease even though India has witnessed a steady decline in daily Covid-19 cases in the last three weeks, government data shows.Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh saw a huge surge in Covid-19 cases between September 13 and October 4 even though the national average dipped. India registered a 37% growth in cases during this period in a decline from the 56% uptick in the previous three weeks.According to central and state government data, Covid-19 cases in Kerala rose by 112% during this period, in Chhattisgarh, it was a 93% rise, Uttarakhand saw 61%, and Odisha and Madhya Pradesh both registered a 54% increase in the number of infections. In fact, data shows that Kerala has the highest number of active cases per million population in the country - 2,421 cases per million.Also read | Dr Reddy’s lab asked to revise protocol to conduct Russian Covid-19 vaccine trialsHowever, there were some states which reported lower rates of infections than these five. In Bihar, there have been 19% rise in Covid-19 cases in the past three weeks and has been the lowest any state has seen. Bihar was followed by Tamil Nadu where these cases grew by 23%, then Gujarat with 26%, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana with 27% and Assam reported a 32% increase in the cases of the coronavirus disease between September 13 and October 4.Also read | 62.5% hospitalised Covid patients under age of 40: Govt dataData also showed that Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state in the country, saw a 36% growth in Covid-19 cases and the second hardest-hit region of Karnataka reported a 39% rise.Also read | Covid-19 cases at 35-day low, not only because it’s SundayThe government has said that India’s positivity rate of Covid-19 infections is “steadily maintained” below 10%, the cumulative is 8.28% and the daily figure is 7.52%. Positivity rate shows the proportion of people who test positive among those who are tested. The government has also said that several states and Union territories are exhibiting positivity rate, which is a crucial metric for understanding the coronavirus pandemic, higher than the national average indicating a need for aggressive and widespread testing.India’s tally of the coronavirus disease cases is over 6.6 million now, including 102,685 deaths, the Union health ministry’s data showed on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-states-saw-big-surge-of-covid-19-cases-despite-fall-in-national-average-data/story-86M6Q5GtZt3DXnFB1cRduO.html
06-10-2020||India||Special court likely to pronounce verdict in 2019 Alwar gang rape case today||A special court for SC/ST cases is likely to pronounce the judgment in the Thanagazi gang rape case in Rajasthan’s Alwar on Tuesday. A 19-year-old Dalit woman was gang raped by five men in front of her husband on April 26, 2019, in Thanagazi in Alwar. The Rajasthan government drew criticism from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bahuajan Samaj Party chief Mayawati during the Lok Sabha election campaign for the delay in lodging an FIR in the case and not taking action until the purported video of the sexual assault began circulating on social media. According to the FIR lodged on May 2, 2019, four men and a juvenile took turns to rape the woman near Duhar Chaugan between Thanagazi and Talvrikash for three hours after beating her husband while another man filmed the assault. The accused demanded Rs 10,000 from the victim for not putting the video of the gang rape on social media. The FIR was registered on the day the video of the ghastly crime went viral on social media. Police filed the charge sheet against the accused on May 18, 2019, 16 days after the FIR. Chhote Lal (22), Hansraj Gurjar (20), Ashok Kumar Gurjar (20) and Indraj Singh Gurjar (22) were charged under sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 327 (Voluntarily causing hurt to extort property, or to constrain to an illegal act), 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354B (outraging the modesty of a woman), 365 (Kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 376D (gang rape), 384 (extortion), 395 (dacoity) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.Police also invoked different sections of the SC/ST Act and the IT Act in the FIR. The fifth accused Mukesh Gurjar, 28, was charged under different sections of the IT Act for circulating the video. The prosecution produced 32 witnesses. The trial of the minor is currently on in the district and sessions court. The state government removed the then superintendent of police Rajeev Pachar and suspended the Thanagazi SHO Sardar Singh for alleged laxity. On June 7 last year, the Rajasthan government ordered FIR against the SHO under section 166A(C) of the IPC, which covers a public servant failing to record any information given to him in relation to cognizable offence. Circle officer Jagmohan Sharma was transferred out of the district after the charge sheet was filed. Other staff of the police station was sent out of Jaipur police range. HT has earlier reported the findings of an administrative inquiry into the case in which Pachar was found guilty of negligence as he did not visit the spot within 24 hours of the incident. A police inquiry prior to this had given him a clean chit. The state government ordered an administrative inquiry by Jaipur divisional commissioner KC Verma on May 9, 2019 to fix accountability of police officers in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-court-likely-to-pronounce-verdict-in-2019-alwar-gang-rape-case-today/story-F9UbyksAGLUBHWi4kQ3jWK.html
06-10-2020||India||DGCI asks Dr Reddy’s lab to revise protocol to conduct Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V trials||In the latest development, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) expert panel has directed the pharma giant Dr Reddy’s Laboratories (DRL) to submit a revised protocol for performing phase 2,3 clinical trials of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine (Sputnik V) in India, a government official said.Recently, Dr Reddy’s lab had submitted an application to the top drug regulator seeking their approval to conduct clinical trials for the Russian Covid-19 vaccine in India.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) had a thorough evaluation of the application submitted by Dr Reddy’s lab. The SEC has sought revised protocol from Dr Reddy’s lab along with more information and now Dr Reddy’s lab has to furnish a fresh protocol to the DCGI,” a Government official said.The Indian Drugmaker (Dr Reddy’s Lab) has joined hands with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine as well as its distribution.As per RDIF, it will supply 100 million doses of its potential Covid-19 vaccine to Indian drug company Dr Reddy’s Lab. “Before giving permission, the drug regulator will conduct a technical evaluation of the application submitted by Dr Reddy’s lab to conduct phase 2, 3 clinical trials in India of Russian covid19 vaccine,” said the official.Also Read: 62.5% hospitalised Covid patients under age of 40, shows govt dataLast month, Kirill Dmitriev, CEO of the RDIF informed that Russia is in close dialogue with the Indian government and drug manufacturers of India regarding the localization of production of its Sputnik V vaccine in India.Also, a prestigious medical journal ‘The Lancet’ has published the results of clinical trials of Phase I-II of the Russian vaccine demonstrating its safety and efficacy.On August 11, the Sputnik V vaccine developed jointly by RDIF and the Gamaleya National Research Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology was registered by the Ministry of Health of Russia and became the world’s first registered vaccine against Covid-19.According to Russian researchers, Sputnik V is a human adenoviral vector vaccine that fights against coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgci-asks-dr-reddy-s-lab-to-revise-protocol-to-conduct-russian-covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v-trials/story-0FWelp24ZDojY9vA7vokbL.html
06-10-2020||India||Hathras case: Clash between Cong, Bhim Army workers in Chhattisgarh during protest||The workers of the Congress party and activists of the Bhim Army clashed in Janjgir-Champa district of Chhattisgarh on Monday while holding a protest against the Hathras incident in which CBI probe has been ordered after a 19-year-old girl succumbed to injuries on September 29, a fortnight after allegedly being gang-raped.The clashes took place after Bhim Army members started sloganeering against Congress members, said police.“Congress workers were protesting against Hathras case. Meanwhile, Bhim Army members went there and started sloganeering against them, leading to the clash. Later police dispersed them,” said Lakhesh Kevat, Station House Officer of Kotwali police station while talking to the media.Maeneka Pradhan, Sub District Magistrate (SDM) of Janjgir said, “We have received complaints from Mahila Congress demanding strict action against Bhim Army members. We are investigating the matter and strict action will be taken against all those who created ruckus here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-clash-between-cong-bhim-army-workers-in-chhattisgarh-during-protest/story-9TviOG547emi6OeE6SbZUO.html
06-10-2020||India||Centre extends deadline for new emission norms for tractors to Oct 2021||The central government has extended deadlines for the applicability of new emission norms for construction equipment vehicles and tractors to next year.According to an official release of the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), the new emission norms for construction equipment vehicles and tractors will now come into force from April 2021 and October 2021, respectively.These norms were to be applicable from October.“The ministry of road transport and highways has notified amendment to Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 (CMVR) through GSR 598(E) dated September 30, 2020 deferring the applicability date for implementing the next stage of emission norms for tractors (TREM Stage-IV) from October this year to October next year. The ministry had received the request to this effect from the ministry of agriculture, Tractor Manufacturers and agriculture associations,” said an official release of the ministry.For the construction equipment vehicles, the applicability of the next phase of emission norms are proposed to be applicable with effect from April 1, 2021, providing a deferment of six months, it said.“The amendment also attempts to avoid confusion between the emission norms of other motor vehicles which has BS as norms and those for agricultural machinery, construction equipment vehicles and such other equipment,” it said.The amendment includes separate emission norms for agricultural machinery (agricultural tractors, power tillers and combined harvesters) and construction equipment vehicles. There is also change in the nomenclature of emission norms from Bharat Stage (CEV/TREM)IV and Bharat Stage (CEV/TREM)V to TREM Stage-IV and TREM Stage-V for agricultural tractors and other equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-extends-deadline-for-new-emission-norms-for-tractors-to-oct-2021/story-JFfLad43fHjnPiIEkeo0gP.html
06-10-2020||India||Hepatitis C discovery earns trio Nobel Prize for Medicine||Two Americans and a Briton won the 2020 Nobel Prize for Medicine on Monday for identifying the Hepatitis C virus, in work spanning decades that has helped to limit the spread of the fatal disease and develop antiviral drugs to cure it.Harvey J Alter, Charles M Rice and Michael Houghton were awarded for their breakthrough that led to the development of blood tests and new medicines against hepatitis C. “For the first time in history, the disease can now be cured, raising hopes of eradicating hepatitis C virus from the world population,” said the Nobel assembly statement. Like hepatitis B and HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, hepatitis C virus is a blood-borne virus. In the late 1969, Alter showed that a non-A, non-B blood-borne virus also caused liver disease, and in 1989, Houghton successfully cloned the virus by introducing viral DNA from an infected animal into bacteria, and using human antibodies to screen for its genetic sequence. This pioneering molecular biology technique to identify a virus led to tests to screen blood for hepatitis C virus, which increased blood safety. Rice cloned the virus to demonstrate that it alone caused disease. Also Watch | US-British trio win Nobel Prize in Medicine for Hepatitis C discovery “The main work on hepatitis C virus discovery was Houghton’s, though Alter suspected it much earlier but couldn’t prove it. Harvey Alter...wrote a poem in 1988 titled, “I Can’t See the Forest for the HBsAgs”(hepatitis B virus surface antigens), which moved scientists to tears. Another person who contributed to blood safety was the Indian doctor Girish Vyas, who was the director of the blood bank at UCSF Medical Center in the US from 1969-88, and found unexplained cases of jaundice that hepatitis A and B couldn’t account for,” said Dr Shiv K Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hepatitis-c-discovery-earns-trio-nobel-prize-for-medicine/story-cfnLSEylOY4sk8v9rLjsqJ.html
06-10-2020||India||PM Modi calls for use of AI in health, farm sectors||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday called for development of innovative ways to use artificial intelligence in various sectors in the country. “AI will play a major role in empowering agriculture, health and creating urban infrastructure such as reducing traffic jams,” Modi said, speaking at a five-day conclave, Responsible Artificial Intelligence for Social Empowerment, organised by the ministry of electronics and information technology (MEITY). “We can use it for better disaster management and monitoring climate change. We have several languages and dialects and can use AI to bridge the language barriers,” he said. “It remains our collective responsibility to ensure trust in how AI is used. Algorithm transparency is key to establishing this trust. Equally important is accountability. We must protect the world against weaponisation of AI by non-state actors,” he said.Addressing the conclave, Union minister for information and technology Ravi Shankar Prasad said that technology has helped improve governance in India. “We have e-hospitals, digital markets for farm produce, digital literacy and nearly 17.2 billion was transferred using the Direct Benefit Transfer scheme. 10.6 million farmers use e-markets to sell farm produce...we welcome AI because it has enormous potential to generate development and equity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-for-use-of-ai-in-health-farm-sectors/story-ITU6WcmQCWo7MX7y3XFCZN.html
06-10-2020||India||Extradition ‘stalled’; Vijay Mallya seeks asylum?||Fugitive Indian businessman and former member of Parliament Vijay Mallya’s extradition from the United Kingdom to India has been stalled by “secret” proceedings that have commenced in the UK, the central government told the Supreme Court on Monday, a development suggesting that the former liquor baron may have sought asylum in the UK. Although the extradition proceedings against the liquor baron concluded in May after the UK high court rejected Mallya’s plea to approach the UK Supreme Court against the proposed extradition to India, the fresh proceedings have delayed his departure for India, the apex court was told. “After extradition proceedings were complete, another secret proceeding has commenced, but we have not been notified and we are not a party to the proceedings. The extradition is not happening (due to the new proceedings),” advocate Rajat Nair, representing the central government, told a bench headed by justice UU Lalit. Mallya flew to the UK in March 2016 as a consortium of Indian banks, which claims that he owes them ₹9,000 crore in principal and interest on loans extended to his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, closed in on him to recover the money. He was subsequently declared a wilful defaulter in India.Also Read | Bad Boy Billionaires: Sid Mallya says his father is a ‘political pawn who was made an example of’In London, speculation arose that most likely issue holding up Mallya’s extradition to India was an application for asylum, which is a process on which British authorities do not publicly comment in individual cases as a matter of policy and strict data protection laws.Mallya has lost a series of challenges to his extradition in the Westminster Magistrates Court and the high court since proceedings began after his arrest in April 2017. Under UK rules, until an asylum application is determined, extradition cannot be carried out.“It’s an asylum claim for sure”, an individual associated with past extraditions said.A ministry of home affairs spokesperson did not respond to HT’s queries on the matter.A high commission spokesperson had stated on June 5: “Vijay Mallya last month lost his appeal against extradition, and was refused leave to appeal further to the UK Supreme Court.”“However, there is a further legal issue that needs resolving before Mr Mallya’s extradition can be arranged. Under United Kingdom law, extradition cannot take place until it is resolved. The issue is confidential and we cannot go into any detail. We cannot estimate how long this issue will take to resolve. We are seeking to deal with this as quickly as possible.”The UK home office has a backlog of over 100,000 asylum applications.In the year ending June 2020, the UK offered protection – in the form of asylum, humanitarian protection, alternative forms of leave and resettlement – to 16,952 people, latest official figures show.Grant rates vary considerably by nationality as the protection requirements of specific nationalities or individuals vary, officials said, adding that of those nationalities that commonly claim asylum in the UK, Libyans (98%) and Syrians (96%) typically have high grant rates, while nationals of India (3%), China (19%) and Bangladesh (16%) typically have low grant rates.On Monday, the Indian Supreme Court asked Mallya’s counsel, Ankur Saigal, about the nature of the fresh proceedings cited by the Centre, but the lawyer said that he had not received any instructions from his client on the subject. The bench, which also comprised justice Ashok Bhushan, objected to Saigal’s response.“As his counsel, you must be completely aware. You cannot say you are not aware,” the court remarked, and posted the case for the next hearing on November 2.The court also ordered Mallya’s lawyer to submit a concrete response on November 2 about the nature of the fresh proceedings in the UK, when those proceedings are likely to conclude and when Mallya will make an appearance before Supreme Court.Also Read | CBI gets letter rogatory to investigate fund flow in Vijay Mallya’s bank accountsThe court was hearing a contempt petition filed against Mallya by 14 banks including State Bank of India for violation of the Supreme Court’s order of April 2016 asking the fugitive businessman to disclose details of all his properties and assets in India and abroad.The contempt plea itself arose from a case filed by the banks before the Debt Recovery Tribunal in Bengaluru against Mallya seeking recovery of more than ₹6,300 crore owed to them in 2016 by Mallya’s companies. The banks had also prayed that Mallya’s passport should be frozen and he should be arrested.The DRT failed to hear that prayer by the banks, prompting them to approach the Karnataka high court, seeking appropriate directions to the tribunal for quick disposal of the application moved by banks. The Karnataka high court in March 2016 denied the request, prompting the banks to move the Supreme Court, which in April 2016 sought details from Mallya about his assets.The banks approached the top court in July 2016 alleging that Mallya failed to make such disclosure. The judgment in that contempt case holding Mallya guilty was pronounced only on May 9, 2017 nearly 10 months after the plea was filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extradition-stalled-vijay-mallya-seeks-asylum/story-aQ260a6QVo1FwdFDnJqVdN.html
06-10-2020||India||Tarawati: Unsung hero who risked her life daily||A new sanitation worker has been assigned to the streets of ward number 257 in north-east Delhi’s Vijay Park locality. Tarawati (who only used her first name), the previous worker who cleaned the lanes there for eight years, died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in June. Tarawati’s source of infection remains unknown more than three months after her death, said eldest son Joginder, highlighting the precarious conditions under which thousands of sanitation workers do their daily work during the pandemic. Tarawati, a permanent employee of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation for the past 30 years, is among 23 sanitation workers who have died of Covid-19 in the past six months in Delhi. On June 10, the 56-year-old felt a fever come on, so after work, she went to a doctor for medicine. But over the following week her condition only became worse. She got herself tested for Covid-19 on June 16, but three days later, she was admitted to the Baba Sahib Ambedkar Hospital — the same day, her test results came back positive. She died the next day. “Mother was given charge of sweeping the roads and clearing pavements of seven particular lanes in her ward. She was regularly in contact with the families who lived there, other sanitation workers deployed in the ward and random people on the street. When she tested positive for Covid-19, district health officials could not trace the source of infection. So, it remains unknown till today how she contracted it,” said Joginder, also a sanitation worker deployed in a neighbouring locality. Joginder said that the municipal corporation had given sanitation workers masks, gloves and sanitisers. However, this was not enough for workers like his mother and him, he said.  “Rich people have more resources for healthcare and isolation. These are basic things that the poor cannot afford. But people like us still have to risk our lives and do our jobs. Many sanitation workers do not know much about protecting themselves. We need to be told about this in a systematic, methodical way,” he said. Tarawati is survived by her three sons, Joginder, Arjun and Rajesh. All are married and have children of their own. Arjun, a driver and Rajesh, who worked as a clerk at a physician’s private clinic in east Delhi, lost their jobs during the lockdown. Tarawati’s death set alarm bells ringing for the family. Their house is a maze of small rooms constructed over a 70 square-yard plot in north-east Delhi’s Ghonda Khas village — home to at least 40 other families belonging to the Balmiki community who form part of the Dalit caste.  In Ghonda Khas, most families claim to have lived here for five to six generations — a period over which frail tenements turned into concrete houses (some of them three-storey high) built over 50-100 square-yard plots, much like the one in which Tarawati’s family lives. “My mother was a victim of somebody’s carelessness. Somebody may not have worn a mask, or thrown garbage around. At times it makes me angry. But then there is no point thinking about it. A lot of people have died. We are not alone,” Joginder said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tarawati-unsung-hero-who-risked-her-life-daily/story-WgXO6tXYyZ5y6Lpi7cVz7I.html
06-10-2020||India||Suresh Angadi: Minister with common touch||At 65, Suresh Angadi may have been vulnerable to Covid-19, being a senior citizen, but that never stopped him from doing what he loved best — meeting his constituents. At a time when the world was socially distancing and avoiding physical contact, Angadi was meeting up to 500 people at his home in Belgaum, Karnataka daily. The four-time member of Parliament of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also loved indulging in some dark, pandemic humour with his colleagues. “We all come with an expiry date, we shouldn’t worry, he said to me,’’ Dhananjay Singh, executive director of public grievances, recalled. “I said, that may be true, but we shouldn’t expedite someone else’s expiry date either. We had a good laugh.’’ Singh was attached to the minister of state for Railways since Angadi’s appointment in 2019. Angadi was initially asymptomatic and he had no co-morbidities or prevailing medical conditions like heart disease, hypertension or diabetes. On September 11, he was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi.“The last conversation I had with him was through video call when he was in AIIMS and I was crying,’’ said daughter Shraddha (28), the younger of Suresh and Mangal Angadi’s two children. Also Read | Suresh Angadi: A giant killer who never lost an election“He said ‘Why are you crying? I’m going to be home soon’,’’ Shraddha said. An inability to meet him coupled with the fact that he had been moved to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for developing a cough had made her break down, she said. But Angadi believed that he would recover even after he was admitted to the ICU. “He kept saying that he has a lot of work to do, and he wants to come home.’’However, four days after his hospitalisation, his oxygen saturation dropped to 70% (the normal range is about 95%) and he was put on a ventilator. His condition remained stable over the following week, and Shraddha said that the doctors were about to take him off the ventilator. But then his vitals crashed. From what looked like a manageable infection, the situation became dire within a matter of 10 days. His family, friends and colleagues said that he took his position as the ninth rail minister from Karnataka seriously, and started 30 new trains in Karnataka. But a few dreams remained unfulfilled, Singh said. “He wanted to make Mumbai to Bengaluru a popular train route. The journey takes 21 hours right now by train, and people prefer to fly. Since the start of the pandemic, he wished he could travel to new project sites in Odisha and the Northeast,’’ he said.Others remember him for his ordinary acts of kindness and for the friend he was to them. Office assistant Ravinder Singh said no other minister asked whether a peon had eaten or not, while his driver, Krishna, called him “bahut acha admi’ (a very good man).“I used to tease him as the right person in the wrong party,’’ said former Rajya Sabha MP from Karnataka and close friend Prabhakar Kore. “He was so persuasive that he made me also leave Congress and join his party [the BJP]. We all thought he would come out of it fine and now everybody is worried as it’s become that much more relatable.’’Shraddha said among the things that her mother will miss, playing chess with Angadi will top the list. Mangal (57) and the family are still receiving several visitors, constituents and others who come to pay their respects. “We just ensure that our mother is tested regularly. We can’t stop people but we lost dad so we are being very careful about her,’’ Shraddha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suresh-angadi-remembering-everyday-acts-of-kindness/story-pPNYdXPUoPV9Z8GmjubyxN.html
06-10-2020||India||Delhiwale: In search of ‘Videshi Baba’||Sapna means dream and now, indeed, it seems just like a dream. It is Monday noon and the shutters of the Sapna Travel are down. Some steps ahead is Appetite German Bakery. The glass doors are open, but it’s empty inside. The place hasn’t been serving since the pandemic hit this part of the world in late March. The bakery would make Delhi’s best honey-ginger-lemon tea (which went so well with its almond cake).Truth be told, the Main Bazaar in the hotel district of Paharganj is still milling with local people—not many, but some—and yet it is looking ghostly. After all, what is Paharganj without its so-called Videshi Babas, or foreign backpackers? In the BC (before corona) era, before the international travel came to a halt, the locality would teem with foreigners in long matted hair and colourful tattoos. Dressed in all sorts of eye-catching costumes, they would be chilling out in one of the many cafes, or looking for a travel guide in a used bookstore, or staring at us, Indians, who would be staring back at them.But there are no foreigners any more in Paharganj. A shopkeeper—his leather goods store is open—talks of the early days of the lockdown, when “big buses came from foreign embassies to take the foreigners to the airport.”They all went.Here is Madan Cafe, shuttered. Known for its yummy masala chai, it used to be filled with hippie-like travellers. Sam’s Cafe, famous for its rooftop, is also closed. And here’s the dining hall in Ajay Guest House—it made such yummy shakshuka, the Israeli dish. This moment, the place is submerged in darkness, the tables are empty, and no staff is to be seen. In the tourist season, every Paharganj cafe would show-off at least one backpacker, either sitting with a guitar, or a notebook, or some such artsy stuff that people carry when they go to far-off lands to find themselves. That’s all history, now.The Jackson’s used bookstore is shuttered down as well. (A quick investigation reveals that the bookstore has opened but remains closed on Sunday and Monday).Nearby, a most poignant sight. The shutter on a closed shop is painted with a bearded man’s face, with the caption—Videshi Baba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-in-search-of-videshi-baba/story-Kg6U9hz2pp9tM0kcEgPXfK.html
06-10-2020||India||Fields on fire: 1,200 cases of stubble burning in 2 weeks in Punjab||For the first two weeks of paddy harvesting that started from September 21 this year, the number of stubble burning fire cases has been recorded at 1,206. This is almost five-time the number of cases (264) recorded during the kharif harvest of 2019 in the corresponding time period. State authorities are worried at this trend.Amritsar has reported more than 50% of total stubble fires, recording 686 cases. It is followed by 259 in Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur (50) and Patiala (60). All districts where most cases have been reported sow early-growing paddy varieties.“State agencies have taken tough measures this season, as compared to the previous kharif harvest and were expecting fires to be in control. Things, however, have gone awry,” said an officer of the state’s agriculture department. He attributed the early harvest for the spike in cases.The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), however, downplays the rise. “It is beginning of the season and the actual trend would be known by the last week of October when we are in middle of the season,” said board’s member secretary Krunesh Garg. In 2018 and 2019 seasons, the number of cases crossed 50,000 and Garg hoped there will be a reduction in this number.To check these fires, the state government has authorised 8,000 nodal officers to keep vigil in paddy growing villages. There are 10,500 villages in the state, where paddy has been grow over 66 lakh acre this year. Of this, 17.5 lakh acre is long grain aromatic basmati.Also Read | Delhi to begin production of stubble decomposing solution today350 farmers have been fined Rs 9.3 lakhThe PPCB has imposed environment compensation of Rs. 9.3 lakh on 350 farmers caught burning paddy stubble this year. Another 98 cases are under process to identify the violator. State agencies do not have a system to recover the compensation and have written to the National Green Tribunal to suggest a model. “We are waiting for a reply from the tribunal,” a PPCB official said.The PPCB has challaned owners of five harvest machines for working without the Super Straw Management System (SMS) that state government has made mandatory. The SMS system helps in in-situ management of paddy straw. “Each machine was fined Rs 50,000,” SS Marwaha, PPCB chairman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fields-on-fire-1-200-cases-of-stubble-burning-in-2-weeks-in-punjab/story-SAQuwLM4Pvll4xN2mjj8gN.html
06-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||US President Donald Trump’s Covid-19 infection and the treatment he is receiving is a good opportunity to revisit the science behind some aspects of the viral disease and the therapies and drugs used to treat it.We know Trump used to take hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), once widely considered a prophylactic for Covid-19, before science showed that it (probably) wasn’t. Sure, it wasn’t as straightforward as that — there were missteps along the way, including research that used dodgy data, but the current scientific thinking is that HCQ does not help prevent the coronavirus disease.THE CASE FOR STEROIDS?The US President has been put on dexamethasone, a steroid whose use is recommended only in severe cases of Covid-19, and whose benefits have been proved by research. It isn’t clear why Trump is being given this if his infection is, as the White House claims, mild.Trump admitted he had been taking HCQ for a few weeks in a May meeting that was widely reported. Interestingly, the details of his current medication released by his physician do not mention HCQ. They do mention zinc — considered by some to be a prophylactic against Covid-19, in particular, and a general immunity booster —but it isn’t clear whether he has been taking this to ward off the coronavirus disease or it is part of his daily vitamin supplements (which, as we all know, the Americans are particularly big on).In addition to this, we know Trump was put on oxygen at least once (although his blood oxygen level dropped twice). This is common in people with moderate Covid-19 infections. The condition is hypoxia, literally low oxygen, and is a sign of the infection starving the body of oxygen. Both anecdotal medical evidence and research has shown that, in some cases, Covid causes silent hypoxia — which means the patient doesn’t exhibit the symptoms hypoxia usually comes with (including incoherence, which usually accompanies altitude sickness).THROWING THE KITCHEN SINK……at his infection. The US President has taken an experimental antibody cocktail made by Regeneron. The US President received this drug through the so-called “compassionate use” route, which allows for the use of experimental drugs that are yet to be approved (and do not even have an emergency-use clearance).Trump’s doctor also said the US President has been put on a dose of remdesivir. This is an injected antiviral which has been shown to benefit mild-to-moderate infections of Covid-19, in the early stages of hospitalisation. Patients get five shots of remdesivir as part of the treatment.Interestingly, Trump’s doctor also said the US President has been put on dexamethasone. This is a steroid whose use is recommended only in severe cases of Covid-19, and whose benefits have, again, been proved by research. It isn’t clear why Trump is being given this if his infection is, as the White House claims, mild; nor is it clear whether dexamethasone can provide any relief at all to early-stage patients. Worryingly, we do not know if the steroid has any adverse effect when given to patients who do not really need it. Indeed, some media reports in the US have used this fact to ask whether the US President’s infection is more severe than what is being claimed.In a classic example of throwing the kitchen sink at the infection — I notice several doctors have actually used the same term — Trump’s doctor has also revealed that the US President has taken an experimental antibody cocktail made by Regeneron. Previous editions of Dispatch have talked about Regeneron, whose cocktail of two monoclonal antibodies targets the spike proteins of the Sars-CoV2 virus. Keeping with the kitchen sink metaphor, it has been revealed that Trump received a more powerful dose of the cocktail (eight grams as compared to the 2.4 grams the company said was usually effective). The US President received this drug through the so-called “compassionate use” route, which allows for the use of experimental drugs that are yet to be approved (and do not even have an emergency-use clearance). Regeneron has released early data from a clinical trial underway that shows that the monoclonal antibody cocktail works in patients with no antibodies against Covid-19 and who are either asymptomatic or have a mild or moderate infection. It still isn’t clear whether this treatment can work in the case of severe infections. That’s a lot of treatment options.So, is there anything left?Well, China’s Sinopharm disclosed recently that several hundred thousand people have already been injected with its experimental vaccines, and Russia has approved the Gamaleya Research Institute’s Sputnik-V vaccine — but it is unlikely that the US President would allow himself be injected with an unproven vaccine from a rival power.The US drug regulator has also approved convalescent plasma therapy, and that too is a treatment option yet to be used by Trump’s medical team. The US President has talked up plasma therapy in the past, despite a panel of experts put together by the US National Institutes of Health in early September saying more evidence is needed before plasma therapy can be recommended for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-9ZGO1J93f5tm6XEy17MsSL.html
06-10-2020||India||Stalemate persists after states rebuff Centre’s GST offer||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting on Monday put off for a week a decision on compensating states for the shortfall in their share of the indirect tax revenue after a stormy meeting where states governed by opposition parties insisted that the Centre borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore deficit and reimburse them, four people who attended the meeting said.The meeting had almost ended without resolving the demand of the dissenting states when they asked for a division of voting if consensus could not be reached, two finance ministers of opposition-ruled states said, requesting anonymity. “The crisis was averted as the chair deferred the matter for more discussion, which is judicious,” the finance minister of one state said.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced that the government will immediately release Rs 20,000 crore to states for their revenue shortfall in the current financial year. This money is part of the Rs 65,000 crore compensation cess expected to be collected in 2020-21 in the normal course. “This year whatever we have collected [cess] till now, Rs 20,000 crore will get disbursed tonight,” she said.The Centre had placed two options before the states — borrow Rs 97,000 crore (the amount has been raised to Rs 1.10 lakh crore) to bridge the shortfall in revenue from GST, equal to the shortfall resulting from issues related to its implementation, without repaying either principal or interest, or alternatively, borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore (the remaining deficit caused by the Covid-19 pandemic) and bear significant interest costs.As many as 21 state governments opted to borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore to repay the funds that would come out of the cess levied on sin goods like cigarettes, pan masala and aerated drinks; and luxury products like automobiles. Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal, had demurred.“About 10 members have expressed their inability to accept either of the two options given to states — borrow Rs 97,000 crore and pay principal and interest from compensation cess fund, or borrow Rs 2.35 lakh crore and bear the interest cost. We proposed a third option — the Centre should borrow the entire shortfall, compensate states in full and retire the debt from the compensation cess fund,” the minister said.The Centre could have moved ahead with the first option as 21 states, the majority, have already accepted it. But, it would not have been possible without a division of voting, the ministers cited above said. Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Puducherry, Sikkim, Tripura, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh have, so far, opted for the first borrowing option.A person representing the central government said on condition of anonymity: “The issue of borrowing is not something which is under the jurisdiction of GST Council. Legally, some 10 states cannot stop other members — 21 states — from opting for the first borrowing option.”Also Read | GST collection shows growth for the first time since March“Today the Council exercised its authority to extend the levy of cess beyond June 2022. This decision has actually assured all states that they will get full compensation with respect to any shortfall as compared to the protected revenue of 14% growth. But those [states] who want to borrow cannot be stopped,” the person said. Borrowing is the individual choice of a state, which squarely falls under the Article 293 of the Constitution, the person said. “When something is not under the jurisdiction of the GST Council, how can any voting or division be permitted? Voting can occur in GST Council only on those matters which are under the express jurisdiction of the GST Council,” the person added. “If there is no consensus in the GST Council on the above negotiable issues, the legal provisions for Dispute Resolution Mechanism within the Council should be activated without delay,” Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac said.He put forward two non-negotiable cardinal principles on compensation — there can be no bifurcation of the revenue shortfall for calculating compensation, with one portion being blamed on Covid-19 on another on GST implementation issues; secondly, compensation cannot be linked to normal borrowing or additional borrowing limits allowed to states. “Both the options presented by the central government infringe upon the above two cardinal principles and therefore not acceptable,” he said. Once the two basic principles enunciated above are accepted, compensation can be discussed and an attempt made to arrive at a consensus on issues such as who borrows and in what proportion, how much to borrow this year and how much in 2022, Isaac said.There was a consensus in the Council to extend the period of compensation beyond June 2022, for such period as may be required to meet the revenue gap, Sitharaman said at a press conference after the meeting.The GST Council is empowered federal body on matters related to the indirect tax. It is chaired by the Union finance minister and represented by the finance ministers of states. On deferring the meeting for one week to October 12 over the compensation cess issue, she said that 21 states had chosen the first option, but there were some that have not chosen either. “It was felt that you can’t decide on the basis of 21 which have written to you, we need to talk further,” she said. “I was also gently reminded that I can’t take anybody for granted. I don’t take anybody for granted, I have said this there and I am saying it here. I’ve always been open for more and more talk which is what I have said there and I’m saying it here too,” the finance minister said. At the time the new tax regime was introduced in July 2017, the GST law assured states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years (up to June 30, 2022); any revenue shortfall should be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury and sin goods. The cess would have ceased to exist after June 30, 2022, without the Council’s decision to extend it.Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said: “Though the Centre has increased the borrowing limit under option one, the same is not expected to pacify the opposition-ruled states and they are expected to stick to their guns in the upcoming meeting on October 12th, forcing the centre to either constitute a committee of ministers or formulate another dispute resolution mechanism to bring consensus.”Atul Gupta, partner at Deloitte India, said, “There is an underlying and implicit recognition by the GST Council members of the fact that the authority and responsibility of the GST Council should not get undermined and to that effect there has been a concerted bid by all participants for achieving a consensus on the issue of shortfall in compensation cess and also of GST revenue accruing to the states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalemate-persists-after-states-rebuff-centre-s-gst-offer/story-ujI0s9XfQzurBNrulSC5hP.html
06-10-2020||India||Govt issues SOPs for reopening of schools||With schools set to reopen in a graded manner on October 15 after a nearly seven-month break, their management teams will have to ensure that all areas and fixtures on the premises, including water tanks, kitchens, canteens, washrooms, storage areas, laboratories and libraries are disinfected thoroughly to protect staff and students from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Schools will also have to ensure the presence of trained health professional like a doctor or nurse on campus or available on call. Closed indoor spaces will require adequate air circulation. Schools will also have to form emergency response teams and hygiene inspection teams when they reopen, according to a standard operating protocol prepared by the Union education ministry and released on Monday.A distance of six feet has to be maintained between students, with one student per desk being the ideal. Classes can be held outdoors If the weather is pleasant. Schools will be strictly spitting-free zones. Schools have been given the option of calling in only a certain percentage of pupils at one time to avoid overcrowding. They have the option of holding extra shifts or tailor classes on the odd-even model. Schools will also work to communicate the safety measures to parents. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, who released the guidelines on the basis of which states can prepare their own protocols, said no assessments or tests should be conducted for up to two to three weeks of a school reopening. Organising functions and events has also been barred. Time tables will be staggered as will be the entry and exits of student.“States and UTs to prepare their own SOP regarding health and safety precaution for reopening of schools based on the SOP to be issued by the department of school education and literacy of the education ministry. States/UTs may adopt or adapt the SOP as per local context and requirements,” said Pokhriyal.Educational institutions have been closed since March, when a nationwide lockdown was put in place to control the spread of the pandemic that has infected millions across the world and claimed more than one million lives so far. The government has allowed states and Union territories to open educational facilities in a graded manner starting on October 15; in Delhi, all schools will be closed for the rest of the month.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in New Delhi’s Rohini, said: “The SOPs are simple and easy to implement. Many schools, including ours, have already decided to follow all these norms once the schools will reopen in Delhi. We will have to create awareness among students and parents about the importance of masks, sanitisers and social distancing so that all these guidelines can be implemented without any hurdle once the schools reopen.”The education ministry guidelines strongly emphasise the use of masks -- be it in classrooms or in common areas like canteens, libraries or labs.Even in the canteen, students have to keep a mask on while the food is being served and can remove it only when eating or drinking, an official said on condition of anonymity. Circles will be marked on the ground at drinking water and hand washing facilities to ensure distancing.No outside vendor should be allowed to sell any eatables inside the school premises or at the entry gate/point. Thermal screening of students may be done by the bus conductor at the time of their boarding the bus. Sanitization of school transport on a regular basis at least twice a day – once before children board the transport and once after -- has been suggested. Private cabs or carpooling have to be discouraged as far as possible.For air conditioning within the school, Central Public Works Department norms shall be followed, which prescribe a temperature setting in the range of 24-30°C, relative humidity in the range of 40-70% and provision for intake of fresh air and cross-ventilation.“The problem is not opening of schools, the real challenge will be to ensure students follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, especially when you see adults around taking preventive measures too casually. Also, there is enough evidence to suggest that there is greater risk of passing on the infection in closed air-conditioned spaces. Kids themselves may not be very sick but once they come back home they might pass it on to the more vulnerable population such as their grandparents,” said Dr JS Bhasin, head of the paediatrics department at BLK Hospital in Delhi. The guidelines also stress the need to sensitize students and staff, including those at hostels, on the need for social distancing.The guidelines allow for changes in the academic plan, particularly those relating to vacations and exams, in the Covid-19-affected year.Attendance requirements will be flexible and students who want to continue online learning can do so. Regular health check-ups should be organized. Appropriate protocols have to be followed in case an infection is detected.The ministry has also suggested that teachers discuss with their students learning goals and the roadmap and methods they would employ to teach the curriculum. The guidelines also direct schools to focus on the needs of students from vulnerable sections like the homeless or migrants. The norms allow the use of diverse teaching resources, including volunteers. Steps have also been suggested to ensure that students maintain sound emotional health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-waste-a-single-vote-on-jd-u-says-chirag-paswan/story-gAEXlc9I6dCKbQaTpZSDmN.html
06-10-2020||India||Bihar elections: Don’t waste a single vote on JD(U), says Chirag Paswan||A day after walking out of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan on Monday penned an open letter to people of the state, once again attacking incumbent Nitish Kumar government’s ‘seven resolves’ developmental programme, and the approach of the Janta Dal (United), or JD(U), towards its allies.On Sunday, the LJP had said that it would fight the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections separately and not as a part of the JD(U)-BJP alliance. The party, however, had reiterated that its differences were limited to the JD (U), and that it continues to support the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as an NDA ally at the Centre.In an emotionally charged letter, Chirag urged the people “not to waste even a single vote by voting for a JD(U) candidate” and went on to say that Bihar would have a BJP-LJP government after the polls next month.“Every vote going to the JD(U) candidate will compel your children to migrate from the state. It is a do-or-die battle for 12-crore Bihar people, and we have nothing to lose. I know the way forward for the LJP is not going to be easy, but then it has not been easy for the people of Bihar for the last three decades either,” he wrote.The LJP president also said that the decision to fight against the JD(U) was taken on the basis of suggestions received from the common people. “And it (the decision to contest polls separately) is not to rule Bihar, but to feel proud of the state (Bihar par raaj karne ke liye nahin, balki Bihar par naaz karne ke liye),” he added.He further wrote that some people might try to mislead the voters by attributing other motives to his decision. “But let me tell you, the new government in the state will be BJP-led, comprising the LJP, and the elected MLAs of the party will strengthen the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he added.Also Read | JD(U) takes stock of situation as LJP exits NDA ahead of Bihar pollsBihar BJP’s general secretary, Devesh Kumar, said that party’s national president JP Nadda had already announced that NDA’s CM candidate will be Nitish Kumar. “We are fighting election under Nitish Kumar’s leadership,” he added.Attacking the Nitish Kumar government on development and governance issues, he alleged that people’s grievances were neither redressed at the level of local officers nor at the CM’s level in the state. “This has resulted in the development of LJP’s ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ vision document on the suggestions of four lakh people of Bihar,” he wrote. Referring to his ailing father, founder of LJP and union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Chirag wrote that he derived strength from him and his five-decade of social and political life. “I am also worried about him. Seeing him in the hospital surrounded by all kinds of equipment is not easy. But with his blessings, I will go to the people with a promise to realise their dreams,” he added.Chirag had on Sunday tweeted about a heart surgery his father had undergone at a Delhi hospital.“My father always said that party interest is above personal interest and the national interest overrides everything. Today, my decision is in the interest of the country and Bihar. I know my father will also feel proud of me, though working in his company would have been even better,” he wrote. Also Read | BJP and JDU agree to a 50-50 seat sharing for Bihar pollsJD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan on Monday said Chirag’s political journey has so far been in the shadow of his father, and this election would be a big test for him. “Being ambitious is not wrong, but being unrealistic certainly is. The benchmark of development set by Nitish Kumar is for all to see and feel. Nitish Kumar walks the talk, while some people talk and walk away. Nitish Kumar has already brought visible changes in the life of people, who will no more be swayed by empty promises, no matter which side they come from,” he added. On Chirag’s claim of a potential BJP-LJP government ,Ranjan said it was a classic case of ‘one-sided love’. “The pain of one-sided love will be borne by the LJP. BJP has announced that NDA will contest election under Nitish Kumar’s leadership and that explains everything,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-waste-a-single-vote-on-jd-u-says-chirag-paswan/story-q4eINcbfyqO6XHvPTl7szM.html
06-10-2020||India||PM Modi, Xi to come ‘face-to-face’ at virtual Brics Summit next month||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping are set to come face to face, virtually, during the 12th summit of the Brics grouping to be held on November 17 via video conference. This will be the first virtual multilateral meeting to be joined by the two leaders since the border standoff in Ladakh became public in May. India’s foreign ministers and defence ministers have participated in other meetings that featuring their Chinese counterparts in recent weeks. The Brics Summit will focus on further strengthening cooperation among the member states -- Brazil Russia, India, China and South Africa -- amid the Covid-19 crisis, according to a formal announcement on Monday from Russia, the current chair of the grouping. The theme for the meeting will be “Brics partnership for global stability, shared security and innovative growth”. In May, Russia postponed that the Brics Summit, which was to have been held in St Petersburg along with a meeting of the heads of state council of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) during July 21-23, due to the spread of the coronavirus disease. Also Read | China’s PLA complicates troop disengagement over Ladakh. It has a conditionRussia was keen on hosting the leaders of the five Brics countries but several members expressed apprehensions about the holding of an actual summit in view of the risk of infections, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. “Despite the current global situation due to the spread of the coronavirus infection, the activities under the Russian Brics chairmanship in 2020 are carried out in a consistent manner,” said Anton Kobyakov, adviser to Russian President Vladimir Putin and executive secretary of the organising committee, to prepare and support Russia’s SCO presidency in 2019-20 and Brics chairmanship in 2020. “Since January 2020, more than 60 events have been organised, including via videoconferencing. The Brics Summit will be the jewel-in-the-crown event of the Russian Brics chairmanship, which will provide impetus for further strengthening cooperation together with our partners to ensure well-being of Brics countries,” he said. Russia has focused on multifaceted cooperation between the Brics countries in order to contribute to raising living standards and quality of life, the official statement said. During 2020, the five countries in the grouping continued their close strategic partnership on three major pillars, peace and security, economy and finance, cultural and people-to-people exchanges, it added. Russia has also helped facilitate meetings between the Indian and Chinese sides, such as the meetings of the foreign and defence ministers on the sidelines of SCO meetings in Moscow last month. Also Read | Modern PLA barracks, heavy artillery at LAC: China mediaThe meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow led to a five-point road map for taking forward disengagement and de-escalation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash said the presence of the Indian and Chinese leaders at the virtual summit would be more about “keeping the show going and ticking the box”. “The summit will be more of symbolism than substance. A virtual Brics summit will have the limited purpose of the leaders making statements and going through the motions. During summits held in person, the actual business happens on the margins. With a virtual summit, there will be no business on the sidelines. With so much of tension in India-China relations, the possibility that the Brics summit will produce anything meaningful – I don’t see that happening,” he saidA meeting of the Brics foreign ministers last month expressed concern at violence and conflicts in different parts of the world and said such situations should be resolved peacefully through political dialogue. The joint statement issued after the virtual meeting of the foreign ministers didn’t refer to any particular conflict, and the grouping has a convention of not taking up bilateral issues between its members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-xi-to-come-face-to-face-at-virtual-brics-summit-next-month/story-W9dVI9SlnMv4SlFIu2ngBP.html
06-10-2020||India||China’s PLA complicates troop disengagement over Ladakh. It has a condition||Indian and Chinese military commanders are set to meet in Ladakh on October 12 for their seventh round of talks to reduce friction in the sector, but the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is showing no signs of disengagement, deploying solar- and gas- heated troop containers and pitching snow tents on the ridgelines to defend its positions on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) .According to government officials with knowledge of the situation, the PLA has dug in for the winter, with each container accommodating some four to six soldiers, and with new hospital facilities coming up in the depth areas to cater to those suffering from altitude sickness or high-altitude pulmonary edema.While the Indian side believes that comprehensive disengagement and de-escalation will require multiple rounds of military and diplomatic dialogue, PLA commanders have complicated the drawdown by insisting that the Indian Army first disengage from the southern bank of Pangong Tso and the Rezang La-Rechin La ridgeline before the Chinese Army goes back from the Finger Four spur on the north bank of the salt water lake. Also Read | Modern PLA barracks, heavy artillery at LAC: China mediaWhile the PLA has transgressed into the Indian perception of LAC on the north bank, the Indian Army is holding ground on its perception of the LAC on the southern bank of the Pangong Tso. The Chinese, from their standpoint, believe that India has transgressed into their perception of LAC south of Pangong Tso. Also Watch | ‘No question of China getting the better of us’: IAF Chief on LAC standoffIndian military commanders say the PLA should withdraw first from the Finger Four spur on the north bank and restore status quo ante by going back to Finger Eight, as was the case in April 2020. According to them, since the Chinese first unilaterally changed the status on the north bank, they should withdraw first and establish trust. Given that the PLA have a road right up to their posts on the LAC, they will occupy positions on the Rezang La -Rechin La ridgeline the moment Indian troops withdraw from their current positions on the south bank. The Indian Army occupied these positions on the south bank through military manoeuvres on August 29-30 by pre-empting planned PLA aggression.With disengagement on both the north and south banks locked in a stalemate, it has also come to a halt in the Gogra-Hot Springs area, north of the lake, and the PLA is continuing its efforts to block patrols in the Depsang Bulge area. This has alerted the Indian army to possible Chinese move to transgress into the Indian side of the LAC before snowfall begins after October 15.Also Read | Modi, Xi to come ‘face-to-face’ at virtual Brics Summit next monthEven though the PLA Air Force activity is reduced in the area, its troops are deployed in full strength in occupied Aksai Chin and depth areas all the way up to Lhasa and Chengdu. The Indian Army and Air Force remain on high alert with similar troop strength and support systems.“ If China is looking for incentive from India to disengage from Ladakh, then it will have to wait for another time. The LAC status was unilaterally changed at the directions of PLA Commander-in-Chief Xi Jinping. It is he who has to restore status quo ante,” said a senior South Block official who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-signs-of-disengagement-from-china-despite-talks/story-pZzWb5SRb9hik5ESs6LOKJ.html
06-10-2020||India||Modern PLA barracks, heavy artillery at LAC: China media||China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has, for the first time, commissioned new, modern barracks for soldiers and to station heavy artillery close to the disputed Sino-India border in the Ngari region of Tibet as part of its “preparations for war” and “concealment,” a state media report has said.The permanent barracks have been constructed in the backdrop of ongoing border tension, replacing older, temporary housing facilities for PLA’s border troops in the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR).It’s possibly the first confirmation of satellite imagery released earlier this year, which suggested massive construction activity near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ngari including for an aircraft base in Ngari prefecture.Though not confirming PLA deployment numbers, the report and the photos give an indication of the deployment size – which is clearly large.The new facility is located at an altitude of nearly 15,000 feet and could be close to one of the primary battle fronts during the 1962 Sino-India war.The Ngari prefecture borders India, Nepal and China’s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR), and is considered TAR’s most remote region; it is the prefecture with the lowest population density in China. Mount Kailash and Lake Manasarovar are located in the prefecture.Part of the Demchok area, a flashpoint in the Sino-India boundary dispute, is in the prefectureAlso Read | China’s PLA complicates troop disengagement over Ladakh. It has a conditionThe report by national broadcaster China Central Television (CCTV) did not share details about how long it took to build the barracks or when construction started, but said several new construction techniques were used to build the facilities, indicating a short construction time.The PLA released multiple photos of the new facility, showing the sprawling complex including massive buildings and facilities for keeping artillery guns.“While facilitating the daily life of officers and soldiers to the greatest extent, the new generation of barracks also highlights the concept of service and preparation for war,” the report released on October 2 in Mandarin said.Giving details, the report said “…stairs and corridors in the dormitory area of officers and soldiers have been widened to facilitate the rapid assembly of personnel; the war preparation material warehouse and garages have been seamlessly connected to facilitate the rapid loading and dispatch of troops in emergency situations.”The report added that the commissioning of the new generation of barracks will also help shorten the plateau adaptation-period needed by recruits and reduce the incidence of altitude sickness among guards and soldiers.Also Read: Post Ladakh, PLA no longer a bogey for Indian Army | Analysis“…in view of the high-cold and high-altitude environment of the plateau, the design and construction of the new generation of barracks focusses on heat preservation, energy saving and concealment.”Diplomats and military commanders from the two countries have held several rounds of talks to defuse the tension at the boundary and disengage troops since the current standoff began in May.The latest virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, held last week, provided both sides an opportunity to review the situation along the LAC and to hold “frank and detailed discussions” on developments since the body’s last meeting on August 20, India’s external affairs ministry said in a statement. Both the Indian statement and a readout in Mandarin from China’s foreign ministry said the two sides “positively evaluated” the outcome of the sixth military commanders’ meeting on September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modern-pla-barracks-heavy-artillery-at-lac-china-media/story-rydfGSo24EX2K1GxtbIZmL.html
06-10-2020||India||Monsoon withdrawal likely to be delayed||The monsoon is likely to take longer to complete its withdrawal this year because of the influence of two low-pressure areas that are likely to bring widespread and heavy rain to Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and east Madhya Pradesh, weather scientists said.“We don’t see any indication of rains stopping immediately in east and northeast India and even eastern parts of central India. Withdrawal cannot be announced before rain stops completely and, in any case, northeast monsoon will set in over peninsular India from October 15 onwards,” said K Sathi Devi, head of the India Meteorological Department’s national weather forecasting centre.A low-pressure area is likely to form over the Andaman Sea around October 9 and is gradually likely to intensify into a depression over central Bay of Bengal during the next two days, moving towards the north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts. There is also a low-pressure area presently lying over northwest Bay of Bengal and the adjoining Odisha coast which is likely to persist until October 5 and become less marked, but the cyclonic circulation associated with it is likely to move to south Chhattisgarh on October 6.Under the influence of current low-pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha coast, fairly widespread to widespread rain is likely over Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal during the next four days.Also Read | Depression likely to form over Andaman Sea; widespread rains can delay monsoon withdrawalIsolated heavy rainfall is likely over Odisha during October 4 to 6, over Jharkhand on October 4, 6 and 7, over Bihar on October 6 and 7, over Chhattisgarh from October 4 to 7; the fresh low-pressure area is likely to trigger rainfall over Odisha and coastal Andhra Pradesh from October 11 to 13.“Monsoon withdrawal from the eastern side will be delayed. It will withdraw from northwest India, including Gujarat but will not withdraw very quickly from east India. Another well-marked low pressure area is likely to move from Gulf of Thailand to Bay of Bengal around October 16,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather, a private forecaster.“This is also the cyclone season because the north Bay of Bengal is warmer and there is less wind shear (a zone of change in wind direction and velocity) when the monsoon withdraws,” he added.DS Pai, senior scientist at IMD-Pune, said that as of now the likely depression over Andaman Sea will not intensify into a cyclone but since October is typically the cyclone season, development of more such systems can be expected.Also Read | After 61 years, India records two consecutive years of ‘above normal’ rainThis year, the monsoon’s withdrawal started from west Rajasthan on September 29. Last year, the monsoon started withdrawing only on October 9 against the normal date of September 1 and prolonged rains brought a deluge to parts of Maharashtra, Kerala and Bihar in August when rains usually diminish. The monsoon withdrew completely only by October 17. The monsoon season officially ended on September 30. This year’s monsoon season recorded total rainfall equal to 108.7% of the long-period average (LPA), the third highest since 1990, behind only 1994 and 2019 when rainfall equal to 112% and 110% of LPA was recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-withdrawal-likely-to-be-delayed/story-VT7jOe79LZvCMLPh2W1RCO.html
06-10-2020||India||62.5% hospitalised Covid patients under age of 40: Govt data||Six in every 10 people (62.5%) hospitalised on account of the coronavirus disease in India are below the age of 40, according to an analysis of around 200,000 Covid-19 hospitalisations in India by the Union health ministry’s Integrated Surveillance Programme. The findings is in line with both Indian and international trends where many of the infected are relatively younger people, even though many of the dead are older. According to an analysis of almost 100,000 deaths last week -- the death toll in India as of Monday night was 103622 -- 53% are over the age of 60 and 88% above the age of 45. This is the first time an age distribution of those hospitalised on account of the viral pandemic has been accessed. Only 9% of those hospitalised were older than 60 years, according to the data; 25.84% were in the 21-30 age group; and 22.48% between the ages of 31 and 40. The data shows that nearly one in two people hospitalised on account of Covid-19 was in the prime of life.  The findings about the age-wise distribution of infections and deaths in India appear to be in line with what scientists have observed globally — it disproportionally infects younger people, but the deaths have a disproportionate number of the old.  “The pattern that is visible in India is not really different from the data that is coming from experts globally, that the infection is relatively less common among children, and mostly affects the adult population. Elderly people, and those with comorbidities, are at a higher risk of developing a severe form of the disease,” said a health ministry official who asked not to be named. At least 70% of the deaths have been seen in patients with underlying medical conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiac, liver or kidney disease. “Our data from various hospitals shows that most of the patients who have succumbed had comorbidities, with many suffering from at least two chronic health conditions. This category of people needs to be extra careful; this is a crucial part of government’s community surveillance efforts, especially those living in containment zones,” the official added. His reference is to the government’s effort to keep an eye on vulnerable population, including elderly, people with comorbidities and pregnant women, that is at high risk of contracting the disease. In all, close to 4 million people currently are under community surveillance, which includes adults with comorbidities in containment zones.Experts say that because of the high transmissibility of the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19, the number of infections could rise, albeit with fewer severe cases and deaths. Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine: Finger-pointing will not save a single life, says WHO“Since it is a highly contagious virus, everyone runs the risk of exposure. However, we are seeing lower severity of the infection, because of which our death rate is also very low, and that could be attributed to the fact that our immunity levels are modulated to fight infections better as compared to say Europeans or Americans. The young population getting infected could also be movement-related as we have managed to quarantine to a large extent, our vulnerable population,” said Dr NK Mehra, an immunology and immunogenetics expert, who was former head, transplant, immunology and immunogenetics department, New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences. “The changing weather, however, needs extra caution as respiratory illnesses are known to get worse with the drop in temperature,” he added. Around 4.4% of those hospitalised were children below the age of 10, suggesting that children are also being infected in some numbers. Child specialists say that while infections among children are not uncommon, they are usually mild.“The severity of the disease is obviously low in children but it is not that there are absolutely no cases of severe Covid-19 illness reported in children. We have got Covid-19 positive children with neurological symptoms of serious nature. The number, however, is very small,” said Dr Sheffali Gulati, chief, child neurology division, AIIMS, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/62-5-hospitalised-covid-patients-under-age-of-40-govt-data/story-QEG3Id3xGirfuxUcBBEnXI.html
06-10-2020||India||Hathras fallout: Yogi Adityanath smells ‘international’ plot to destabilise UP govt||The Uttar Pradesh government ordered a probe on Monday into an alleged international conspiracy hatched by groups and individuals in foreign countries to defame the state government and foment caste violence in the backdrop of the murder and gang-rape of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras district.The state police filed 19 first information reports (FIR) in seven districts on Sunday in connection with allegations that some political groups and other organisations were trying to incite caste-related violence.Besides, chief minister Yogi Adityanath blamed Opposition parties and “anti-national” elements with foreign funding for trying to destabilise the state.Also read: ‘Unwarranted comments’ - India rejects UN criticism of violence against womenThe main FIR, filed at the Chandpa police station in Hathras, invoked charges of sedition, promoting enmity, inciting caste-based violence and other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against unknown persons and groups.Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi, said the state government has ordered a probe into the conspiracy to instigate the caste clashes by launching a website and that strict action will be taken against the culprits.The probe, conducted by the state home department, will focus on people and groups behind justiceforhathrasvictim.carrd.co that hosted information about date, time and location of protests that have swept India over the past week, as well as resources on how to avoid detention, mobilise demonstration and trending hashtags.“Our preliminary probe indicates that along with local people, organisations and people based in some foreign countries launched the website to incite caste riots in UP on the lines of race-related clashes in the United States,” said a senior state government official. Also read: CM Yogi Adityanath again accuses opposition of stoking caste violenceThe website was taken down but the police have archived materials from the platform, the official added.Earlier in the day, CM Adityanath told party workers that “anti-national” and “anti-social” elements were conspiring to trigger riots in Uttar Pradesh.“Our opponents are conspiring against us by trying to lay a foundation for caste and communal riots through international funding. For the last one week, Opposition parties were keen to see riots. We need to move forward amidst all these conspiracies,” he said. On Sunday, too, he had said those who do not like development wanted to incite ethnic and communal riots in the state.A senior police officer said on condition of anonymity that the website was created overnight and posted morphed photos, collected funds, targeted police and administrative officials and peddled hate speech.“Misleading and objectionable information about the Hathras incident was also posted on the website to create caste tension,” the officer said.Additional director general of police (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar, refused to elaborate on the allegations of international conspiracy but in a press conference earlier in the day, said efforts were on to vitiate the atmosphere through social media posts and posters.He also said some groups offered Rs 50 lakh to the victim’s family to speak in their favour.“These groups used social media platforms to spread hatred, inciting people for caste-based conflict and unlawful gathering in times of the Covid-19 pandemic. The police has lodged several FIRs regarding the matter and it will be too early to reveal the names or more details without a proper investigation,” he added.The officer did not present any evidence to support his claim. “Police teams are checking the veracity of these messages. Action will be taken against those involved if anything comes up in our investigation,” Kumar said.Six FIRs were lodged in Hathras district while others were filed in Bijnor, Bulandshahr, Lucknow, Prayagaraj and other places, he added.In the FIR lodged at Chandpa police station, unidentified groups were booked under 20 sections, including sedition (124A of Indian Penal Code) and for inciting caste-based violence. Besides sedition, the accused have been booked under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion), 153 B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 469 (forgery for purpose of harming reputation) along with other sections of the IPC and Information Technology Act.Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, members of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) were mentioned in three separate FIRs lodged in Hathras.In other districts like Lucknow, FIRs were lodged against people who posted messages or allegedly morphed images on social media platforms in connection with the Hathras incident. At least six people, including two in Lucknow, have been arrested in connection with these FIRs.In Hathras, the police filed three separate FIRs against the Bhim Army chief, RLD and SP workers for violating section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, barring the public assembly of four or more people, and provisions of the Epidemic Act during their visits on Sunday, officials said.On September 14, the victim was raped by four members of a dominant caste in Hathras district when she had gone to the fields to collect cattle fodder. She was partially paralysed in the attack.As her condition deteriorated, she was moved to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital on September 28 and died in the early hours of September 29. At 2.30 am the next day, the police forcibly cremated the body without the family’s consent in a field near the village.Since then, Opposition leaders have made a beeline to the village even as the police and the Hathras district administration have denied that she was raped, citing the forensic report. Five police officials have also been suspended in line with preliminary recommendations of a special investigation team (SIT).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-fallout-up-probing-international-plot-to-defame-state-govt-trigger-caste-violence/story-aFGQIhdMErqnQ1JwKRXYML.html
06-10-2020||India||2 CRPF men killed, 3 injured in terrorist attack in south Kashmir’s Pampore||Two personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), who were injured in a terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar, succumbed to their injuries, officials said on Monday. Three other CRPF personnels were also injured as terrorists opened fire upon a road opening party (ROP) of the battalion at Pampore bypass near Srinagar earlier in the day.According to officials, the injured CRPF personnel were evacuated to the district hospital, where the two succumbed to their injuries. The terrorists fired at the party at around 12:50pm when CRPF troops along with Jammu and Kashmir police personnel were carrying out road opening operations.Traffic was stopped on the highway after the attack and security forces are conducting a search operation.“Troops of 110 Bn CRPF along with JKP carrying out ROP During which unknown terrorists (12:50 hours) fired upon the troops. In this incident total 05 CRPF personnel sustained injuries and evacuated to District Hospital,” a statement by CRPF said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-crpf-men-injured-in-terrorist-attack-at-pampore-in-south-kashmir/story-QMyna52WyXeBRaFKvZURJM.html
06-10-2020||India||With 74,442 new Covid-19 cases and 903 deaths, India’s tally goes past 6.6 mn||India, the second worst-hit country by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the world, recorded 74,442 new infections and 903 deaths in the last 24 hours, which has taken its tally to over 6.6 million, the Union health ministry’s data showed on Monday.There are 6,623,815 cases of the coronavirus disease in the country now, including 934,427 active cases and 102,685 deaths, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am.The country as been posting high level of daily recoveries for the past few weeks and 76,737 recoveries were registered between Sunday and Monday morning. Now 5,586,703 people have been cured so far taking the national recovery rate to 84.34%. The new recoveries have exceeded the fresh cases of the coronavirus disease in the recent days.India’s total recoveries had crossed 55,09,966 on Sunday with 75.44% of the newly recovered cases recorded from 10 states and Union territories. Maharashtra, which has the highest number of active cases in the country, has also contributed the highest number to the newly-recovered cases followed by Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, according to the government on Sunday.Also read | Key challenges faced by Covid-19 testsThe government also said that 10 states and Union territories account for 77.11% of the active cases in the country.The percent contribution of active cases to the positive caseload of the country reduced to 14.32% on Sunday, it added.Out of the total new cases, 78% were concentrated in 10 states and Union territories with Maharashtra contributing more than 14,000 to the new cases. Karnataka and Kerala reported 9,886 and 7834 new cases, respectively, according to government data.Also read | Covid-19 recovery rate in Maharashtra improving, says health minister TopeOn Sunday, 80.53% of reported fatalities were from 10 states and Union territories with 29.57% of deaths reported were from Maharashtra with 278 fatalities followed by Karnataka with 100 deaths. Maharashtra’s contribution to death toll has been on a decline.India has posted high daily testing numbers over Thursday, Friday and Saturday with 10,97,947, 11,32,675 and 11,42,131 tests respectively “despite the extended weekend”, the government said. “There has been an exponential rise in India’s daily testing capacities. More than 15 lakhs tests can be conducted every day. An average of 11.5 lakh tests were done on a daily basis during the past ten days,” it added.India’s total tests have crossed 78.9 million so far from just one in January, when the first cases of the coronavirus disease were recorded in the country in Kerala. There has been a commensurate dip in the positivity rate or the number of people who test positive as compared to who get tested in a day. “With progressively falling Positivity Rate, testing has worked as a highly effective tool to limit the spread of COVID-19 infection. Very high levels of testing lead to early identification, prompt isolation & effective treatment of COVID-19 cases. These have eventually resulted in a sustained low fatality rate,” the health ministry has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-74-442-new-covid-19-cases-and-903-deaths-india-s-tally-goes-past-6-6-million/story-W1Z90t0LQ82TC5oKRJcuvL.html
