07-10-2020||India||Ahead of BJP’s march to Nabanna, Bengal govt shuts secretariat; says it needs sanitisation||With the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) planning to hold its biggest agitation this year by marching to Nabanna, the main secretariat in Howrah district, on Thursday; the state government declared that all offices in the building will remain closed for two days for sanitisation. The announcement was made shortly before working hours came to an end on Wednesday. Writers’ Building, the old secretariat in Kolkata, will also remain shut for sanitisation on Thursday and Friday, the government said. Since the Covid-19 pandemic started in March, the secretariats are sanitized mostly during the weekends barring a few exceptions. Thursday’s agitation has been organised by the BJP’s youth wing. BJP leaders said Union home minister Amit Shah and party president JP Nadda showed interest when they were informed about the programme during a recent party meeting in Delhi. In a parallel development, the Kolkata Police did not give permission to the BJP to take out processions from Central Avenue and Hastings. The party had planned to approach the secretariat from four directions. Short videos were aired on local television channels to create awareness about the agitation. “It seems the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has already realised that its days are numbered. Our programme will be held peacefully as planned. We are not going to Nabanna to take over the building,” said BJP state president Dilip Ghosh. The Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the youth wing of the party, has planned and organised the ‘Nabanna Chalo’ (March to Nabanna) programme with a seven-point agenda to highlight various issues ranging from lack from employment in Bengal to law and order problem. Thousands of party workers from Kolkata and the districts are supposed to take part in it. Several central leaders, including BJYM national president Tejasvi Surya arrived in Kolkata on Tuesday. “The government has suffered a nervous breakdown. It does not want to face the masses,” said BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu. TMC leaders did not comment on the state government’s decision but CPI (M) legislator and central committee member Sujan Chakraborty took at a jibe at the government. “When Left parties and their youth organisations held a similar agitation in 2017 the police showered batons and teargas shells on our people. Mamata Banerjee is keeping the coast clear for the BJP by shutting down the secretariat. BJP workers can freely march to Nabanna. They seem to have reached an understanding,” quipped Chakraborty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bjp-s-march-to-nabanna-bengal-govt-shuts-secretariat-says-it-needs-sanitisation/story-eOGjYmXXuQE99jU2Hwb4yN.html
07-10-2020||India||‘Officers will visit villages to buy entire paddy’: KCR messages farmers||The Telangana government on Wednesday announced that it will purchase the entire stock of not only food grains like paddy and pulses, but also commercial crops like cotton, directly from farmers even as the Central government is going all out to educate the farmers about the benefits of the newly enacted farm laws. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao held a high-level review meeting with officials of the agriculture and marketing departments to discuss the procurement of agriculture produce from farmers this season. While the new agriculture act enacted by the Centre says farmers can sell their produce wherever they wanted, the chief minister asked the farmers not to bring their paddy to the markets and face problems. He also assured that the government would ensure minimum support price to the farmers for their produce. “The entire quantity of paddy produced by farmers this “Vanakalam” (Kharif season) will be purchased by the government departments at the village-level itself. Since there is still Corona fear lingering, various government agencies would be sent to the villages to purchase the entire paddy produced by farmers,” an official statement from the chief minister’s office said, quoting the chief minister.He instructed that officials purchase the entire paddy in the state by setting up 6,000 purchasing centres and ensure that every grain of paddy is purchased. He reiterated that the government’s aim was to stand by farmers at every stage from extending financial assistance for crop investment to purchasing the produce. He directed that paddy with less than 17 percent moisture would be purchased by the state government at Rs 1,888 per Quintal MSP for Grade A Variety and Rs 1,868 per Quintal MSP for the Grade B variety. He instructed the agriculture, marketing and civil supplies department officials to take precautions at every point. He wanted the officials to make an estimate on how much paddy would be available and prepare a purchasing plan accordingly. KCR also asked the officials to ensure that the farmers get their money on the sale of paddy immediately along with the Bank Guarantees. Similarly, the chief minister also instructed the authorities to make arrangements for purchase of entire production of red gram (tur dal) from the farmers. He complimented the farmers for cultivating red gram in 10.78 lakh acres as directed under the Regulatory Farming policy of the government. At the same time, the government would also make arrangements for procurement of cotton through Cotton Corporation of India. “Continuous discussions are taking place with the CCI in this regard,” the chief minister said. This season, there was a record cultivation of crops in Telangana in 134.87 lakh acres. Of this, paddy was cultivated in 52.77 lakh acres, cotton in 60.36 Lakh acres and red gram in 10.78 lakh acres. Meanwhile, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman paid a visit to Jakkula Nekkalam village of Gannavaram block in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district and explained to local farmers about the benefits of the new agriculture acts enacted by the Centre. Accompanied by Bharatiya Janata Party leaders Sunil Deodhar, G V L Narasimha Rao, Kanna Lakshminarayana and P V N Madhav, the finance minister interacted with the farmers to know about their cropping pattern, remunerative price for their crops and the market situation. The farmers told Sitaraman that they were not getting remunerative price for food grains and sugarcane. Stating that they were not getting bank loans for raising sugarcane, they requested that the government take steps for ensuring adequate prices for their crops. The FM told the farmers that the new act enabled them to sell their produce wherever they get remunerative price. She suggested authorities educate the farmers about the new Acts. It may be mentioned that the ruling YSR Congress Party in Andhra Pradesh is supporting the new legislation on agriculture and its MPs voted in favour of them in Parliament. On the other hand, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi strongly opposed the new acts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officers-will-visit-villages-to-buy-entire-paddy-kcr-messages-farmers/story-y10GSQbuqbdpnmA84XiUGI.html
07-10-2020||India||Funding for NE road development increased||New Delhi: The Centre has increased funding for road development in the Northeast by 95% from Rs 390 crore to Rs 760 crore, seeking to reinforce infrastructure in the strategic region, especially in border areas. The is the second consecutive increase of funding for the region in the current fiscal year under the Special Accelerated Road Development Programme in the North East (SARDP-NE). In August, the ministry of road transport and highways increased the allocation from Rs 290 crore to Rs 390 crore.Until September this financial year, the Centre allocated Rs 6,780 crore for national highways in the Northeastern region, according to transport ministry data. The government has been trying to reinforce infrastructure in areas considered strategic amid a tense standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries along the Line of Actual Control in the eastern Ladakh sector since May. The government in August also increased funding for border road development projects and raised the allocation for maintenance of frontier roads, HT reported on August 28.Funding for road development projects in border areas has been raised from Rs 340 crore to Rs 440 core in the current financial year. The budget for maintenance of border roads has gone up from Rs 120 crore to Rs 220 crore; in June, the ministry of road transport and highways raised the allocation for border road maintenance by four times to Rs 120 crore.In addition, the transport ministry has also sanctioned Rs 850 crore to the National Highway & Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL) towards expenditure incurred on sanctioned SARDP-NE-related projects during the current financial year.According to a transport ministry circular reviewed by HT on the revised allocation of funds for expenditure on sanctioned SARDP-NE-related works during the 2020-21 financial year, the allocation to the regional offices of Arunachal Pradesh and Assam has increased from Rs 200 crore and Rs 190 crore, respectively, to Rs 300 crore and Rs 460 crore, taking the total funding for SARDP-NE in the financial year 2020-21 to Rs 760 crore.SARDP-NE is to be taken up in three parts; Under Phase A, about 4,099 km of roads (3,014 km of national highways and 1,085 km of state roads) are to be improved. The phase is expected to be completed by FY 2023-24, according to the ministry. Phase B covers 3,723 km (2,210 km of NHs and 1,513 km of state roads). The third is the Arunachal Pradesh package involving development of about 2,319 km length of roads (2,205 km of NHs and 114 km of state /general staff /strategic roads) has also been approved by the government. The entire Arunachal Pradesh package is targeted for completion by FY 2023-24.The government has spent an amount of Rs. 30,315 crore on SARDP-NE including the Arunachal Pradesh Package, so far.There is a continuous need for revising budgetary support for roads in the Northeast, said Jaijit Bhattacharya, president of the Centre for Digital Economy Policy Research (CDEP).“It is important to build the road infrastructure in the northeast from three perspectives; It is critical from a military perspective...road and rail linkages are critical to support war efforts,” Bhattacharya said. “It is our moral duty to provide proper connectivity to our citizens in the northeast. And from an economic perspective, it is roads that being prosperity in the region and building these roads also align us to the government’s Act East policy. The roads will help the Northeast connect with the ASEAN markets of Myanmar, Thailand and beyond. However, we need to keep in mind that building roads in the toughest of hills in the world will be many times more expensive than building roads on plains. Hence the need for continuous re-evaluation of budgetary support for the roads.”“New Delhi’s hectic infrastructure building activities in the northeastern states indicates a new awareness within the country’s decision-making elite that physical connectivity is instrumental in moving from Look East to Act East. While the China threat has clearly quickened the process of building border infrastructure in the northeast, , improved connectivity in the region will bring it closer to the national mainstream, and will dampen several of the region’s local insurgencies,” strategic expert Happymon Jacob, an associate professor of disarmament studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/funding-for-ne-road-development-increased/story-u3WywqcbTCAmp89WdeFhvI.html
07-10-2020||India||Baby boy born onboard IndiGo Delhi-Bengaluru flight. See pics||A woman delivered a baby boy inside IndiGo’s Delhi-Bengaluru flight on Wednesday, according to an official statement from the airline.“We confirm that a baby boy was delivered prematurely on flight 6E 122 from Delhi to Bangalore. There are no further details available,” Indigo said in a statement. Was on @IndiGo6E 6E 122 flight to BLR, woman gives birth mid-indiair, amazing team work of indigo flight attendants. They setup a hospital in minutes and the new born cried mid air. Dr Shailaja Vallabhani was fortunately on this flight!Thank you god n entire @IndiGo6E crew. 🙏The baby was born enroute on the Delhi-Bengaluru 6E 122 flight.See pictures:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baby-boy-born-onboard-indigo-delhi-bengaluru-flight-see-pics/story-yxc3o8Rnv6wW7EPsEsrHwK.html
07-10-2020||India||NSA Ajit Doval meets Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah in Delhi||Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah on Wednesday discussed his country’s peace process with National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, who told him India is in favour of a democratic and sovereign Afghanistan “where no terrorists can operate”.Abdullah, chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation in Afghanistan, met Doval on Wednesday evening to brief him on the talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban at Doha in Qatar. Doval hosted a dinner for Abdullah’s delegation that was attended by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, army chief Gen MM Naravane, senior officials of the external affairs ministry and key members of the High Council for National Reconciliation.Abdullah tweeted that he had a “constructive discussion” with Doval on the Afghan peace process and the talks in Doha. “He [Doval] assured me of India’s full support for the peace efforts, and that any peace settlement acceptable to Afghans, will have the support of India,” Abdullah said.“He [Doval] further stated that his country is in favour [of] an independent, democratic, sovereign & peaceful Afghanistan, where no terrorists can operate,” he added.Abdullah also thanked India for its continued support for Afghanistan and its “constructive role in peace efforts”.There was no official word on the meeting from the Indian side.Abdullah arrived in New Delhi on Tuesday afternoon for a five-day visit, during which he will hold talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday and external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday. He will also deliver a speech at the Institute of Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA) on Thursday. Before his arrival in India, Abdullah issued a statement that described India as a “strategic partner of Afghanistan”. He said, “Our historical relation with India is very important to us, and the role of India in establishing a lasting peace in Afghanistan and the region is vital. I am visiting India on an official invitation by the government of India to discuss the peace efforts, and the need for regional consensus and support for the Afghan peace process.” Abdullah’s visit is part of an outreach to key countries in the region for support for the negotiations in Doha. He travelled to India after a three-day visit to Pakistan last week. In Islamabad, he had met Prime Minister Imran Khan, foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa. Abdullah told the Pakistani leadership that a message about reducing violence and showing greater flexibility in negotiations should be communicated to the Taliban leadership participating in the negotiations in Doha. India, the region’s largest provider of development aid to Afghanistan, has expressed concern at a recent spike in violence by the Taliban and terror attacks on minorities such as Sikhs. It has said intra-Afghan negotiations must ensure the interests of minorities, women and vulnerable sections of society and reduce violence across Afghanistan and its neighbourhood. Since 2001, India has undertaken projects worth $3 billion in Afghanistan, including $1 billion pledged in 2016 under the “new development partnership” scheme for five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsa-ajit-doval-meets-afghan-peace-negotiator-abdullah-abdullah-in-delhi/story-M6KRpC6YzM7ZX6HHveZDcL.html
07-10-2020||India||Cabinet lauds Modi’s 19 years as head of govt, be it in Gujarat or as Prime Minister||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remarkable run as the head of government, whether in a state or at the Centre, for 19 years on the trot.Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said Modi as the head of Gujarat or the Indian government had worked to raise the standard of living of the common citizen. “The Cabinet congratulated the Prime Minister for entering the 20th year as a government head, uninterrupted, and by democratic means. He has brought reforms in governance, in major sectors, and he has given a corruption-free government. And he has completed many projects which were pending and languishing for years together are his achievements,” Javadekar said.The Cabinet lauded him for these years as head of governance, whether in Gujarat or for the country, he added.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which emerged as an opposition force and remained so for decades, also celebrated the achievement of its electorally most successful leader.Party chief JP Nadda tweeted that October 7 is an important date in Indian history because it was on this day in 2001 that Narendra Modi had taken oath as the chief minister of Gujarat for the first time.Ever since, he has scored a bigger victory, got greater support and achieved more popularity, said Nadda. The party also projected graphic images showing Modi’s record in elected office as compared to legendary figures like Franklin Roosevelt, Margaret Thatcher and Francois Mitterrand, leaders who made important contributions to their nations.“Be it as a Chief Minister for Gujarat or as the Prime Minister of the world’s largest democracy, Narendra Modi has always been a crusader for people’s welfare,” the party said on social media. Several ministers in the Modi government also lauded Modi’s record as the head of government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-lauds-modi-s-19-years-as-head-of-govt-be-it-in-gujarat-or-as-prime-minister/story-4H6ktIOfl4vvbTsCNycywK.html
07-10-2020||India||Railways receive 120 applications from 15 firms for running private trains||The Indian Railways has received a total of 120 applications from 15 firms including L&T, GMR and Welspun in response to its Request for Quotation inviting private players to run trains on key routes, the railway ministry announced on Wednesday.The railway ministry on July 1 began the formal process of allowing private trains on 109 routes -- a process that aims to, for the first time, to open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises that has in recent decades been outpaced by the demands of a rapidly growing economy.The firms which have made the applications for the clusters include Arvind Aviation, BHEL, Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarrriles, S.A, Cube Highways and Infrastructure III Pvt Ltd, Gateway Rail Freight Limited, GMR Highways Limited, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited, IRB Infrastructure Developers Limited.The others are L&T Infrastructure Development Projects Limited, Malempati Power Private Limited, Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited, PNC Infratech Ltd, RK Associates and Hoteliers Pvt Ltd, Sainath Sales and Services Pvt Ltd and Welspun Enterprises Limited. Overall, 14 Indian firms and one Spanish firm are in the race to run private trains in India. In its pre-bidding meeting held in August, a total of 23 firms including Bombardier Transportation India, Siemens Limited, Alstom Transport India Ltd had evinced interest.A total of 120 applications have been received for the 12 Clusters, from 15 applicant firms.“It may be noted that the Ministry of Railways (MOR) had invited Request for Qualifications (RFQ) for private participation in operation of passenger train services over 12 Clusters comprising 140 Origin Destination pair of routes through introduction of 151 modern Trains to increase high quality trains operated on the network,” the ministry said.This includes 12 applications each for the Delhi 2 and Mumbai 2 clusters, 11 for the Bengaluru cluster, 10 applications each for the Prayagraj, Secunderabad, Jaipur and Delhi 1 cluster and nine each for Chandigarh, Howrah, Patna, Mumbai 1 and Chennai.The Railways had invited Request for Qualifications (RFQ) for private participation in operation of passenger train services over 12 clusters comprising 140 origin-destination pair of routes through introduction of 151 modern trains to increase high quality trains operated on the network.The ministry in July issued what is known as a request for qualification (RFQ) for private companies to run 151 trains spread over these routes, laying down specific conditions that will need to be met in a move that is meant to “introduce modern technologies and world class services” for one of India’s most popular modes of transport.The railways plan to introduce private trains on its network in phases, with the first dozen due to start running in the 2023-24 financial year and all 151 by 2027. According to the railway ministry’s projections, the transporter will select the companies that will run the private trains by April 2021; the first 12 are expected to start plying by 2023-24, followed by 45 more in FY 2024-25, the next 50 in FY 2025-26 and the last 44 by 2026-27.According to the ministry, the planned investment will come to around Rs 30,000 crore, and a majority of the rakes (70%) will have to be manufactured in India; private entities cleared to run the train services shall be responsible for financing, procuring, operating and maintaining the trains.The trains will be designed to run at a maximum speed of 160 kmph. The ministry expects a reduction in journey time by around 10-15% at 130 kmph and around 30% at 160 kmph. Initially, they will run at 130 kmph and are slated to run at 160 kmph by March 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-receive-120-applications-from-15-firms-for-running-private-trains/story-yiDtFT0BtI5It8pRYsVYVL.html
07-10-2020||India||Home minister Amit Shah congratulates PM Modi on beginning 20th year as public representative||Home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi for beginning his twentieth year as a public representative.In a seven-minute long video he posted on Twitter, Shah commemorated October 7, the date when Narendra Modi was elected as the chief minister of Gujarat for the first time in 2001.In his video, Shah pointed out that PM Modi’s ascension in politics showed that single-party democracy is the only way to ensure that the dreams of the founders of this country are fulfilled. He said, “Before BJP came to power, there was a culture of multiparty democracy and coalitions. These coalitions led to corruption across the nation, turned poor people into a vote bank and created an erroneous foreign policy.”Shah pointed out that as a chief minister of Gujarat, Narendra Modi worked hard to develop the state’s infrastructure and ensured that people living in the state are safe and secure. Shah also highlighted that Modi’s performance as a chief minister was exemplary and hence he was chosen as BJP’s prime ministerial candidate for the 2014 elections.“PM Modi lifted the incomes of the poor and farmers. He wanted reforms and ensured that the impoverished not only have benefits but also have belief in themselves as well as the government. He also made sure that the minimum support price is the same as recommended by the Swaminathan commission,” said Shah.“Under his governance, the world realises that India, a nation of 130 crore people, is not to be taken lightly. We are a strong nation and the surgical strikes and airstrikes show that no one should take India lightly,” he further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-amit-shah-congratulates-pm-modi-on-beginning-20th-year-as-public-representative/story-aDf7PfODaEdYKwTdrWxkdL.html
07-10-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: ED files chargesheet against 3 prime accused||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against three main accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case while one of them Swapna Suresh stated that her appointment in the Space Park was known to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. She said she was asked to apply for the post by former secretary of the CM M Sivashankar and later he told her that he will discuss it with the CM and ensure her appointment. She also told the agency that she met the CM a number of times and she was also close to his secretary, the chargesheet indicated. The ED also made it clear in the interim chargesheet that a detailed investigation was needed against Sivashankar and its personnel were in the process of collecting more digital evidence. It said a supplementary chargesheet will be filed later. After the gold smuggling case surfaced, the CM reportedly distanced himself from his secretary saying he was not aware of the appointment of Suresh for the key post. Later, his secretary Sivashankar, a senior officer, was suspended from service. Opposition parties then alleged that the CM got away easily after sacrificing his secretary. When Swapna Suresh resigned from the United Arab Emirates consulate she had applied for the job of Space Park Manager and she gave the reference of Sivashankar, the chargesheet said. And she applied for the job through consultant agency PricewaterCoopers as directed by Sivashankar. He also introduced chartered accountant Venugopal Iyer to her, the chargesheet said. During investigation, the ED had seized two kg gold and Rs one crore currency from the locker jointly operated by Iyer and Suresh. Later, it also came to light that some of the educational certificates of Suresh were fake. The chargesheet also stated that the three main accused, Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair and Sarith, were involved in money-laundering and owned huge properties and their source of income was mysterious. The ED rushed with the chargesheet while all three got bail in the case registered by the Customs. The gold smuggling case is being investigated by many agencies including the NIA. The current chargesheet was filed to avert the accused getting bail as they were under custody for more than 3 months. At least 30 people were arrested in connection with the case which surfaced after the recovery of 30 kg gold from a consignment that came to the UAE consulate in the state capital camouflaged as diplomatic luggage. The court had criticized the NIA on Monday and sought evidence for terrorism charges against the accused. This is the first time UAPA was invoked in a smuggling case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-ed-files-chargesheet-against-3-prime-accused/story-E5sqjdP0baijW1l3j7dWgN.html
07-10-2020||India||‘No govt ever invoked sedition after rape’: Congress to Yogi Adityanath||Demanding a judicial inquiry into the Hathras rape incident either by a sitting High Court judge or a Supreme Court judge, the Congress on Wednesday termed “bizarre” the response of the Uttar Pradesh government on the issue and alleged that it has been slapping sedition charges as if these were “pick-pocketing” cases.Addressing a virtual press conference, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi claimed that no government ever, including that of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in the past in Uttar Pradesh had invoked sedition charges after a rape incident as done by the Yogi Adityanath dispensation.Singhvi’s comments came on a day when the Uttar Pradesh police booked four people, including a journalist from Kerala, Siddique Kappan, on sedition and other charges in Mathura, two days after they were arrested while on their way to Hathras.Charges under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the IT Act have also been filed against the four who were later remanded in judicial custody for 14 days by a Mathura court.“The response of the Yogi Adityanath government to the Hathras incident has been bizarre and it has been coming up with a number of conspiracy theories,” Singhvi said.Over 21 FIRs have been filed against various people on conspiracy charges, outnumbering the cases against the main accused in the rape incident, he added.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday alleged that an international conspiracy was being hatched to destabilise his government, following its tough stand against anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests.“Another kind of conspiracy alleged by the chief minister is a conspiracy to destabilise and overthrow his government,” Singhvi said.“Stop blaming everyone in the world except yourself. Each time you point your figure, there are three fingers pointing back at you, which you cannot and must not ignore. And last, stop arresting all third parties around you in a 360 degree fashion and ignoring punitive action, but more importantly, punishment by conviction of the real accused of murder and rape,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-govt-ever-invoked-sedition-after-rape-congress-to-yogi-adityanath/story-Q63yys6m5KSTacAW5QaybJ.html
07-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Amid concerns, Hathras family gets 3-layer security cover and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Metal detectors, CCTVs, 3-layer police cover for Hathras family’s securitySecurity has been beefed up for the family members of the 19-year-old Hathras Dalit woman, who died after being gang-raped and brutalised last month, even as the time given to the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to submit its report on the incident was extended by 10 days, said government officials. Read moreBengal logs spike in Covid-19 count as people flock to shops ahead of annual festivalWith West Bengal entering the Durga Puja-mode and festive-season shopping going on in full swing, the state is witnessing a steady spike in Covid-19 numbers. Read moreHina Khan brings her fashion A-game to the Bigg Boss 14 houseHina Khan is easily one of the best dressed television stars, it is very rare that she doesn’t sport the right look, and although the actor has returned to the Bigg Boss house for Season 14 as a mentor for the contestants, she is still doing us a solid and dropping snaps of her OOTD on her Instagram. Read moreKangana Ranaut reacts to Swara Bhasker’s jibe, says will return awards if proven wrong: ‘Watch interview again if your memory is weak’Actor Kangana Ranaut is standing by her earlier statement, saying that she will return her awards if her accusations are found wrong in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. After Swara Bhasker tweeted a veiled comment at Kangana on Wednesday afternoon, the latter also shared a tweet in reply. Read moreSaree-clad dancer Eshna Kutty is back with two hoops. Video is absolutely stunningRemember Eshna Kutty, the woman whose saree-clad hoop dancing video went all kinds of viral online? Well, she is back with a new video and this one is ever more amazing than the previous one. In the video, she dances to the song Chinnamma Chilakkamma from the 2004 film Meenaxi: A Tale of Three Cities using two hoops. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘He should be No.1’ - Brian Lara picks Dhoni’s successor among KL Rahul, Rishabh Pant and Sanju SamsonWho should replace MS Dhoni as a wicket-keeper batsman in the Indian limited-overs side among KL Rahul, Rishabh Pant and Sanju Samson? It’s a question that has been doing the rounds ever since 2019 ODI World Cup, when Dhoni last donned the Indian blues. It gathered pace when the former India skipper decided to announce his retirement from international cricket in August this year. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-amid-concerns-hathras-family-gets-3-layer-security-cover-and-all-the-latest-news/story-46X1N6ivXiiQ9ju0SPAIzK.html
07-10-2020||India||PM Modi to launch ‘Jan andolan’ campaign for Covid appropriate behaviour||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch a ‘Jan andolan’ campaign for Covid appropriate behaviour on Thursday in view of upcoming festivals, winter season and opening up of the economy.PM Modi will launch the campaign by way of a tweet, a release issued by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said.The campaign will be launched with the aim to encourage people’s participation and it endeavours to be a low-cost high-intensity campaign with the key message of wear mask, follow physical distancing, maintain hand hygiene. The campaign will be launched in view of the upcoming festivals and winter season as well as the opening up of the economy, the statement said.A Covid-19 pledge will be taken by all and a concerted action plan will be implemented by central government ministries, departments, state governments and Union Territories.The highlights of the campaign include region-specific targeted communication in high case-load districts, simple and easily understandable messages to reach every citizen, dissemination throughout the country using all media platforms, banners and posters at public places involving frontline workers, and targeting beneficiaries of government schemes, according to the statement.The campaign also involves putting up of hoardings, wall paintings, electronic display boards in government premises, involvement of local and national influencers to drive home the message, running mobile vans for regular awareness generation, audio messages, pamphlets and brochures for awareness.It would also involve seeking support of local cable operators for running Covid messages and coordinated media campaign across platforms for effective outreach and impact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-jan-andolan-campaign-for-covid-appropriate-behaviour/story-0oTx8B9SAq62g6i54iQq6O.html
07-10-2020||India||MP begins probe into alleged multi-crore rupee scam in govt scheme for farmers||The economic offences wing (EOW) of the Madhya Pradesh government initiated an inquiry on Tuesday into an alleged multi-crore rupee scam involving officers of the horticulture and food processing department in the purchase of agriculture implements under the Mechanisation Scheme of the central government in past eight years, an official said Wednesday. Deputy director level officers of the horticulture and food processing department allegedly not only cleared the bills related to purchase of sub-standard machines at much higher rate than the market rate but also transferred the amount of grant to dealers of implements instead of depositing the same in the beneficiary farmers’ bank accounts through direct benefit transfer (DBT), said an official who didn’t wish to be named. Under a scheme launched in 2013, the farmers get 50% subsidy in purchase of agricultural implements from the state and central governments. Inspector, EOW, Pankaj Gautam, who is investigating the case, said, “We have asked for details of the scheme, names of beneficiary farmers, amount transferred to their bank accounts and details of implements purchased in the past eight years. Similarly, we have sought details how the department procures the implement and hands over the same to farmers.” “We will probe the scam which the complainant has alleged to be of Rs 100 crore in the entire period since the scheme was launched. However, the amount of scam can be ascertained during the investigation,” said Gautam. A farmer Mukesh Patidar, of Richala Munha village of Mandsaur district, lodged a complaint with the horticulture department in August saying that it provided power tillers to farmers under the Farm Mechanisation Scheme without following the rules. “Instead of transferring the 50% subsidy in the farmers’ account by giving them a freedom of purchasing implements of their choice, the departments’ officers transferred the amount directly to unauthorized dealers. The department handed over China-made machines in the name of power tillers to the farmers, which don’t meet any specification which a power tiller should have,” Patidar said. Patidar said the department purchased machines for Rs 40,000 to Rs 100000 or more and thus the scam in the past eight years or so was of more than Rs 100 crores. After his complaint, the horticulture department formed a four-member committee headed by Shrikanth Bhanot, managing director, MP Agro Industries Development Corporation Limited, to probe the matter for the year 2019-20. The committee submitted the report on September 8 this year and also wrote to EOW to probe the matter as irregularities were found on many aspects, said an officer of the department. The report said that about Rs 9 crore was transferred as subsidy in the account of 24 firms against the purchase of 1774 machines. “The machines, which had been given to farmers as power tillers, are not authorized model and don’t meet the specification set by the Central government for a power tiller. The horticulture department doesn’t have any clear rules and regulations for procurement of machines, specification of the machines, transferring process of machines to farmers and registration of dealers. Most of the money was given in cash which led to irregularities in purchase,” reads the report. The committee recommended stopping payments against all pending bills and proposals and taking strict action against the officers involved in it. Horticulture department commissioner Pushkar Singh said, “The committee probed the purchase that took place in only one year. Now, we are going to share with EOW all the details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-begins-probe-into-alleged-multi-crore-rupee-scam-in-govt-scheme-for-farmers/story-tvfvNKdrnCAoyXqFqSx2XM.html
07-10-2020||India||Metal detectors, CCTVs, 3-layer police cover for Hathras family’s security||Security has been beefed up for the family members of the 19-year-old Hathras Dalit woman, who died after being gang-raped and brutalised last month, even as the time given to the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to submit its report on the incident was extended by 10 days, said government officials.“Metal detectors have been placed at the entry points of the victim’s house. CCTV cameras are being installed at the focal points of the house. These arrangements are being made with the consent of the family members,” said Prem Prakash Meena, the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Hathras.“Three-layered security is in place and personal security is also being provided to the family members,” Meena added. According to the news agency ANI, additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said, “The SIT probing the Hathras case has been given 10 days more to submit their report. The team was supposed to submit the report to the chief minister today but the scope of investigation of the team has been extended on the order of the chief minister.” The SIT was initially told to submit its report within a week. The team visited the victim’s residence on Sunday morning to record the statements of her family members. On the basis of its first report, the chief minister has already suspended the then Hathras superintendent of police (SP) Vikrant Vir, a deputy SP and some other police officers. Their polygraph and narco analysis tests have been recommended.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has already recommended a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the case. The 19-year-old Hathras woman died at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital on September 29 after being allegedly gang-raped and brutalised in Hathras on September 14.All four accused in the incident have been arrested.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metal-detectors-cctvs-3-layer-police-ring-for-hathras-family-s-protection/story-mRlApLkhrN1tmHY2GRLI2H.html
07-10-2020||India||Bullet is only policy for terrorists, says J-K BJP on LG’s rehabilitation offer||President of the BJP unit in Jammu and Kashmir Ravinder Raina said on Wednesday that “there can never be any rehabilitation policy for the terrorists” and that “they will be paid back in the same coin.” Raina was reacting to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha’s recent appeal to local militants to shun the path of violence. He had also promised to help them with jobs and entrepreneurial opportunities. “A terrorist is a terrorist. This Pakistan-sponsored terrorism has bled Jammu and Kashmir for the past 30 years. They (terrorists) go to Pakistan for arms training, come back with arms and ammunition and then kill innocent people and security forces personnel. They can never be given any jobs. The only policy for them is a bullet,” he said. “Our jawans of army, police and paramilitary forces are combating them 24x7. These terrorists are getting killed. Under PM Modi’s government there can never be any rehabilitation for terrorists in this country,” he asserted. “Whosover picks up a gun against the nation will be eliminated,” he added. On the selection list of the Fire and Emergency Services department, Raina said that the list has several irregularities and was discriminatory. “I have brought the matter to the notice of the LG and urged him to quash this list and conduct the recruitment process afresh. Graduate and post-graduates have been excluded while 8th and 10th pass candidates have been selected. There is strong resentment among the youth of Kashmir as well. It is a big scam and a probe should be ordered,” he said. Raina said that if the list was not revoked then BJP will approach the court of law for an interim stay on it and then get it quashed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-bjp-chief-snubs-lg-says-no-rehab-policy-for-terrorists/story-NXrrZxO0JQyC0Yto4mqQRK.html
07-10-2020||India||China’s dos and don’ts for Indian media ahead of Taiwan national day||China on Wednesday issued a series of guidelines for the Indian media for coverage of the national day of Taiwan, observed on October 10, saying all countries having diplomatic ties with Beijing should “firmly honour their commitment to the One-China policy”. The move followed full-page advertisements issued by the Taiwan government in two Delhi-based newspapers ahead of the national day, which featured an image of President Tsai Ing-wen and the slogan “Taiwan and India are natural partners”. The advertisement referred to Taiwan’s efforts to counter Covid-19 and its sharing of experiences and essential medical items with like-minded partners. Against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff, experts and commentators have called for New Delhi to review its relations with Taipei, which has been dealing with the Chinese military’s actions in recent months. In 1995, India and Taiwan established representative offices in their respective capitals though the two sides do not have formal diplomatic relations. Taiwan has the Taipei Economic and Cultural Center in New Delhi, while India has the India-Taipei Association in Taipei to promote interactions and facilitate business, tourism, and people-to-people exchanges. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Taiwan had cancelled a reception for its national day because of the Covid-19 pandemic and would only have advertisements and a TV show to mark the occasion. A letter sent out by the Chinese embassy in New Delhi referred to the “so-called forthcoming ‘National Day of Taiwan’” and said it “would like to remind our media friends that there is only one China in the world, and the Government of the People’s Republic of China is the sole legitimate government representing the whole of China”. “Taiwan is an inalienable part of China’s territory...All countries that have diplomatic relations with China should firmly honour their commitment to the One-China policy, which is also the long-standing official position of the Indian government,” the letter said. “We hope Indian media can stick to Indian government’s position on the Taiwan question and do not violate the One-China principle. In particular, Taiwan shall not be referred to as a ‘country (nation)’ or ‘Republic of China’ or the leader of China’s Taiwan region as ‘President’, so as not to send the wrong signals to the general public,” the letter further said. The Chinese embassy said it “appreciates the good faith and efforts by friends from the media”, and was “willing to maintain communication with media friends on China-related reports”. After Indian Twitter users pointed to the Chinese embassy’s guidelines, Taiwan’s foreign minister Jaushieh Joseph Wu responded in a tweet: “#India is the largest democracy on Earth with a vibrant press & freedom-loving people. But it looks like communist #China is hoping to march into the subcontinent by imposing censorship. #Taiwan’s Indian friends will have one reply: GET LOST! JW”The Taiwan foreign ministry’s Twitter bio states all tweets initialled “JW” are from the foreign minister.In recent weeks, Indian officials have kept a wary eye on efforts by the Chinese embassy to project its views on the border standoff in the Indian media, especially since the growing perception on the Indian side is that the views of Indian diplomats in Beijing aren’t given similar play by the state-run Chinese media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-dos-and-don-ts-for-indian-media-ahead-of-taiwan-national-day/story-iTl985M10GxoxOtumee7cI.html
07-10-2020||India||Former IPS officer accused in Assam job scam sent to 6-day police custody||A retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer arrested in connection with a police job recruitment scam in Assam was on Wednesday sent to six days of police custody by a city court. PK Dutta, who retired as deputy inspector general of police (DIG), was nabbed from Kakarbhitta on the Indo-Nepal border on Tuesday and brought to Guwahati by road. The former police officer, who had been absconding for nearly two weeks, was hiding in Nepal. “We knew Dutta was hiding in Nepal and informed the Union home ministry about it. Accordingly, we laid a trap for him and Dutta fell into it,” GP Singh, ADGP (law and order), told journalists on Wednesday. Dutta, who was rought to Guwahati by road in the early hours of Wednesday, was produced before the court of chief judicial magistrate which remanded him to the custody of the criminal investigation department (CID) of police for six days. Before being produced in court, the former police officer was taken to Mahendra Mohan Choudhury Hospital (MMCH) where a rapid antigen test for Covid-19 was conducted. He tested negative for the virus. Dutta, who reportedly suffers from some heart ailment, was later taken to the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) where some tests were conducted before he was sent to CID custody. Dutta and a ruling BJP leader Diban Deka are prime accused in the police sub-inspector recruitment scam. The written exam to select 597 SIs was postponed last month after the question paper got leaked. Deka (who has since been expelled by the party) was arrested earlier and is in police custody. Dutta and Deka are suspected to have fleeced many candidates for the exam for sub inspectors of police by assuring them jobs in lieu of cash. Deka is alleged to have procured the question paper ahead of the written test. Police investigation has revealed that a day ahead of the test on September 20, many candidates had taken a mock exam in a Guwahati hotel. Nearly 70 of these candidates were staying at one of the five hotels Dutta owns in Guwahati. Police had issued look out circulars for both Dutta and Deka and alerted income tax department, enforcement directorate and department of revenue intelligence after unearthing many properties belonging to the for IPS officer. “We questioned Dutta for a bit after he was brought to Guwahati. The nexus of how the job recruitment scam would be revealed based on his further interrogation,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-ips-officer-accused-in-assam-job-scam-sent-to-6-days-police-custody/story-7qlNvleTcMtqikKach5yUK.html
07-10-2020||India||India, Japan finalise key cyber-security deal to boost cooperation on 5G, AI||India and Japan have finalised an ambitious agreement on cyber-security to boost cooperation on 5G technology and critical information infrastructure, and the two countries pledged on Wednesday to work for a free and open Indo-Pacific with diversified supply chains. The readouts issued by India and Japan after a meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and foreign minister Toshimitsu Motegi in Tokyo made no mention of China, though many of the issues discussed by them appeared to be a response to Beijing’s actions across the region. The proposed cyber-security agreement will promote cooperation in capacity building, research and development, and security and resilience in critical information infrastructure, 5G, internet of things (IoT) and artificial intelligence (AI), the external affairs ministry said. “Recognising the increasing role being played by digital technologies, the two ministers highlighted the need for robust and resilient digital and cyber systems and in this context, welcomed the finalisation of the text of the cyber-security agreement,” the ministry said.ALSO WATCH l Amid tension with China, Jaishankar meets counterparts from Japan & Australia A cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday approved the agreement, and an official statement said the two sides will also share information on countering cyber-security threats and develop joint mechanisms to mitigate threats to information communication technology (ICT) infrastructure. The two sides will also cooperate on cyber-security at international bodies such as the UN. The ministers “emphasised that a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region must be premised on diversified and resilient supply chains; and in this context, welcomed the Supply Chain Resilience Initiative between India, Japan, Australia and other like-minded countries,” the ministry added. The ministers met a day after they participated with their Australian and US counterparts in the second ministerial meeting of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, which pushed for a rules-based global order and peaceful resolution of disputes in the face of China’s growing aggression across the Indo-Pacific. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, described the proposed cyber-security agreement as significant as it will build on an existing dialogue with Japan at a time when both countries face challenges from hacking and other threats emanating from countries such as China and North Korea. “The problems faced by Hitachi Payment Services in 2016, when malware caused the breach of financial data and comprised the data of 3.2 million debit cards in India, is one example that shows the challenge of cyber-security is a joint one and can only be tackled through joint collaboration,” he said. The proposed agreement is also important as it covers critical information infrastructure, including infrastructure for banks and payment systems, telecommunications and internet, nuclear reactors and energy transmission systems, transport systems such as air traffic control, and water supply systems. “These are all essential for the functioning of the economy, polity and society,” Patil said. During their discussions, Jaishankar and Motegi agreed the Indo-Pacific had “acquired greater salience in recent times” and that India and Japan need to work together for the benefit of the region. “Reaffirming the similarities in their respective Indo-Pacific visions, that are based on rule of law and respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, the Japanese side agreed to be the lead partner in the connectivity pillar of the Indo-Pacific Oceans’ Initiative (IPOI) and jointly take both countries’ respective visions for the Indo-Pacific forward,” the external affairs ministry said. IPOI, unveiled by Modi at the East Asia Summit in November 2019, has seven pillars – maritime security, trade and connectivity, disaster risk reduction and management, science and technology cooperation, reducing marine pollution, sustainable use of marine resources, and capacity building. Motegi said Japan attaches importance to its strategic relations with India and referred to Tokyo’s Covid-19-related aid for New Delhi, including a 50-billion yen emergency assistance loan and a 1-billion yen grant for providing medical equipment. A readout from the Japanese foreign ministry said the ministers “reaffirmed the importance of implementing Japan-India cooperation in third countries such as ASEAN and Southwest Asian countries and making steady progress on the high-speed rail project”. Jaishankar also held a separate meeting with his Australian counterpart Marise Payne. “Reviewed the progress in our bilateral ties after the Virtual Summit between our PMs. Discussed expanding our cooperation in global affairs & regional issues. Will work together more closely in multilateral forums,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-japan-finalise-key-cyber-security-deal-to-boost-cooperation-on-5g-ai/story-WCMa9En3NFPkQMWClGNFJI.html
07-10-2020||India||‘TRP rating has to be stopped or improved’: Union minister Javadekar||Noting that there is a need for a mechanism or a metric for gauging popularity, Union minister for information and broadcasting Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday said the present system of Television Rating Point or TRP-oriented programmes needs a rethink.The TRP is a tool used to collate data on programme popularity through a device attached to the television sets in a few thousand viewers’ houses to measure impressions.The minister said going by the reporting in the media in the past two weeks, it is clear that the “avoidable TRP rating has to be stopped or improved”. Speaking at an event organised by the RSS newsletter Panchajanya, Javadekar said TRP cannot be an excuse for provocative programmes on television and that is not journalism. “Because we believe in self-regulation, I urge media companies to work out a way for regulating their content. The government has faith in the media and the freedom of the press, but the media should work out a way to ensure how its freedom is ensured,” he said.Referring to the concerns about media practices, he said earlier the letter P stood for press, then came paid news and then fake news and now there is TRP journalism. “There should be responsible journalism and that responsibility has to come from within,” he said.He referred to the Press Council of India, a quasi-judicial body, that lays down regulation for the print media and said some TV channels have formed an organisation for self-regulation. “But how effective is it? Those who are not part of it do not listen to it. What should be done to bring everybody together,” the minister said, stressing the need for self-regulation. While the PCI has recommended setting up a media council that will have jurisdiction over television and digital media platforms, the TV industry has largely opposed it, opting for a self regulatory body such as the National Broadcasters Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-rating-has-to-be-stopped-or-improved-union-minister-javadekar/story-q109sBIsj5oPS9TvTA1pcN.html
07-10-2020||India||CRPF to reach out to 12 crore people in next 100 days on Covid-19 safety protocols||Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Director General – Dr A P Maheshwari said on Wednesday that the paramilitary force will connect with at least 12 crore people through its 1,600 bases across the country in the next 100 days to educate them about Covid-19 safety measures as part of a mega-awareness campaign planned by the Centre. Home minister Amit Shah had, on Tuesday, asked all the paramilitary forces to initiate a large scale campaign about Covid-19 safety protocols so that the number of cases can be controlled. “A meeting was held in the home ministry on Tuesday. It was decided that a campaign underlining three things - wearing a mask, washing hands and ensuring social or physical distancing, should be ensured by everyone to check the coronavirus spread. All the security forces, including the CRPF, will undertake this campaign in their respective areas. We aim to get in touch with 12 crore people through our 1,600 bases in the country over the next 100 days,” Maheshwari said. He informed that CRPF has already provided help to over 50,000 people affected due to the pandemic in the last six months. Maheshwari was addressing the troops of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) on its 28th anniversary at the Central Reserve Police Force camp in Meerut. The paramilitary forces – including, Border Security Force (BSF), Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) - are currently engaged in providing medical, ration or blood/plasma related help to people in different states but the Centre has asked them to use their reach to inform people about life saving measures that can be easily taken. CRPF spokesperson M Dhinakaran said – “We have already made a large number of masks and sanitisers in various areas. As part of the latest Covid-19 campaign, our units will go to remote villages in Naxal-affected districts, north east and Jammu and Kashmir as well as cities in other states and inform people about advantages of wearing masks, washing hands and physical distancing. We will connect with RWAs, community leaders etc to send this message”. Speaking at the event, Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai said that the Delhi riots were part of a big conspiracy to disturb the peace of the country while lauding forces like the Rapid Action Force (RAF) for successfully foiling the evil designs of such people. “A big conspiracy was hatched to disturb the peace in the national capital this year through riots. However, the RAF played an important role in suppressing the elements that spread anarchy and ensured peace,” Rai said, adding that the nefarious designs of rioters were completely defeated. “You suffer damage and injury during riots and protests...but you use force only when violent groups start troubling the peace of society,” the MoS added. The RAF is a special anti-riot wing of the CRPF and was raised in 1992. It is deployed for internal security and law and order duties in various states. The force was deployed during the communal violence that broke out in northeast Delhi in February, killing 53 people and injuring about 200. Delhi Police has filed multiple chargesheets before a Delhi court in these cases. The RAF has 15 battalions (over 15,000 personnel) located in various parts of the country. Rai said that the “best part about RAF is that it uses minimum force while maintaining peace in a particular area.” The MoS also lauded the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), the parent organisation of RAF, for killing several terrorist leaders in Jammu and Kashmir in the last few years and playing a key role in bringing the population of the Union territory to the mainstream.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-to-reach-out-to-12-crore-people-in-next-100-days-on-covid-19-safety-protocols/story-eT0ky4WpF4pHqMaOzcTdsJ.html
07-10-2020||India||Hathras case: Over 500 law students claim ‘irresponsible behaviour’ by officials, write to CJI demanding action||More than 500 law students across the country have written a letter to the Chief Justice of India demanding action against the negligence and “irresponsible behaviour” by the officials in the Hathras gang-rape case in which a Dalit woman died.According to news agency ANI, the letter petition has been written by 510 students, who have called for appropriate guidelines on the rights of the family members over the woman’s body.“The Supreme Court should give appropriate directions to all states and union territories (UTs) to utilise the unused amount in Nirbhaya funds for ensuring the safety of women,” students said in the letter.The letter petition follows nationwide criticism sparked by the gang rape of the 19-year-old. After her death on September 29, the woman was cremated in the dead of the night. Her family accused the district authorities of performing the cremation forcefully. But, Hathras district administration has denied any wrongdoing and said that they had the family’s consent.The cremation in the middle of the night fuelled allegation that the state government is trying to bury evidence.Currently, the case is being probed by a special investigation team constituted on the orders of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The state has also called for a Supreme Court-monitored investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation.Meanwhile, Adityanath has accused opposition leaders who have been leading protests against the crime, of doing politics on the basis of case, religion and region.He also said that the opposition parties are hatching conspiracies to malign the state’s image.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-over-500-law-students-claim-irresponsible-behaviour-by-officials-write-to-cji-demanding-action/story-0ctrN5cTzlxybeFcGKhXfK.html
07-10-2020||India||Union Cabinet approves Kolkata East West Metro Corridor Project’s revised cost||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved reforms in gas pricing mechanism and the revised cost of a project of the Kolkata metro rail while also lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the remarkable feat of heading a key public office continuously for 19 years.The estimated completion cost of the East West Metro Corridor project for Kolkata and surrounding urban areas is Rs 8575 crore and target date of completion is December 2021.The total route length of the East-West Metro Corridor Project is 16.6 km through 12 stations. The project will ease traffic congestion, enhance urban connectivity and provide a cleaner mobility solution to lakhs of daily commuters.“As promised earlier to make Phoolbagan metro station functional by Durga Puja, we inaugurated the metro station on October 4,” said Union railways minister Piyush Goyal, who addressed a press briefing along with information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar and Petroleum and Natural Gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan..The Cabinet also approved a standardised e-bidding process aimed at making natural gas pricing mechanism transparent. Guidelines for the process will be prepared for e-bidding, said Pradhan.The move aims to prescribe standard procedure to discover market price of gas to be sold through a transparent and competitive process.“The government wants to provide energy to Indian consumers at an affordable price. For this, we want to provide energy through various sources like solar, bio-fuels, bio-gas, synthetic gas etc,” said Pradhan.The Cabinet also gave its nod to a public awareness campaign on Covid-19. “Mask, social distancing and washing hands are the only weapons to remain safe, in the absence of a Covid-19 vaccine,” Javadekar said.A public campaign to raise awareness about Covid-19 appropriate behavior in all public places will start from Thursday, he added.The Cabinet also gave its nod to a MoU with Japan for the exchange of knowledge and technology on cybersecurity.Another MoU with Canada under which Zoological Survey of India and the similar body in Canada have agreed upon bar-coding of faunal genome was also approved, Javadekar said.“We also ratified the Stockholm Convention,” he added. Seven chemicals that are hazardous to health and environment have been banned.The Cabinet congratulated Prime Minister Modi for his uninterrupted run as a government head for the 20th year,“The Cabinet congratulated the Prime Minister for entering the 20th year as a government head, uninterrupted, and by democratic means. The way he has brought reforms in governance, in major sectors, and he has given corruption-free government. And he has completed many projects which were pending and languishing for years together are the achievements,” Javadekar said.Javadekar said in these years the Prime Minister had worked to improve the standard of living of the common citizen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-cabinet-approves-kolkata-east-west-metro-corridor-project-s-revised-cost/story-nCu9fK3qLidaVAU3bJeBCI.html
07-10-2020||India||Journalist, 3 others on way to Hathras arrested, charged with anti-terror law||A journalist and three others on way to Hathras and arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police earlier this week have been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and sedition, according to an FIR registered in Mathura on Wednesday.The four, who had been arrested in Mathura on Monday, had been placed under preventive detention but an FIR was registered against them in the Mant police station of Mathura today and subsequently they were presented before a court.These four include Atiq-ur- Rehman from Muzaffar Nagar, Siddiq from Malappuram (Kerala), Masood from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur. Siddiq is a journalist. They were arrested on Monday night after a laptop and some objectionable literature relating to ‘Justice for Hathras Victim’ was allegedly recovered from their possession while they were en route to Hathras.They are allegedly linked with Popular Front of India’s (PFI) student wing Campus Front of India (CFI) and were coming from Delhi and moving towards Hathras in a car and were stopped, said police. The UP government has maintained that there is a conspiracy to whip up caste and communal violence in the state and the Hathras police are now investigating a conspiracy angle in the case, which has created a political storm. The Superintendent of Police (SP) for Mathura Rural Sheerish Chand confirmed that these four are now booked for sedition and other charges. He informed that all four were presented before Court on Wednesday and sent to judicial custody for 14 days. The FIR has been registered under section 153-A of IPC (promoting enmity between two groups), 295A of IPC (deliberate and malicious act intended to outrage feelings) 124 (A) (Sedition) beside section 17 and 14 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967 and Sections 65, 72 and 76 of Information Technology Act.The FIR blames them for attempting to incite riots in Hathras and fuelling caste violence for which they were collecting donations through those working for website Carrd.co.It further said that money transfer was not through lawful method and the money so gathered from international sources was to cause riots. It was alleged that pamphlets ‘Am I Not India’s Daughter’ were to serve these unlawful purposes. The men are accused of attempting to incite a riot, spread rumours, gather people and wage a hate campaign against India through its website. The website, said police, was teaching ways to cause riots and to move out safely after achieving the objective. All four arrested were blamed to be involved in all these activities through the website, alleged Prabal Pratap Singh, the sub inspector and complainant in the case, according to whom, these unlawful acts make all four liable for sedition charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalist-3-others-on-way-to-hathras-arrested-charged-with-anti-terror-law/story-gGbbUrAfd1OAeRDxZ2EgkI.html
07-10-2020||India||Amid Hathras outrage, Adityanath accuses vested interests of playing politics over bodies||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath on Wednesday continued to aggressively counter what he described as ‘opposition propaganda’ against his government, saying that ‘vested political interests’ were doing politics over bodies in the state. “There are those for whom the poor are a vote bank and poverty alleviation a mere slogan as there had been no real desire to ensure that the poor were uplifted,” Adityanath said during a virtual address to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers of the Bangarmau assembly constituency in Unnao district. Bangarmau is among the seven assembly seats for which bye-elections will be held on November 3. “For us, politics is a medium to serve the masses. But there are those who are doing politics over dead bodies. For the opposition, politics is virtually a business and they can stoop to any level to ensure their business does well,” Adityanath said. Also read: ‘Must have called boyfriend to the field’: BJP leader’s shocker on HathrasThe BJP looks to do well in these bypolls in which the Hathras incident is being played up by the opposition to target the government.Adityanath’s remarks were in obvious reference to the Hathras incident where the gang rape and subsequent death of a 19-year old Dalit woman sparked a national outrage and led to an opposition build-up against the state government. The late-night cremation of the victim’s body sparked another outrage. The Adityanath government has, however, alleged that a conspiracy was underway to defame the government. The chief minister, who has been addressing party workers virtually in all constituencies where bypolls are due, has also been exhorting the cadres to expose the opposition who, he claimed, were conspiring to whip up caste and communal riots in the state.“There are some who view everything from the prism of caste, region and religion,” Adityanath said while lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi for changing the way things are now done in the country. “Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership, UP has made all-round progress, especially in infrastructure, health, education, connectivity and investment. This is why the perception about the state has undergone a drastic change,” he said.BJP’s UP unit president Swatantra Dev Singh also targeted the opposition and urged the party workers to ‘expose’ those creating hurdles in the nation’s development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-hathras-outrage-adityanath-accuses-vested-interests-of-playing-politics-over-bodies/story-BFJTW4PS3S7HIKTAVnbbTN.html
07-10-2020||India||Railway Board gives approval for 39 more special trains. Check full list here||The Ministry of Railways on Wednesday announced that the railway board has given approval to zones for 39 new trains. These services will be introduced as special services from an early convenient date.According to the list, most of the trains belong to the category of AC Express, Duronto, Rajdhani and Shatabdi. The announcement comes a week after railway board chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav said that Indian Railways plans to run more than 200 trains during the festive season between October 15 and November 30.Here’s full list of 39 special trains: Railway Board today gave approval to zones for 39 new trains. These services will be introduced as special services from an early convenient date: Ministry of Railways, Government of India pic.twitter.com/UloAYzxZBSThe Railways had suspended all passenger trains services due to the imposition of a nationwide lockdown from March 25. However, it resumed services in a staggered manner with Shramik Special trains to help stranded migrant workers reach their home states from May 1.Later, it started 230 special trains across the country, followed by another 80 special trains from September 12.The additional trains were announced keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation and also to allow reverse migration of workers to urban areas for work, with the country entering into Unlock 4.0The Railway also recently started operating clone trains under its network. Initially a total of 40 (20 pairs) of trains will operate in the Indian Railways network which has seen a huge passenger traffic demand.The main feature of the clone trains will be that these trains will have fewer stoppages and will also run at a higher speed than the original train.Meanwhile, the Indian Railway Catering And Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC) on Wednesday announced to restart the operation of Tejas Express trains for catering to the growing passenger demand due to the festive season.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-board-gives-approval-for-39-more-special-trains-check-full-list-here/story-Tepby57wzApiTgv5frTccK.html
07-10-2020||India||PM Modi dials Putin, wants to host him as soon as global health crisis wanes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday that he was looking forward to receiving the Russian leader in India as soon as the public health situation becomes normal. Modi made the remarks when he spoke on the phone with Putin to convey his greetings and best wishes to the Russian president on the occasion of his birthday. “Both leaders agreed to remain in touch over the coming days, including on the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic,” the external affairs ministry said. “The Prime Minister expressed his keenness to welcome President Putin in India, as soon as possible after the normalisation of the public health situation,” it added. Modi also recalled his association and friendship with Putin, and appreciated the personal role that the Russian leader has played in nurturing the special and privileged strategic partnership between the two countries. The Prime Minister’s planned visit to Russia for a summit with the president and meetings of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS) didn’t materialise because of the travel restrictions imposed worldwide following the Covid-19 pandemic. The 12th BRICS Summit will now be held on November 17 via video conference. Russia has also played a role in facilitating meetings between the foreign and defence ministers of India and China on the margins of SCO meetings held in Moscow last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-dials-putin-wants-to-host-him-as-soon-as-global-health-crisis-wanes/story-gqbEF55pgsuMu8yGDFoy2I.html
07-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Cabinet gives nod to Rs 8,575 crore East-West Metro Corridor project in Kolkata and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cabinet gives nod to Rs 8,575 crore East-West Metro Corridor project in KolkataThe Union Cabinet on Wednesday gave its approval to complete the Kolkata East-West Metro Corridor Project at the cost of Rs 8,575 crore. This will give a boost to mass transit system, said Union minister Piyush Goyal while briefing media on cabinet decisions today. Read more‘Choose BJP or farmers’: Yogendra Yadav, farmers protest near Chautala’s house, detainedThe Haryana police on Wednesday detained activist Yogendra Yadav and several farmers, protesting near the houses of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and power and jails minister Ranjit Chautala in Sirsa, seeking resignation of the duo from the Manohar Lal Khattar led government. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput death: Mumbai Police to take action against journalists who chase vehiclesSoon after actor Rhea Chakraborty was granted bail by Bombay high court, Mumbai Police warned journalists that strict action will be taken against media representatives if they chased the vehicle of any celebrity, advocate or a person they wanted to interview. Read moreIPL 2020: KKR’s Ali Khan ruled out of tournament due to injuryIn a major blow to Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR), USA speedster Ali Khan has been ruled out the ongoing season of the Indian Premier League (IPL) following an injury. Read moreSwara Bhasker takes dig at Kangana Ranaut after AIIMS says Sushant died by suicide: ‘Weren’t some people going to return awards’Actor Swara Bhaskar took a dig at Kangana Ranaut after the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) confirmed that Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide and was not murdered. Read moreLos Angeles, Pic du Midi and the Atacama Desert: World’s most extraordinary sites for stargazingThere are very few wonders in the world that can compare to the vast magnificence of the night sky. Read moreAt UNGA, 39 countries slam China over Uyghur rights abuse, Hong Kong situationAt United Nations General Assembly third committee, 39 countries joined a call urging China to respect the human rights of minority Uyghurs and expressed concern about the situation in Hong Kong. Read moreTata Motors launches more affordable Harrier Dark Edition XTTata Motors has recently introduced the Harrier Dark Edition XT variant at ₹16.50 lakh. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cabinet-gives-nod-to-rs-8-575-crore-east-west-metro-corridor-project-in-kolkata-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Muim46L6CiOom5OyoA91QN.html
07-10-2020||India||Former Goa Lokayukta bats for stronger Act, more powers to tackle graft||Goa’s Lokayukta Act is weak when compared to those in Karnataka and Kerala and needs to be strengthened in order to be effective, justice Prafulla Kumar Misra, who was effectively Goa’s first Lokayukta (ombudsman) has said. Justice Misra, former Chief Justice of the Patna High Court, who recently completed his tenure as Goa’s Lokayukta and returned to his home in Odisha on Monday, presided over an eventful, but ultimately inefficacious tenure as the government refused to act upon and rejected most (some are still pending for consideration) of his recommendations or chose not to act upon recommendations “To make the Goa Lokayukta Act more meaningful and effective some amendments are required. [Granting] power to the Lokayukta to prosecute as in Karnataka, Kerala, provisions for recovery of cost; power to punish for contempt are some of the amendments required to make it more effective,” Justice Misra told HT.The Goa Lokayukta Act empowers the Lokayukta to, upon receiving a complaint, to hold a preliminary inquiry to ascertain “whether there exists reasonable ground for conducting investigation the complaint” or whether the complaint is frivolous or vexatious or is not made in good faith; or there are no sufficient grounds for proceeding further; or other remedies are available to the complainant and in the circumstances of the case it would be more appropriate for the complainant to avail of such remedies. If satisfied that there are adequate grounds to proceed with a detailed inquiry, the Lokayukta will then proceed to conduct a hearing, examine evidence and communicate his findings and recommendations to the Government. The government has to then, within three months report back to the Lokayukta on the action taken or proposed to be taken, on the basis of the report.If satisfied, the Lokayukta shall close the case under information to the complainant, but where he is not satisfied and if he considers that the case so deserves, he may make a special report upon the case to the Governor.The Lokayukta can also formally declare a public functionary (elected representative or bureaucrat) as unfit to hold office but the onus is on the Government to either accept or reject such declaration after giving the public functionary an opportunity of being heard.The Lokayukta, however, rejected the notion that his directions were not binding on the government. “If you read the sections carefully, you will find that the report regarding ‘grievance’ and order to initiate prosecution are binding, as the words used is ‘shall’ and not ‘may’. Such mandatory word ‘shall’ is being conveniently ignored by all concerned,” justice Misra said “I can’t comment as to whether the Act was deliberately made weak. In the original Act sent to the President, there was a Provision for punishment for contempt, but it seems the Central Government raised objections at that time. Compared to the Karnataka and Kerala Act, the Goa Act is weak, but it is stronger compared to some other Acts in some States,” he said. Justice Misra took over as the Goa Lokayukta in April 2016 succeeding Goa’s first Lokayukta Justice (Retd) Sudarshan Reddy, who had resigned within seven months of his appointment on October 17, 2013. The post was vacant for more than two years. During his tenure Misra indicted former Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar and recommended disciplinary action against two top officials of the Mines Department for hastily clearing 88 mining lease renewals including 31 in a single day and recommended a CBI probe in the matter. The findings were rejected by the Government. He also found irregularities in beach cleaning tenders, recommended a probe against a then minister for having allegedly amassed assets disproportionate to his known sources of income and blamed the government for crippling the institution with inadequate investigating officers to carry out its functions. The Goa Lokayukta Act was passed in 2012 by the Manohar Parrikar-led government that came to power with an absolute majority on the plank of ‘zero tolerance to corruption’. In the run up to the election, Parrikar had promised that he would bring to fruition a strong Lokayukta Act. The Bill was passed after a heated debate in which the opposition benches said provisions of the Bill were designed to discourage complainants while at the same time had inadequate penal provisions to those found guilty of corruption. A Lokayukta to succeed justice Misra is yet to be appointed. The state government has been being directed to do so within three months by the Bombay High Court at Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-goa-lokayukta-bats-for-stronger-act-more-powers-to-tackle-graft/story-RZ5iTSeBsM6nd3JfjgS3iL.html
07-10-2020||India||Govt to launch awareness campaign to check spread of coronavirus: Prakash Javadekar||The government would launch a campaign from Thursday to spread awareness on the measures people need to follow to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Union minister Prakash Javadekar said. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday on the decisions taken by the Union Cabinet, Javadekar said till the time a vaccine is available, people need to wear masks, maintain distance and sanitise hands as part of efforts to check the spread of the coronavirus. He said following the three rules is a major defence against the virus. The government has all along been urging people to follow these measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Posters, banners and stickers would come up at public places and on metros, auto rickshaws and other public transports to spread the message, Javadekar said. Social media would also be used as part of the campaign, he added. He said the precautions are all the more important as winter season would soon set in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-launch-awareness-campaign-to-check-spread-of-coronavirus-prakash-javadekar/story-hVNz5Kz0yHnBS5FSMm2MfK.html
07-10-2020||India||Cabinet gives nod to Rs 8,575 crore East-West Metro Corridor project in Kolkata||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday gave its approval to complete the Kolkata East-West Metro Corridor Project at the cost of Rs 8,575 crore. This will give a boost to mass transit system, said Union minister Piyush Goyal while briefing media on cabinet decisions today.The total length of the project is 16.6 km and it will consist of 12 stations. It will connect Howrah on the West bank of the river Hooghly with Salt Lake City on its east bank.“The metro corridor will ease traffic congestion, enhance urban connectivity and provide a cleaner mobility solution to lakhs of daily commuters,” the minister added.Goyal had on Sunday virtually inaugurated the Phoolbagan Station of Kolkata’s East-West Metro corridor, describing the extension of the line from Salt Lake Stadium as a “Durga Puja gift” for the people of the metropolis.He also flagged off the first train from the new station to Salt Lake Sector-V, and said the entire stretch of the corridor is likely to be completed by December 2021.Phoolbagan is the first underground station to become operational on the East-West Metro corridor, which travels both below the surface and on elevated tracks, and also through underwater tunnels below River Hooghly.M G Road in the north-south main line of Kolkata Metro was the last underground station to be commissioned back in September 1995. All metro stations to become functional after that are either elevated or at grade level.Work on the East-West Metro corridor was also disrupted due to an accident caused by an aquifer burst in Bowbazar area in central Kolkata during drilling operations in August 2019.It will take only 16 minutes to cover the 6.54-km distance between Sector-V and Phoolbagan. When complete, the East-West Metro will connect both Howrah and Sealdah stations, two of Railways’ busiest stations.The first phase of the project, a 4.88-km stretch connecting Sector-V and Salt Lake Stadium, was inaugurated by Goyal on February 13.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-gives-nod-to-rs-8-575-crore-east-west-metro-corridor-project-in-kolkata/story-BZt0gaSh2YwxHhXj7iWuMM.html
07-10-2020||India||‘Must have called boyfriend to the field’: BJP leader’s shocker on Hathras||A video of a BJP leader from Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki alleging that the 19-year-old Dalit woman who was allegedly gang-raped must have called her boyfriend to the field in Hathras and may have been caught has gone viral on social media. Ranjeet Srivastava, 67, a former chairman of Nawabganj Nagar Palika (municipality), denied that there was a rape and questioned why “such women” are found in millet fields only. The Dalit woman was allegedly raped when she had gone to collect fodder with her mother in a field. “I think usually in such situations when girls are found in millet fields, they usually have an affair. This girl must have called her boyfriend to the fields,” Srivastava is both heard and seen saying it on the video, which has since gone viral on social media. The BJP has so far maintained a studied silence on his remarks. “Yes, the video you are talking about is indeed by me. Several other videos of mine are running in various news channels,” he said. A father of three sons, with one of them being a member of UP BJP’s youth wing, Srivastava on being asked about the reference to ‘aisi ladkiyan bajre ke khet main hi kyun paayi jaati hai (why are such girls found in millet fields only)’, Srivastava said, “I haven’t spoken of all the girls as many are believing. I merely said, ‘iss tarah ki ladkiyan’ (such girls)’,” he said. और सारी बकवास, जातिवादी, उन्मादी बातें करने वाले भाजपा में ही क्यों पाए जाते हैं? https://t.co/KziEKwGIgdAsked what he meant by “iss tarah ki ladkiyan”, he said, “jis tarah ki wo ladki thee (the kind of girl that she was),” before giving an elaborate, laboured explanation of his ‘understanding’ of the situation that he maintained was largely driven by ‘social media’. Also Watch l ‘Inculcating good values in girls can stop rapes’: UP BJP leader | Hathras case Questioned further if it is okay to take social media seriously on an incident as barbaric as this, he said, “I have also made a statement on social media. Then why are you giving so much importance to it.” “See the point I am making is that one has to rely on circumstantial evidence, where there is no evidence. So I am asking, on the basis of what has been reported, both in local papers as well as in social media, as to what was this girl (referring to the victim), doing in millet fields? Because initial reports suggested that she had gone with her mother to cut grass but then millet fields have no grass. But, just assuming there was grass in the millet field in which she had gone, then please remember that millet fields aren’t very dense. If she had sensed danger, she should have raised an alarm, instead of surrendering. And if whatever act she was allegedly subjected to against her will, then there must have been some sign of struggle, which clearly there is not.” In between these remarks, he kept on saying, “khair ab to jaanch ho hi rahi hai... (now, an inquiry is on anyway)”. A special investigation team has been constituted to probe the incident, the deadline to submit its report was extended by another 10 days today. A CBI inquiry in the case has been recommended. “Initially the FIR didn’t mention rape? Why? Let me explain this. That’s because had rape been mentioned in the FIR, then her medical examination would have been necessary. So whatever the medical examination must have happened was primarily to verify the physical assault, not rape. The rape part emerged in the FIR lodged by a Congress leader, eight days after the incident,” he said. The BJP leader also refused to agree to the dying declaration made by the victim. “I don’t think her statement on rape before her death can be taken as dying declaration simply because a dying declaration has to be made before the magistrate, which I don’t think had been done, so how can it be termed dying declaration,” he said. “All this is planned, part of the opposition game plan to discredit our party’s government,” he said.The Yogi Adityanath government is fighting severe criticism for its handling of the case, particularly after the local police burnt the woman’s body at night without the family’s approval. However, officials said the cremation was done “as per the wishes of the family”.Quoting an FSL report, the government has denied denied the rape charge and claimed that some people were trying to foment caste tensions in the aftermath of the incident. Four men from the so-called “upper caste” have been arrested in the incident. Facing a battering to its image, the Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that it wanted an apex court-monitored CBI inquiry into the Hathras episode, which the SC described as “horrible”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-have-called-boyfriend-to-the-field-bjp-leader-s-shocker-on-hathras/story-uH6k0jgGHGJlqwkk4IsmbK.html
07-10-2020||India||Kedarnath chief priest, health staff to be tested every 15 days for Covid-19||With rising pilgrim traffic, the Rudraprayag district administration in Uttarakhand has now decided that the priests of Kedarnath shrine along with health, police and administration officials will be tested for Covid-19 every 15 days, official said Wednesday. With relaxations under Unlock 5.0, the number of pilgrims visiting the Char Dham shrines has been increased to 3,000 per day. Dr. BK Shukla, chief medical officer of Rudraprayag district said that everyone staying permanently at the Kedarnath shrine premises will be tested at regular intervals. “As pilgrims coming to the shrine have increased in the past few days since the state government announced more relaxations, the risk has increased. Keeping that in mind, the district magistrate has instructed that the chief priest’s health will be checked twice daily and he will be tested every 15 days,” said the chief medical officer. He added that all other priests will also be tested every 15 days on a rotational basis. “We have already tested around 190 people and sufficient antigen test kits have been given already to the dispensary in the shrine premises. The health condition of all district officials is being monitored. The health status of the pilgrims is also being monitored at different points, district border and two points before entering the shrine,” said Dr. Shukla. The district administration took the decision of regular testing after it received many complaints of pilgrims not wearing masks and violating social and physical distancing norms at Kedarnath shrine. The helipad near the shrine will also be sanitized on a daily basis. Vinod Shukla, president of Kedarnath Tirtha Purohit Mahasabha, said, “Despite security personnel and all safety measures in place, many pilgrims are not wearing masks. We are also continuously monitoring the situation and ensuring that pilgrims follow all safety protocols, but with increased numbers, it is difficult to manage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kedarnath-chief-priest-health-staff-to-be-tested-every-15-days-for-covid-19/story-TsYRzF5T0cgPmiJ2YtIaDP.html
07-10-2020||India||PM Modi extends birthday wishes to his ‘friend’ Russian President Vladimir Putin||Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended birthday wishes to his “friend” and Russian President Vladimir Putin on his 68th birthday on Wednesday. Both leaders held a telephonic conversation, where they discussed challenges, including those posed by Covid-19 pandemic. They also agreed to remain in touch over the coming days.“Spoke to my friend President Vladimir Putin to greet him on his birthday today. Appreciated his immense personal contribution to strengthening the special and privileged strategic partnership between India and Russia,” said the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) in an official statement.“In the phone call, both leaders agreed to remain in touch over the coming days, including on the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic,” it also said.PM Modi also expressed keenness to welcome President Putin in India, as soon as possible public health situation normalises, according to the statement.India and Russia are old allies on the international forum. Since PM Modi came into power, both leaders have maintained constant touch and discussed ways to strengthen the bilateral relations.In June this year, both leaders discussed strategy to jointly address the challenges of the post-Covid world. They also discussed strategy to strengthen the Indo-Russia ties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-extends-birthday-wishes-to-his-friend-russian-president-vladimir-putin/story-YIUkbLKbg21CRLGdxQ19dL.html
07-10-2020||India||Noida airport to have one runway and 90% domestic traffic initially: Zurich airport official||One runway of the Noida international airport will be built during the first phase of construction and around 90 per cent of the air traffic in the initial years will be domestic only, said a top official of Zurich Airport International on Wednesday. Officials of the Uttar Pradesh government and Zurich Airport International signed a concession agreement on Wednesday to begin the construction of the Noida airport in Jewar on the outskirts of Delhi. “We will obviously work with the local construction partners to build it (Noida airport) but we will be the main investor at the moment,” Daniel Bircher, Chief Executive Officer, Zurich Airport International (Asia) told PTI in an interview. He said the company might get another financial investor at a later stage to develop the airport further. “As a strategic objective, we are looking at building a platform of airports in India in the mid-term. So, it could be that we will join hands with a financial investor in a later stage to make this platform (Noida airport) grow. At this stage of the development phase (of Noida airport), we will do it ourselves,” he added. Zurich Airport International currently holds 100 per cent shareholding in the Noida airport project. It had outbid the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), Adani Enterprises and Anchorage Infrastructure Investments Holdings Limited to win the 40-year concession for the Noida airport. The GMR group-led DIAL operates the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) in Delhi. “What we know today is that the Delhi airport (IGIA) has natural limitations in the peak hours, so the airlines that want to operate during the peak hours will find ways to operate. So, there will be a shift of these airlines,” Bircher noted. “So, will the same airline also use the airport to do international flights? That is up to the airline to decide. I do not see this (Noida) airport to be the competition to the international traffic at the existing airport (IGIA). That will not change for some time,” he said. When asked if the ongoing coronavirus pandemic has changed its air traffic projections at the Noida airport, Bircher said,” Today, there is an impact (due to the pandemic) but we are very confident that India with such a large domestic market...will very strongly rebound as we have seen in 2011-12.” In the last 5-6 years, a growth rate of 20 per cent plus has been observed for some airports in India so any substantial changes in traffic projections are not seen, he added. When it won the bid on November 29 last year to build and operate the Noida airport, the Swiss company had said the airport will be able to handle 12 million passengers per annum after the first phase of construction. Bircher told the PTI, “Domestic travel, I have no doubt, will rebound very quickly. Since, we are going to have 90 per cent domestic traffic in the initial years...I think that our assumption still holds true.” When asked if the government has informed the company by when the construction of metro -- connecting the airport with the wider Delhi region -- will happen, he replied, “Our understanding is that the planning has been completed and the government is looking at starting the execution soon to bring it to the airport by the time we start operating.” The Noida airport site is around 70 km from the main Delhi region. He said the company has a total of three and half years to build the Noida airport. “We have three and half years, so we have six months to do financial closure, and the concession starts then and we have three years to build the airport,” Bircher mentioned. He said they were working hard now in the planning stage. “We are looking at Rs 4,500 crore of investment for the first phase. This is in an area of 1,334 hectares of land that has been given to be developed. This includes one runway, apron space, this includes 12 boarding bridges for the terminal, and it also includes cargo catering space,” he said. He said that in the planning stage, they were focusing on digitisation so as to give contactless services to passengers. “We are focusing on short connecting times....We want to make it easier for the passenger to connect (for the other flight) and also for the airline to reduce the time the aircraft is on ground so that reduces the cost for the airline,” Bircher said. Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) is a 100 per cent subsidiary of Zurich Airport International  which has been incorporated to develop the greenfield Noida airport in Jewar. The YIAPL will implement the public private partnership (PPP) for the Noida airport project together with the Uttar Pradesh government, New Delhi Okhla Industrial Development Authority and Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority. Bircher said, “We see a good potential in developing this airport into a logistics hub with all the adjacent logistics development and planned projects. It also includes 74 hectares of cityside area that can be developed.” “This we will take in a phase-wise approach, initially most likely a hotel and the rest we are still studying. This includes also a metro station on our land,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noida-airport-to-have-one-runway-and-90-domestic-traffic-initially-zurich-airport-official/story-vKa0AyLayWzE0la15QF3gJ.html
07-10-2020||India||IRCTC to restart Tejas trains from October 17 with safety protocols||Government-owned Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) is all set to restart operation of Tejas Express trains (Lucknow to New Delhi and Ahmedabad to Mumbai) for catering to the growing passenger demand due upcoming festive season.Both the trains are expected to restart operations from October 17, it said in a statement on Wednesday. The operation of these two Tejas trains was suspended from March 19 due to spread of Covid-19 pandemic.IRCTC said it has got approval from the Ministry of Railways to again start the operation of these two popular corporate trains. Bookings will open shortly.All-round preparations are underway to ensure that the trains match expectations of people in terms of service levels besides safety and health protocols. Every alternate seat will be kept vacant initially following the social distancing norms.All passengers will be provided a Covid-19 protection kit which will contain a bottle of hand sanitiser, a face mask, a face shield and a pair of gloves. They will go through thermal screening and hand sanitisation process before entering a coach.IRCTC said it has conducted an extensive training programme to train its team of employees which has been told to follow standard operating procedures to ensure passenger safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-to-restart-tejas-trains-from-october-17-with-safety-protocols/story-JrC1H1J4VdwUq0pSQFJKQP.html
07-10-2020||India||Metal detector, CCTV cameras: Authorities give three-layered security to Hathras family||The district administration in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras has provided three-layered security to the family of a Dalit woman who died after being gang-raped by four men. The administration’s decision comes two days after UP Police claimed apprehending four people linked with the Popular Front of India (PFI) in connection with the case.The authorities have installed a metal detector and CCTV camera for the security of the family.On Monday, four people were arrested in Mathura on suspicion of having links with PFI and its student wing - Campus Front of India (CFI) - while they were on their way to Hathras from Delhi. They were later sent to 14-days in preventive detention after being booked under Section 151 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) on Tuesday, police said.As per the FIR registered against them, the men “were going to Hathras to disrupt peace as part of larger conspiracy”, news agency ANI reported on Wednesday.Also Read | Hathras gang-rape case: Opposition hatching conspiracies, says Yogi AdityanathMeanwhile, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had alleged that there is big “international conspiracy” to defame his government and attempts to spark caste and communal riots over the murder and gang-rape of the Dalit woman.The 19-year-old succumbed to the injuries in Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital on September 29. Following this, the administration cremated the woman in the dead of the night, sparking nationwide outrage. The police have imposed prohibitory measures under Section 144 (of the CrPC) to limit the visitors coming to meet the family.Meanwhile, a three-member special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted by the state government to probe the case. The state has, on its part, recommended a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Also, the case will be tried in a fast-track court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metal-detector-cctv-cameras-authorities-give-three-layered-security-to-hathras-family/story-qVkBAM1QgJtEwoiY3tsRuL.html
07-10-2020||India||Oppn seeks action against UP govt officer in Meerut for forwarding BJP’s message||Opposition leaders have demanded an inquiry against district information officer of the UP government in Meerut, Ashutosh Chandola and accused him of violating service rules after he forwarded a message about the Bharatiya Janata Party farmers’ cell’s ‘tractor pujan’ programme to reporters on Tuesday. Opposition leaders also said he was resorting to publicity for the BJP.The message that Chandola forwarded to journalists said ‘BJP’s kisan prakosth (farmers’ cell) would organise a “tractor pujan programme in support of the farm reform bills near the Saket crossing at 1pm”. Chandola remained unfazed by the opposition’s outcry. “I forwarded the message,” he acknowledged and said that he did so after being requested.When asked whether he would forward similar messages of opposition parties on their request, he replied, “BJP is the ruling party, that’s why I forwarded (the message). How can I do it for the others?”District magistrate K Balaji said he was unaware of the issue and would look into it.Samajwadi Party district president Rajpal Singh demanded Chandola’s suspension. “There are many officials who have been working as workers of the BJP,” he said.He also said Chandola’s act was against service rules and that senior officers must take cognizance of the matter. The party will stage a protest, he added.Rashtriya Lok Dal’s organisational general secretary Rajkumar Sangwan said officials like Chandola seemed to have forgotten their actual responsibility and started acting like a dedicated worker of the BJP.He said such acts of officials were against their service rules and democratic norms. He suggested senior officials look into the matter and initiate action.BJP’s Lok Sabha MP from Meerut Rajendra Aggarwal also said it was a gross mistake by the information officer. “It was the responsibility of the party’s media cell to circulate party programmes in the media,” he said. Gajendra Sharma, the BJP’s media in-charge in the district, supported the MP’s views. While it was the responsibility of the party’s media cell to publicise the activities and programmes of the organisation in the media, it was the information department’s duty to do the same for the government and its ministers, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-seeks-action-against-up-govt-officer-in-meerut-for-forwarding-bjp-s-message/story-xHg2XQXeAWqYp0DzMd0EXP.html
07-10-2020||India||From Moderna’s trial results to Covaxin’s immunity booster: Covid-19 vaccine latest developments||Drugmakers and research centres around the world are working on Covid-19 vaccines, with large global trials of several of the candidates involving tens of thousands of participants underway.Some companies are close to unveiling their initial findings - Canadian and European regulators have already reviewed early data on some vaccines to help end the coronavirus pandemic that has claimed over a million lives.India’s Covid-19 case count rose to 67.57 lakh with 72,049 new cases in a day, while 57,44,693 people have recovered so far pushing the national recovery rate to 85.02%, according to the Union health ministry on Wednesday.The total coronavirus cases rose to 67,57,131, while the death count climbed to 1,04,555 with the coronavirus killing 986 lives in the last 24 hours in the country, the data showed. The Covid-19 case mortality rate has further declined to 1.55%.Here are all the latest updates on Covid-19 vaccine:1. A phase 1 investigational trial has revealed that the Covid-19 vaccine developed by US-based pharmaceutical company Moderna elicited a strong immune response in older adults with no serious adverse effects, a study has claimed.2. In India, an expert panel of Drugs Controller General (DCGI) has directed pharma giant Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to submit a revised protocol for performing phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine (Sputnik V) in India, news agency ANI quoted a government official as saying.3. Vaccine major Bharat Biotech on Monday announced its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin will use adjuvant Alhydroxiquim-II to boost immune response. An adjuvant is a pharmacological or immunological agent that improves the immune response of a vaccine by producing more antibodies and providing longer-lasting immunity.4. The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), a global partnership to develop vaccines against emerging infectious diseases, has partnered with the Faridabad-based Translational Health Sciences and Research Institute (THSTI) as one of the five laboratories that will create a global network for reliably assessing all vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).5. The Union health ministry, meanwhile, said on Tuesday that it was expecting Covid-19 vaccine supplies to be available from early next year. Addressing a press conference, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said: “If all goes well, we are looking at vaccine supplies coming in the first quarter of next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-moderna-s-trial-results-to-covaxin-s-immunity-booster-covid-19-vaccine-latest-developments/story-TaXzwqQwmXFfKjAYOUrPCM.html
07-10-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: In letter to CBI director, actor’s family lawyer calls AIIMS report ‘faulty’||Vikas Singh, the lawyer representing late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s family in the actor’s death case, on Wednesday wrote to the director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), calling forensic report submitted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to the agency ‘faulty.’In his letter, Singh further called for the matter to be referred to another forensic team constituted by the CBI. #SushantSinghRajput's family lawyer Vikas Singh writes a letter to CBI Director, raising objections over forensic examination report submitted by AIIMS to CBI & calling it faulty. The letter reads, "Matter needs to be referred to another forensic team to be constituted by CBI." pic.twitter.com/Jlnnusf37CIn the letter, Singh wrote that despite the best efforts of Rajput’s family to get a copy of the forensic report, there has been no response from Dr Sudhir Gupta.(Also read: Not taking personal cognisance of Sushant Singh Rajput case, clarifies Health minister)Dr Gupta is the head of the six-member AIIMS panel which, in its report to the CBI, ruled out the murder angle in the actor’s death. In a report submitted to the agency on September 29, the panel had said there were ‘no injuries on Rajput’s body other than of hanging’ nor was ‘presence of any seductive material’ detected.Calling this report ‘leaked,’ Singh further wrote if correct, the report amounts to ‘drawing a biased and boastful conclusion from insufficient evidence.’Pointing to various objections he had with the report, Singh accused Dr Gupta of ‘selectively leaking’ contents of the report to a couple of media houses. The ‘leak,’ he wrote, is aimed at creating doubts in people’s mind and bailing out the agencies ‘who have not done their job as per the rules.’He further called Dr Gupta’s conduct ‘unethical’ and ‘unprofessional.’Singh then wrote he is of the firm opinion the matter needs to be referred to another forensic team to be constituted by the CBI by picking up ‘some of the best names in the field from a different hospital’ for fair and proper assessment can take place.Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead in his Mumbai flat on June 14. On August 19, the Supreme Court transferred the case from the Mumbai Police to the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-in-letter-to-cbi-director-actor-s-family-lawyer-calls-aiims-report-faulty/story-lZQuYbD8nfyahq0oEBXNsJ.html
07-10-2020||India||8 injured in major fire at IOC petrol pump in Odisha||Eight people were injured in a major fire that broke out at an Indian Oil Corporation petrol pump near Raj Bhavan here on Wednesday, police said.Two of the injured are critical and have been shifted to SCB Medical College and hospital in Cuttack, said L D Sahu, director of Capital Hospital, where the rest are being treated.“Our priority is to ensure that the fire does not spread to the two other tanks containing petrol and diesel,” Commissioner of Police S S Sarangi said.Three fire tenders have been pressed into service to douse the flames, Sarangi said.The cause of the blaze is yet to be ascertained, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-injured-in-major-fire-at-ioc-petrol-pump-in-odisha/story-zYOt5MkWxfxswmztw2Gt0L.html
07-10-2020||India||‘She has no criminal antecedents’: 5 things Bombay high court said while granting bail to Rhea Chakraborty||The Bombay high court on Wednesday granted bail to actor Rhea Chakraborty who was arrested by Narcotics Control Bureau on September 8 after the agency brought drug-related charges against her in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. Rajput was found dead on June 14 in his Mumbai residence.The verdict comes just a day after an NDPS court extended her judicial custody till October 20. Rhea Chakraborty is likely to walk out of the Byculla prison on Wednesday — after a month.Here is what the high court observed in its verdict:1. The Bombay HC said it doesn’t think that celebrities and role models should be treated harshly so that it sets an example for the young generation. 2. “I do not agree. Everybody in equal before law. No celebrity or role model enjoys any special privilege before the court of law. Similarly, such person also does not incur any special liability when he faces law in the courts. Each case will have to be decided on its own merits irrespective of the status of the accused,” it said.Also Watch: Rhea Chakraborty exits jail in car with covered windows | Drugs case Also Read: Rhea Chakraborty gets bail but high court sets 4 key conditions; her brother stays in jail3. “She is not part of drug dealers. She has not forwarded the drugs allegedly procured by her to somebody else to earn monetary or other benefits,” the high court observed.4. “Since she has no criminal antecedents, there are reasonable grounds for believing that she is not likely to commit any offence while on bail,” the high court said.5. “There are reasonable grounds for believing that she is not guilty of any offence punishable under Sections 19, 24 or 27A(of NDPS Act) or any other offence involving commercial quantity,” the high court noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/she-has-no-criminal-antecedents-5-things-bombay-high-court-said-while-granting-bail-to-rhea-chakraborty/story-xnUM7JjuVTtONRvBXHGb8J.html
07-10-2020||India||RSS to hold its executive council meeting in 11 zones||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and its impact on livelihood, economy and businesses and the protest over the farm legislations will be among the issues that will come up for discussion at the upcoming Karyakarni mandal, or the all-India executive council meeting, of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). The course of the meeting itself has changed. Earlier, the RSS, the ideological fount of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), had called off the meeting of its highest decision-making body, the Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha, in March.Also read: World looking up to Indian ways of life amid Covid pandemic, says Mohan BhagwatNow, it will hold the Karyakarni mandal at 11 places instead of a single location.The RSS has divided the states into 11 zones, or kshetras. A senior functionary said it is for the first time in the history of the Sangh that the Karyakarni mandal meeting, which is held around Diwali, will be hosted in multiple locations in a bid to adhere to the social distancing norms that have been enforced to curb the spread of Covid-19.RSS chief Mohan Bhgawat and general secretary Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi will be present for all the 11 meetings, where no more than 40 functionaries will be in attendance. The meetings will be held between October 27 and December 6 in Palakkad, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Bhopal, Jaipur, Prayag, Patna, Guwahati, Gurugram, Ghaziabad and Bhubaneswar. The three-day annual meeting takes stock of the work carried out by the wings in the sphere of social service, communication, public relations and logistics. The meeting also takes up issues that are in the news, or are ideologically relevant for the Sangh. The issue of Dalit unrest following the Hathras incident -- of an alleged rape by four upper caste men of a Scheduled Caste (SC) teenager (19) and her subsequent death on September 29 -- is also likely to be discussed. The Sangh carries out samajik samarasta, or social harmony campaigns, to eradicate casteisms and the Hathras incident, which has stoked unrest among the Dalits, has set off alarm bells. A second functionary aware of the details said, the Sangh is of the view that the issue was not “handled properly and with sensitivity”. “There is a feeling that the Uttar Pradesh (UP) administration handled the situation badly,” said the second functionary. The second functionary said the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) has underlined the areas of concern about issues such as the minimum support price (MSP) not being included in the new farm laws following nationwide protests over the legislations.The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), the labour arm of the Sangh, has also announced that it would protest against the three new labour codes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-to-hold-its-executive-council-meeting-in-11-zones/story-WIfUsZ8QJStRsOjIdKgUoK.html
07-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Tripura High Court steps in, wants status report on recommendations of central team||The Tripura High Court on Tuesday asked the state government to detail the steps implemented on recommendations of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) team who visited the state in September to find out the cause behind rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths. The two-judge bench comprising Chief Justice Akil Kureshi and Justice Subhasish Talapatra had taken suo motu notice of the case in September after a series of allegations about poor health services at Tripura’s first dedicated Covid hospital, Govind Ballabh Pant (GBP) hospital in Agartala.Tripura has recorded a total of 27,308 Covid-19 positive cases and 298 deaths. Two others died by suicide. A central team sent to the state had pointed out some shortcomings, including ventilators, X-ray and CT chest machines that had either not been installed or weren’t working.The state had initially struggled to procure medical equipment in the initial phase of the coronavirus outbreak and were reported to have been overcharged for supply of face masks and personal protective equipment.At Tuesday’s hearing the court noted that the number of daily tests conducted had declined substantially from an average of 3,500-4,500 tests between 10 and 25 September. But the figure of daily tests dwindled to 2,000 after September 25. As per government records, 1,997 tests were conducted on 3 October, 2,173 tests on 4 October and 1229 tests the next day.“....the positivity rate of the recent past is quite high and mostly it seems to be above 10% of the samples tested. When compared with the overall positivity rate of the beginning of around 6.75%, this rate is higher. Therefore, if the total number of positive cases detected per day in the recent past is correlated with the reduced testing, the people of the state should not get a false idea that there is a dramatic improvement in the coronavirus spread and that the life should go back to normal. This would be a serious mistake with serious consequences, “ the court order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-tripura-high-court-steps-in-wants-status-report-on-recommendations-of-central-team/story-qF2yykHPn9xIQQbnZg26jL.html
07-10-2020||India||Global shares rebound from Donald Trump’s shock stimulus talks cancellation||European shares rose on Wednesday, as initial dismay at U.S. President Donald Trump’s decision to cancel fiscal stimulus negotiations with lawmakers in Washington was replaced by optimism about an aid package after the U.S. elections.Trump broke off talks with Democrats in a tweet, saying that negotiations will stop until after the Nov. 3 election, when he promised a major stimulus bill if he wins.The news quickly rattled Wall Street but Asian investors became less concerned overnight on the grounds that whoever wins the election will still introduce a fiscal stimulus bill.Asian stocks hit two-week highs and European shares, which opened slightly in the red, quickly rose, helped by upbeat earnings reports.The STOXX 600 was up 0.2% on the day by 0757 GMT and London’s FTSE 100 was up 0.1%.MSCI world equity index, which tracks shares in 49 countries and had climbed to a three-week high before the stimulus talks were cancelled, was up 0.1%.U.S. stocks were also set to rebound when Wall Street opens, with S&P 500 futures up 0.6%, helped by later tweets by Trump where he called for more fiscal support.“Even if a pre-election deal cannot be reached, Biden’s widening lead in the election polls is making it likelier that more substantial stimulus can eventually be agreed on,” UBS strategists wrote in a note to clients.“Indications of a more decisive election result may also reduce investors’ concerns about a protracted and contested outcome,” they added.A poll on Monday showed Democrat Joe Biden with his widest lead in a month, as a majority of Americans said Trump could have avoided coronavirus.Deutsche Bank strategists also wrote that markets were instead focusing on the prospect of more fiscal stimulus in the case of a clean sweep Democratic victory.“Further evidence that this election will result in a definitive result will offset any short term stimulus disappointment,” wrote Deutsche Bank strategist Jim Reid.Trump’s tweets came shortly after U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell reiterated warnings about the economic recovery, saying that the U.S. economy could slip into a downward spiral if the coronavirus is not controlled and growth sustained.German industrial output fell unexpectedly in August, indicating that the recovery from the coronavirus recession in Europe’s largest economy could be less powerful than hoped.The dollar - which initially rose when the talks in Washington were cancelled - fell as European markets opened on Wednesday, down 0.1% against a basket of currencies at 93.705 at 0736 GMT.Minutes from the Fed’s September meeting will be published at 1800 GMT. Euro-dollar was up 0.2% at $1.1756, while the Australian dollar, a liquid proxy for risk, was up 0.5% against the U.S. dollar.The Australian government pledged billions in tax cuts and measures to boost jobs on Tuesday, but traders say that the Aussie faces downside risks as the Reserve Bank of Australia is expected to cut rates in November.The pound was up 0.4% at $1.2919.Brussels is gearing up to extend Brexit negotiations until at least mid-November to avoid a no-deal scenario when Britain’s status-quo transition period with the European Union ends on Dec. 31, sources said.Oil prices extended their decline. With West Texas Intermediate crude oil futures down 48 cents at $40.18 a barrel by 0748 GMT.Gold was up 0.7% at 0748 GMT, at $1,890.91 per ounce.The benchmark 10-year Bund yield was down by about 1 basis point at 0.516%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-shares-rebound-from-donald-trump-s-shock-stimulus-talks-cancellation/story-JjQ4M5ZSTGVlRax8ooxxlK.html
07-10-2020||India||Over 93,500 data science jobs vacant in India: Study||Over 93,500 data science jobs were vacant in India at the end of August 2020, a study conducted by EdTech company Great Learning said. Despite Covid-19, the enthusiasm and optimism around the analytics function continues to remain high with India contributing 9.8 per cent of the total global analytics job openings in August 2020 compared to 7.2 per cent in January this year, it said. While the sector did witness a decrease in vacancies (from 109,000 vacancies in February to 82,500 vacancies in May 2020), the demand has continued to be fairly consistent across key industry sectors. The factors contributing to the increased demand include a year-on-year increase in funding in Indian analytics startups, investment in the development of enhanced analytics capabilities in India, and a greater proportion of jobs outsourced to firms based in India owing to the pandemic, it added. The current demand is dominated by MNC and domestic IT & KPO organisations that are shifting jobs to India and are recruiting in large numbers. The study tracked data science job landscape in 2020, including the impact that COVID 19 has had on the vacancies in the sector. It revealed the growing demand for mid and senior level professionals with over seven years of experience in 2020. “While 2019 was dominated by young professionals in terms of the number of jobs available, this is the year when the industry is pulling all the stops for the mid-level and senior counterparts,” the study said. Bengaluru continues to create the maximum number of jobs, contributing around 23 per cent of analytics jobs in India, a marginal increase from last year, followed by Delhi/ NCR at 20 per cent and Mumbai at approximately 15 per cent. Despite the BFSI sector continuing to be the largest recruiter of analytics and data science talent (outside of IT), creating around 35 per cent of all analytics jobs in the country, the contribution of the sector has been going down year on year from 41 per cent in 2018 to 38.3 per cent in 2019 and 35 per cent in August 2020. Interestingly, pharma sector has seen an increase in the proportion of analytics jobs at 16.3 per cent, an overall increase of 3.9 per cent over the last year. “This is due to the focus on developing vaccines and other cures for the Covid-19 virus”, the study said. The 10 leading organisations with the most number of analytics openings this year are dominated by the IT and KPO players -- Accenture, Mphasis, Cognizant Technology Solutions, Capgemini, Infosys, Tech Mahindra, IBM India, Dell, HCL, and Collabera Technologies. The study further revealed that the median salary for data science professionals in India stands at Rs 9.5 lakh/annum in 2020 as per the listed job openings (the actual salary is generally higher than the listed salary). For those with more than a decade of experience, packages are in the range of Rs 25 lakh to Rs 50 lakh depending on the role and expertise, it was stated. The demand for ‘Python’ professionals continues to remain the highest among recruiters with almost 27 per cent of the jobs requiring Python as the core skill. It is closely followed by Java/JavaScript that is witnessing a 22 per cent demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-93-500-data-science-jobs-vacant-in-india-study/story-B1v8xdzk0js7FBENTJxsQP.html
07-10-2020||India||Employees in India face increased burnout at work during pandemic: Report||Employees in India are facing increased burnout due to lack of separation between work and personal life as well as concerns of contracting Covid-19, a report said on Wednesday. According to Microsoft’s latest Work Trend Index, that surveyed over 6,000 information and first-line workers across eight countries globally, India had the second highest percentage of workers facing increased burnout in Asia at 29 per cent. Moreover, India came out top with over 41 per cent of workers citing the lack of separation between work and personal life as negatively impacting their wellbeing, resulting in increased stress levels, the report said. “In the last six months, we have seen how Covid-19 has created an era of remote anywhere. It has led to the evolution of a new workplace – from a physical space to one residing in a virtual world,” said Samik Roy, Country Head, Modern Work, Microsoft India. Roy further noted that “as businesses adapt to a new way of working, it is important to examine the multifaceted impact that the new working conditions are having on employees. This is helping us provide relevant and timely solutions to all our customers and users”. The pandemic increased burnout at work, in some countries more than others. In India, 29 per cent of workers are experiencing increased burnout at work, owing to its increase in workday span by 1 hour. While, workers in Germany saw very little change to workday span or feelings of burnout, the report said. Data showed that, globally, even six months past the first work-from-home orders, people are in significantly more meetings, taking more ad hoc calls and managing more incoming chats than they did before the pandemic. “As people adjusted to remote working, after hours chats, or chats between 5 pm and midnight, have also increased,” the report said. Further, for remote workers in Asia, no commute is hurting and not helping productivity, the report said adding that for years, Microsoft’s research group has been studying how commute has helped maintain work-life boundaries — and worker’s productivity and wellbeing. Microsoft said a series of updates have been launched within Microsoft Teams to support employee wellbeing. These include a virtual commute experience that helps users prepare for the day and mindfully disconnect in the evening. Microsoft has also partnered with Headspace to bring a curated set of mindfulness and meditation experiences into the Teams platform and launched new Teams experiences for first-line workers to support them with the tools they need to work more safely. This Work Trend Index report looks at how the pandemic has impacted wellbeing at work globally. It studied how productivity patterns in Microsoft Teams have shifted since early this year and surveyed over 6,000 information and first-line workers in eight countries including Australia, Brazil, Germany, Japan, India, Singapore, the UK, and the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/employees-in-india-face-increased-burnout-at-work-during-pandemic-report/story-Fn3qM78T4BXMuw4QDArjSO.html
07-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape case: Opposition hatching conspiracies, says Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath slammed the opposition parties leading protests against the alleged gang-rape and murder case in Hathras district. The chief minister accused the Opposition of hatching conspiracies against the state and said that they are “doing politics on the basis of caste, religion and region,” news agency ANI reported.“People who have been dividing the society on the basis of caste, religion and region, are still doing it,” news agency ANI quoted Adityanath as saying. “They can’t see development, and so they’re hatching new conspiracies,” he added.“One must recognise those who are doing politics on the death of a person,” ANI further quoted Adityanath as saying.The state chief minister’s comments come as several opposition leaders have been visiting the Hathras district to meet the woman’s family.Also Read: Yogi alleges opposition propaganda against UP govt, gives cadres a taskOn Saturday, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and party’s general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met the family of the woman. The visit which followed a dramatic standoff with the police at the Delhi-UP border was the Congress leaders’ second attempt.After Gandhi siblings, many other leaders from Aam Aadmi Party, Trinamool Congress, Samajwadi party also visited the district.A Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped and brutally assaulted in Hathras on September 14. She succumbed to her injuries in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 29.Nationwide outrage was triggered after the police cremated the woman in the dead of the night. The family has accused the authorities of cremating the woman forcefully. However, the authorities have denied the allegations and said that it was done with the consent of the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-case-opposition-hatching-conspiracies-says-yogi-adityanath/story-uj2tdhjCaHvtvc1g0JiHoM.html
07-10-2020||India||Zurich International to sign deal to build Jewar airport today||Zurich Airport International AG,the bidder selected to develop the international airport at Jewar, will sign a concession agreement with the special purpose vehicle (SPV) Yamuna International Airport (YIAL) on Wednesday.Officials from the Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL) said last month that the signing of this agreement is significant as Zurich Airport International cannot start work at the airport site without it.“The concession agreement with the Switzerland company Zurich AG will be signed in the second week of October. The company officials were waiting for the removal of ban imposed on international flights in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. International flights are likely to resume operations from October 1. Therefore, the agreement will be signed before October 15 for sure, and date will be finalised once the flight tickets for Zurich top officials are booked,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, NIAL, a nodal agency to monitor the airport project.Initially, the agreement was supposed to be signed on July 2, but the Uttar Pradesh government postponed the agreement signing date to August 17 in view of Covid-19 pandemic. On August 14, Zurich International was given time till October 15 for signing of the agreement in view of restrictions on air travel.“Once the agreement is signed, Zurich will start work at the site in the next six months as it needs time to mobilize the workforce and also rope in required agencies,” said Singh.The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has acquired 1,334 hectares of land under phase 1 out of the total 5,000 hectares required for the airport project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zurich-international-to-sign-deal-today-to-build-jewar-airport/story-rEOfi9arsfSnsowWKpHpJM.html
07-10-2020||India||NCB to challenge Rhea Chakraborty’s bail in Supreme Court||The Narcotics Control Bureau will challenge Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty’s bail in the Supreme Court, it said after the Bombay high court pronounced its verdict on Wednesday granting bail to the actor. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh said, “This matter involves a number of questions of law and therefore we want to test this order before the Supreme Court.”The NCB arrested Rhea Chakraborty on September 8 in a drug-related case that the agency in probing related to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajpurt’s death. Rhea’s brother Showik was arrested before her. Rhea moved a bail plea to the Bombay high court after her bail plea was rejected by a special court on September 11. The high court on Wednesday granted bail only to the actor. Showik will stay in jail as his bail plea was rejected.Also Read: Rhea Chakraborty gets bail but high court sets 4 key conditions; her brother stays in jailIn all the previous hearings of the case, NCB had contested that the accused (Rhea) “has actively aided, abetted, and financed other accused person for the drug transaction in pursuance criminal conspiracy.” On Tuesday, as a special NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) court was hearing the case, NCB said the NDPS Act does not state that offences are bailable based on the quantity of drugs involved. The NDPS court extended the judicial custody of Rhea, Showik and 18 others till October 20. But now after high court’s verdict, Rhea will be walking out of the Byculla prison after a month. Meanwhile, Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer Vikas Singh has written to the CBI seeking the setting up of a fresh forensic team to look into the actor’s autopsy report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-to-challenge-rhea-chakraborty-s-bail-in-supreme-court/story-lfrgNMxARaEMKdneAxpTNP.html
07-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: E Palaniswami to be AIADMK’s CM candidate for Tamil Nadu assembly election 2021 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.E Palaniswami to be AIADMK’s CM candidate for Tamil Nadu assembly election 2021Tamil Nadu chief minister E Palaniswami will be All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (AIADMK) chief ministerial candidate for state elections next year, party leader and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam said on Wednesday. Read moreBombay HC grants bail to Rhea Chakraborty, rejects bail plea of her brother Showik in drugs probeActor Rhea Chakraborty, arrested in drugs case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, was granted bail by the Bombay High Court on Wednesday. Her brother Showik Chakraborty’s bail plea was rejected. Read moreOccupying public place for protests not acceptable: Supreme Court on petitions on Shaheen Bagh protestsThe right to protest in public places is not absolute and public places cannot be occupied indefinitely for such protests, the Supreme Court ruled on Wednesday in a case highlighting the troubles faced by general public due to the road blockade at Shaheen Bagh in south Delhi by protestors who were opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Read moreFashion brand Givenchy’s new three-toed sandals and socks are reminding tweeple of Scooby DooFrench luxury brand Givenchy recently launched their Spring Summer 2021 collection. As people have taken to social media to discuss the collection, some have found a rather bizarre comparison to items in the collection. Read moreSuzuki Access 125, Burgman Street updated with Bluetooth enabled digital consoleSuzuki Motorcycle India on Wednesday launched the Access 125 and Burgman Street with Bluetooth enabled digital console. Read moreThe signs of hope on the coronavirus in IndiaHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far; dip in 7 day daily average. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-e-palaniswami-to-be-aiadmk-s-cm-candidate-for-tamil-nadu-assembly-election-2021/story-suY7PaEuKNOxviz11QlOxL.html
07-10-2020||India||JCO Sukhdev Singh cremated with full military honours||Amid a pall of gloom, the mortal remains of junior commissioned officer (JCO) Sukhdev Singh were cremated with full military honours at his native Peoni village in Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday evening.The JCO was killed on Tuesday morning in Pakistani shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera sector of Rajouri. He is survived by his wife, and two children — a son and a daughter.Younger brother of the deceased, Deepu, who is also in the army, said, “I had informed him that only two days of my leave are left and I will resume my duties after that. He had inquired about the well being of his children and other family members. Then, at around 1:30am, we received a phone call informing us that my brother has martyred.”“He was a gold medallist in shooting and had fought the Pakistani troops during Kargil war,” he added.District commissioner Dr Piyush Singla, J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina, former MLAs and other prominent citizens attended the funeral.Also Read: 3 terrorists killed in encounter in J-K’s Shopian district“The JCO sacrificed his life in the line of duty in Pakistan’s ceasefire violation along the Nowshera sector in Rajouri,” said defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand.“India retaliated to Pakistan’s unprovoked act,” he added.Also Read: BJP worker escapes terror attack in Kashmir, PSO dies defending him“Late Monday, Pakistan Army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation on the line of control (LoC) in Nowshera sector, Rajouri. Indian troops responded strongly to the enemy fire. In the incident, Subedar Sukhdev Singh was critically injured and later succumbed to his injuries,” he said.“Subedar Sukhdev Singh was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” added Col Anand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jco-sukhdev-singh-cremated-with-full-military-honours/story-oogS6rsFoSh2bEbqQJd56O.html
07-10-2020||India||Case lodged against AAP MLA Kuldeep Kumar under Epidemic Act: Hathras SP||A case has been registered against Delhi AAP MLA Kuldeep Kumar, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 29 and had gone to meet the Hathras victim’s family on October 4, under the Epidemic Act, said the Hathras Superintendent of Police (SP) on Wednesday.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Delhi’s Kondli constituency had earlier taken to Twitter to announce that “due to my mild fever for the last two days, today I got Covid-19 test done, the report of which has come out to be positive, due to which I will be at home in isolation. Whoever has met me in the last 2-3 days should also get his test done”. Although Kumar went to meet the victim’s family six days after being tested positive, it is not known whether he has tested negative for Covid-19.On October 5, he had posted a video after meeting the family of the Hathras victim and wrote: “I have just returned after meeting the family of the Hathras victim. An atmosphere of fear is being created in the family. This is a murder of democracy and the Constitution. There is no law in Yogi Raj in Uttar Pradesh, Jungle Raj is going on!”Meanwhile, following the directions of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the time given to the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to submit their report on the Hathras incident to the CM has been extended by 10 days, said a government official.The SIT probe in the Hathras incident was ordered by the Chief Minister.The 19-year-old Hathras woman died at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital on September 29. All four accused in the incident have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-lodged-against-aap-mla-kuldeep-kumar-under-epidemic-act-hathras-sp/story-OXQTgqEPM1dFC20llvvqIM.html
07-10-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty gets bail but high court sets 4 key conditions; her brother stays in jail||A month after actor Rhea Chakraborty was arrested, the Bombay high court on Wednesday granted her bail in a drug abuse case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. Rhea was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on September 8 for her alleged involvement in procuring marijuana for Rajput, also her boyfriend.Rhea’s brother Showik will, however, continue to remain behind bars after his bail plea was rejected. The court also refused to grant bail to Abdel Basit Parihar, a final year student of architecture, who is accused of supplying narcotics to Sushant Singh Rajput, allegedly through Showik.Justice Kotwal granted bail to Rhea on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and one or two sureties in the same amount. She has, however, been granted time to furnish sureties, paving the way for the immediate release of the 28-year-old actress.ALSO WATCH | Sushant case drugs angle: Rhea Chakraborty gets bail; no relief for Showik The high court has directed Rhea to surrender her passport to the investigating officer and not to leave India. She is also restrained from leaving the jurisdiction of the special NDPS court in Mumbai without submitting itinerary to the special court. She will also have to report to the NCB office on the first Monday of every month for the next six months.After the order was pronounced, additional solicitor general Anil Singh sought a stay on the order for at least one week. “This matter involves a number of questions of law and therefore we want to test this order (before the Supreme Court),” said Singh.Justice Sarang V Kotwal refused to stay the order. “What do you want to test,” the judge asked Singh. “I have held that all offences under the NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) Act are non-bailable,” the judge added while rejecting the request.Also Read: In Sushant Singh Rajput case, CBI to summon eyewitness who saw him with Rhea Chakraborty on June 13After Singh’s request, HC ordered Rhea to visit the nearest police station everyday for the next ten days, so that she is easily available for re-arrest in case the NCB succeeds in its challenge to the order.“We are delighted by the order of the Hon’ble Bombay High Court granting bail to Rhea Chakraborty. Truth and Justice have prevailed and ultimately the submissions on facts and law have been accepted by Justice Sarang V Kotwal,” said advocate Satish Maneshinde, who represented Rhea.“The arrest and custody of Rhea was totally unwarranted and beyond the reach of law. The hounding and witch hunt by three central agencies.. the CBI, ED and NCB, of Rhea should come to an end” said Maneshinde. “We remain committed to Truth. Satya Meva Jayate.”Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: No, I am not examining the case, says Harsh VardhanJustice Kotwal on Wednesday also granted bail to two ex-staffers of Rajput - his house manager Samuel Miranda and Dipesh Sawant, both of whom were also arrested by NCB on similar charges.Both of them are ordered to be released on personal bonds of Rs 50,000 each and one or two sureties in the same amount. They too are ordered to surrender their passports and not to leave the jurisdiction of the special NDPS court in Mumbai.NCB had started investigation into the drug angle to Rajput’s suicide after a trail of WhatsApp chats came to the fore revealing sale and purchase of drugs.Arrested on September 4, Showik was accused of being in regular touch with two drug peddlers, Abdul Basit Parihar and Kaizan Ebrahim, from whom he allegedly procured contraband material for consumption of the deceased actor. Rhea too was accused of procuring drugs and at times paying for the contraband material as well.The siblings were, however, booked under stringent provisions like sections 8(c) read with 20(b)(ii) (produce, manufacture, possess, sell, purchase, transport, ware-house, use, consume, import, export or tranship cannabis other than ganja), 27A (financing illicit trafficking into drugs and harbouring offenders), 28 (attempt to commit offences under the Act) and 29 (abetment) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-gets-bail-but-court-sets-4-key-condition/story-KTte0nxLy7vKnkGW7OwbmI.html
07-10-2020||India||China’s ‘gross aggression’ driving members of Quad: US official||China’s actions across the region and its “sudden turn toward gross aggression” are the factors currently driving the members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, a senior US state department official has said. The official’s remarks, made during a background media briefing, followed the meeting on Tuesday of the foreign ministers of the four countries in the informal grouping—India, Australia, Japan and the US. The Quad members, during their discussions, pushed for a rules-based world order and the peaceful resolution of disputes. Referring to the Quad ministerial meeting and secretary of state Mike Pompeo’s interactions with his counterparts from the three other countries, the state department official, who wasn’t named, said that “there’s no avoiding the fact that it’s China and its actions in the region that make the Quad actually matter and function this time around”. Also Read: India makes China point, US hints at ‘formal’ QuadAsked by the media about the fact that Pompeo was the only one of the four foreign ministers who explicitly named China in his opening remarks at the meeting, the official responded by saying that “the single thing that’s driving all this [is] a sudden turn toward gross aggression by the Chinese government in its entire periphery”. The official referred to the five-month border standoff between India and China and said: “I mean, if you look at the conflict...in the Himalayas between China and India, something that has been in the past handled according to unspoken or unwritten rules...to prevent these things from getting out of control, and then you look at what happened here recently, where you’ve got actually people beating each other to death...” The official was referring to the June 15 clash at Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian soldiers dead and resulted in unspecified Chinese casualties. The two sides have been unable to move forward with the disengagement of troops at friction points despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks. The official further said that China’s aggressive activities were witnessed in many areas. “I mean, you take it all the way around the Indo-Pacific and its western borders, you’re seeing things that you haven’t seen before, and these are responding to that,” he remarked. Also Read: 4-nation Quad gets cemented at Tokyo meet, sends stern message to ChinaDuring their second ministerial meeting, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his counterparts from Australia, Japan and the US discussed the post-Covid-19 world order and sought a coordinated response to challenges, including financial problems, emanating from the pandemic. They also focused on increasing the resilience of supply chains, and enhancing access to affordable vaccines. The ministers also discussed connectivity, humanitarian assistance, maritime security, health security and counter-terrorism, and reiterated their support to the centrality of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and their readiness to work towards realising a common vision for the Indo-Pacific. Pompeo said in an interview on Tuesday that the US wants to formalise and expand the Quad, with other countries joining the grouping at an appropriate time to “counter the challenge that the Chinese Communist Party presents”. A second US state department official present at the briefing said Pompeo had spoken earlier about “results-oriented multilateralism” and “voluntary groupings of like-minded nations [which] share common values of democracy, the rule of law, a respect for human rights and individual freedom”. “So this is a piece of a much larger vision...for multilateralism that really works—effective multilateralism,” the second official added. The second official further said the issue has to be framed correctly: “This isn’t about a US-China dispute. This is about the free world versus Chinese authoritarianism. And [Pompeo] speaks frequently about that, and that’s the way he framed his discussions, and there was a lot of agreement around that table.” The Quad remains a loose and informal grouping and there was no joint statement after Tuesday’s meeting, with the four countries issuing separate read-outs on the discussions. This has raised questions among experts as to whether the Quad can effectively work as a counterweight to China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-gross-aggression-driving-members-of-quad-us-official/story-mE5kUDFJrpZ8Y8rKfNVDHK.html
07-10-2020||India||India disses 1959 claim at Ladakh border meet, watches for China’s next move||India will await the Chinese response at the 7th military commanders meeting on October 12 in Ladakh after formally rejecting Beijing’s unilaterally defined 1959 claim on its perception of Line of Actual Control (LAC) at the diplomatic level talks on September 30. The Indian stand was firmly conveyed by joint secretary (East Asia) to his Chinese counterpart at the 19th round of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs.While the Chinese side had dug out the 1959 LAC maximalist claim on the eve of the WMCC meeting, the Indian side made it clear that it had rejected the cartographic claim immediately after it was made by then Chinese Premier Chou En-Lai to then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru through a letter on November 7, 1959.The Indian diplomat firmly made the point that China was already in occupation of over 33,000 km of land in Aksai Chin area and another 5,180 square km of Shaksgam Valley was illegally handed over by Pakistan in 1963. The Chinese side had no cogent reply to the Indian rejection.Also Read: China’s PLA complicates troop disengagement over Ladakh. It has a conditionAt the military commanders meeting next week, India expects the Chinese to come up with their position on the LAC perception that is central to resolving the current stand-off at six friction points along the 1,597 km border line in Ladakh.ALSO WATCH | Cornering China: India, USA, Japan, Australia hold Quad meet amid LAC tension The Indian side will be represented by outgoing XIV Corps Commander Lt Gen Harinder Singh who demits office on October 14, incoming commander Lt Gen PGK Menon and the foreign ministry’s joint secretary Naveen Srivastava. The Chinese side will be represented by the South Xinjiang military commander.There is no sign that the Western Theatre Commander of People’s Liberation Army, General Zhao Zongqi, will also demit office. He has already crossed the retirement age of 65 years this April. Gen Zhao’s tenure has seen PLA aggression at Doklam in 2017 and in Ladakh this year.Also Read: 4-nation Quad gets cemented at Tokyo meet, sends stern message to ChinaAccording to top military commanders, there is no change in ground situation in Ladakh with both armies facing each other at the contested points and no pull-back from the depth positions.The PLA psychological warfare, however, is in full-swing with articles about armoured personnel carriers and artillery guns being paradropped near the LAC. “This begets a question as to why did the PLA build roads to their last posts on the perceived LAC if they still have to paradrop military hardware,” said a former Indian Army chief.China watchers believe that the continuing psy-ops are part of a plan to pressurise the Indian Army to withdraw from the Chinese perception of the LAC in the south bank of Pangong Tso. While the Indian Army is calmly holding its positions, it is also alert to any PLA pre-emption on the LAC before the snows take over at the end of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-india-border-ladakh/story-o8k99DJZVQcR8cifu2aUcI.html
07-10-2020||India||How can govt claim it has no info on Mallya extradition: Sena||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday slammed the Centre for telling the Supreme Court that it is unaware of ‘secret’ ongoing proceedings in the UK which are delaying fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya’s extradition to India.Liquor baron Mallya, promoter of the defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is wanted in India over alleged fraud and money laundering charges amounting to around Rs 9,000 crore and is presently in the UK.The Centre on Monday told the court that Mallya cannot be extradited till a separate legal process in the UK, which is ‘judicial and confidential in nature’ is resolved. It also said it is not aware of the secret ongoing proceedings against Mallya as the Indian government is not party to the process.“The government says no data is available when the Opposition demands any information. Government lawyers say not aware when the court demands details. How many times and in how many cases is the government going to say ‘don’t know’,” an editorial in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana said.“The government machinery claims to know each and every detail of an actor’s suicide, Bollywood’s drugs connection and the alleged conspiracy behind the Hathras case, but claims it is not aware of action in the case of Mallya, who has swindled India of thousands of crores of rupees,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-can-govt-claim-it-has-no-info-on-mallya-extradition-sena/story-kIRmkBFwj73U2CDjxFPMYK.html
07-10-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: No, I am not examining the case, says Harsh Vardhan||Amid claims that the Union health ministry has taken cognisance of the AIIMS forensic report and the minister is now taking care of the case, Harsh Vardhan took to Twitter and denied all such claims. “An INCORRECT claim is being made in a section of the media that I have offered to take personal cognisance of Sushant death case,” the minister tweeted.“I’ve NOT spoken to anyone nor offered to examine any case. Pls refrain from believing any unverified statements,” the minister added. #FakeNews An INCORRECT claim is being made in a section of the media that I have offered to take personal cognisance of Sushant death case.I’ve NOT spoken to anyone nor offered to examine any case. Pls refrain from believing any unverified statements.#SushantSinghRajputCaseThe assertion of the forensic team of AIIMS that Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide met several reactions. Many, including Vikas Singh, lawyer of Sushant Singh Rajput family, claimed that AIIMS forensic team head Sudhir Gupta had made a U-turn. They claimed that Dr Gupta had earlier indicated possibility of homicide.Following this, social media was flooded with claims that the Union health ministry has asked AIIMS to submit a report on this apparent ‘flip-flop’, as AIIMS comes under the ministry. It was also claimed that the Union health minister is now looking into the easy. All these speculations are fake, the minister himself has clarified.The Central Bureau of Investigation is probing the case which sought the inputs of the AIIMS forensic team on the autopsy report of the actor. The Enforcement Directorate is looking into a money laundering angle of the case. The Narcotics Control Bureau is probing a drug angle related to the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-no-i-am-not-examining-the-case-says-harsh-vardhan/story-TeLgK0Pd0DxmgWtQF6v8rJ.html
07-10-2020||India||IAF set to mark 88th anniversary with grand flypast: 5 highlights||The Indian Air Force will celebrate its 88th anniversary on Thursday with a ceremonial parade and flypast involving a variety of aircraft at the Hindon airbase. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic and border tensions with China in the Ladakh sector where the air force is on high alert, the scale of the IAF Day parade will be bigger than last year with more aircraft taking part in the ceremonial flypast. Here are five highlights of the parade 1. Compared to the 51 aircraft that took part in the IAF Day parade last year, this year’s flypast will feature 56 aircraft, including fighters, transport planes and helicopters. The Rafale fighter jets will take part in the IAF Day flypast for the first time. This will mark their second public appearance after the planes were formally inducted at the Ambala airbase on September 10. Also Read: Air Force conducts full dress rehearsal ahead of 88th IAF Day2. The Rafale will be flying in two different formations during the flypast. They will first fly with Jaguars and Mirage 2000 in the Arrowhead formation, followed by another formation involving the Sukhoi-30 and the Tejas light combat aircraft. 3. The number of aircraft in different formations has also been increased this year from three to five. The parade will feature 19 fighter jets, seven transport planes, 19 helicopters, two vintage aircraft and nine planes belonging to the Surya Kiran Aerobatic Team. 4. Apart from Rafale, the fighter jets taking part in the parade include the Su-30, Jaguar, Mirage 2000, MiG-29, MiG-21 Bison and Tejas. The Rafales, Su-30s and MiG-29s are among the aircraft deployed in the Ladakh theatre to deal with any provocation by the Chinese military. 5. Transport aircraft that will be flying in different formations during the flypast include C-17 heavy lifters and C-130 special operations aircraft. Both aircraft are being used extensively in the Ladakh sector to transport soldiers and equipment. The flypast will also feature Chinook multi-mission choppers, Apache attack helicopters and Mi-35 gunships.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-set-to-mark-88th-anniversary-with-grand-flypast-5-highlights/story-gNF7GN1ay4KGkNxfTw4npO.html
07-10-2020||India||The growing challenge of economic offences in India||India’s criminal justice system is struggling to deal with growing economic offences according to the latest Crime in India report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), which works under the Ministry of Home Affairs. The report has crime statistics for 2019. While the number of such offences has been increasing in the past few years, arrests and convictions have been coming down. Annual growth in economic offences fastest since 2014 The number of reported economic offences in 2019 was 165,000, a growth of 6.1% over the 2018 number. This is the highest annual growth in the number of economic offences since 2014. These crimes grew at double-digit rates in 2013 and 2014. The NCRB classifies economic offences into three broad categories: criminal breach of trust; counterfeiting; and forgery, cheating and fraud. The third category has the largest share of economic offences. Case pendency rising, arrests and convictions coming down While the number of economic offence cases has been rising, the police’s track record in dealing with them has been patchy. This is evident in a fall in the number of arrests and convictions, and a rise in pendency of cases. Even conviction rates, which rose in 2017 after a fall in 2016, have fallen for two consecutive years now. A report in this newspaper (https://bit.ly/3leQdUV) in January pointed to an increase in trial pendency in courts along with falling conviction rates for economic offences in recent years. The charge-sheeting rate – share of cases investigated by police in which charge sheets were filed – increased between 2014 and 2017, and has remained largely unchanged in the last three years. The criminal justice system is wanting in terms of dealing with economic offences A comparison of economic offences with other crimes in India shows that the criminal justice system is less capable when it comes to dealing with the former. In 2019, police investigation was pending in 54.6% of cases related to economic offences, compared to 29.3% of all cases registered under the Indian Penal Code (IPC). And the conviction rate was less than half the rate for all IPC crimes. Why faster resolution of economic offence case is important The Reserve Bank of India in its annual report for 2019-20 revealed that bank frauds amounting to ₹1.85 lakh crore were reported in the year 2019-20, an increase of over 159% from the previous year. This is in keeping with the recent rise in such frauds. To be sure, bank fraud is only one of the 24 types of economic offences, a list that includes tax evasion, money laundering, insurance frauds, and stock market manipulation. The increasing number of economic offences along with fewer arrests and poor conviction rate could encourage unscrupulous elements to indulge in more such activities. This will entail growing losses to both private and public wealth and erode India’s image as a rules-based economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-growing-challenge-of-economic-offences-in-india/story-CC1uaeBv1vQCuFKd3fkVtL.html
07-10-2020||India||Public places cannot be occupied indefinitely: SC on Shaheen Bagh stir||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that occupying public places like Shaheen Bagh for protests is not acceptable and such a space cannot be occupied “indefinitely”.The top court’s verdict came on a plea against the anti-CAA protests which had led to blocking of a road in Shaheen Bagh in the national capital last December.A bench headed by Justice S K Kaul held that public places cannot be occupied indefinitely like during the Shaheen Bagh protests.The bench also said that Delhi Police ought to have taken action to clear Shaheen Bagh area from the protesters. “Democracy and dissent go hand in hand,” it said, adding that the authorities have to act on their own and cannot hide behind courts in dealing with such a situation. The verdict came on a plea of lawyer Amit Sahni against the blockade of a road in Shaheen Bagh area by those protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-places-cannot-be-occupied-indefinitely-for-protests-supreme-court/story-wzSGQp40K48EMa2m3kxZzJ.html
07-10-2020||India||Bombay HC grants bail to Rhea Chakraborty, rejects bail plea of her brother Showik in drugs probe||Actor Rhea Chakraborty, arrested in drugs case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, was granted bail by the Bombay High Court on Wednesday. Her brother Showik Chakraborty’s bail plea was rejected.Rajput’s employees Dipesh Sawant and Samuel Miranda were also granted bail by the court. Rhea Chakraborty was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on September 8.Showik and Samuel Miranda were held by the agency on September 4.Justice SV Kotwal granted the actor bail on a personal bond of Rs1 lakh and one or two sureties in the same amount. She has, however, been granted time to furnish sureties, which means she can come out of jail immediately. She was kept in Byculla jail cell since her arrest one month ago, reportedly without a bed or ceiling fan. “We are delighted by the order of the Honourable Bombay High Court granting bail to Rhea Chakraborty. Truth and Justice have prevailed and ultimately the submissions on facts and law have been accepted by Justice Sarang V Kotwal,” said Rhea’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde.“The arrest and custody of Rhea was totally unwarranted and beyond the reach of law. The hounding and witch hunt by three central agencies .. the CBI, ED and NCB of Rhea should come to and end” he said. “We remain committed to Truth. Satya Meva Jayate,” he added.Maneshinde had earlier said that the agency’s allegations against the actor were based on one incident that took place on March 17, when she gave Miranda her credit card and the latter withdrew Rs10,000, allegedly to purchase contraband material for Rajput.Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-rhea-chakraborty-rejects-bail-plea-of-her-brother-showik/story-zQKdHt1pPnhphAChMcyj7K.html
07-10-2020||India||Yogi alleges opposition propaganda against UP govt, gives cadre a task||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said that a ‘visionless’ opposition was engaged in ‘propaganda’ in the state and urged party cadres to expose them.Addressing a virtual meeting of party men in Ghatampur assembly constituency, where bypolls are due on November 3, Yogi continued to target the opposition and asked the cadres to expose the conspiracies against his government. Yogi had earlier accused the opposition of attempting to trigger caste and communal riots in the state.He also tasked the cadres to market the government’s achievements.“It’s clear that the opposition can go to any extent for propaganda and the recent incidents are proof of this,” the chief minister said even though he didn’t name the incidents.Also Read: Man booked for objectionable comment against CM Yogi AdityanathThe state government is under opposition’s attack over the Hathras case, where a 19-year old Dalit girl was subjected to extreme brutality and eventually died at a Delhi hospital, sparking a national outrage.Yogi told the party men that, while following the Covid protocol, they must also tell the people how his government had created jobs, which were being given to people not on the basis of caste or regional considerations but on merit.Also Read: Hathras horror: India must wake up, repair its justice system“In past three-and-a-half years my government created jobs for 3.5 lakh youths and very soon an equal number of additional job opportunities would be created. Youths are getting jobs, criminals are running scared and investors and industrialists are coming to the state,” he said.Yogi also said that his government had worked on ensuring that the Ganga river flows clean in Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-alleges-opposition-propaganda-against-up-govt-gives-cadres-a-task/story-suWcYGAO8AbfGhh6AL7TRN.html
07-10-2020||India||Occupying public place for protests not acceptable: Supreme Court on petitions on Shaheen Bagh protests||The right to protest in public places is not absolute and public places cannot be occupied indefinitely for such protests, the Supreme Court ruled on Wednesday in a case highlighting the troubles faced by general public due to the road blockade at Shaheen Bagh in south Delhi by protestors who were opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).Dissent and democracy go hand in hand but protests must be carried out in designated areas, a three-judge bench, headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul ruled.“Occupation of public places for protests is not acceptable. Authorities must ensure removal of occupation of public places,” the bench which also comprised justices Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari held.However, the manner in which occupants should be removed to clear public places is to be decided by government authorities and they should not hide behind or wait for court orders in order to carry out their functions, the top court added. The ruling came on a plea by filed by advocate Amit Sahni in February seeking lift of road blockade in the Shaheen Bagh – Kalindi Kunj stretch due to protests at Shaheen Bagh by those opposing the CAA.The CAA, which was passed on December 12, 2019, amended Section 2 of the Citizenship Act, 1955 in a manner which made any person belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi or Christian communities from Afghanistan, Bangladesh or Pakistan eligible to apply for Indian citizenship by naturalization even if they were illegal migrants.However, the Muslim community was excluded from the purview of this amendment, thereby, preventing Muslim illegal migrants from availing the opportunity to apply for Indian citizenship, a benefit which was extended to illegal migrants from the other six communities by the amendment. The exclusion of Muslim triggered widespread protests across the country, as did the linking of citizenship with religion.Shaheen Bagh was the epicentre of such protests in the national capital. The protests at Shaheen Bagh started on December 15, 2019 and continued for more than 3 months. Sahni stated that while people have the right to protest, the same is subject to reasonable restrictions and protestors cannot be allowed to occupy public roads indefinitely. He contended that right to protests it should not inconvenience public at large.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta representing the central government also concurred with the petitioner stating that right to protest cannot be absolute and is subject to reasonable restrictions.“Every right is qualified,” Mehta had argued.During the hearing of the case, the court had on February 17, attempted to resolve the issue by sending two lawyers, senior advocate Sanjay Hegde and advocate Sadhana Ramachandran to mediate with the protestors. However, the talks did not yield any results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-places-cannot-be-occupied-indefinitely-supreme-court-on-petitions-on-shaheen-bagh-protests/story-BTyccB3Ef98KSuRIsHooyM.html
07-10-2020||India||4 missile tests, 1 deployed near LAC in 40 days as India shows intent||The government recently approved the induction and deployment of the 700-km range surface-to-surface supersonic Shaurya strategic missile even as there has been progress in the development of the 5,000-km range K-5 submarine-launched ballistic missile, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. They added that the 800-km range subsonic (below the speed of sound) Nirbhay cruise missile will be tested in the next couple of weeks and be inducted into both Indian Army and Navy shortly after.HT learns that a limited number of Nirbhay missiles have already been deployed in response to the Chinese build-up in Tibet and Xinjiang.Also Read: India tests missile-assisted system to target submarines at long rangesThe tests and the deployments need to be seen in the context of the ongoing impasse between Indian and Chinese troops at the Line of Actual Control.In the past month, the government has tested the Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle (HSTDV), the pre-cursor to building missiles that can travel at a minimum of five times the speed of sound (September 7), the extended range version of the supersonic cruise missile BrahMos (on September 30; with a range of 400 km, up from the existing 290 km); the nuclear-capable Shaurya supersonic missiles that can travel at twice to thrice the speed of sound (October 3); and the supersonic missile assisted release of torpedo that targets submarines (October 5). BrahMos is also a supersonic missile.The Shaurya missile is the land version of submarine launched BA-05 missile and has been developed by the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO). The land version was discreetly tested for the final time before induction and as part of user trials from Balasore on October 3. It will be soon deployed at locations identified by the Indian Strategic Forces Command under guidance from National Security Council. The missile has a warhead weighing around 160 kilogramsAccording to top missile experts, Shaurya is a delivery system stored in a composite canister for rapid deployment and minimum interaction with the elements. The strategic missile flies within the atmosphere at a height of 50 kilometres. The experts added that the government’s decision to go for land version is significant as the missile can be launched by a single vehicle.Also Read: India conducts successful flight test of SMART; ‘Game-changer,’ says DRDO chiefDRDO is also making rapid strides in the development of 5,000 km version of the submarine launched ballistic missile of SLBM. With a range equivalent to Agni-5 land based ballistic missile, the K-5 will be deployed on-board the Arihant class of nuclear submarines. While the missile scientists are tight-lipped about the K-5 SLBM, the weapon system is expected to be tested in the next 15 months and subsequently deployed on the INS Arihant and the INS Arighat a new class of heavier submarine which is under harbor trials. INS Arighat is expected to be commissioned within the next six months and INS Arihant is already deployed in forward positions.Analysts said that coming at a time when India is engaged with a belligerent Chinese Army in the Ladakh sector, the testing and deployment of short-range delivery platforms clearly conveys the Modi Government’s intention of not backing down to any aggression or cartographical expansion plan of any adversary in the neighbourhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bolsters-strength-with-missile-tests-deployment/story-LcaxZngN0mvJ31JxTvJXQO.html
07-10-2020||India||Swadeshi Jagran Manch backs India on waiver of intellectual property provisions||The Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) has welcomed India’s proposal to the World Trade Organization (WTO) seeking the waiver of certain provisions related to the protection and enforcement of intellectual property (IP) rights to facilitate the availability of affordable medical products for the effective prevention, containment, and treatment of Covid-19.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-affiliate has written that the proposal is the need of the hour as humanity needs access to affordable medical products to effectively respond to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Though so much public money has been channelised for the development of vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics the companies that are developing these products are not ready to share the know-how and other IP rights to facilitate generic production. In the absence of a large number of manufacturers, it would be impossible to meet the needs of the medical products required for the Covid-19 response. The government should act to put an end to the greed of pharmaceutical transnational corporations,” the letter, signed by SJM’s national co-convenor Ashwani Mahajan, said.Also Read: Waive property rights from vaccines, India, South Africa urge WTO. All you need to knowEarlier this month, India and South Africa made a formal submission to the WTO, seeking a waiver on certain provisions of the international agreements that regulate intellectual property rights to speed up efforts to prevent, treat and contain the Covid-19 pandemic.In the communication, the countries said there were several reports about intellectual property rights hindering or potentially hindering the timely provisioning of affordable medical products to Covid-19 patients. They added that a particular concern for countries with insufficient or no manufacturing capacity were the requirements for the cumbersome and lengthy process of the import and export of pharmaceutical products.The SJM has referred to the variation in the price of Remdesivir which costs less than USD 1 but is sold in India between Rs 4,000 and Rs 5,400 as an example of how licenses incapacitate Indian companies to supply in middle-income countries. Also Read: Covid-19 vaccine: Finger-pointing will not save a single life, says WHO“Various initiatives to facilitate access to medical products for Covid-19 responses such as ACT-Accelerator, COVAX facility or CTAP so far failed to ensure technology transfer and local production. Instead of facilitating technology transfer, ACT-Accelerator and COVAX Facility reinforce the IP regime and delay the disseminating of technology,” the letter further stated.The SJM has urged the Prime Minister to reach out to all “like-minded countries” for the support of the proposal and create a broad coalition for the adoption of the waiver of certain provisions of the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) Agreement.“SJM also requests you to initiate measures under Section 66 of the Patents Cat for the cancellation of the patent on Remedsivir, which was granted against the provisions of the Indian Patents Act,” the letter stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swadeshi-jagran-manch-backs-india-on-waiver-of-intellectual-property-provisions/story-WkhItHAB352TRQlzsq007O.html
07-10-2020||India||E Palaniswami to be AIADMK’s CM candidate for Tamil Nadu assembly election 2021||Tamil Nadu chief minister E Palaniswami will be All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (AIADMK) chief ministerial candidate for state elections next year, party leader and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam said on Wednesday.“I am happy to announce that our dear brother Palaniswami will be the victorious chief ministerial candidate of the AIADMK for the 2021 Assembly elections,” he said. The decision was taken unanimously in consultations led by party presidium chairman E Madusudanan, he added.He also announced the formation of an 11-member steering committee set up to vet candidates for the polls. The committee includes Ministers Dindigul C Sreenivasan, P Thangamani, and S P Velumani.This announcement marks the coming together of the EPS (E Palaniswami) and OPS (O Panneerselvam) factions.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/e-palaniswami-to-be-aiadmk-s-chief-ministerial-candidate-for-tamil-nadu-elections-next-year/story-NnxKFv62Sz4V6H5AFkFVzM.html
07-10-2020||India||Farm laws row: Punjab farmers’ body rejects govt’s invitation for talks; says ‘govt not serious’||The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, the farmers’ body which is spearheading the agitation in Punjab against the central government’s three contentious farm laws, on Wednesday said Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had invited it for a meeting in Delhi on October 8.However, it said it turned down the invitation as ‘the government is not serious.’“We got a telephone call from the Union agriculture minister yesterday. He also sent a mail asking us to come to Delhi for a meeting on October 8. We’ve decided that we won’t participate in any meeting as the government is not serious,” Sarvan Singh Pandher, the state secretary of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said. We got telephone call from Union Agriculture Minister y'day. He also sent a mail asking us to come to Delhi for a meeting on Oct 8. We've decided that we won't participate in any meeting as govt is not serious: Sarvan Singh Pandher, State Secy of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee https://t.co/7DmnplALtc pic.twitter.com/sTSyj7yk77Earlier, the secretary of the department of agriculture, which comes under the Union agriculture ministry, had written to the farmers’ body, inviting it for a meeting at Krishi Bhawan in the national capital on Thursday to address its concerns over the laws.The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee has been holding a ‘rail roko’ agitation against the laws in Punjab since September 24. Initially meant to last for three days, the agitation now stands extended till October 8.The three laws, then bills, were passed by Parliament last month amid vociferous protests by the opposition. The bills became laws after receiving President Ram Nath Kovind’s assent on September 27.Farmers argue that the legislations will completely dismantle the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, thus leaving them at the mercy of corporates. However, the government, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has repeatedly assured the farmers the MSP will not be withdrawn.Despite the government’s assurance, farmers across the country have continued to protest against the laws, with Punjab and Haryana being the epicentre of these anti-farm laws protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-row-punjab-farmers-body-rejects-govt-s-invitation-for-talks-says-govt-not-serious/story-jSbHXkj7iaKpWt17i2SYuO.html
07-10-2020||India||Covid-19: India crosses 67 lakh-mark in number of cases, over 56.6 lakh recovered||India on Wednesday crossed 67 lakh-mark in total number of Covid-19 cases with a spike of 72,049 new cases reported in the last 24 hours. With 986 deaths reported in the same time, the total death toll has already crossed 1 lakh-mark as it stands at 1,04,555.On recovery front, India is topping the chart in the world with a recovery rate of 84.7 per cent, the health ministry data showed. “India’s Total Recoveries have crossed 56.6 lakh. This has boosted the national Recovery Rate to 84.7%. This sustained high figure is fuelled by 17 States/UTs reporting Recovery Rate higher than the national average,” the ministry said. “New recoveries have been more than new cases over the last two weeks. New cases being reported in last 14 days are below from previous highs of 90,000 cases per day,” the health secretary said on Tuesday. As far as death toll is concerned, health ministry data reveals that almost 1 in 2 of total Covid-19 deaths in the country are concentrated in 25 districts of 8 states, out of which 15 districts are in Maharashtra. The Ministry of AYUSH on Tuesday dismissed claims that prolonged consumption of ‘’kadha’’ — a decoction made from basil, cinnamon, black pepper, dry ginger, and raisins — damages the liver, saying it is a “wrong notion” as ingredients used for preparing it are used in cooking at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-crosses-67-lakh-mark-in-number-of-cases-over-56-6-lakh-recovered/story-93LvMzDPT6aXaWRJCTcxEM.html
07-10-2020||India||Shaheen Bagh: When and where can one protest? Supreme Court to decide today. All you need to know||The Supreme Court will pronounce its verdict on the rights to protest encompassing issued like whether a protest like that of Shaheen Bagh blocking a public road should adhere to some limitations. A three-judge bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul will deliver the verdict.Here’s all you need to know:1. The Shaheen Bagh protest against the passage of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act started on December 14, 2019. It ended on March 24, 2020 — after a nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 was imposed.2. The protesters blocked a stretch of the road for several months.3. On February 17, the Supreme Court had tasked senior advocate Sanjay Hegde and advocate Sadhana Ramachandran to mediate with the protesters. Several rounds of consultations were held. The protest was not withdrawn, but a stretch of the blocked road was opened for traffic.4. As the protest was withdrawn after lockdown was imposed, the case pertaining to Shaheen Bagh has become infructuous but the apex court will deliver a verdict on protests of similar magnitude.5. Of later, farmers across the country have been protesting the passage of three farm laws. Several passenger trains, freight trains had to be cancelled because of that.6. “Can a public road be blocked for a long time? When and where can protests be held? We will think about how it can be balanced,” the bench had remarked during the hearing of the case on September 21.7. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta representing the central government also concurred with the petitioner stating that right to protest cannot be absolute and is subject to reasonable restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shaheen-bagh-when-and-where-can-one-protest-supreme-court-to-decide-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-Lg8H4f5RURwNucBiLiLkYN.html
07-10-2020||India||Assam CM launches Kisan Rath Mobile App to facilitate sale of agriculture products||Amid the ongoing nationwide stir over three farm laws introduced by the Centre, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Tuesday launched the Kisan Rath Mobile App in order to facilitate timely sale of agricultural products by promoting a buyer-seller network.An official release stated that the mobile app, developed, designed and technically maintained by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), will be out to use by the Assam Agribusiness and Rural Transformation Project (APART) which will impart training to farmers and other stakeholders on how to use the app. The release added that the app has several language options, including Assamese, English and Hindi.The app would be a new vehicle for boosting agri-business by opening up markets across the country for Assam to get maximum benefit for their produce, chief minister Sonowal said.Also Read| Farm Laws were long-waiting reforms, MSP to continue: Nirmala SitharamanThe official release highlighted that the Kisan Rath App interconnects over 10,000 farmers, 50 farmer producer organizations and 1,000 verified agricultural traders to an online platform.According to news agency ANI, Sonowal also said, “The App would help farmers to emerge strongly in today’s competitive market and prove as a boon to growers of perishable fruits and vegetable as it would lead to radical reduction in wastage of their produce.”The app initially released by the Government of India (GoI) was customized by NIC to cater to the requirements of Assam. It enables farmers to take advantage of relevant schemes and opens up the national market outside the state for surplus productsMeanwhile, Assam’s agricultural minister Atul Bora said the app would eliminate the role of middlemen creating new market opportunities for farmers and increasing their bargaining power.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-launches-kisan-rath-mobile-app-to-facilitate-sale-of-agriculture-products/story-kD5uPQ1gj93OJxsdJBkZ3I.html
07-10-2020||India||Farm Laws were long-waiting reforms, MSP to continue: Nirmala Sitharaman||Amid protests over the recently enacted farm Laws in different parts of the country, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday termed them as long-waiting reforms in the agriculture sector. While interacting with farmer leaders and agricultural experts in Chennai on farmer issues and recently enacted agriculture Laws, Sitharaman said that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for crops will be continued.“The reforms brought out by the Modi government were waiting for a long time. Now, agricultural produce in India can be sold anywhere at a price suitable for them with profit. Now, farmers can decide where and whom they should sell and where. A farmer can sell his products anywhere and no confusion in it. There is a free hand to them,” Sitharaman said.“If a farmer wants to sell his produce through the Agricultural Marketing Committees (APMCs), tax comes 8 to 8.5 percent. Now because of this new law, this 8.5 percent tax will be no more. In the new laws, the agreement of traders with farmers will be only for products but not on their land. Farmers will get a good rate and get value addition for his products. For the last 25 years, these reforms were under consideration and recommendations,” she added.Sitharaman said that MSP will be continued which is recommended by various committees like the Swaminathan committee.“There are 24 items that are covered under MSP. But, it was only given only to paddy and wheat. Those who are raising voices against the farm laws did not bother about it earlier. Since MSP is not a fixed rate and keeps fluctuating. Now we made the laws which will provide farmers to get good rate of their produce,”she added.“Congress ruling Punjab state in their 2019 election manifesto stated that APMCs will be ruled out. I am surprised by their protest. Farmers are clear on these laws. The political parties want to cheat farmers for political gain. It is a strategy of Congress,” she added.Sitharaman said that there is a change in the Essential commodities act, in which damages on products will be less and the rate will be fixed.“If state and central government both join hands, farmers will be benefitted or else middlemen will get the benefit. We have a plan to meet people in their city and explain farm laws. In this coronavirus time, farmers who could not sell their farm products physically, have sold their products through the digital platform of eNam,” she said.“Prime Minister will not fear reform in economic development. To give opportunity, our PM goes and seeks for an opportunity to bring in reforms. In spite of fear in Covid-19, the farmers sowed their crops and because of their hard work and the rural economy was less affected due to pandemic. Farmers who waited for reforms for long years, were given rights amidst lockdown,” she said.The three laws - Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020; and Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act - were passed recently by Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-were-long-waiting-reforms-msp-to-continue-nirmala-sitharaman/story-24lljxnPjDfKFroqaPv4eP.html
07-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bombay high court to pronounce order on Rhea Chakraborty’s bail plea today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: Bombay high court to pronounce order on Rhea Chakraborty’s bail plea todayThe Bombay high court on Wednesday is expected to deliver its order on the bail pleas moved by actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik. The Special NDPS Court on Tuesday extended the judicial custody of the brother-sister duo and 18 others, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau, till October 20. Read moreDaring Cities 2020: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to address global forum on climate change todayDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will speak at the ‘Daring Cities 2020’ virtual conference on Wednesday. He will talk about steps taken in the national capital regarding environmental sustainability and climate change issues. Read moreNobel Prize for Chemistry: Marie Curie, daughter Irene among five women ever awardedThe Nobel Prize for Chemistry for this year will be announced on Wednesday by the Stockholm-based Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. Previously, the prize was given to 183 individuals on 111 occasions. Read moreIPL 2020, MI vs RR: Steve Smith fined for maintaining slow over-rateRajasthan Royals were thrashed by Mumbai Indians on Tuesday at the Sheikh Zayed International Stadium in match no 20 of the Indian Premier League 2020. But it wasn’t the only worry on the night for RR captain Steve Smith as he was fined for maintaining a slow rate during the match. Read moreRicha Chadha provides proof that she’s sent KRK legal notice after he denies writing defamatory articles about herActor Richa Chadha has shared proof of the legal notice that she had sent to Kamaal R Khan, for allegedly posting defamatory tweets and articles against her, on his KRK Box Office account. Richa, through her lawyer, responded to KRK’s claims that he had not received any notice. Read moreWhat would you take to a trip on Moon,’ asks NASA. People answer and howThere are many who may have imagined what it would be like to go to the Moon. However, have you ever thought what you would take with you if you ever get a chance? That’s what NASA has now asked netizens and they answered in creative ways. Read moreIPL 2020: Mumbai Indians go top with comprehensive win against Rajasthan RoyalsMumbai Indians batsman Suryakumar Yadav hit a rampant unbeaten half-century and fast bowler Jasprit Bumrah picked up four wickets to help Mumbai Indians register a 57-run win against Rajasthan Royals in Match 20 of the Indian Premier League 2020. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bombay-high-court-to-pronounce-order-on-rhea-chakraborty-s-bail-plea-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3OeeAG6OJLTYGRWiwFqgQN.html
07-10-2020||India||Health ministry issues SOPs for festive season to control Covid-19 transmission||Cap on physical numbers, staggered timings and restricted entry are advised during events such as exhibitions, fairs, puja pandals, ramlila pandals or concerts and plays organised in the next few months during the festive season, state Union health ministry standard operating procedures issued on Tuesday to help contain the spread of infection.The advisory also stated that volunteers should be appropriately stationed to ensure thermal scanning, physical distancing and wearing of masks. There should also be a pre-identified space to isolate suspected cases near each event venue.Close circuit cameras will also have to be put at multiple locations in the venue to monitor the compliance of physical distance norms. Also Read: India’s high Covid-19 recovery rate due to 17 states and union territories, says health ministry“In case of events that go on for days or weeks, the crowd density doesn’t remain the same throughout and usually peaks around certain hours of the day and some auspicious days. Planning the event should specifically factor this so that crowds are regulated and physical distance and frequent sanitisation are ensured,” state the health ministry’s guidelines.“In case of rallies and immersion processions, the number of people should not exceed the prescribed limit and proper physical distancing and wearing of masks must be ensured. In any case, the number of such rallies and the distance covered by them may be kept within manageable limits.”Having an ambulance facility in place has been made mandatory for events such as long-distance rallies and processions.Experts say that it is important to be extra careful during the festive season as crowding could lead to a spurt in cases.Also Read: Pandemic protocol should not be violated during Durga Puja, says Bengal CM“Wherever there is mass gathering during a pandemic, and people do not observe appropriate behaviour, there is a risk of spurt in cases. If people do not take precautions, the numbers will likely see a rise in the coming weeks as the virus spreads faster when people are in close contact with each others in large numbers,” Dr Srikant Sharma, Moolchand Hospital, said. Apart from these measures, the ministry has prohibited any such event in containment zones,.Persons above 65 years of age, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years are advised to stay at home. This applies to the event managers and staff as well.However, the state authorities have been given a free hand to make changes based on local requirements.“The competent authority may implement additional measures within their jurisdiction as per their local assessment and in line with activities permitted by Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA),” the advisory further reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-issues-sops-for-festive-season-to-control-covid-19-transmission/story-Uu2bfxcL7wcMLO2dYsBQcJ.html
07-10-2020||India||Covid-19: ICMR receives clinical trial approval for animal-derived antibodies treatment||The plasma therapy may not have shown any benefits during recent trials, but the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s biological research regulator, has received the national drugs controller’s approval to conduct a clinical trial on animal derived antibodies against Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), for the treatment of patients. The antibodies from animals, or animal-derived sera, are also called antisera. The ICMR will be conducting clinical trials on antibodies derived from horses. Also read: India’s high Covid-19 recovery rate due to 17 states and union territories, says health ministryICMR along with Hyderabad-based Biological E. Limited have developed highly purified antisera to treat Covid-19 patients.“We have developed equine sera and developed a horse sera with Biological E, which may also be considered. We have completed some studies on horse sera, where we have a predictive dose of antibodies in an ampoule, which is a small sealed glass capsule containing the dosage that can be injected. We are awaiting a clearance for a clinical trial with the horse sera,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general, ICMR, at the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s (MoH&FW) Covid-19 briefing on Tuesday.Earlier, equine sera was tried to treat several viral and bacterial infections such as rabies, hepatitis B, vaccinia virus, tetanus, botulism and diphtheria.“Although, plasma recovered from Covid-19 patients could serve a similar purpose, the profile of antibodies, their efficacy and concentration keep varying from a patient to another. As a result, it makes an unreliable clinical tool for Covid-19 patient management,” ICMR had earlier said in a statement.“Standardisation achievable through equine sera-based treatment modality stands out as yet another remarkable public health initiative supported by the ICMR in the time of Covid-19,” it added.ICMR’s study on determining efficacy of plasma therapy in treating Covid-19 patients was conducted on 464 patients across 39 hospitals in India, with at least 350 doctors participating in the study.“…and it clearly demonstrated no benefit in reducing mortality in moderate to severe cases of Covid-19. It also did not arrest the progression of disease from moderate to severe. This was well established. This publication has been reviewed and has been accepted as a full paper in the British Medical Journal, one of the most prestigious journals in the world. At the moment, a pre-print has been published, but the entire article will be published soon,” said Dr Bhargava.“However, following the cue from that we have developed the equine sera to be used in Covid-19 treatment,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-icmr-receives-clinical-trial-approval-for-animal-derived-antibodies-treatment/story-q0wEQJ9CHQYVwGz3wGHJBI.html
07-10-2020||India||India’s high Covid-19 recovery rate due to 17 states and UTs: Health ministry||The Union health ministry on Wednesday said 17 states and union territories have played a major role in helping India sustain a high Covid-19 recovery figure. This, the ministry said, is because the Covid-19 recovery rate of these states and UTs is higher than the national recovery rate.(Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)“India’s total Covid-19 recoveries have crossed 56.6 lakh. This has boosted the national recovery rate to 84.7%. This sustained high figure is fuelled by 17 states/UTs reporting recovery rate higher than the national average,” the ministry said. India's total COVID-19 recoveries have crossed 56.6 lakh. This has boosted the national recovery rate to 84.7%. This sustained high figure is fuelled by 17 states/UTs reporting recovery rate higher than the national average: Union Health Ministry pic.twitter.com/9wOkwd8UMGThe 17 states/union territories are:(1.) Daman and Diu; Dadra and Nagar Haveli (96.7%)(2.) Andaman and Nicobar Islands (93.8%)(3.) Bihar (93.4%)(4.) Andhra Pradesh (92.1%)(5.) Tamil Nadu (91.1%)(6.) Delhi (90.2%)(7.) Haryana (90.1%)(8.) West Bengal (88%)(9.) Uttar Pradesh (87.8%)(10.) Odisha (87.7%)(11.) Jharkhand (87.3%)(12.) Mizoram (86.3%)(13.) Telangana (86.3%)(14.) Punjab (86.1%)(15.) Gujarat (85.9%)(16.) Chandigarh (85.8%)(17.) Goa (85.3%)India has reported 5,662,490 recoveries in an overall caseload of 6,685,082, as per the health ministry’s dashboard. While this makes India the second-worst Covid-19 affected country after the United States, it also has the highest number of coronavirus recoveries in the world, and a recovery rate of 84.7%.Also, India contributes to more than 20% of the total global recoveries, a figure the ministry has highlighted repeatedly in recent days.The US, the world’s worst-affected country, has reported the second-highest number of recoveries (4.9 million), while Brazil, the third worst-hit, also has the third-highest number of recoveries (4.3 million).India’s tally of active cases and deaths, meanwhile, stands at 919,023 and 103,569 respectively. It is currently in the fifth stage of ‘unlocking,’ after a nationwide lockdown from March 25 to May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-high-covid-19-recovery-rate-due-to-17-states-and-union-territories-says-health-ministry/story-5VrL4ELXFdvqrB87XzPFaN.html
07-10-2020||India||BJP worker escapes terror attack in Kashmir, PSO dies defending him||A terrorist and a cop were killed in an attack on a BJP worker in Jammu and Kashmir’s Ganderbal district on Tuesday evening when a terrorist opened fire on BJP activist Ghulam Qadir at Nunar Ganderbal leading to retaliatory fire by the personal security officer of the activist. Local reports said the attack happened when Qadir was at his home in the evening. Kashmir police confirmed that a terrorist had been killed in the incident and one of the personal security officers of the activist succumbed to the injuries received during the shoot out.A police official manning the police control room at Ganderbal said that more police personnel were rushed to the spot after receiving information about the incident. “Full details are not yet clear,” he said. Also Read: LeT terrorists behind Monday’s attack on CRPF personnel in J-K identified: IGP KashmirSSP Ganderbal Khalil Paswal said,”It was an attack by the militant and then retaliation. More policemen also rushed to the spot. We are trying to ascertain the identity of the militant. “On September 23, suspected terrorists fired upon BDC chairman of Khag Bopinder Singh at Dalwach Khag in Budgam, where he was on a visit to his ancestral home, police said.Lieutenant governor, Manoj Sinha on Tuesday visited Singh’s family and expressed grief and solidarity with the family members. “The L-G said that such attacks on flag bearers of democracy in Kashmir would not be tolerated, and the perpetrators would be dealt with by appropriate agencies,” a government spokesman said. He assured political activists all support from the government and reaffirmed the government’s resolve of bringing normalcy to life in Jammu & Kashmir||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-worker-escapes-terror-attack-in-kashmir-pso-dies-defending-him/story-gcAmzlFgNd7TsAE09NMM4O.html
07-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape case: SIT gets 10 more days to submit probe report||The three-member special investigation team (SIT) which was set up to probe into the alleged gang-rape of a 19-year-old Dalit woman was scheduled to submit its report on Wednesday. But the government has extended the deadline by 10 more days, reports said.Based on the preliminary finding of the SIT, the Yogi Adityanath government suspended Hathras SP and four other police officers for their ‘handling’ of the case. The SIT, headed by Uttar Pradesh home secretary Bhagwan Swaroop, also recommended lie-detector tests for all those who are involved, including the family members of the victim. Deputy inspector general of police Chandraprakash and IPS officer Poonam are the other two members of the SIT.On September 14, the woman was allegedly gang-raped and assaulted. She was taken to Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College for where she was shifted to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital after her condition worsened. On September 29, she succumbed to her injuries in Delhi. Her body was hurriedly cremated at night with nobody from her family being present, though Hathras police denied all charges. The brutality of the crime and rushed action of the Hathras police drew nationwide criticism while the police proceeded to sequester the village — no politicians were being allowed, the family members were barred from talking to media.Amid nationwide protest, the UP government took some ‘corrective measures’ and relaxed the restrictions. On Tuesday, the SIT team went to the village, examined the spot where the women was cremated. The Yogi Adityanath government has asked the Supreme Court to order a court-monitored CBI probe into the gang-rape case. It has also said the midnight cremation was done to avoid large-scale violence, which was apprehended next morning. “The district administration took the decision to convince the parents of the victim to cremate her with all religious rites at night to avoid large scale violence in the morning. Once the post mortem of the deceased victim was already conducted at Safdarjung hospital, New Delhi, there cannot be any bad intention on the part of anyone to expedite the cremation except to obviate the political violent situation resulting from planned caste divide by certain vested interests,” the affidavit filed by the state government before the Supreme Court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-case-sit-gets-10-more-days-to-submit-probe-report/story-VXNhzTtGT1LsokG2MWKeEJ.html
07-10-2020||India||Eight decisions of the GST Council to impact businesses: EY||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council on Monday could not resolve the vexed compensation cess issue and deferred the matter for the next meeting that will be held on October 12. However, the Council took some other decisions that will have an impact on businesses. Consultancy firm EY India summarises the other decisions taken by the Council on Monday1. Levy of GST compensation cess to be extended beyond the transition period of five years, for such period as may be required to meet the revenue gap.2. Allowing taxpayers having turnover of less than Rs 5 crore to file GST returns on a quarterly basis with monthly payment with effect from January 1, 2021. Such persons shall have an option to pay 35% of their net cash tax liability of the previous quarter using an auto-generated challan for the first two months of the quarter.3. The due date of furnishing quarterly GST returns (GSTR-1) to be changed to 13 of the succeeding month with effect from January 1.Also Read: GST dispute: 21 states may have legal route4. Liability in GSTR-3B to be on auto-populated basis of GSTR-1 with effect from January 1. Input tax credit to be auto-populated through GSTR-2B from January 1 for taxpayers filing monthly returns, and from April 1 for quarterly return filers. GSTR-1 to be filed mandatorily before GSTR-3B with effect from April 1.5. The present GSTR-1 and GSTR-3B return filing system to be extended until March 31. GST laws to be amended to make it the same as default return filing system.6 From April 1, taxpayers having turnover of more than Rs 5 crore shall be required to mention six digits Harmonised System of Nomenclature (HSN)/ Servicing Accounting Code (SAC) on invoices. Taxpayers having turnover upto Rs 5 crore need to mention four digits HSN/SAC on business-to-business (B2B) invoices. The government can also notify mentioning of eight digits HSN for specified class of supplies.7. Various amendments in the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Rules, 2017 are recommended including provision for furnishing NIL Form CMP-08 through short message service (SMS).8. Refund to be disbursed in a validated bank account linked with Permanent Account Number (PAN) and Aadhaar of the registrant with effect from January 1.Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY, commented on the Council’s decisions. He said: “Aligned to the expectations of most, the increased tenure of cess levy’s been finalised as an option for compensating states, but it would entail continuation of increased prices for these goods for another couple of years. While an ad-hoc release of funds and an increased tenure should provide some comfort to states, the modus operandi on borrowing still remains a huge bone of contention without any consensus building up.”At the time of introducing the new indirect tax regime, the GST law assured state governments a 14% increase in their annual tax revenue for five years and the Centre committed to meeting any shortfall in revenue through the compensation cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and other tobacco commodities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-decisions-of-the-gst-council-to-impact-businesses-ey/story-eKS28XQL0XSqbvUngIhPwM.html
07-10-2020||India||Probe into PFI, CFI role in ‘bid to incite caste violence’ over Hathras begins||The Uttar Pradesh police are probing the alleged involvement of the Popular Front of India (PFI) and its student wing, Campus Front of India (CFI), in an alleged conspiracy “to defame the state government and foment caste violence” in the backdrop of the gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, said senior police officials on Tuesday.On Monday, four people were arrested in Mathura on suspicion of having links with PFI and CFI while they were on their way to Hathras from Delhi. They were later sent to 14-days in preventive detention after being booked under Section 151 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) on Tuesday, police said.Those arrested were identified as Masood Ahmed of Bahraich, Atiq-ur-Rehman of Muzaffarnagar, Alam of Rampur and Sidhique Kappan (a journalist) of Malappuram (Kerala).“They were moving from Delhi to Hathras and one of them claimed to be a journalist. On finding material with them linking them to CFI, they were taken into preventive detention,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mathura, Gaurav Grover.“A laptop and some literature that is being studied for its contents were recovered from their possession,” police said.The officials in Lucknow said the four accused have links with CFI while and one of them -- Masood Ahmed – also had links with some active members of PFI who were arrested on September 7 from Bahraich.Also Read: ‘Hathras case of huge importance’, Supreme Court tell UP: Key highlights of hearingA senior police official, privy to the investigation, said PFI’s involvement had surfaced in “supporting and raising funds to create communal divide and incite violence” during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) violence in different districts of UP in December 2019. He said as many as 133 PFI members were arrested in 13 districts of the state for violent anti-CAA protests earlier this year in January and February. The official said investigation into the Hathras case also hinted at PFI’s involvement in spreading hatred and putting up fake posts on social media. He said Masood Ahmad hails from Jalwar area of Bahraich district from where three active members of PFI -- Dr Aleem, Sahabe Alam and Qamarudeen -- were arrested earlier.Also Read: Hathras gangrape: NCW notice to Malviya, Digvijaya and Swara for disclosing woman’s identityHe further said Masood was suspected to be associated with the same group of PFI that was involved in putting up hate posts on social media after the Ram temple stone laying ceremony.The UP police had filed 19 FIRs in seven districts on Saturday and Sunday in connection with allegations that some political groups and other organisations were trying to incite caste-related violence.Meanwhile, the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) has moved the Supreme Court against the arrest of Sidhique Kappan and sought his immediate release from alleged illegal detention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-into-pfi-cfi-role-in-bid-to-incite-caste-violence-over-hathras-begins/story-kqIdObk5qruWh0hc4G8hRI.html
07-10-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: Bombay high court to pronounce order on Rhea Chakraborty’s bail plea today||The Bombay high court on Wednesday is expected to deliver its order on the bail pleas moved by actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik. The Special NDPS Court on Tuesday extended the judicial custody of the brother-sister duo and 18 others, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau, till October 20. The actor had moved the high court in September after her first bail plea was denied by a special court in Mumbai on September 11.Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty, who was in a relationship with actor Sushant Singh Rajput, was arrested by the NCB on September 8, on charges of being an active member of a drug syndicate operating in Mumbai. Her brother Showik was arrested on September 4.The NCB is probing a drug angle related to the death case of Sushant Singh Rajput who was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14. The agency, according to Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde, is basing the allegations against Rhea from one incident from March 17, when Chakraborty gave Miranda her credit card and the latter withdrew Rs 10,000, allegedly to purchase some contraband material for Rajput. While Maneshinde argued that Rajput was known to have consumed drugs before meeting Rhea Chakraborty, additional solicitor general Anil Singh, on behalf of NCB, had submitted that the NDPS Act does not state that offences are bailable based on the quantity of drugs involved.After the forensic team of AIIMS asserted that Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide, demands to release Rhea Chakraborty have been gaining ground. Apart from several Bollywood personalities, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said Rhea should be released without being subjected to further political conspiracy. “We are all pained by the expiry of Sushant ji but he cannot be honoured by falsely implicating a lady as an accused, I have earlier said that Rhea Chakroborty was an innocent lady, she should be released without further harassment to her, she has been the victim of Political conspiracy (sic),” he added.Since her arrest, Rhea Chakraborty has been in Byculla jail cell, reportedly without a bed or ceiling fan. Her cell is adjacent to the one occupied by Indrani Mukerjea, who was accused of murdering her daughter, Sheena Bora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-bombay-high-court-to-pronounce-order-on-rhea-chakraborty-s-bail-plea/story-bC9VuXabdUw8NikAcBI8bL.html
07-10-2020||India||3 terrorists killed in encounter in J-K’s Shopian district||Three terrorists were killed in an encounter between militants and security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, police said.Security forces launched a search operation in Sugan village in Zainapora area of Shopian district following a tip-off about presence of terrorists, a police spokesperson said.Kashmir Police initially tweeted, “Two unidentified terrorists were killed. The Operation is going on.” Later, they said that one more unidentified terrorist was killed, taking the count to three. “Search going on. Further details shall follow, “ they said. The operation turned into an encounter after terrorists opened fire and security forces retaliated, he added. Further details are awaited.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-killed-in-encounter-in-shopian-district-of-jammu-kashmir/story-hxvvGWgUqNmxiZ9Un8U1UN.html
07-10-2020||India||‘Reckless tourists’: Officials state cause of 3 accidents in 3 days in Atal Tunnel||Atal Tunnel, the longest highway tunnel built at an altitude of more than 10,000 feet, has witnessed three accidents within three days of its inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and BRO chief engineer of the Tunnel, Brig KP Purushothaman has blamed reckless and negligent driving by tourists for the accidents. He added that a few tourists created a ruckus inside the tunnel. Some were clicking selfies while others threw caution and traffic norms to the wind. “This indecent behaviour by the tourists was caught on cameras installed inside the tunnel,” he said.Purushotman added that he had taken up the matter of safety and traffic management inside the tunnel with superintendents of police (SPs) of Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti.The BRO official said that he had requested the state police to prepare an SOP for traffic management. On Sunday, three vehicles had collided inside the tunnel due to speeding; however, no case was registered as the motorists reached a compromise.ALSO WATCH | PM Modi inaugurates Atal Tunnel connecting Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley Meanwhile, Himachal’s director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu said that as an interim arrangement, one reserve battalion has been allotted to Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti district police for control and management of traffic and law and order in the tunnel. The 9.02km long tunnel has been divided into two parts--a 4.5km stretch from south portal side will be manned by the Kullu police while the other half will be manned by the Lahaul-Spiti police.He said that the BRO has set up control rooms at both north and south portal of the tunnel and a SI rank officer has been deployed at each control room.Also Read: Atal Tunnel holds strategic significance: Himachal CMKundu said that police will also setup barriers at Solang and Teling for checking of vehicles before crossing the tunnel. No explosives or petroleum products will be allowed to be transported through the tunnel.“Apart from this, we have drawn standard operating procedures (SOP) for vehicles crossing the tunnel and managing traffic. A proposal has been sent to the government for setting up police stations at both north and south ends.Police have set up a board of officials that visited Jawahar Tunnel in Banihal and Dr Shayama Prasad Mukherjee tunnel in Chenani-Nashri to study the security setup adopted by the police in the UT.The panel was headed by inspector general of police (security) Daljit Thakur. Recommendations of the board were submitted to the government, said Kundu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reckless-tourists-officials-state-cause-of-3-accidents-in-3-days-in-atal-tunnel/story-ObkOT7kSGn4xbAQ07MmHmJ.html
07-10-2020||India||Daring Cities 2020: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to address global forum on climate change today||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will speak at the ‘Daring Cities 2020’ virtual conference on Wednesday. He will talk about steps taken in the national capital regarding environmental sustainability and climate change issues.“Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has been invited among five urban leaders around the world to speak at the prestigious Daring Cities 2020 conference - a global, action-oriented forum to recognise courageous urban leaders taking bold climate action across the world,” a statement issued by the Delhi government said.The CM will address climate emergency and air pollution crisis in Delhi, and talk about innovative solutions such as the ‘Pusa Decomposer’ and the first-of-its-kind Electric Vehicle (EV) policy undertaken to tackle the crisis.The UN Secretary General and Federal Environment Minister of Germany will also address the plenary session of the conference, it added.The conference is being hosted by ICLEI - Local Governments for Sustainability and Bonn city with the support of the German government.The conference is a forum for global leaders to interact on how they are tackling climate change, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic.Leaders from Bogota (Colombia), Sao Paolo (Brazil), Los Angles (USA) and Entebbe (Uganda) will also take part in the conference. (with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daring-cities-2020-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-address-global-forum-on-climate-change/story-BzCS3n6sUBcwZ6VIuwgcQJ.html
07-10-2020||India||Earthquake of 5.4 magnitude rocks Manipur’s Ukhrul||An earthquake measuring 4.3 on the Richter Scale hit Ukhrul district of Manipur on Wednesday.The tremor occurred at 3:32 am at a depth of 10 kilometres, reported the National Centre for Seismology (NCS).“Earthquake of Magnitude:4.3, Occurred on 07-10-2020, 03:32:56 IST, Lat: 25.33 & Long: 94.44, Depth: 10 Km ,Location: Ukhrul, Manipur,” NCS tweeted.There were no reports of injuries or damage to the property as a result of the quake.Earlier on September 1, an earthquake of magnitude 5.1 on the Richter scale occurred at 55 km east of Ukhrul in Manipur. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-5-4-magnitude-rocks-manipur-s-ukhrul/story-boicxnd6JAZLZcjUZmTaVM.html
07-10-2020||India||Amreen Zaidi: Her world revolved around her children||Hours before Amreen Zaidi, 35, a resident of Bareilly, succumbed to complications caused by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on September 26, she spoke to her 13-year-old daughter Afreen. “Beta hamesha khush rehna. Apne bhai ka khayal rakhna aur padhai mat chodna (Always stay happy, child. Take care of your brother and don’t leave your studies)....” Zaidi said, and hinted to her to expect the worst. “Mujhe lagta nahi ki main tum se fir mil paungi (I don’t think I will be able to meet you again).” Twelve hours later, the family was informed by the hospital where Zaidi was admitted that she had died. Her family, which had been placed under quarantine in its home on the outskirts of Bareilly, could not attend Zaidi’s last rites. Besides Afreen, Zaidi had a nine- year-old son Murtaza. Her husband, Irshad (40) works as a truck driver. Every day, Zaidi got up at 6am, prepared tea and woke Afreen up to get some hours of study. By the time Murtaza woke up, breakfast would be ready. Zaidi accompanied her children to school, carrying their school bags. She would also pick them up and help them with homework in the evening. Around 12 years ago, Zaidi fainted while preparing lunch. It turned out that she had diabetes and her doctor advised her to take care of her health. But Zaidi paid little heed. A few years ago, the doctor prescribed insulin to manage her irregular sugar levels. Diabetes is one of the co-morbidities that increases the vulnerability of Covid-19 infected persons. “Amreen was the sort of person who would bring you tea and place it in your hands when you visited her home, instead of just asking if you wanted some,” Samreen, her neighbour said. “Daru aur cigarette ke paiso se bachchon ke liye kuch le aya karo zada khushi milegi (Buy something for the children from money you would spend on alcohol or cigarette. It will make you happier),” Zaidi would tell Irshad, he recalled. The couple got married in 2005. At the time, Zaidi was 20 and in her second year of college, enrolled in a Bachelor of Arts course. Though Zaidi wished to work, Irshad’s parents did not permit it. Zaidi accepted the sanction, but regretted it and did not want the same fate for her daughter, Irshad said.“Don’t buy new things for me. We need the money to admit Afreen to a good college,” she told me when I bought her a new dress for Eid two years ago,” Irshad said. The couple had already saved up a tidy sum for Afreen’s higher education but their plan went off the rails after Zaidi got Covid-19. She was admitted to a private hospital in September when she complained of breathlessness. A week later, she tested positive for the coronavirus infection and moved to a Covid-19 hospital where she passed away. Irshad locked himself in his room and cried for hours, when he was told about the death. Murtaza, too young to understand the implications, became quiet. But Afreen remembered her mother’s wish and braced herself for her new responsibility. At night, she studies for two hours before sleeping near her father’s cellphone. With her mother gone, the phone alarm now wakes her up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amreen-zaidi-her-world-revolved-around-her-children/story-6IYfdFDcOxIHOyOl3mGwwL.html
07-10-2020||India||Rahat Indori: Simple verses, deep resonance||For poet, professor and lyricist Rahat Indori, the lockdown felt oppressive. He disliked the solitariness. It wasn’t the kind that inspired an artist, he told friends and family. He missed being out in his beloved Indore and he longed for the mushairas, those public poetry readings that had made him something as rare as a unicorn— a popular, contemporary Urdu poet. Born Rahat Qureshi, Indori’s love for the written word began with the Urdu newspapers that his father, a mill worker, would bring home. At the age of 19, Indori participated in his first mushaira in Indore, organised in the neighbourhood of Ranipura, which would become a muse for the poet. He’d return to its streets and people again and again, in person and in verse. “My Delhi is my Ranipura,” he wrote in a poem, referring to the capital’s reputation for inspiring legendary Urdu poets. By March this year, Indore and Ujjain accounted for nearly 70% of Madhya Pradesh’s Covid cases. Ranipura was declared the epicentre of the outbreak in Indore. Indori and one particular poem of his — Agar Khilaaf Hone Do [if they oppose, let them] — became a rallying cry during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests. The poet had been performing the poem for years, at events held in different parts of the world; but its belligerent swagger resonated deeply with those who registered their protest against the law that provides citizenship to minority religious identities from neighbouring countries of Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan, on grounds that it was discriminatory towards Muslims. The poem quickly commanded a wider audience as in the months before the pandemic struck, Indori was invited to recite the poem on popular television shows. The performances were always theatrical. Restraint was not Indori’s style. He would wring every possible drop of drama out of his words, in sharp contrast to the simple and direct style of his writing, which was frowned upon by many Urdu literary critics for being populist. In recent years, his poetry had become more politically-charged and this made Indori all the more contemporary and popular. “Aasman laaye ho? Le aao. Zameen pe rakh do.” [Have you brought the heavens with you? Bring it in. Set it down upon this earth.] “Sarhadon par bahut tanaav hai kya Kuchh pata karo chunav hai kya?” [Is there a lot of tension on the border? Ask around, is there an election coming up?] Before Indori became a professor of Urdu literature at Indore’s Devi Ahilya University, he’d earned his livelihood as a commercial artist. In later years, he would dabble with writing lyrics for mainstream Hindi cinema, but it was a source of satisfaction to Indori that his couplets were more popular than his Bollywood film lyrics. “Rahat Indori’s poetry is absolutely relevant to the times. He always had a comment on anything that was happening around him,” said lyricist Swanand Kirkire, who grew up hero-worshipping Indori as a child in Indore. The unease that Indori had felt at the start of the lockdown came to its tragic end on August 11, when hours after he was admitted to hospital with Covid-19 and pneumonia, Indori, aged 70, suffered two heart attacks and passed away. He was 70, and is survived by his wife and four children. The poet may have left us, but his words are not lost. “Sabhi ka khoon hai shaamil yahan ki mitti mein, Kisi ke baap ka Hindustan thodi hai?” [This soil is soaked with all our blood You think India is anyone’s father’s property?]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahat-indori-simple-verses-deep-resonance/story-pLnsuEA7JaqiPRI7YKVtVP.html
07-10-2020||India||Let cinemas open from Oct 15: Delhi govt to L-G||The Delhi government on Tuesday sent a proposal to Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal, urging him to allow theatres, cinema halls and multiplexes in the Capital to open from October 15 as per the central government’s guidelines, a senior government official said.The matter, the official said, was briefly discussed in Tuesday’s Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting without any conclusion.The need for a revised Covid-19 management strategy and modalities of an intensive awareness campaign in the light of the festive season ahead was also discussed in detail in Tuesday’s meeting.The DDMA is chaired by Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is its vice-chairperson.“These discussions will continue in the authority’s next meeting likely to happen in another week,” the senior DDMA official quoted above said. The next DDMA meeting, the official said, is likely to see detailed discussions on Ramlila celebrations, Durga Puja and further relaxations of lockdown norms, especially regarding cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes.The government’s proposal came after the Centre on Tuesday issued guidelines on cinema halls and multiplexes that have been allowed to open under the fresh reopening guidelines from October 15, after remaining shut for more than six months in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.“The proposal on cinema halls was only briefly discussed in the meeting of the DDMA but there was no decision. The Delhi government has already sent a proposal to the L-G, urging him to allow cinema halls to open as per rules laid down by the Centre. The same proposal includes a demand to allow all weekly markets to open in every zone,” said the government official, who did not wish to be identified.Last month, the government had sent a proposal to open all weekly markets but the L-G allowed only a small relaxation by allowing two weekly markets per day per zone instead of the one at present.On September 18, Baijal had directed the government to draft a fresh strategy for containment zones, which is yet to be finalised, several senior officials confirmed. The present strategy under discussion requires districts to have area-specific containment plans to suit planned localities, unauthorised colonies, rural areas, etc., said a senior official in the revenue department without elaborating further.After Tuesday’s meeting, Baijal tweeted: “Discussed the recent trends of Covid-19 situation in Delhi and revised strategy as suggested by experts, including prospective planning for the management of Covid-19 in the coming months.”The meeting was attended by Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia, revenue and transport minister Kailash Gahlot, chief secretary Vijay Dev, NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria and director of the national centre for disease control, Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh, said Baijal in another tweet.The chief minister’s office, however, did not comment on the developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-cinemas-open-from-oct-15-govt-to-l-g/story-qqXmGR99xVlDrDNSuhfghN.html
07-10-2020||India||Aadhaar-‘plus’ on anvil for migrant workforce||The Centre is set to issue Aadhaar-linked unique registration numbers to migrant workers, months after millions of them, left in the lurch without jobs (and in some cases, a roof over their head), returned home amid a federal lockdown imposed to slow the coronavirus pandemic — triggering one of the biggest humanitarian crises of independent India. The numbers are expected to help maintain the first-ever data base of the country’s migrant workforce, something that will help push targeted welfare measures more effectively. In a May interview, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman spoke of the difficulty of targeting welfare measures at migrant workers when no one, not the Centre, nor the states, had a database. The Social Security Code—one of the three key labour reform laws passed during the last monsoon session—included a key provision to register “every unorganised worker, gig worker or platform worker”. The original version of the bill didn’t have any such provision, but after the standing committee on labour stressed on the importance of doing this in the wake of the migrant workers crisis, the government reworked the law. Clause 113(2) of the Social Security Code said: “Every eligible unorganised worker, gig worker or platform worker shall make an application for registration in such form along with such documents including Aadhaar number as may be prescribed by the Central Government and such worker shall be assigned a distinguishable number to his application.” Also Read | Govt to disburse compensation cess worth Rs 20K cr to all states tonight, announces Nirmala SitharamanIndeed, even in the just-ended monsoon session of parliament, because it lacked any independent headcount of migrant workers, the labour ministry could not furnish any data to queries by MPs on how many workers lost their jobs, or how many died on the way back home. Union labour minister Santosh Gangwar replied “no such data is maintained” leading to furious protests by Opposition parties. The minister also stated that 10.4 million migrant workers returned home, but maintained that the ministry had only railway ministry data to go by and didn’t have a count of the workers who tried to return by bus, trucks and other means. According to news reports, many workers and their family members died while trying to walk or travel in overloaded trucks in their desperate effort to reach home. Pitching for a unique number for workers, the labour standing committee pointed out that this would help the state clearly identify unorganized sector workers including migrant workers. It also asked for a wider definition of migrant workers to include those who are hired through contractors, come to their place of work independently, and even long-term labourers as opposed to seasonal migrants. Also Read | Open to one more stimulus if necessary: Nirmala SitharamanThe linkage with Aadhaar will help maintain portability of the registration number and ensure the workers receive government assistance, no matter where they are. “As migrant workers move frequently, it is necessary to link their registration with Aadhaar,” said Bhartruhari Mahtab, the chairman of the standing committee of labour in parliament. The Centre has already rolled out schemes for the unorganised sector including unemployment benefits and free ration apart from ₹50,000 crore worth of work across 25 schemes. Former rural development secretary Jugal Kishore Mohapatra feels merely having a new law is not good enough. “There had been many recommendations that unorganised workers should be registered and the government should know who they are. But just having a new law is not good enough. We can only hope that there will be effective implementation and even if the government can register 80% migrant workers, it will do a good job.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-plus-on-anvil-for-migrant-workforce/story-w1byu0JG4kQ19jfR2FtPQP.html
07-10-2020||India||Gulmarg Gondola opens for tourists after six months||Gulmarg Gondola, one of Asia’s largest and highest cable cars surrounded by pine forests and Himalayan mountain peaks in the ski resort of Gulmarg in Jammu and Kashmir, has opened for tourists this week after remaining shut for six months due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Officials said that tourists have started trickling in amid proper Covid-19 protocols of social distancing and masks, to enjoy the breathtaking beauty offered by the mountainous meadow. The first phase of the Gondola was opened for a day on September 27, World Tourism Day and then it resumed daily operations from Saturday taking tourists to Kongdori Mountain at a height of 8,530 ft.“We had decided to operate the Gondola on weekends but then the government decided to open the first phase everyday from Saturday,” said Assistant Manager Gulmarg Gondola Project, Fayaz Ahmad.He said that the tourists both locals and visitors from different states of the country have started coming in. “On an average, around 50 people ride the ropeway every day. Over the weekend, the number was around 150. Around 30 percent of visitors were from different states of the country,” he said.The Gondola was closed after the government imposed lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 in mid-March. On normal days, the cable car records a daily footfall of 2000 to 3000 people generating daily revenue of Rs 35 to 40 lakh. Each ticket costs Rs 740 per person for the first phase and Rs 950 for the second phase which takes a person to a height of 12,293 ft. Proper Covid-19 protocols are in place to avoid any congestion or close contact of the visitors with each other. Instead of six in normal days, only three tourists are allowed to ride in a single Gondola car. There is sanitization of cabins before and after boarding and de-boarding of passengers besides compulsory wearing of masks.The tourism industry nosedived in Kashmir since August 5, 2019 when the special status of the erstwhile state was revoked and restrictions imposed on movement of people and communication shut for months. Two days before the revocation of Article 370, around 20,000 to 25,000 tourists were present in Kashmir and they all were asked to leave the Valley along with Amarnath pilgrims. The situation was then aggravated by the Covid-19 lockdown since March 2020.Ahmad said that the Gondola project has been facing a slump since August 5, 2019. “Later Covid-19 shut it completely,” he said.He hoped that the number of tourists would increase in the coming days. “Gulmarg and Gondola have become synonymous and people have started coming despite Covid-19. Winter is approaching and travel agents have told us that bookings are being made for October end. Let’s hope for the best,” he said.The tourism department has also started campaigns to woo tourists. “Tourism is now open in Kashmir and gradually moving towards revival,” said tourism director, Nisar Ahmad Wani during a Nature Walk event at Dachigami National Park on Monday.“The Directorate has started its publicity campaigns primarily focused on communicating a message that tourists can come here hassle free, as all Covid-19 related SOPs are in place. The visitors can enjoy our hospitality and experience nature in all its beautiful shades and manifestations,” he said.Gulmarg –the meadow of flowers – is located in the Pir Panjal mountain range in the western Himalayas some 50 km from Srinagar and is defined by a cup-shaped valley with virgin peaks, dry curry powder snow and meadows.“Our vast green meadows, enchanting valleys, majestic mountains and our pristine streams and lakes is what brings joy to the visitor and fills him with awe,” Wani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gulmarg-gondola-opens-for-tourists-after-six-months/story-OfO6jRegDJOrcwWUo9hDLP.html
07-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||October is festive season in India, but there’s one more reason to celebrate this year — the end of the first wave of the coronavirus disease.It’s evident in one of the charts accompanying this 176th installment of Dispatch — a return of the seven-day average of daily cases to levels last seen in early September.The reasons for this are not clear, and the pattern of daily case numbers is still a bit too volatile for my liking, but the downslope of the curve is clearly there to see. Inadequate testing doesn’t seem to have caused this — the seven-day average of tests conducted every day has continued to rise — although a closer analysis of the break-up between RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests is needed before this can be conclusively said.There has also been a slight fall in the number of daily deaths and a significant fall in the seven-day average positivity rate (number of people testing positive expressed as a percentage of the number of those tested).This is the first time that the number of cases of Covid-19 — both daily and seven-day average — has declined consistently for at least a fortnight, perhaps more. Other countries have seen clear first waves (the US has also seen a second, and is now on its third), but, until now, not India. In late August and September, as cases climbed, a few experts erroneously referred to it as the second wave in the country, but as evident from the chart referred to in the first instance, it was merely a continuation of the same upward curve. That has changed — since the third week of September, the seven-day average of daily cases has been on a downtrend. And this, even after accounting for the Monday factor (the number of cases typically sees a dip on account of low testing over the weekend). On October 5, it was 59,980; on September 28, 69,685; on September 21, 74,693; on September 14, 81,801; on September 7, it was 77,816; on August 31, 67,484; and on August 24, 59,051. The pattern is clear.      And so, to repeat what I said at the beginning of this column, it is time to celebrate — cautiously, in a social-distanced way, and with the complete awareness that the curve could go north again, and things south. After all, in both the US and in European countries such as France and Spain, the second wave was stronger than the first in terms of number of daily cases, although the deaths were far fewer.For much of the first wave, Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu accounted for a significant proportion of the infections in the country, although that’s changed in the past few months.Among these, the trajectory of the pandemic in Delhi shows that the Capital has actually seen two waves and that in Maharashtra shows that the western state, the worst hit by the coronavirus disease in the country, may be seeing the end of its first wave. Maharashtra’s positivity rate is still a bit too high (a seven-day average of 18.7% on Monday) to say this with certainty, but even that number is at least eight percentage points off its recent peaks indicating some sort of turnaround.Tamil Nadu presents an interesting study though. The number of cases in the state has been on a long (and high) plateau since early August — it isn’t clear why — although its positivity rate seems well under control. The testing in both Delhi and Maharashtra appears to have dropped off a bit, while Tamil Nadu continues to remain a (positive) outlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-s5EFG2uNrOF9jwTkiqnNTN.html
07-10-2020||India||Night cremation for law, order: Uttar Pradesh to Supreme Court in Hathras case||A 19-year-old Dalit gang rape victim was cremated in the dead of the night last week to avert an extraordinary law-and-order problem posed by protesters and political parties intent on stoking caste clashes, the state government told the Supreme Court, which on Tuesday described the incident as “horrible” and “extraordinary”.A three-judge bench of the apex court was hearing a public interest litigation seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the case.The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, directed the state government to place on record the steps taken to ensure protection of witnesses even as the UP government acquiesced to a top court-monitored CBI probe into the September 14 incident and the woman’s death on September 29 that triggered nationwide protests. “It is a horrible incident. It is extraordinary. We want to know from you whether witness protection plan is in place. File an affidavit,” CJI Bobde told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who was representing the UP government. The court also asked the state to ascertain whether the family engaged a lawyer and sought details of the scope of proceedings relating to the incident before the Allahabad high court. The next hearing is on October 8.  The court proceedings came a day after the state government ordered a probe into an “international conspiracy” to destablise the administration. In a 129-page affidavit, the state government contended “intelligence inputs” pointed to political parties and organisations trying to exploit the situation on September 30 – a day after the victim died at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, triggering street protests. “Intelligence inputs were specifically received late at night on September 29 that lakhs of protestors of both communities (communities of the accused and victim) along with supporters of some political parties and media will assemble in the morning of September 30 at the village which is likely to turn violent and will lead to major law-and-order problems. The [Hathras] district administration took the decision to convince the parents of the victim to cremate her with all religious rites at night to avoid large scale violence in the morning,” the affidavit said. Also Read | Rahul Gandhi accuses PM Modi of ‘not saying a word’ on Hathras gang-rapeThe affidavit also noted that the district was on high alert because of the Babri Masjid demolition verdict, which was pronounced on September 30, and large gatherings were banned under central government guidelines to curb the spread of Covid-19. “In such extraordinary and severe circumstances, the district administration took the decision to convince the parents of the deceased to cremate her with all religious rites at night to avoid large scale violence in the morning,” the affidavit contended. The victim’s family has repeatedly said their consent was not taken before the cremation and that no member was present at the last rites, which was conducted at 2.30am without traditional rituals. Along with the affidavit, the state attached screenshots and materials recovered from a website it is investigating for criminal conspiracy. The attachments, allegedly recovered from justiceforhathrasvictim.carrd.co, showed details of protests, trending hashtags, and resources to avoid detention and police action —which made several references to Black protesters, American cities such as Phoenix and New York, and asked protesters to wear ski masks — appeared to have been lifted from the Black Lives Matter movement in the US. The affidavit also said that there could not have been any “bad intention” in hastening the cremation because the victim’s post mortem examination was already done at Safdarjung hospital. Activists and opposition politicians have alleged that the police cremated the body to destroy evidence of the crime. The affidavit went on to blame a “vicious propaganda” unleashed on social media and by sections of the media and some political parties to “deliberately mislead” the public and to create caste and communal disharmony. “There have been orchestrated efforts to malign the image of government on social media by attributing baseless comments and building up a distorted narrative on the Hathras case,” the affidavit read. The state also sought a CBI investigation into the alleged criminal conspiracy to spread caste conflict, instigate violence, and into the propaganda unleashed by certain sections of media and political parties. Also Read | UP police arrest ‘PFI-linked’ men on their way to Hathras from Delhi: All you need to knowThe Dalit woman was allegedly gang raped by four members of the Thakur caste on September 14 and the assault left her partially paralysed. She was rushed to the hospital in Aligarh town, and when her condition deteriorated, shifted to Delhi on September 28. She died the next day. The state government’s handling of the case has come under sharp criticism from activists and opposition parties, who alleged that the victim’s kin were intimidated. The state government has denied the woman was raped, citing a forensic report, though experts have raised doubts about the examination conducted eight days after the crime. The Allahabad high court took suo motu cognisance of the incident on October 1 and ordered the state’s additional chief secretary/principal secretary (Home), director general of police, additional director general, law and order, district magistrate, Hathras, and superintendent of police, Hathras, to appear before it on October 12. “What is the present scope of the proceedings before the high court and how can we widen it and make it more relevant?” asked the bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, directing Mehta to respond to the same at the next hearing. Mehta told the top court the state government was not opposing the plea for CBI probe but requested that it should be done under the supervision of the SC. “We (UP government) are not treating this as an adversarial litigation. There are different narratives in the public domain. One innocent life has been lost. It should not be sensationalised,” Mehta said. Senior counsel Indira Jaising, representing a few woman lawyers, asked the SC to ensure that witnesses are protected. She also pointed out how certain lawyers were trying to secure the brief of the victim’s family and asked the top court not to allow that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-cremation-for-law-order-uttar-pradesh-to-supreme-court-in-hathras-case/story-0BO9IMrYPjVPFkLhO9R2tM.html
07-10-2020||India||MP govt to hand over rape and murder case of 12-year-old to CBI||The Madhya Pradesh government has decided to hand over investigation into the rape and murder of a 12-year-old girl in Bhopal to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), said an official communiqué released by the home department on Tuesday night. The communiqué states, “Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has decided to hand over the investigation of the incident of rape and murder of a 12-year-old girl at Manuabhan Tekri, Koh-e–Fiza, Bhopal that took place on April 30, 2019 to CBI. The chief minister has said that the criminals will be punished severely in cases of crimes against girls.” “In this connection, the home department has sent the approval of the state government to the CBI. The state government has also granted approval for investigation related to the crime, inducement of crime and conspiracy”, said the communiqué. As per the official information, the crime no. 276/19 was registered in connection with the rape and murder under Sections 363, 366, 376 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 5(R) 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. According to police officials, two persons were nabbed in connection with the crime but the police team failed to collect any corroborative evidence against them so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-to-hand-over-rape-and-murder-case-of-12-year-old-to-cbi/story-ckp85rtzIwX2LRLKDH5ICP.html
07-10-2020||India||Scientists Penrose, Genzel and Ghez get Nobel Prize for revealing universe’s ‘darkest secrets’||Even if everything you know about black holes comes from Hollywood flicks — remember Matthew McConaughey journeying into the collapsed star Gargauntua in Interstellar? — the 2020 Nobel Prize for Physics announced on Tuesday should give you some reason to cheer.The $1.1 million prize was shared by three scientists credited with unraveling some of the trickiest mysteries of black holes, a point in space with a force of gravity so strong that even light cannot escape. Britain’s Roger Penrose — whose popular science books on the physics of the universe inspired a generation of young stargazers — won one half of the prize for proving that black holes are a direct consequence of Albert Einstein’s general theory of relativity, one of the major building blocks of modern physics that connects law of gravity to space-time geometry.Reinhard Genzel of Germany and Andrea Ghez of the US won the other half of the prize for discovering that an invisible and extremely heavy object — a supermassive black hole — governs the orbits of stars at the centre of our galaxy.“It was an extreme honour and great pleasure to hear the news this morning in a slightly unusual way — I had to get out of my shower to hear it,” said Penrose, paying tribute to his late colleague Stephen Hawking, who he said deserved a share of the prize. Ghez — only the fourth woman to be awarded the Nobel physics prize — said she hoped it would inspire others to enter the field. Genzel was on a Zoom call with colleagues when the phone rang. “Just like in the movies, a voice said: ‘This is Stockholm’,” the 68-year-old astrophysicist told Reuters. “I cried a little bit.” India’s scientific community rejoiced at the news. Padma Bhushan SM Chitre, mathematician and astrophysicist, Penrose’s schoolmate at Cambridge and longtime friend, said the accolade came “at long last” and capped many awards Penrose picked over his almost 70-year career. “He’s now 89 and still working just as hard,” said Chitre. “His work is on the most obtuse of subjects, and as with the singularity theorems he developed with Stephen Hawking, he has found unexpected ways to work out the mathematical details.” Black holes have fascinated scientists for decades because understanding them is crucial to exploring the origin of matter and galaxies.In 1915, Einstein predicted that space and time could be warped by the force of gravity. Yet he did not actually believe in black holes, and finding a way to prove their existence baffled scientists for another 50 years.It was not until a seminal paper in 1965 that Penrose proved that black holes can really form — describing them in detail and stating that, at their centre, there is a singularity where time and space cease to exist. Because they suck in light, black holes — often formed when a star is dying where a large amount of matter is squeezed into a tiny space — are invisible, except with special telescopes. Genzel and Ghez have been looking through those special telescopes for decades, said Varun Bhalerao, assistant professor at IIT-Bombay’s department of physics. They’ve studied images of star positions in the Milky Way year after year and eventually realised those stars were orbiting something in the centre of our galaxy,” he said. By space standards, that orbit is small, but still has a mass many million times the sun. “The only available explanation is that it is a black hole.” It’s not close enough to suck us in, assured GC Anupama, president of the Astronomical Society of India. Penrose’s work, on the other hand, is hard for anyone to see as boring. His theories have influenced the fields as varied as quantum cosmology, the science of consciousness and artificial intelligence. His interests in geometry, the way non-overlapping flat shapes form finite and infinite symmetries, have resulted in mathematical experiments named after him: Penrose tiling. Most famous, perhaps, is his Penrose stairs — with four landings that loop into each other so the steps rise higher but the staircase appears to stay on the same level. “He’s one of our greatest mathematicians,” said Chitre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-penrose-genzel-and-ghez-get-nobel-prize-for-revealing-universe-s-darkest-secrets/story-iIiDeFdZbbDCqx9oP7tAgM.html
07-10-2020||India||BJP leader attacked in Bengal allegedly by TMC workers; phone, gold chain snatched||Samik Bhattacharya, a former legislator of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was attacked, allegedly by workers of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), in the Falta area of Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district on Tuesday afternoon. The windshield of Bhattacharya’s car was completely shattered by bricks thrown by the attackers. Bhattacharya was allegedly kicked and thrashed and his mobile phone and gold chain were snatched. The BJP alleged that his driver was thrashed too and left with bleeding injuries. Bhattacharya is one of the oldest and most known faces of the present leadership. Known for his oratory skill, Bhattacharya regularly takes part in debates on prime television channels on behalf of the party. The BJP leader was on his way to attend an agitation led by party state president Dilip Ghosh when the car was stopped by more than 100 people, the party alleged. Ghosh, too, was shown black flags by TMC workers at Diamond Habour. “Our party leaders are being selectively targeted,” said BJP state vice-president Ritesh Tiwari and referred to the murder of BJP leader Manish Shukla at Titagarh in North 24 Parganas district on Sunday night. Bhattacharya was unwell and could not be contacted. Officers of Falta police station refused to divulge details of the alleged attack. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee is the Lok Sabha member from Diamond Harbour. Urban development minister Firhad Hakim said, “We have to find out the details and see if TMC men were involved or whether it was a fallout of intra-party rivalry in the BJP.” Saukat Mollah, TMC’s youth wing president in South 24 Parganas, told the local media that Bhattacharya witnessed the outburst of people’s anger against the BJP following the murder of a Dalit woman at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. “People have broken the car now. Next time they may break bones,” said Mollah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-attacked-in-bengal-allegedly-by-tmc-workers-phone-gold-chain-snatched/story-6XzCChWVoZud7xneJQfZxL.html
07-10-2020||India||India makes China point, US hints at ‘formal’ Quad||Members of the Quad on Tuesday pushed for a rules-based global order and peaceful resolution of disputes in the face of China’s growing aggression across the Indo-Pacific, even as the US indicated it wants to formalise and expand the informal grouping that includes India, Australia and Japan. Though US secretary of state Mike Pompeo was the only one of the four foreign ministers to name China in his opening remarks, it was evident the shadow of Beijing’s assertive actions hung large over the second ministerial meeting of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue in Tokyo.Against the backdrop of the five-month border standoff with China, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said in his opening remarks that India and the other members of Quad remain committed to a rules-based international order, “underpinned by the rule of law, transparency, freedom of navigation in the international seas, respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, and peaceful resolution of disputes”. Pompeo was particularly scathing in his criticism of China, saying it was critical for partners in the Quad to collaborate to “protect our people and partners from the [Chinese Communist Party’s] exploitation, corruption, and coercion” that had been witnessed in the South and East China Sea, “the Mekong, the Himalayas [and] the Taiwan Straits”.He also said the crisis created by the “pandemic that came from Wuhan” was made “infinitely worse by the Chinese Communist Party’s cover-up”. The US will support the others in the Quad to counter the pandemic and rebuild their economies, Pompeo added. Australian foreign minister Marise Payne, in her opening remarks, said her country believes in a “region governed by rules, not power”. She added: “We believe in the fundamental importance of individual rights and in a region in which disputes are resolved according to international law.” In a separate statement issued after the meeting, Payne said the ministers reiterated that “states cannot assert maritime claims that are inconsistent with international law, particularly the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS)” – a reference to China’s actions in South China Sea.Ahead of the foreign ministers’ meeting, Pompeo said in an interview with Nikkei Asia that the US wants to formalise and expand the Quad. “Once we’ve institutionalised what we’re doing — the four of us together — we can begin to build out a true security framework,” he said, adding that the Quad is a “fabric” that can “counter the challenge that the Chinese Communist Party presents to all of us”.Other nations can become part of this fabric at “the appropriate time”, he suggested. Pompeo also said that China’s actions in the region amounted to “bullying”. He added, “This is the Chinese using coercive power. This isn’t how great nations operate. So our mission is to reduce that.” Japanese foreign minister Toshimitsu Motegi’s remarks at a news conference on Tuesday, too, hinted at the possible expansion of the Quad. Japan wants a free and open Indo-Pacific based on rule of law and freedom of navigation, and “like-minded countries [which] share these values can participate in this vision”, he said. “This time we are having a quadrilateral meeting, Japan, US, Australia and India... if [other] countries can share these values and rules, I think we can expand the framework,” Motegi said. The remarks of the Quad ministers are certain to irk China, whose officials have likened the grouping to a “mini NATO” and said its activities are aimed at targeting third parties. A statement issued by China’s foreign ministry in Mandarin on Tuesday evening called for peace and win-win cooperation instead of “forming exclusive cliques”. It said multilateral cooperation should be open, inclusive and transparent, as well as conducive to mutual understanding and trust between regional countries instead of targeting third parties. “We hope the relevant countries can think more of the regional countries’ common interests and contribute to regional peace, stability and development rather than doing the opposite,” the Chinese statement added. Despite the US push to formalise the Quad, the grouping continues to be loose and informal in nature, which has raised questions among experts as to whether it can effectively work as a counterweight to China. Following Tuesday’s meeting, there was no joint statement and the four countries issued separate readouts. Jaishankar said in his opening remarks that the events of 2020 have demonstrated how “imperative it is for like-minded countries to coordinate responses to the various challenges that the pandemic has brought to the fore”. He added, “As vibrant and pluralistic democracies with shared values, our nations have collectively affirmed the importance of maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific.” The significance of the four foreign ministers meeting in person, at a time when foreign travel by world leaders is rare, was highlighted by Jaishankar, who said the gathering in Tokyo is “testimony to the importance that these consultations have gained, particularly in recent times”. A statement issued by the external affairs ministry said the foreign ministers discussed the post-Covid-19 world order and sought a coordinated response to the challenges, including financial problems, emanating from the pandemic. They discussed the sharing of best practices to combat Covid-19, increasing the resilience of supply chains, and enhancing access to affordable vaccines, medicines and medical equipment, the statement said. The ministers exchanged views on regional issues, connectivity, humanitarian assistance, maritime security, health security and counterterrorism, and reiterated their support to the centrality of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and their readiness to work towards realising a common vision for the Indo-Pacific, the statement added. A readout from Japan’s foreign ministry said that during the three-hour meeting, including a working dinner, the ministers agreed on broadening cooperation with more countries for a free and open Indo-Pacific as well as practical cooperation quality infrastructure and maritime security. The four sides also agreed to hold regular consultations. Former ambassador Neelam Deo, director of the foreign policy think tank Gateway House, highlighted the significance of the Quad foreign ministers holding a second meeting within a year as well as Japan’s new government hosting the event. “As an expert pointed out, China was the godfather of the Quad at the time of its inception and it remains the motivating factor for the Quad even today, since it has been going everywhere picking a fight,” she said. “But now the parties in the Quad are not the only ones who realise China has become more difficult to deal with. This meeting will result in greater focus on economic cooperation and collaboration on issues such as critical materials to reduce over-dependence on one source, and all of this is good for India,” Deo said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-makes-china-point-us-hints-at-formal-quad/story-c7ptK8v8MgDygLojE5s6oK.html
07-10-2020||India||‘Would’ve thrown out China in less than 15 mins’, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday sharpened his attack against Prime Minister Narendra Modi on India’s border standoff with China, saying had the UPA been in power, the neighbouring nation would not have dared to look at our country with an evil eye.He also claimed that China had “dared to enter India and kill our soldiers” as Modi has “weakened” the country.Further targeting the government over the nearly five-month-long military standoff in eastern Ladakh, Gandhi said during the led UPA’s rule, “China would not dare to take a step inside our territory”, adding had UPA been in power, “we would have evicted and thrown out China and it would not have taken 15 minutes to do so”.The former Congress president, who reached here from Pehowa to address his final public gathering as part of his ‘Kheti Bachao Yatra’, said none of the policies of the Modi government during the last six years were meant to benefit the poor, farmers or labourers.“Modi said China has not entered Indian territory. Then how were our 20 jawans killed? Who killed them?” he asked while addressing a gathering at Anaj Mandi here late this evening.“There is only one nation in the entire world whose land has been usurped and that is India and they call themselves patriots. The prime minister calls himself ‘desh bhakt’ (patriot) and the whole country knows that China’s forces are inside our territory, what kind of patriot he is?” said Gandhi.The government had earlier termed as “mischievous interpretation” the Congress’s claims that China had occupied Indian territory in eastern Ladakh region.Continuing his attack, Gandhi said, “China came inside our territory four months back and how much time will it take to throw them out. I feel till the time the UPA government is not formed, China will continue to occupy the territory, but the day our government (will be in power) we will throw them out,” adding “Our Army, Air Force would have pushed them back by 100 km.” He claimed that the prime minister does not realise the power of the country, its farmers and labourers and is only concerned about his image. “He clicks photos and you must have seen the empty tunnel he is waving (referring to inauguration of Atal tunnel a few days ago,” he said.Gandhi, who held a series of tractor rallies in Punjab since Sunday to protest the Centre’s new farm laws, drove a tractor to Haryana, where he held two gatherings, the previous one being in Pehowa.Senior Congress leaders including Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Kumari Selja, Randeep Singh Surjewala, Kuldeep Bishnoi, Kiran Choudhary, Ajay Singh Yadav and Deepender Singh Hooda also accompanied Gandhi during his programmes in Haryana.The Haryana leg of his tractor rally got delayed by more than two hours after state authorities stopped a large number of Congress workers from Punjab who were accompanying him from Patiala to the inter-state border.However, later Gandhi along with few Congress leaders was allowed to enter Haryana, where a large number of party workers accompanied him during his tractor rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/would-ve-thrown-out-china-in-less-than-15-mins-says-rahul-gandhi/story-xTERnZ1Qt2aUdFo0G9s8OM.html
07-10-2020||India||Ashram crossing descends into chaos; commuters, residents suffer||Peak hour or off-peak, the Ashram intersection has turned into a nightmare for commuters and residents who cram into a stretch barely wide enough for a bus, navigate crumbling, cratered and often flooded roads, with construction activity to ease a decades-long choke point only leading to more chaos.The problem is acute along Mathura Road, where authorities are now creating an underpass beneath the intersection with Ring Road. The work, carried out by the Public Works Department (PWD), is part of a two-stage project to decongest the both arterial stretches that are used every day by hundreds of thousands of vehicles crossing from one part of the National Capital Region to another. But poor planning and road management is dogging the project. Roughly 20 metres of the 30-metre wide Mathura Road, where the 750m long underpass will take shape, has been barricaded for diggers and earthmovers to function. A potholed 175m stretch between Ashram and Bhogal is the most squeezed. When HT visited the spot, jams extended for over a kilometre on either side of the intersection and the air hung heavy with dust from construction and smoke from idling vehicles. “Pedestrians have to move along the traffic hoping nothing untoward happens to them. If by any chance a bus or any other vehicle breaks down on the roads to and from Bhogal, it would easily lead to a logjam of 2-3 hours,” said Vijender Singh Chaudhary over the cacophony of impatient honking by motorists nearby.  Chaudhary, 48, uses the stretch as part of his daily commute. “During peak hours, it now takes one hour or more to cross the intersection. In non-peak hours, it takes 20-30 minutes. The actual time that such a short stretch takes is hardly 2-3 minutes,” he added. The area is now so tightly packed that pedestrians, shop owners and those on two-wheelers are also exposed to the risk of getting infected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Data released by the traffic department shows that since the Covid-19 lockdown was eased and construction work on the stretch resumed with preliminary diversions, the intersection has been recording 280,000 vehicles a day, amounting to 11,600 vehicles on an hour. The busy intersection did not have traffic police personnel deployed during the afternoon on Tuesday, when HT visited the spot. With the old road now taken over for the underpass, authorities widened the stretch by eating into the footpath. The resulting space is still little for vehicles, while potholes, leaking water pipelines, debris and construction material impede the traffic flow. “There are broken water pipelines of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) that are right under these makeshift roads, leading to ankle-deep waterlogging at the time of regular supply, which unfortunately falls during the peak traffic hours. This is the worst I have seen in 40 years of living in the area,” said Deepak Dubey, the owner of a cybercafe on Mathura Road. Residents HT spoke to said the resulting construction dust now blows into their homes, covering their floors and furniture in thick layers every day. The part of Mathura Road on the Friends Colony side of Ashram Chowk is in a relatively better state. PWD has nearly finished construction of the ramp for the underpass on that side. Apart from the underpass, the decongestion project also includes the extension of the Ashram flyover till the mouth of the DND Flyway.The estimated cost of the underpass is ₹78 crore while the cost of the flyover extension is ₹128 crore. The initial deadline of the project was December 2020 which now has been shifted to March 2021 due to Covid-19.Delhi’s PWD minister Satyendar Jain and Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to calls and queries seeking comments.Officials in PWD, however, said it has set a target of 10 days in which the barricade on the Bhogal/Nizamuddin side will be reduced by 1-1.5 metres on either side of the carriageways. “The department has received several complaints of severe traffic jam in the area. A meeting was convened recently and it was decided that the ramp on the Bhogal side will be expedited. Also, the ramp on the Faridabad side is 99% complete in record time and only boundary works are currently being carried out there,” said a senior PWD official, asking not to be named. The chaos at Ashram has also been a recipe for uneasy road-rage confrontations, risky as they are at a time when people avoid close contact with each other. “It was just two days ago that a four-wheeler driver abused me and pushed me off my bike for inadvertently touching his bumper. The road is so bumpy and cramped that everyone starts shouting or honking even if there is a few seconds delay in turning on the vehicle after the traffic signal turns green,” said Naved Hassan, 38, who travels for work to Connaught Place from Molarband every day on his two-wheeler.Experts said the problems are a reflection of bad planning. Dr S Velmurugan, chief scientist, traffic engineering and safety division, CSIR-CRRI said it appeared that hardly any guidelines of the Indian Roads Congress (IRC) are being followed at the Ashram intersection. “The IRC rules say that if there is any construction happening, the road that is made open for vehicular movement should have the wearing course set up. But in this case, the roads, especially the one on the side of Bhogal, are in such bad shape that we cannot even call them potholes. There are craters on that road. There are no signages and no stop markings on the road. The only good thing is that they have put traffic signals now at all sides of the intersection,” he said. SD Mishra, the additional commissioner of police (southern traffic range), said that signboards have been placed at multiple junctures to warn motorists about congestion at Ashram Chowk and the alternative routes to take.“But we can’t force the private motorists to not take a road. We have written to the DTC to make their buses take diversions that will allow them to avoid Ashram Chowk. That will help us avoid some congestion on Mathura Road,” said Mishra.But it is up to the DTC to take a final decision on that and the decision is awaited, said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashram-crossing-descends-into-chaos-commuters-residents-suffer/story-MVAqbUs9b9L1gy7aAg1JwJ.html
07-10-2020||India||Facebook called in as witness, not accused: Delhi Assembly to Supreme Court||The Delhi legislative assembly told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that it had summoned Facebook India vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan as a witness to ascertain the social media platform’s views on whether it contributed in any way to the build-up of the February, 2020 communal violence in the Capital.The Delhi Assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee wanted to elicit suggestions on how social media platforms could be used to strengthen unity among citizens in the future and Facebook executives were summoned as witnesses, not as accused, an affidavit filed by deputy secretary Sadanand Sah said, adding that no coercive action was intended.“It is the inherent right of the legislature to examine matters of public importance and for that purpose to require the presence of persons who are performing a duty of public importance or who has expertise in the matter, before the committee,” the affidavit said.Consequently, Mohan cannot claim right to remain silent or to be left alone in response to the summons to depose before a lawful committee of an empowered legislature, and such right is not a fundamental right except when the person is an accused under Article 20 of the Constitution, it added.Article 20 states that no person can be compelled to be a witness against himself.“Petitioner No.1 (Ajit Mohan) is not an accused. The right to remain silent is relevant only in a criminal investigation. The proceedings before a committee are not criminal or judicial proceedings. There is no accused before a committee. All persons who appear before it are witnesses and are subjected to the examinations by its members as per rules of the house,” it was submitted.The affidavit was in consonance with the stance of the Delhi assembly during the hearing of the case on September 23, when senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi representing the Delhi assembly, had clarified that Mohan was not summoned as an accused.Also Read | Facebook set to tighten rules on what its staff can discuss“He was called as a witness, not as an accused. No coercive steps were intended. It had come to light that Facebook was misused (in connection with communal riots). So, we want to get suggestions from them and devise mechanism so that Facebook is not misused,” Singhvi had submitted during that hearing.Mohan and Facebook moved the Supreme Court on September 22 challenging the September 10 and September 18 notices issued by the Delhi Legislative Assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee. The summons stem from the committee’s decision to look into Facebook’s role following several foreign media reports that purported to show the social media company may have acted in a political partisan manner.The first of such reports showed Facebook refused to act against a Telangana BJP MLA who made Islamophobic remarks. He has since been banned from the service. Mohan had submitted in his petition stated that the subject matter under investigation by the Delhi assembly falls within the exclusive domain of the Union government and a state legislative assembly cannot compel witnesses to appear and provide evidence on such subjects.He was first summoned by the committee for its meeting of September 15 in connection with the complaints alleging deliberate omissions and inaction by the social media company in removing hateful content and posts. The committee earlier said that in its meeting of August 31, it had prima facie found Facebook India was allegedly complicit in aggravating the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February that left at least 53 people dead and over 400 injured.The Delhi assembly affidavit filed on Tuesday also claimed that various witnesses who deposed before it had alleged inaction by Facebook against hateful material on its platform during Delhi riots.“They pointed out among other things that Facebook essentially refuses to take down the hateful and divisive content off its platform but at the same time deliberately removes or lowers the visibility of content which aims at promoting unity and amity amongst communities,” it was submitted.Mohan has maintained before the top court that a state legislative assembly cannot compel non-members to appear before it for an investigation into a subject matter which is beyond its jurisdiction.The affidavit by Delhi assembly, however, pointed out that Mohan has already deposed before the Parliament on some other issues and employees and representatives of Facebook regularly depose before legislatures across the world including in the United States of America where Facebook is incorporated.“Therefore, the attempt to press and engage some fundamental rights in the present facts is prima-facie not genuine or bonafide (in good faith), and the fundamental rights claimed are not at all engaged in the present facts. The petitioners cannot be allowed to pick and choose which Constitutionally empowered body they will appear before, as per their own convenience,” the affidavit stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fb-called-in-as-witness-not-accused-delhi-assembly-to-supreme-court/story-qmROzL2yEf4zqjhhGO4INP.html
07-10-2020||India||2 men held for murder of Bengal BJP leader||The West Bengal Criminal Investigation Department (CID) arrested two men in the early hours of Tuesday in connection with the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manish Shukla at Titagarh in North 24 Parganas district on Sunday night. The father of Muhammad Khurram, one of the arrested men, was murdered 10 years ago, said BJP leaders and police. Shukla, 39, an outgoing councilor of Titagarh municipality, was one of the accused in the murder case registered in April 2010. The charges against him were later dropped. Sheikh Gulab, the second man arrested by CID, is suspected to have followed Shukla’s movements and passed on information to the hitmen. In Shukla’s murder, nine people have been named in the First Information Report (FIR) on the basis of the complaint lodged by his father Chandramani Shukla, who is a doctor. The outgoing chairman of Barrackpore municipality, Uttam Das, and his counterpart in Titagarh municipality, Prashanta Choudhury, have been named in the complaint. The two Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders denied the allegation, saying the BJP’s Barrackpore Lok Sabha MP Arjun Singh was blaming them because they campaigned to stop the BJP from making further inroads in the district before the 2019 assembly election in the constituency and 500 BJP supporters recently rejoined the TMC.“There was an internal squabble in the district BJP unit because Shukla aspired to contest the assembly polls,” said Das. Dismissing the claim, Singh said: “It is not true at all. In the BJP, top leaders select candidates. People like us do not take such calls.” The CID is pursuing the “personal enmity angle in Shukla’s murder, but not ruling out the involvement of powerful people, an officer told HT on condition of anonymity. Arjun Singh has alleged that the CID itself is involved in the conspiracy. “We have evidence that Shukla’s movements were monitored by some officers at the CID headquarters at Bhawani Bhawan in Kolkata on Sunday. We will move the Calcutta high court on Wednesday, seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI),” said Singh. Singh and Shukla both left the TMC and joined the BJP in 2018 and 2019, respectively. Singh made news by defeating TMC’s sitting MP Dinesh Trivedi in the Barrackpore Lok Sabha seat in 2019. To prove Khurram’s connection with the TMC, Singh showed the media the accused man’s old photos with minister Bratya Basu, former minister Madan Mitra and Panihati legislator Nirmal Das. While Das denied having any link with the accused, Mitra and Basu could not be contacted despite several efforts. Khurram’s father Muhammad Islam, who was a cloth merchant, was gunned down in April 2010 near Titagarh railway station. “Khurram was very young at that time. Shukla was arrested and released after a few days. Police will find out whether Khurram is involved or not. I always told him revenge cannot be the answer to anything. Now that Shukla has been murdered our next generation will be in danger. There is no end of this,” said Khurram’s cousin, Raju Khan. “Khurram, I and all members of our family are supporters of the TMC,” said Khan. Attempts were made on Shukla’s life four times since 2009, the year he joined the ruling party, leaving the Communist Party of India (Marxist). He survived without a scratch in the attacks carried out in 2009, 2011, 2013 and 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-men-held-for-murder-of-bengal-bjp-leader/story-CNm5vVludwWWrEZcyEqWKN.html
07-10-2020||India||Supreme Court summons chief secretaries in stubble-burning case||Concerns over stubble burning turning out to be a potent killer in times of the Covid-19 pandemic echoed in the Supreme Court on Tuesday with a bench moving swiftly to post two applications and a separate petition on the issue for October 16 and asking the chief secretaries of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to remain present in court that day.The three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said: “It is an important issue or else the whole air will go bad.”The Court was hearing a petition filed by two young environmental activists – a Class 12 student, who under his own initiative of “Plant A Million Trees”, has planted 150,000 trees in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), and a third-year law student who is an active campaigner against single-use plastic. The petition demanded that the court stop the stubble burning by farmers in Punjab and Haryana which poses a health risk to citizens of Delhi-NCR by enveloping the region in a dense, smoggy fog during the winters .Along with the petition, the court heard two applications as part of the MC Mehta case that deals with environmental pollution in Delhi-NCR. Vikrant Tongad, a member of the Zila Samiti on the issue of crop burning in Gautam Budh Nagar district of UP demanded that Happy Seeder machines meant to mechanically remove crop stubble be mandatorily issued to farmers either free or at subsidized rates. For preventing crop fires, he suggested satellite-based geospatial technology that is already in use by the Centre for mapping and preventing forest fires. Although in the past, the Supreme Court had ordered the states of Punjab, UP and Haryana to provide cash incentive to farmers who do not resort to crop burning, Tongad suggested that the court consider making payment of minimum support price (MSP) to farmers subject to verification that they have not resorted to stubble burning. The bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said: “Let Union of India file reply…Let the chief secretaries of the states viz., Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab, be present before this Court on the next date of hearing.” The second application was filed by a Supreme Court lawyer, Manali Singhal, who through her plea sought immediate curbs on stubble burning. She produced international research which showed how air pollution can “exacerbate” the spread of the Covid-19 infection, posing high risk to senior citizens, children and people with respiratory illness. The application suggested appointment of an officer or Commissioner to enforce Court’s past orders to end stubble burning. Such powers are available to an officer so appointed under Section 5 of the Environment Protection Act, 1986, the application stated. The bench asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta if such an officer has been appointed. Mehta said he will seek instructions and inform the court. Senior advocate Aparajita Singh. who is assisting the Court as amicus curiae (friend of the Court), responded by saying that over the past years, the court was getting assistance on stubble burning and related environmental issues from a statutory authority called Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, in short EPCA, which has been submitting regular reports to the court. Just prior to Tuesday’s hearing, EPCA filed a report showing how the state governments assured the Supreme Court in November 2019 that all measures are in place. This assurance was recorded by the Court in its order of July 30 and August 24 this year. “The chief secretaries of the neighbouring states are present here. The court must ask them as to why despite repeated assurances in the past, stubble burning continues to happen?” The court was of the view that the issue required an expert to deal with. “Suggest impartial people who can examine this issue. How can courts go into this,” the bench remarked. One of the applicants suggested appointing former Supreme Court judge Madan B Lokur. amicus curiae; the applicant informed the court that EPCA is the expert body constituted under Section 5 of Environment Protection Act. The Delhi government, represented by advocate Dinesh Dwivedi, informed the court that the issue need not require a separate agency to supervise as the court had been “hand-holding” the issue over the past many years. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who appeared for the two young environmental activists, told the court that he will suggest the names of few independent experts. In his petition, Singh argued, “The consequence of allowing any stubble burning to take place in the times of this pandemic will be catastrophic…enhanced pollution level can offer direct pathway for airborne transmission” of the Covid-19 virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-summons-chief-secretaries-in-stubble-burning-case/story-oJPuiegStYVVcki3bsGmxJ.html
07-10-2020||India||Bihar election: Congress defers 3 nominations over charges of sexual exploitation||The Congress has put on hold at least three names suggested for selection as party candidates in the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar, pending further scrutiny following objections by some leaders over their alleged involvement in sexual exploitation cases, people familiar with the development said. The move is seen as an immediate fallout of last month’s Hathras gang-rape and murder case in Uttar Pradesh on which the Congress leadership has taken a strong stand, a party functionary said on condition of anonymity. “We have further tightened our nomination process. The names had been forwarded by our state poll panel. We have decided to keep these on hold till we conduct further scrutiny,” said the functionary, a screening committee member. He said there were objections to these names from some sections of the party after which it was decided to put them on hold pending greater scrutiny. He refused to disclose the names. “We are going through each and every name that is coming to us in a detailed manner and these will be cleared only after proper scrutiny. It is a longstanding resolve of the Congress leadership to keep those with criminal background and also rape accused out of the nomination process,” added the person quoted above. At a press briefing on Tuesday, Congress leader Sushmita Dev said political parties should not field rape accused in elections. “As the Mahila Congress president, I have absolutely no hesitation in saying that I am totally against giving nomination to anybody who has been accused of any serious moral turpitude. I feel that we should have a veto power against such people. That’s my view and I have spoken about it internally in the party,” she said. A screening committee shortlists the party candidates and forwards the list to the central election committee (CEC) for final selection. On Monday, a meeting of the CEC, chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, is said to have cleared some names for the Bihar polls. Party’s screening committee chairman Avinash Pande said the CEC discussed the names of candidates for 46 seats on Monday. “These will be cleared after further scrutiny and the CEC will meet again soon in this regard,” he added. Bihar will go to polls in three phases. While the first phase of elections will be held on October 28, the second phase is on November 3. The third and final phase of polling will be held on November 7; votes will be counted on November 10. As per the seat-sharing agreement among the constituents of the mahagathbandhan, or grand alliance, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) will contest 144 seats, the Congress 70 and the Left parties 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-defers-3-nominations-over-charges-of-sexual-exploitation/story-WDwtmY0W2MloJf8u4lubVL.html
07-10-2020||India||142 drug syndicates, heroin trade under NCB’s scanner||142 operational drug syndicates, heroin trade of $19 billion (Rs 140,000 crore), and 2 million heroin addicts -- these are some of the staggering numbers presented in an analysis by the country’s Narcotics Control Bureau that comes at a time when investigations by various agencies into drug-use and the drug trade has roiled both the Kannada and Hindi film industries. According to the analysis, which has been reviewed by HT, the syndicates play a key role in the multi-billion dollar trade and have links to Western Europe, Canada, Africa, Australia, South American and countries in West Asia. NCB has estimated that 360 metric tonnes (MT) of retail-quality heroin and about 36 metric tonnes (MT) of wholesale-quality heroin, which is purer, are smuggled into different cities in India every year. The 2 million users consume almost 1,000 kg of high quality heroin every day, it adds. Punjab continues to be an epicentre of drug smuggling with 15,449 persons arrested from the state last year -- out of a total of 74,620 arrests across 36 states and union territories under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Thus far in 2020, 5,299 of the 18,600 total arrests are from the state. The federal agency recently shared its findings with home minister Amit Shah, who is learnt to have directed it to go after the syndicates. The crackdown on bigger drug syndicates is being spearheaded by NCB chief Rakesh Asthana, who probed several high profile cases including the VVIP chopper case, the fodder scam, and the bank fraud by Vijay Mallya during his stint in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Asthana was not available for comment.Sharing details of the country’s top 142 syndicates, currently being watched closely, a senior official who didn’t want to be named said that as many as 25 of these operate from Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and parts of Haryana. Rajasthan alone has nine , as do Maharashtra and Goa combined. Also Read | With cops on overdrive, cannabis seizure in Odisha likely to cross 1,000 quintals this yearSome of the top syndicates have found to be connected with Afghanistan’s Taliban and Pakistan’s spy agency ISI -- and procure heroin through them -- while some have direct/indirect business dealings with Colombian cartels through their associates in Europe, Canada and Mexico for supplying cocaine, the first officer said. Traditionally, major trafficking of heroin in India takes place through the India-Pakistan border, mainly in Punjab and Jammu & Kashmir, from where it is further transported to other states. The NCB analysis adds that Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Lakshadweep have around 10 big drug syndicates with the Kasargod and Kannur networks considered to be the most prolific ones. A Qatar-based syndicate is primarily linked with smugglers in Kasargod, Kannur (Kerala), Kodagu, Mangaluru (Karnataka), Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Goa, Chennai, and Delhi for supplying cocaine, high quality heroin and psychotropic substances, it said.  NCB has already registered at least 14 cases in connection with this Qatar network. “The members of this network communicate directly with the kingpins lodged in Qatar central jail. The cartel uses people looking for jobs in the Gulf as carriers, some of whom are lured by offering free tickets, hotel or honeymoon packages etc. The drugs are concealed in check-in or carry-on luggage kept with dry or wet food items, groceries, clothes or in custom made concealments,” said K P S Malhotra, deputy director NCB.Also Read | With cops on overdrive, cannabis seizure in Odisha likely to cross 1,000 quintals this yearFor cocaine, NCB is keeping an eye on traffickers based in cities such as Delhi, Mumbai Bengaluru, and Chennai. Malhotra added that “India’s proximity to South east Asian countries Myanmar, Laos and Thailand (known as the Golden Triangle) and South West Asian countries i.e. Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iran (called the Golden Crescent) provides the major context for drug trafficking here. Also, unhindered air and sea linkages with other countries make India vulnerable to drug trafficking.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/142-drug-syndicates-heroin-trade-under-ncb-s-scanner/story-yPbfCbo9rRemM9ooZzp9kO.html
07-10-2020||India||SIT visits Hathras village; victim’s kin get police cover||A three-member special investigation team probing the gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman visited her village in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district on Tuesday even as police accepted the family’s request for round-the-clock security and claimed the victim’s relatives feeling safe again. Union minister of state for social justice Ramdas Athawale and a delegation of left parties met the family of the victim, whose death and subsequent forced cremation a week ago sparked widespread protests. Athawale offered Rs 5 lakh as monetary help to the family and promised to take up the issue with chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “This incident is heart-wrenching. This puts humanity to shame. We told the family that we are with them. Whatever CM has assured them should be implemented. The culprits should be hanged,” Ramdas said. A joint delegation of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Communist Party of India (CPI) spent around two hours with the family. “We have been told about the brutal gangrape... and that her cremation was done in the middle of the night without informing the family. These sort of things are unheard of in the 21st century and are a blatant violation of the Indian Constitution and the guarantees it gives to our people. We expressed our solidarity with her family,” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said. On September 14, the victim was raped by four members of the Thakur caste in Hathras district when she had gone to the fields to collect cattle fodder. She was partially paralysed in the attack. Also Read | Hathras fallout: Yogi Adityanath smells ‘international’ plot to destabilise UP govtAs her condition deteriorated, she was moved to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital on September 28 and died in the early hours of September 29. At 2.30am the next day, the police forcibly cremated the body without the family’s consent in a field near the village. Since then, political leaders have made a beeline to the village even as the government has denied she was raped, citing the forensic report. Five police officials have also been suspended in line with preliminary recommendations of the special investigation team (SIT). On Tuesday, the SIT, which visited the village earlier, went to the site where the victim was cremated at 2.30am on September 30. The team – comprising home secretary Bhagwan Swaroop, deputy inspector general of police Chandra Prakash and commandant of the Agra provincial armed constabulary Poonam-- also went to the site of the crime and interacted with people in the village. Superintendent of Police (SP) Vineet Jaiswal said two women sub-inspectors (SIs) and six women constables have been stationed at the victim’s house. “Two security personnel have been deployed for the security of the victim’s brother.” He said all aspects of the family’s security were being looked after by the police. Also Read | UP police arrest ‘PFI-linked’ men on their way to Hathras from Delhi: All you need to know“One and half-section PAC is permanently camping there and is on duty 24 hours. Apart from this, three SHOs and a Deputy SP rank officer, in charge of the security, are also deployed,” Jaiswal told ANI. The officer said he personally met the victims and assured them that all their security concerns, even if it arises in the future, will be taken care of. “They seemed confident after our assurances, I also gave them my personal mobile number to reach out at any time,” he added. He said that the police department will not allow holding any meetings, or panchayat in the village and its immediate vicinity in view of the security concerns. This came days after Brahmin and Thakur communities held a mega gathering or mahapanchayat two kilometres from the village and expressed support for the four men accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sit-visits-hathras-village-victim-s-kin-get-police-cover/story-oqDDur7ooDd8SLyAPWUsVI.html
07-10-2020||India||Shaheen Bagh stir: SC to decide on Wednesday scope of right to protest||The Supreme Court will pronounce its judgment on Wednesday regarding scope of right to protest in public places and whether or not there can be limitations to such right.The verdict will be delivered by a 3-judge bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul in a batch of petitions concerning road blockade at Shaheen Bagh in Delhi by protesters who were opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).While the issue concerning Shaheen Bagh itself was rendered infructuous (pointless) since the protests ended after the Covid-19 pandemic broke out and lockdown was imposed, the court heard the parties on the larger issue of right to protests in public places and to what extent it can be regulated and balanced with the right of general public to move without hindrance.“The right to protests should be balanced with the right to movement of public. In a parliamentary democracy, there is a right to protest. But can a public road be blocked for a long time? When and where can protests be held? We will think about how it can be balanced,” the bench which also comprised justices Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari had remarked during the hearing of the case on September 21.The petition before Supreme Court was filed by advocate Amit Sahni in February, seeking removal of road blockade on Shaheen Bagh–Kalindi Kunj stretch.The protesters at Shaheen Bagh were opposing the CAA, which was passed on December 12, 2019. The CAA amended Section 2 of the Citizenship Act, 1955 in a manner which made any person belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi or Christian communities from Afghanistan, Bangladesh or Pakistan eligible to apply for Indian citizenship by naturalisation even if they were illegal migrants.However, the amendment excluded Muslim illegal migrants from availing the opportunity to apply for Indian citizenship, which triggered widespread protests across the country.Shaheen Bagh was the epicentre of such protests in the national capital. The protest started on December 15, 2019 and continued for more than three months.The Supreme Court had tasked senior advocate Sanjay Hegde and advocate Sadhana Ramachandran, on February 17, to mediate with the protesters and come to a constructive solution to resolve the issue but no solution could be arrived at.Most of the protesters, however, left the site by March 23 due to the lockdown imposed in Delhi because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) threat. But the stage and other structures which had been put in place during the protests were retained and a few men and women remained at the site as a symbolic continuation of the protests. Later, the police had dismantled it.Sahni stated that while people have the right to protest, the same is subject to reasonable restrictions and protesters cannot be allowed to occupy public roads indefinitely. He contended that right to protests it should not inconvenience public at large.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta representing the central government also concurred with the petitioner stating that right to protest cannot be absolute and is subject to reasonable restrictions.“Every right is qualified,” Mehta had argued.Abid Sheikh, one of the organisers at the Shaheen Bagh protest site, said, “If right to protest is scuttled or limited in anyway, it will be akin to killing democracy. It is a step closer to dictatorship. As far as protesting in public spaces is concerned, our sit-in agitation was not to trouble citizens. It was to put forward our concerns before the world. That is why we had occupied only one carriageway of Road 13A. The other routes were barricaded by authorities causing trouble to public.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shaheen-bagh-stir-sc-to-decide-on-wednesday-scope-of-right-to-protest/story-WsT3TM0j0EuJnDkkJP4PxI.html
