08-10-2020||India||PM lauds people-driven Covid fight||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched a massive campaign to ensure people continue to take adequate precautions and behave appropriately during the coming festive season, even as the number of daily cases in the country has seen a dip, and people are beginning to tire of the safeguards that have affected normal life since late March.  “India’s COVID-19 fight is people-driven and gets great strength from our COVID warriors. Our collective efforts have helped saved many lives. We have to continue the momentum and protect our citizens from the virus,” the PM tweeted as he launched the star-studded campaign. HT reported on October 3 that the government would launch a campaign to urge people to be cautious about their behaviour in the upcoming festive season that will see more social gatherings and outdoor activities amid the prevailing Covid pandemic. The PM also reiterated the basic safety precautions in another tweet: “Wear a mask. Wash hands. Follow social distancing. Practice ‘Do Gaj Ki Doori.’ Together, we will succeed. Together, we will win against COVID-19.” The campaign, government officials added, will continue for at least three months to cover the entire festive season including the New Year celebrations. The new campaign for Covid-appropriate behaviour also comes at a time when most restrictions on movement and business activities have been removed (schools are still shut, though), which means the only thing that stands between people and possible infection is their own good sense. The campaign will include region- specific targeted communication in high case-load districts -- simple and easily understandable messages aimed to reach every citizen. It will have banners and posters at public places, involve front line workers and target beneficiaries of government schemes. National influencers from the worlds of cinema, sports and culture will drive home the message of health safety by appearing in ads and messages. These will be showcased on hoardings, wall paintings and electronic display boards in government offices. There will also be mobile vans , audio messages, pamphlets and brochures on awareness. Local cable operators too, have been asked to spread health safety messages. Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting on September 28 to detail the entire plan. Cabinet secretary Rajeev Gauba, Niti Ayog’s member health Dr. VK Paul, secretaries of home affairs, health, information and broadcasting, rural development and panchayeti raj were also present in the meeting. “As part of the nation-wide campaign, Central Government Ministries and Departments and State Governments and Union Territories will reach out to citizens with region-specific communication, tailored to the needs especially of districts where there is a high case load of COVID-19. Cautionary measures that need to be adopted will be communicated using a variety of suitable media platforms, throughout the country,” said a release. Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar said that special focus will be laid on simple and easily understandable messaging, so that it benefits every citizen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-lauds-people-driven-covid-fight/story-q3a5DkqzB6m07o5MSBwqvL.html
08-10-2020||India||‘If they had common sense…’: HD Kumaraswamy on polls amid Covid||Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy on Thursday criticised the Election Commission, Centre and the state governments for conducting polls amidst a raging pandemic in the country. Stating that the polls would only lead to a spike in cases, Kumaraswamy said: “If they (EC, Centre and state governments) had any common sense, the polls would not have been held now, amidst a countrywide pandemic.”Asserting that it was impossible to maintain social distancing during an election campaign, Kumarswamy pointed out how he had come down with a fever after two days of campaigning in Sira assembly constituency. “It would not have been the end of the world if the EC had advised imposition of the President’s rule in Bihar for six months and then held the polls. This (polls and bypolls) would only lead to a spike in cases.”The JDS leader was referring to the assembly polls scheduled in Bihar as well as several bypolls across the country, including the RR Nagar and Sira assembly seats. Both the assembly seats go to polls on November 3, apart from four teachers and graduates constituency to the upper house, which will be held on October 28. Expressing confidence of winning both the bypolls, he hit out at both national parties - BJP and Congress - for luring JDS leaders. “They are so bereft of leaders that they have to lure from our party to put up candidates. But voters are wiser and they will back JDS.”The Congress has put up Kusuma, the wife of former IAS officer DK Ravi - who died by suicide - as its candidate in RR Nagar and former minister T B Jayachandra in Sira. While the BJP is yet to announce its candidates for the assembly seats, JDS has given the Sira ticket to Ammajamma the wife of former MLA B Satyanaryana whose death caused the vacancy. However the regional party is yet to announce its candidate for the RR Nagar seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-they-had-common-sense-hd-kumaraswamy-on-polls-amid-covid/story-oc1rgBQb0uSnEzDIj6JrUN.html
08-10-2020||India||Scientists find dragonfly fossil, 2.5mn years old, in J’khand||Kolkata: A team of scientists from West Bengal has discovered the first dragonfly fossil found in India in Jharkhand’s Latehar district, according to a study published in Current Science. The fossil is said to be at least 2.5 million years old. “This is the first dragonfly fossil from India. It is a well-preserved one. The fossil belongs to the late Neogene period which dates between 2.5 million and five million years ago,” said Subir Bera, a professor with the Centre for Advanced Study in the botany department of Calcutta University., and one of the authors of the study. The study, published in the October 10 edition of the journal said the dragonfly fossil has a well-preserved head, thorax and a long cylindrical abdomen with terminalia (nether regions) and four wings with longitudinal veins, cross-veins and a characteristic small pterostigma (a pigment spot ) at the apex. The fossil is around 3 cm long and has a wing-span of around 2.5 cm. This is much smaller than the fossils of giant dragonflies, which have been found elsewhere in the world, the study said.Experts said the wing-span of one of the giant dragonflies, Meganeuropsis permiana, measured around 2.5 feet; it was found by Frank Carpenter in Elmo, Kansas in the US in 1939. It dated back to the Permian era which made it around 300 million years old. In 2013, a giant, well preserved dragonfly fossil, dating back 200 million years, was discovered in China. The researchers from four universities in West Bengal were looking for fossils in the sediments of the Chotanagpur plateau for almost a year when, in January, they found the dragonfly fossil at a depth of around 5m below the soil surface. The team also found fossils of various other insects, fish and flowering plants.The study said the find suggested that this dragonfly thrived under a “tropical, warm, humid climate” during the depositional period and the fossil specimen was associated with prolific and diversified tropical angiospermic plant remains, vertebrates and invertebrates that provided a suitable environment for the dragonfly to survive.“The nearest living member of the fossil is Libellula depressa, a species of dragonfly that is found in any tropical country including India,” said Manoshi Hazra, the first author of the research paper. As dragonflies spend most of their lives near fresh water bodies, the scientists said that millions of years ago a freshwater body might have existed in the plateau, which has now dried up. The other fossils of plants and fish, which the scientists have found, also suggest so.“The very fact that the team has found the fossil of an adult dragonfly from the sedimentary bed is very interesting. The prospect of finding an immature dragonfly from the sedimentary bed is huge because dragonfly larvae live underwater, and the prospect of finding insect fossils from sedimentary beds and coal beds is also huge, but unfortunately, little work has been done in India in this regard,” said TK Pal, a former scientist at the Zoological Survey of India. According to the study, which was led by Mahasin Ali Khan, assistant professor of botany at Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University in West Bengal’s Purulia, dragonflies are known as “guardians of the watershed” and “wetland bio-indicators” and are carnivorous, feeding on other insects such as moths, flies, mosquitoes, bugs and midges. “The presence of fossil flies, midges and butterflies in the fossil locality suggests that the dragonflies probably fed on these insects at that time. Thus, the late Neogene tropical forests of Jharkhand comprising abundant flora and fauna provided a suitable environment for the libellulid dragonfly to survive,” the study said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-find-dragonfly-fossil-2-5mn-years-old-in-j-khand/story-Iwvn4FRBzsGzMyo0drYCuK.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Early withdrawal of US troops will have consequences’: Abdullah Abdullah||A premature withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan will have consequences, especially if the Taliban don’t deliver on commitments to prevent the use of Afghan soil by groups such as al-Qaeda, Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah said on Thursday. The chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation in Afghanistan made the remarks hours after US President Donald Trump tweeted that he intended to bring home all American troops from Afghanistan by Christmas, months ahead of the earlier deadline of May 2021. Abdullah, in New Delhi to seek the Indian leadership’s support for intra-Afghan negotiations underway in Doha, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi who, he said, had assured him that India will back any settlement acceptable to the Afghan people. Shortly after the meeting with PM Modi, Abdullah addressed a gathering at the think tank Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA), where he was asked about Trump’s plan to withdraw all US troops by December. He noted there was only Trump’s tweet so far and details such as troop numbers and the timing were unclear, but acknowledged Afghanistan should be prepared for “any eventuality”. “The US withdrawal will happen one day and Afghanistan should be able to stand on its own feet, but if it is premature, it will have its consequences,” he told the gathering that included retired and serving diplomats and military officials. “If other conditions attached to their withdrawal are not met, for example, if the terrorist groups like al-Qaeda continue to pose a threat against the people of Afghanistan, or ISIS and the others, there will be consequences as a result of that,” he added. According to a UN report issued in June, some 6,500 Pakistani nationals are among foreign terrorists operating in Afghanistan, and the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) play a key role in bringing foreign fighters into the country. Trump tweeted he wanted “the small remaining number of our BRAVE Men and Women serving in Afghanistan home by Christmas”. The deal signed by the US and the Taliban in February envisages the withdrawal of all US troops by May 2021. There are currently less than 9,000 US troops in Afghanistan, and the number was expected to drop below 5,000 by November. Abdullah said in his address at IDSA that the peace process is aimed at achieving a democratic and peaceful Afghanistan which is friendly with all countries in the neighbourhood and preserves the rights of all citizens, including women and minorities. “There can be no military solution. There are no winners in a war and there is no loser in a peaceful inclusive settlement,” he said. Abdullah said he had a “very good meeting” with Modi. “He [Modi] said whatever settlement is acceptable for the people of Afghan, we [will support it],” he added. The external affairs ministry said the prime minister reiterated “India’s commitment towards sustainable peace and prosperity in Afghanistan and welcomed efforts towards a comprehensive and permanent ceasefire”. Abdullah also told the gathering at IDSA he had been encouraged by his talks with Pakistan’s civil and military leadership during a visit to Islamabad last week. He said more flexibility on the part of the Taliban could lead to an “understanding to live in a sovereign country that isn’t a threat to others in the neighbourhood” While hoping for a change in the Taliban’s attitude, he said: “There is a thinking amongst the Taliban that the US will withdraw from Afghanistan, which they will eventually, and then they will take advantage of the situation and take Afghanistan back three decades. “They may be able to take advantage of the situation temporarily but they will not be able to impose their rule on the people of Afghanistan by force, that’s a reality.”Abdullah met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval on Wednesday and is scheduled to hold talks with external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-withdrawal-of-us-troops-will-have-consequences-abdullah-abdullah/story-yfMpZNZK0W7ySPYKOcphnN.html
08-10-2020||India||Maharashtra Governor, Thackeray, Pawar condole Paswan’s death||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday condoled the death of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan and said he was a popular leader who stood for deprived and weaker sections of the society.NCP chief Sharad Pawar and BJP leader Nitin Gadkari also expressed grief over the death of the veteran politician and paid rich tributes to him.The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder, one of the most prominent Dalit leaders of the country, died on Thursday in a Delhi hospital at the age of 74.Koshyari said Paswan was one of the most popular leaders from Bihar and enjoyed strong mass support.He had the distinction of serving as a Union minister in various governments and handling different portfolios ably, the governor said.“We have lost a great parliamentarian and a popular leader,” Koshyari said.Thackeray said Paswan was connected with ordinary people all through his long political career.The country has lost a leader who stood for deprived and weaker sectionsof the society, the CM said.Pawar also expressed grief over Paswans death.Saddened to hear about the demise of Shri Ramvilas Paswan. He was a veteran leader and founder of Lok Janshakti Party.“I had a long association with him as a Parliamentarian. My sincere condolences to his family. RIP, Pawar tweeted.In Nagpur, Gadkari, a Union minister, said Paswan had an important contribution in upliftment of the poor, deprived and underprivileged sections of the society.Gadkari tweeted, “I am numbed by the news of passing away of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. My emotional tributes to him.“Paswanji had an important contribution in the development of poor, deprived and underprivileged. May the Lord Grant peace to his soul and strength to his family,” said the BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-governor-thackeray-pawar-condole-paswan-s-death/story-8V1xbpw0WSkq4xL1RyeAYM.html
08-10-2020||India||Why Goa is accusing Karnataka of clandestinely diverting Mhadei river||A slow trickling stream in what once used to be a raging torrent during the monsoon months is what first prompted puzzlement among those living in the villages of the Sattari taluka located along the lower reaches of the Western Ghats along the Goa border with Karnataka. In the village of Surla, the last frontier of Goa located at an elevation of 800 metres on a small plateau atop the Western Ghats the onset of the monsoon used to be a time of roaring waterfalls, fast flowing streams and living amid the clouds as they crash against the Sahyadris. What makes the village famous is the ‘Ladkyacho Vozar’ sometimes referred to only as the Surla waterfalls as the Mahadayi River comes crashing down the steep cliffs of the Western Ghats and into Goa. But this year was different. “This year the river has been reduced to a trickle. There was diversion earlier too but it was not in as much quantity. This year the water has been reduced to a trickle,” Rajendra Kerkar an environmentalist who hails from the village Keri in Sattari and has been an active member of the Mhadei Bachao Andolan, a group of citizens and activists that was formed to lobby for Goa’s share of the Mhadei waters. Photographs from the site show that Karnataka has completed the digging of trenches and now water that would otherwise flow through the Mhadei now flow eastwards and into the east flowing Malaprabha river in Karnataka rather than westwards into Goa from the point of diversion.“They (Karnataka) have been doing work of building canals earlier too, but water has not been diverted like it has been this year,” Kerkar said. Three streams -- the Kalasa, Bhandura and Haltara and make up the source of the River Mahadayi in Karnataka that flows into Goa as the River Mandovi meets the sea at the state capital Panaji.The Bhandura stream, the biggest of the three originates at a village in Degaon in Karnataka along with the Kalasa stream and the two along with other smaller streams meet to form the Mahadayi which then flows into Goa. The Haltara also begins in Karnataka but takes another route flowing through Maharashtra and into Goa meeting the river further downstream in Goa. The Goa government has now filed a plea alleging that Karnataka has begun diverting water from the river in violation of the orders of the Tribunal which has decreed that no work or diversion can begin until fresh project reports are prepared based on the award adjudicated by the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal and all the necessary permissions are obtained. “The Tribunal has passed its order even though the award has been notified and in its order it has said that until all permissions are obtained, no diversion can be done. Karnataka does not have any permissions from the forest or wildlife authorities,” Goa’s Advocate General Devidas Pangam told HT. “They have been building the canals for the last several years, it is unclear whether they have sped up the work this year,” he added.The Goa government has filed a separate plea before the Supreme Court challenging the water sharing award that was issued by the Tribunal.Controversy over the sharing of the water of the Mhadei or Mandovi River (as it is called in Goa) between the states of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa is more than 30 years old. Attempts for negotiations have been initiated by the central government as far back as 1985.The water sharing issue appears to have reached a flashpoint in 2002, when the Karnataka government decided to implement the inter-connecting canal from Kalasa stream to Malaprabha river for diversion of waters of Mahadayi basin to Malaprabha basin.The Malaprabhha river also begins in the Western Ghats not far from where the Mahadayi begins but flows eastwards.In its verdict passed in 2018, the Tribunal awarded Karnataka 3.45 TMC (thousand million cubic feet) from their total claims of 7.56 TMC. According to the breakup, Karnataka has been allowed to divert 1.18 TMC from the Kalasa Nala and 2.27 TMC from the Banduri Nala from their claims of 3.56 and 4 TMC respectively. The award is yet to be notified by the central government and all states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa -- have challenged various portions of the award before the Supreme Court. Goa is opposed to any diversion claiming that the Mhadei is itself a water deficit basin and that the tribunal has incorrectly calculated the total yield of the River. Goa has claimed irreparable damage on account of the illegal diversion and has sought before the Supreme Court that Karnataka be directed “to take remedial and curative actions to make good the loss of water to the state of Goa pursuant to their acts of diversion and to further restore the natural flow of the Mhadei river towards the state of Goa.”Karnataka has, however, denied Goa’s claims. Karnataka’s water resources minister Ramesh Jarkhiholi while speaking to media persons in Belgaum in North Karnataka said that Karnataka had done “nothing illegal”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-goa-is-accusing-karnataka-of-clandestinely-diverting-the-mhadei-river/story-MAyRgyTkLAJqskUnGx9aPL.html
08-10-2020||India||Daily Covid-19 count falls this week, but India inches closer to 7 million Covid-19 cases||India has been gradually relaxing the tough restrictions imposed due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak after slowing down of the rate of infection. In this week so far, the number of daily cases has fallen but the overall caseload is heading close to the seven million-mark.The cases this week have declined from more than 80,000 a day to a little over than 70,000. While on Monday the country recorded 74,442 cases of the coronavirus disease, on Tuesday the number dropped to 72,049, according to Union health ministry figures. There was an upward revision in the number of cases (78,524) on Wednesday, the daily figures have stayed below 80,000 so far this week.India already is the second worst-hit country globally and the nationwide Covid-19 tally has reached 6.8 million. The United States has the highest number of cases - 7.7 million.The country’s Covid-19 tally had crossed two million on August 7, three million on August 23 and four million on September 5. It went past the five million mark on September 16 and crossed six million on September 28.The number of deaths due to the disease has crossed one lakh in India, with the Case Fatality Ratio (CFR) at 1.54 per cent, according to the health ministry. The country has also recorded gradual improvement in recovery rate which reached 85.25 per cent on Thursday, the health ministry data showed.Though the slim improvement in the number of cases has given a glimmer of hope, many experts have voiced concerns due to the upcoming festive season. They say that the curve may rise again if people let their guard down during the celebrations.At least 22 states and union territories (UTs) have a Covid-19 positivity rate less than the national average which is at 8.19 per cent, according to the health ministry said.These states are Bihar (2.61), Gujarat (3.30), Jharkhand (3.82), Uttar Pradesh (3.92), Himachal Pradesh (4.93), Rajasthan (5.11), Madhya Pradesh (5.98), Punjab (5.99), Haryana (6.65), Odisha (6.71), Uttarakhand (7.13), Jammu and Kashmir (7.24), Telangana (7.38) and West Bengal (8.15).Additionally, 75 per cent of new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs.This week, Covid-19 testing in the country has picked up exponentially, with around 82 million cumulative number of samples having already been tested so far, according to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-covid-19-count-falls-this-week-but-india-inches-closer-to-7-million-covid-19-cases/story-oxw7MKv6rtV3Z3uIX9fCYO.html
08-10-2020||India||Mike Pompeo expected to travel to India for 2+2 dialogue this month||The India-US 2+2 dialogue between the foreign and defence ministers of the two sides is expected to be held in New Delhi during October 26-27 to take forward strategic cooperation and security ties, people familiar with developments said on Thursday. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark Esper are expected to travel to India for the meeting with their counterparts S Jaishankar and Rajnath Singh, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. This will also be the second meeting between Jaishankar and Pompeo in the space of about 20 days, as they met in Tokyo on October 6. The move to hold in-person meetings at a time when such discussions have mostly moved online because of the Covid-19 pandemic reflects the importance attached by both sides to the 2+2 dialogue, the people said. As with the Jaishankar-Pompeo meeting and the Quad ministerial meeting in Tokyo this week, the 2+2 dialogue is also expected to focus on China’s actions across the region and the Indo-Pacific. Trade and investment too is expected to figure in the upcoming discussions though it is unlikely that there will be any major developments or deals as the US is set to head into the presidential election on November 3, the people said. Differences in trade and investment, including on issues such as market access and data laws, continue to be among the few irritants in the India-US relationship, whereas cooperation in areas such as counter-terrorism, defence and security has grown in scope in recent years. The two sides were unable to reach even a mini trade deal despite protracted negotiations ahead of US President Donald Trump’s visit to India in February. During the last 2+2 dialogue between India and the US that was held in Washington in December last year, the two sides had reaffirmed their commitment to work for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and agreed to deepen cooperation on regional and global threats, combating terrorism, and promoting transparent and sustainable infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mike-pompeo-expected-to-travel-to-india-for-2-2-dialogue-this-month/story-yH6OhzvK2U6xYXu90OJCHJ.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Ram Vilas Paswan’s death a great loss to country’: Former PM Deve Gowda||Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda on Thursday expressed grief over the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who had served as the Railway Minister in his cabinet, and said it was a great loss to the country. Paswan (74), who was the Lok Janshakti Party patron, had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital here a few days ago, died on Thursday. “I am deeply saddened by the demise of Union Minister and 8-term MP Shri. Ram Vilas Paswan ji. He was very dear to me and had worked as the Railways Minister in my cabinet. Losing a very senior leader like him is a great loss for our country,” Gowda tweeted. “May god give his family and well-wishers the strength to bear this pain,” the JD(S) patriarch said. Paswan was the Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. Karnataka BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel also expressed grief over the passing away of Paswan. He had been in active politics for more than five decades and was a senior Dalit leader, he said. Congress legislature party leader Siddaramaiah in a tweet said, “Saddened by the demise of Union Minister Shri. Ram Vilas Paswan. He was one of the finest leaders of our country and his work speaks for his commitment. My deepest condolences to his family members and well-wishers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-vilas-paswan-s-death-a-great-loss-to-country-former-pm-deve-gowda/story-SiggIpiZavMg84ybWf3WTI.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Veteran politician, leader and a long-time Parliamentarian’: Mamata condoles Paswan’s death||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday expressed deep grief over the passing away of union minister Ram Vilas Paswan.She extended her condolences to his family members, colleagues and admirers.“Deeply saddened to hear the news of the passing away of Ram Vilas Paswan Ji. He was a veteran politician, leader and a long-time Parliamentarian. My condolences to his family, colleagues and his many admirers,” Banerjee tweeted.Paswan (74) died on Thursday, his son Chirag Paswan tweeted.Paswan, who was the Lok Janshakti Party patron, had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital in Delhi a few days ago.He had been in active politics for more than five decades and was one of the country’‘s most noted Dalit leaders.He was the Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-politician-leader-and-a-long-time-parliamentarian-mamata-condoles-paswan-s-death/story-yyqrP9FkOXW4vfimMjTO0H.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Poor, Dalit have lost a strong voice’: Congress leaders condole death of Ram Vilas Paswan||A host of Congress leaders condoled the demise of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Thursday with Rahul Gandhi saying that with his passing away, the poor and Dalits have lost a strong political voice.“The news of untimely demise of Ram Vilas Paswan ji is tragic. The poor and Dalit have lost a strong political voice today. My condolences to his family,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi.Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel described Paswan as a champion of the downtrodden, who had immense faith in India’s pluralism and diversity.“Chirag, shocked to hear about the demise of your father. Ram Vilas Paswan ji was a champion of the downtrodden and had immense faith in India’s pluralism and diversity. It’s a big loss for the nation. My condolences to you, your family and all his supporters,” he said on Twitter.Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad said he was shocked to hear the sad news of the death of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan. “He was deeply committed to the upliftment of the downtrodden. His demise has left a vacuum which will be difficult to fill. My heartfelt condolences to his family. May the departed soul rest in peace,” he said.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, “Ram Vilas Paswan ji has been a neighbour of my mother for years and we had a personal relationship with his family. Deeply saddened over the news of his demise. My deepest condolences to Chirag ji and all the family members. We are with you in this sad hour.” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said he was deeply hurt by the demise of Paswan.“Shri Paswan left an indelible mark in the country’s politics and raised the voice of the underprivileged. He played an active role in the eradication of poverty in the UPA government along with Mrs Sonia Gandhi and Dr Manmohan Singh. Emotional tribute,” he said on Twitter. Union minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Ram Vilas Paswan died on Thursday.Paswan (74), who was the Lok Janshakti Party patron, had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital here a few days ago.He had been in active politics for more than five decades and was one of the country’s most noted Dalit leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poor-dalit-have-lost-a-strong-voice-congress-leaders-condole-death-of-ram-vilas-paswan/story-0J5dZ4dQnxaoVw5ozGky8H.html
08-10-2020||India||India’s food minister Paswan dies after weeks in hospital||Veteran politician Ram Vilas Paswan, a federal minister and an ally of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ruling coalition, died on Thursday after weeks in hospital, his son Chirag Paswan said in a Tweet. He was 74.Paswan, India’s Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, was admitted to a city hospital on Sept. 11 and underwent heart surgery on Oct. 4.In his role as food minister, Paswan oversaw the world’s biggest food welfare programme. Under its multi-billion dollar food aid, the government gives ultra-cheap rice and wheat to India’s millions of poor people.“I am saddened beyond words,” Modi said in a Tweet reacting to news of his death. “There is a void in our nation that will perhaps never be filled.”In his long political career, Paswan worked with many prime ministers and served as India’s mines, steel, and telecommunication and information minister among other portfolios. As the chief of the Lok Jan Shakti (People’s Power) Party (LJP), Paswan joined Modi’s right-wing National Democratic Alliance (NDA) that swept India’s general election in 2014. The NDA was voted back to power with a bigger majority in 2019.Paswan and his party represented India’s socially disadvantaged classes, which make up about three-quarters of the majority Hindu population that is about 80% of India’s 1.3 billion people.The LJP enjoys considerable support in Paswan’s home state of Bihar in the east.State elections in Bihar will start at the end of October and will be spread over three days, and Chirag Paswan, a lawmaker, is leading the LJP into the voting to the state legislature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-food-minister-paswan-dies-after-weeks-in-hospital/story-IjJdZTZsiCUnmLrEcenDEN.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Big signature in the Indian politics’: Nitish, Lalu and Sushil Modi fondly remember Paswan||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi and RJD president Lalu Prasad on Thursday condoled the death of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan in Delhi. Paswan (74), who was the Lok Janshakti Party patron, had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital in the national capital a few days ago. His son Chirag Paswan informed about his demise. A veteran dalit leader, Paswan was the Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. He was born on July 5, 1946 in Khagaria district of Bihar. The Bihar chief minister in his condolence message said “Paswan was a big signature in the Indian politics.” He highlighted Paswan’s start of political innings with a win in the Bihar legislative assembly election in 1969.Paswan hit the national headlines after a thumping victory from Hajipur Parliamentary constituency for the first time in 1977, he said. Fondly remembering his old ties with the veteran leader, Kumar said “I am personally pained by his death.” Jailed RJD supremo Lalu Prasad, who has known Paswan since the 1970s when the former was a student leader and the latter a young member of the Bihar assembly, offered his condolences on his twitter handle. “Shocked by the news of the death of Ram Vilas bhai (brother). Memories of an unbroken friendship that lasted for 45 years, during which we waged various social and political battles, are floating before my eyes. Ram Vilas bhai, you left us too soon. “I am unable to say much more. Om Shanti!”, tweeted Prasad who was also Paswans cabinet colleague in the UPA-1 government. Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi, a senior BJP leader who was like Prasad a dynamic student leader in the 1970s, also recalled his decades old relationship with Ram Vilas Paswan. “He left an indelible imprint as a minister who held numerous portfolios in his career. The people of Bihar can never forget his contributions. “He was a Dalit leader who took all sections of the society along, a reason why he enjoyed the support of the OBCs and the upper castes as well”, Modi said in his condolence message. Former chief minister Rabri Devi and her son Tejashwi Yadav also condoled the death of Paswan and recalled his close ties with their family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-signature-in-the-indian-politics-nitish-lalu-and-sushil-modi-fondly-remember-paswan/story-uapMZVctAJ1aPKUTPwh6TK.html
08-10-2020||India||News of Ram Vilas Paswan’s demise ‘unbelievable’: Dharmendra Pradhan||The news of passing away of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Ram Vilas Paswan is unbelievable, Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Thursday.Speaking to ANI, Pradhan said, “Ram Vilas Ji was in the hospital for last few days due to his health condition and we all were worried. This news is unbelievable. He was a leader of the masses and a long-serving parliamentarian, his life was devoted to the cause of the poor and the vulnerable. My condolences are with the family. May Lord Jagannath grant peace to his departed soul.”Union Minister and founder of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Ram Vilas Paswan passed away on Thursday following an illness.He was 74. Chirag Paswan, MP, paid condolences to his father.Ram Vilas Paswan was Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution in the Narendra Modi government. He was also a minister in the previous NDA government.He had undergone heart surgery in a Delhi hospital.Paswan was first elected to the Lok Sabha in 1977 on a Janata Party ticket from Hajipur in Bihar. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-of-ram-vilas-paswan-s-demise-unbelievable-dharmendra-pradhan/story-S6UgcgAaBy89g2vPkrx4JI.html
08-10-2020||India||President, PM Modi condole death of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan||President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were among those who condoled the death of Union minister and veteran leader Ram Vilas Paswan, saying he had an enviable rapport with the masses and ardently strove for their welfare.In his condolence message, President Kovind said in the death of Paswan, the nation has lost a visionary leader. He was among the most active and longest-serving members of Parliament. He was the voice of the oppressed, and championed the cause of the marginalised, Kovind said.Paswan died on Thursday, his son Chirag Paswan tweeted in the evening. Paswan (74), who was the Lok Janshakti Party’s patron, had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital here a few days ago.In a series of tweets, Prime Minister Modi said working together, shoulder to shoulder with Paswan has been an incredible experience. His interventions during Cabinet meetings were insightful. From political wisdom, statesmanship to governance issues, he was brilliant, Modi recalled.In his condolence message, Vice President Naidu said Paswan was an exemplary leader who served the people and nation till his last breath. He was a distinguished parliamentarian and always strove for the empowerment of the marginalised, Naidu said.Rahul Gandhi said the news of the untimely demise of Paswan is saddening. The poor and the downtrodden have lost a strong political voice, he said on Twitter. Senior BJP leader and Home Minister Amit Shah said, “Ram Vilas Paswan ji always fought and worked for the downtrodden and the poor of the country. His demise has created a void in the politics.” In his condolence message, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said that following the footsteps of Jai Prakash Narayan, he strengthened socialist movement in the country. “From student politics to as an MP, he held various posts by upholding democratic values. His life was inspirational to us,” he recalled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-pm-modi-condole-death-of-union-minister-ram-vilas-paswan/story-OerUfZYkKnd7ae5sm1fGyM.html
08-10-2020||India||UP top court dismisses plea alleging Hathras family illegally held||The Allahabad High Court on Thursday dismissed a petition alleging that district authorities had illegally confined family of Hathras rape victim in their house. The family was represented in the petition by an organization working for Valmiki samaj.A two-judge bench, comprising justice Pritinker Diwaker and justice Prakash Padia, dismissed the petition as the matter is already before the Supreme Court, and said the petitioners can file appropriate application before the top court while raising their grievances, if any. The petition was filed on behalf of Om Prakash, who is father of the victim, along with mother, two brothers and two more family members. In the petition it was claimed by Surender Kumar, National General Secretary of the Akhil Bharatiya Valmiki Mahapanchayat, that he was approached by the family members of the victim over telephone and did it on their behalf. Advocate Kashif Abbas Rizvi appearing for Petitioners argued, “Family members have been prevented from meeting or communicating freely, thereby violating their Right to freedom of speech and expression as well as the right to receive information.”“The body of the victim was not handed over to the family and the family of the victim wants to travel to Delhi but are being stopped from doing so by district administration without any lawful reason and by use of illegal force and measures,” argued Advocate Rizvi. Counsel for the state government argued that the matter is before the Supreme Court and the family had in writing denied that they authorised anyone to file this petition.“State government had provided adequate security to the family as per directions of the Supreme Court, including installation of CCTV near their house. Further, the family is free to move,” argued the government counsel.The bench without entering into the merit of the case, dismissed the petition while observing, “In the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, judicial propriety demands that it will not be proper for this court to entertain the present petition on merits, especially when security has been provided to petitioners 1 to 6 and other family members of the deceased victim-girl on the observation made by the Hon’ble Apex Court and also on the basis of the directions issued by the Lucknow Bench of this Court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-top-court-dismisses-plea-alleging-hathras-family-illegally-held/story-mr1JX8BxUgkFpfuHtCBMTL.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Strove for welfare of the masses’: President Kovind remembers Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday expressed condolences on the demise of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. The news of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) patron’s death was announced by his son Chirag Paswan on Twitter.Taking to Twitter, the President of India said, “A firebrand socialist in youth, mentored by the likes of Jayaprakash Narayan during anti-Emergency movement, Paswan ji had enviable rapport with masses and he ardently strove for their welfare. Condolences to his family and supporters.”A firebrand socialist in youth, mentored by the likes of Jayaprakash Narayan during anti-Emergency movement, Paswan ji had enviable rapport with masses and he ardently strove for their welfare. Condolences to his family and supporters.The President also said that Paswan was among the most active and longest-serving members of Parliament. He further said, “In the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, the nation has lost a visionary leader. He was among the most active and longest-serving members of parliament. He was the voice of the oppressed, and championed the cause of the marginalised.”Ram Vilas Paswan was in the hospital for the past few weeks. He died at the age of 74.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firebrand-socialist-leader-in-his-youth-president-kovind-remembers-union-minister-ram-vilas-paswan/story-e58SYaXz2pgNtRZWF2DyLP.html
08-10-2020||India||Assam CM condoles death of Paswan, terms him stalwart of Indian politics||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Thursday condoled the death of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan and termed him a stalwart of Indian politics who contributed immensely towards India’s development.Paswan, 74, passed away here at a hospital, where he was admitted for past few days.“Saddened to learn about the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan ji, a stalwart of Indian politics who contributed immensely towards the development of the nation. “My sincere condolences to his bereaved family members and well-wishers in this hour of grief,” Sonowal tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-condoles-death-of-paswan-terms-him-stalwart-of-indian-politics/story-4JETTltnmFzMb8ortMH0VO.html
08-10-2020||India||Sexual offenders cannot access victim’s statement before probe is complete: SC||Attaching utmost confidentiality to statements given before a Magistrate by victims of sexual exploitation, the Supreme Court on Thursday held that such a statement cannot be shared with the accused till the investigation by the police in all aspects is over.The decision has come as a big relief to the victims of sexual crime as there was a grey area with regard to the stage at which the statement of the victim recorded before the Magistrate under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) could be shared with the accused. This is the most crucial evidence given by the victim in a sexual crimes and has evidentiary value unlike the statement recorded before the police under Section 161 of CrPC. If the victim goes against her Section 164 statement, the trial court can proceed with perjury against the victim for lying on oath, besides discarding the same.In 2014, the Supreme Court had held in State of Karnataka v Shivanna that soon after the victim’s Section 164 statement is recorded, the same must be handed over to the Investigation Officer with a specific direction that “contents of such statement under Section 164 are not disclosed to any person till charge sheet was filed.”The present case decided by the apex court arose out of a November 7, 2019 order passed by the Allahabad High Court. This case related to a sexual assault complaint filed by a young woman in Shahjahanpur against former Union Minister and BJP leader Swami Chinmayanand.The woman had recorded her Section 164 statement before a Judicial Magistrate on September 16, 2019. The next day, Chinmayanand sought a certified copy of her statement. His application was rejected by the Additional District and Sessions Judge, Shahjahanpur. Pursuant to this he was arrested and a charge sheet was filed by the police on November 5, 2019. He appealed to the Allahabad High Court and on November 7 obtained the Section 164 statement through an order passed in his favour by the HC. The HC referred to the 2014 SC ruling but held that the same applied to the police and not courts.Setting aside this order, the SC held, “The High Court has completely erred in appreciating the directions of this Court, especially in a matter where offences alleged against the accused are of sexual exploitation. In such matters, utmost confidentiality is required to be maintained.”Advocate Satya Mitra who assisted the Supreme Court in this matter said, “In trials involving sexual crimes, the victims can now be assured that whatever they tell the trial judge will be kept confidential. This decision has given hope to victims to seek justice against their perpetrators. Sadly, the victim in this case could not get benefit of this order.”The victim in this case had filed the appeal in the Supreme Court on November 13 but by then her statement was made available to the alleged perpetrator of the crime. Although her lawyers received no instruction to pursue with the case, the Court proceeded to lay down the law after hearing both sides.Going a step further in its 2014 decision, the bench, also comprising Justices Vineet Saran and SR Bhatt said, “No person is entitled to a copy of the statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC till appropriate orders are passed by the court after filing of charge sheet.” The Magistrate after receiving the charge sheet has the option to take cognizance of the charge sheet or has power under Sections 207, 208 of CrPC to order further investigation on certain aspects of the case.“The right to receive a copy of such statement will arise only after cognizance is taken and at the stage contemplated by Sections 207 and 208 of the Code and not before,” the bench held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sexual-offenders-cannot-access-victim-s-statement-before-probe-is-complete-sc/story-U7KBb0IDeXJA3LGa8bdSgJ.html
08-10-2020||India||India ‘among lead countries’ facilitating peace restoration in Afghanistan, says Abdullah Abdullah||Afghanistan leader and Chairman of High Council for National Reconciliation, Dr Abdullah Abdullah on Thursday said that India has been amongst the countries that helped Afghan in its journey towards peace and stability. “In our journey in the past two decades, many countries have helped us, contributed and made sacrifices alongside our own people. India has been amongst those lead countries in this regard,” Abdullah said in his address to the ‘‘Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses’ (IDSA) in the national capital today.The chief negotiator in the intra-Afghan peace process further said that there is a chance to “look at the light at the end of the tunnel” if everyone “works towards restoring peace, stability” of Afghanistan.“We know that now we have a chance to look at the future -- a future of peace. Afghanistan was peaceful. Despite the tensions, we enjoyed a higher degree of connectivity, trade, transit, people to people relation in all types of exchanges. We might have been on the trail for tourism but no one had to worry about terrorism at that time,” he added.Things soon changed, he said when his country was invaded by the Taliban 40 years ago: “We now have a chance to rebuild the new region, deeper ties and wider connectivity if we can work towards restoring peace, stability of Afghanistan.”Abdullah earlier today met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and re-affirmed the long-term commitment to further deepen India-Afghan ties.This is the first visit of Abdullah to India after the formation of a new government in Afghanistan.His visit comes at a time when the Afghanistan government and Taliban are trying to negotiate a deal in order to restore peace in the country.The peace talks between the Afghanistan government and the Taliban began on September 12 in Qatar’s capital Doha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-among-lead-countries-facilitating-peace-restoration-in-afghanistan-says-abdullah-abdullah/story-ykrNWTVCLVEiY4QNzWecTJ.html
08-10-2020||India||Address ‘core issues’ in Kulbhushan Jadhav case, India tells Pakistan||India on Thursday called on Pakistan to address “core issues” that will allow former naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav to effectively challenge the death sentence given to him by a military court for alleged involvement in spying. Earlier this week, India missed a second deadline set by the Islamabad high court to appoint a lawyer to Jadhav for filing the appeal. Islamabad has said he can be represented only by Pakistani lawyers whereas New Delhi has insisted on appointing an Indian lawyer or a Queen’s Counsel. “We have said on a number of occasions that Pakistan has failed to respond on core issues pertaining to this case, and the core issues are provision of all documents related to the case and providing unimpeded, unconditional and unhindered consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. “These core issues need to be addressed if we have to have an effective review and reconsideration as ordered by the International Court of Justice (ICJ). I think Pakistan must show its intention to deliver on these core issues,” he said. Pakistani legal experts believe the Islamabad high court will now name legal representatives to represent Jadhav for mounting the appeal against his death sentence. A three-judge bench of the Islamabad high court that took up Jadhav’s case on Tuesday said it was “important to proceed with abundant caution” in view of the importance of the case, “particularly when the right to life and right to free trial” of Jadhav are involved. After asking Pakistan’s attorney general to explain the scope of the obligation of “providing effective review and reconsideration” in line with the ICJ’s order staying Jadhav’s death sentence, the bench adjourned the case till November 9. Jadhav was arrested on March 3, 2016 in Balochistan on charges of espionage, and sentenced to death by a military court the following year. India has rubbished the charges levelled against Jadhav and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/address-core-issues-in-kulbhushan-jadhav-case-india-tells-pakistan/story-QOSKCG8YZQzBfzc6kKKmoO.html
08-10-2020||India||Nation has lost a visionary leader: President Kovind on Ram Vilas Paswan’s demise||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday said the nation has lost a visionary leader in the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan. Paswan was the voice of the oppressed, and championed the cause of the marginalised, Kovind said condoling his demise. “In the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, the nation has lost a visionary leader. He was among the most active and longest-serving members of parliament. He was the voice of the oppressed, and championed the cause of the marginalized,” the president tweeted. Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Paswan died at the age of 74 on Thursday. “A firebrand socialist in youth, mentored by the likes of Jayaprakash Narayan during anti-Emergency movement, Paswan ji had enviable rapport with masses and he ardently strove for their welfare. Condolences to his family and supporters,” Kovind said in another tweet. Announcing Paswan’s death, his son Chirag Paswan tweeted in Hindi, “Papa...you are not in this world today but I know no matter where you are, you will always be with me. Miss you papa.” Ram Vilas Paswan, who was the Lok Janshakti Party patron, had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital here a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nation-has-lost-a-visionary-leader-president-kovind-on-ram-vilas-paswan-s-demise/story-iE5kxOAc4kcNdxC7ZHZwmL.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Saddened beyond words’: PM Modi on Ram Vilas Paswan’s demise||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that the demise of Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Ram Vilas Paswan has left a void that will perhaps never be filled.“I am saddened beyond words. There is a void in our nation that will perhaps never be filled. Shri Ram Vilas Paswan Ji’s demise is a personal loss. I have lost a friend, valued colleague and someone who was extremely passionate to ensure every poor person leads a life of dignity,” he said in his condolence message posted on Twitter.“Shri Ram Vilas Paswan Ji rose in politics through hardwork and determination. As a young leader, he resisted tyranny and the assault on our democracy during the Emergency. He was an outstanding Parliamentarian and Minister, making lasting contributions in several policy areas,” he said in subsequent tweet.Paswan passed away on Thursday, his son and current LJP chief Chirag announced on Thursday. The 74-year-old had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital in New Delhi a few days ago.“Papa...you are not in this world today but I know no matter where you are, you will always be with me. Miss you papa,” Chirag Paswan said in his tweet.He had been in active politics for more than five decades and was one of the country’s most noted Dalit leaders.Paswan held the portfolio of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddened-beyond-words-pm-modi-on-ram-vilas-paswan-s-demise/story-yVxoWt9YmZnbhTyyJnNkNI.html
08-10-2020||India||Kolkata’s top private hospitals running out of beds as Covid-19 cases rise||There are no beds left to treat Covid-19 patients in several of Kolkata’s top private hospitals amid a steady rise in virus cases in the city ahead of Durga Puja, the biggest festival in Bengal. There are at least 58 private medical facilities in Kolkata, including super-specialty hospitals, satellite centres of hospitals and nursing homes, which treat Covid-19 patients. At least 21 of them, which include some of the city’s top health care establishments, reported no vacancy on Wednesday. Another 15 facilities had less than 10 beds left till Wednesday. Patients from the neighbouring districts are also being rushed to the city hospitals adding to the crisis. “There is demand for a particular category of hospitals which can’t be guaranteed during a pandemic situation. We can only ensure that patients would get adequate treatment by the best experts. Government hospitals are providing very good treatment at free of cost,” said a senior official of the state government. Senior officials of the state government said that even though private hospitals are running out of beds, there is still a lot of vacancy in government run-hospitals. More than 60% of the beds are still vacant in government hospitals, according to official figures. Private hospitals have fewer beds and hence are running out fast. Less than 25% of the 2,791 beds in private hospitals are vacant now. “People living in cities like Kolkata and urban areas are mostly inclined towards private health care facilities. This is despite the fact that state-run hospitals offer the best treatment,” said an expert associated with the global advisory body that has been set up to advise the Mamata Banerjee administration. This comes at a time when Kolkata is witnessing a steady spike in Covid-19 numbers amid the festive season. While city had registered 428 new cases on August 30, on October 7, the number of new cases reported from Kolkata stood at 758. “Puja shopping has started. People are crowding the streets and markets. The positivity rate is increasing because of this. We have to be very cautious and strictly ensure that people wear masks,” said a senior official. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had recently warned that the disease is spreading through air borne transmission and that community spread has started. While the festive season started from mid-September with Viswakarma Puja and Mahalaya, the Durga Puja, Bengal’s biggest festival that continues for over a week, is scheduled in the last week of October. The West Bengal Doctors Forum on Thursday sent an open letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee warning that if the puja celebrations are held without any restrictions then there would be a massive surge in Covid-19 cases after Durga puja. The letter cited the example of Kerala which registered a 750% spike in Covid cases after Onam following which the state had to invoke Section 144 of the CrPc restricting public gatherings. “Several of our doctors are down with Covid and at least 50 of them have died. The health infrastructure care will collapse if there is a massive surge in Covid-19 cases after the puja,” the letter states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-s-top-private-hospitals-running-out-of-beds-as-covid-19-cases-rise/story-8ZDNiRDhLvVyJLdSj1ocFJ.html
08-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Andhra launches another welfare scheme for govt students and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In Jagan Reddy’s new move, students in classes 1-9 get free school kitsAndhra Pradesh chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday launched another welfare scheme - Jagananna Vidya Kanuka – aimed at helping students of government schools at the Punadipadu village in Krishna district. Read more‘Covid-19 has made India realise need for a strong healthcare system’: Harsh VardhanUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has made India realise the need for a strong healthcare system. Read moreX-ray of alligator reveals foreign object in its stomach, most likely a coin. WatchDuring a check-up of a pair of Chinese alligators, veterinary staff at the Saint Louis Zoo in Missouri, US made a bizarre discovery. An X-ray of the female alligator revealed a foreign object, most likely a coin, inside her stomach. A video of the medical evaluation has since caught the attention of many. Read moreVampires vs the Bronx movie review: New horror comedy saves Netflix’s soul, breathes life into done-to-death genreIn the fine tradition of films such as Attack the Block and Cockneys vs Zombies, Vampires vs the Bronx is a low-key ode to both genre cinema and the power of minorities. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘I trusted Rohit Sharma blindly, did everything he told me and it worked’ - Mumbai Indians batsman Suryakumar YadavIt’s not easy to be Suryakumar Yadav. He has got everything the hard way right from his childhood. Want to play professional cricket? First show everyone you can score runs against the big boys in tennis-ball cricket. Read moreGoogle Maps starts showing Covid-19 containment zones in MumbaiLate last month Google announced that it has introduced a new layer in its Google Maps app that will show Covid-19 case trends in the area around you. At that time, it wasn’t revealed where and when this feature will roll out. Now, the search giant has rolled out this feature for those residing in Mumbai. This means users in Mumbai can now see COVID-19 containment zones across the city in their Google Maps app. Also mentioned is that demarcated zones will be displayed via a shaded grey area. Read more‘Where does he get such drugs?’: BJP leader’s jibe over Rahul’s ‘China’ remarkMadhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Thursday ridiculed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his remark that the UPA government would have thrown out China in 15 minutes, and sought to know from where does he get such “intoxicating stuff”. Referring to the Ladakh standoff, Gandhi on Tuesday said had the UPA been in power, “we would have evicted and thrown out China and it would not have taken 15 minutes to do so”. “In ten days, loan will be waived off. China will be wiped out in 15 minutes. I bow to that teacher who has taught him. I am unable to understand from where he gets such high quality ‘nasha’ (intoxicating stuff),” Mishra said. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-andhra-launches-another-welfare-scheme-for-govt-students-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ii44hDNYBs60vfq13kd9HI.html
08-10-2020||India||In Andhra Pradesh, YSRC MLA, son test positive for Covid-19 a second time||Senior YSR Congress party lawmaker Bhumana Karunakar Reddy has been re-infected with Sars-Cov-2 for a second time in the last one-and-a-half months, officials said Thursday. Reddy, who represents Tirupati assembly constituency in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, tested positive for Covid-19 at an authorised private laboratory in the temple town on Wednesday evening, after he developed symptoms of fever and body pain. “The MLA was admitted to Sri Venkateshwara Ramnarayan Ruia Government General Hospital in Tirupati, where he got tested again. And on Thursday, it was confirmed that he contracted the virus,” Ruia Hospital development committee chairman B Chandrasekhar told Hindustan Times. Reddy, who was also former chairman of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), was shifted to Apollo Hospital for Chennai for better treatment. His son Abhinay Reddy, who also tested positive for Covid-19 for a second time, is undergoing treatment in Ruia Hospital.This is the first known case of a high-profile person contracting Covid-19 for a second time in the Telugu states.The MLA had first contracted the virus in August. “On August 25, he was admitted to Ruia Hospital with symptoms of Covid-19 and tested positive for the virus. He underwent treatment for one week and was discharged on September 3 after he tested negative,” Chandrasekhar said. After that, Reddy took part in various government programmes. “During the visit of chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy to Tirumala on September 24, too, he underwent test for Covid-19 again along with other leaders who attended the Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateshwara. He tested negative then,” the hospital committee chairman said. The MLA’s son, too, had first tested positive for Covid-19 in the first week of September but recovered within 10 days. “On Wednesday, both father and son developed symptoms of Covid-19 again and underwent tests in a private lab. Later, they got tested at Ruia Hospital,” Chandrasekhar said. When contacted, Dr K Rambabu, state nodal officer for Covid-19, said there was every possibility of a person contracting Sars-Cov-2 for a second time. “One cannot rule out the possibility of people getting re-infection of Coronavirus after certain period. A person would develop antibodies for the virus and they would be there in the body for a certain period. But if the virus attains a mutant form, the person might get the re-infection if he doesn’t take enough precautions,” Rambabu said. In case of the Tirupati MLA, he said, one has to make a thorough study of viral form before drawing any conclusions. “We were told all the vital parameters of the MLA, as observed in CT scan and other tests, are normal and he has normal fever and related symptoms,” Rambabu said. Meanwhile, YSRC parliament member from Eluru constituency Kotagiri Sridhar also tested positive for Covid-19. The MP went into home quarantine in Hyderabad and appealed to all those who had come in contact with him in the last few days to undergo test for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-andhra-pradesh-ysrc-mla-son-test-positive-for-covid-19-a-second-time/story-CUzDk90m3YXHUVcSAWcb8L.html
08-10-2020||India||In Jagan Reddy’s new move, students in classes 1-9 get free school kits||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday launched another welfare scheme - Jagananna Vidya Kanuka – aimed at helping students of government schools at the Punadipadu village in Krishna district.Under this scheme, each student will be given a kit that comprises three pairs of uniform, one pair of shoes, two pairs of socks, prescribed text books, notebooks, belt and a school bag – all free of cost.In all, 42,34,322 kits, each costing around Rs 1600, would be distributed across the state at an estimated cost of Rs 650 crore. Students from Class 1 to 10 would be provided with these kits.At the launch, the chief minister said unlike in the past, the new scheme sought to provide all essential requirements to the students without causing any burden on their parents. “It heralds a new chapter in the education sector in the state and will strengthen the enrolment rate in government schools,” he said.The recent literacy statistics released by the National Statistical Organisation (NSO) has put the state’s literacy rate at an embarrassing 66.4 percent, the lowest in the country.The chief minister said through the ‘Naadu - Nedu’ programme, the government created or improved facilities in all its schools. The buildings were painted to look new and bright.He said the government was already paying Ra 15,000 per annum as a cash incentive under “Amma Vodi” scheme to every mother for sending kids to schools.The kits will bring relief to the parents and will help them save money, motivating them further to send their children to school and continue their education, Jagan Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-jagan-reddy-s-new-move-students-in-classes-1-9-get-free-school-kits/story-I07y9Ie1idqZ3Td6F12FVO.html
08-10-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in Kerala dip day after hitting highest single-day record||A day after reporting highest number of Covid-19 cases, there was some relief for Kerala on Thursday after caseload dipped to 5,445 and test positivity rate also came down to 8.62 from 13, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. The state also recorded its highest single-day recovery of 7,003 on Thursday. But still it remained at the third spot in actives cases (90,579) after Maharashtra and Karnataka. Once lauded for its pandemic control measures, a mounting caseload has set off alarm bells in the state and experts warned if the situation continued like this it will be the next virus hotspot of the country. On Wednesday, Kerala recorded its highest single-day surge of 10.606 cases of Covid-19.Despite a brief lull, experts said the state was in the midst of a community transmission and cases may go up sharply once it increased tests. They asked the government to increase tests on a priority basis and give more emphasis on RT-PCR tests. They pointed out that more than 60% per cent of the total 34 lakh tests were antigen tests. Test positivity rate (TPR) has come down after two weeks. TPR is the number of people infected when 100 people are tested. The World Health Organisation wants TPR should be below 5 per cent.“We have been asking the government to increase tests. It is time for it to do at least one lakh tests daily. The state is in a crucial stage and it is time for it to be on a fast mode streamlining its strategies,” said Dr S S Lal, a public health expert who earlier served with the World Health Organisation.Many health experts like him want the government to rope in more experts to redraw strategies. Another solace is the state’s mortality rate is still lowest in the country, 0.4 per cent against the national average of 1.60 per cent, statistics show. “The situation is serious as caseload is spiralling at a rapid pace. Our priority should be to ensure quality and timely medical attention to the critically ill. It is time for the state to be on its toes,” said Dr A S Anoop, critical care medicine expert who played a key role in containing nipah virus two years ago. Epidemiologists said the latest Covid-19 strain, suspected to have come from Maharashtra, is highly infectious.In view of rise in cases the government has decided not to announce more steps to open up and has shelved plans to open bars and cinema halls. Health experts have warned that easing of norms at this juncture will be counter-productive. Bar owners have been petitioning the government for some time saying most of their employees are on the verge of starvation. Similarly number of people in religious places was limited to 20. With 5,445 new cases on Thursday, Kerala’s Covid-19 tally has gone up to 2,58,830. A total of 1,67,256 people have recovered while there are 90,579 active cases. With 24 casualties the death toll has gone up to 931. Five ministers tested positive in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-in-kerala-dip-day-after-hitting-highest-single-day-record/story-MBrbFe4JZ9tSXxcIgKe03M.html
08-10-2020||India||‘PM Modi only cares about his image, not soldiers’: Rahul Gandhi in latest attack on purchase of VVIP planes||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of not spending effectively on requirements of Indian soldiers and instead using funds on planes. Gandhi was referring to the delivery of two VVIP aircraft - custom made B777 aircraft which will be used to fly the President, Vice President and the Prime Minister on October 1.“PM bought a plane worth 8400 crores for himself. In this, so much could have been purchased for our soldiers posted at the Siachen-Ladakh border,” Gandhi said in a tweet.PM ने अपने लिए 8400 करोड़ का हवाई जहाज़ ख़रीदा।इतने में सियाचिन-लद्दाख़ सीमा पे तैनात हमारे जवानों के लिए कितना कुछ ख़रीदा जा सकता था:गरम कपड़े: 30,00,000जैकेट, दस्ताने: 60,00,000जूते: 67,20,000ऑक्सिजन सिलेंडर: 16,80,000PM को सिर्फ़ अपनी इमेज की चिंता है सैनिकों की नहीं। pic.twitter.com/uQf038BiJjAlso read: PM’s new special aircraft, equipped with missile defence systems, lands in DelhiHe further said that the same money could have been used to provide warm clothes, jacket, gloves and oxygen cylinders to soldiers. “PM is only concerned about his image and not soldiers,” the former Congress president said.The total cost of purchase and retrofitting the two planes has reportedly been estimated to be around Rs 8,400 crore. The B777 planes will have state-of-the-art missile defence systems called Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) and Self-Protection Suites (SPS), according to people in the know.The arrival of the first aircraft triggered a verbal duel between the government and the Congress leader, who accused PM Modi for “wasting” thousands of crores of rupees on the plane just because “his friend Donald Trump” has one. Gandhi was referring to the Air Force One used by the US President Donald Trump.Also read | Boeing 777 aircraft, part of Air India One fleet for PM Modi: All you need to knowThe government maintained that the procurement of the aircraft had begun under the UP government and the BJP-led government at Centre has only brought it to a logical conclusion, according to news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-only-cares-about-his-image-not-soldiers-rahul-gandhi-in-latest-attack-on-purchase-of-vvip-planes/story-wndrvyY27hqEk5HQgRkrVL.html
08-10-2020||India||Fuel stocks start depleting in J-K, Ladakh as farmers’ stir in Punjab chokes supply||Ahead of the winter, the farmers’ stir in neighbouring Punjab over controversial farm laws bills has set alarm bells ringing in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh as fuel stocks start depleting at various filling stations in the two union territories bordering Pakistan and China, dealers said Thursday. President of the Jammu Kashmir Petroleum Dealers’ Association, Anan Sharma said , “not even a single wagon has arrived at Jammu since October 1 from Punjab due to farmers’ stir. Farmers have blocked rail tracks there and until the blockade is lifted, normal supplies cannot be restored in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh”. He said that the Jammu depot at Jammu railway station has stopped supplying fuel to filling stations in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. “Consequently, 250 oil tankers were dispatched to Jalandhar and Bhatinda on Thursday for bringing fuel. Forty-five tankers, which had left a day before, returned with stocks today but they are also not bringing back full load because distributors in Punjab have to cater to all,” he said. Sharma said that fuel stations were running short of supplies and the situation can turn critical, if the rail blockade is not lifted and if J&K government doesn’t take up the matter with the Punjab government. “Fuel stocks from Jammu go up to Leh and we all know that in November roads are blocked due to snow. Secondly, the apple season is at its peak. Around 3,000 trucks are coming daily to Kashmir from Delhi to take apple consignments. The government has to resolve the issue to restore normal supplies,” he asserted. “Four hundred oil tankers used to lift supplies from the Jammu depot daily, which is not the case as of today. Though 100 oil tankers from Manali also reach Leh with supplies, equal number of oil tankers used to ferry supplies from Jammu to Leh on daily basis,” he said. Out of 400 tankers from Jammu depot, 150 tankers used to cater Jammu region, 100 served Ladakh and 150 were for Kashmir. However, Rajiv Yadav, state level coordinator of the oil companies -- HP, BP and Indian Oil in J&K said, “We have mobilized tank lorries from Punjab for the past three days and bringing supplies from Bhatinda, Sangrur and Jalandhar. Some oil tankers reached Jammu today and some are on their way. There is no product crisis in J&K.” He also claimed that the J & K government has reached out to the Punjab government to resolve the issue. “Till wagons (freight trains) resume normal supplies, we are relying upon tank lorries. As far as Ladakh region is concerned, we do winter stocking in advance,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-stocks-start-depleting-in-j-k-ladakh-as-farmers-stir-in-punjab-chokes-supply/story-4nZyXYlW14MGIysvCOLbcP.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Covid-19 has made India realise need for a strong healthcare system’: Vardhan||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has made India realise the need for a strong healthcare system.“In 2019, UNGA adopted a declaration on Universal Health Coverage which India aims to make a reality for citizens. Then Covid made us realise the need for a strong healthcare system,” Vardhan said at Ministerial Meeting on Universal Health Coverage.He added that India needs to integrate public health surveillance and data sharing in the primary and secondary health care, spurred by design reforms to expand and build IT enabled disease monitoring systems.“ We also need to strengthen epidemiological intelligence gathering,” he said.Vardhan warned people of Covid-19 ahead of festival season and urged people not to forget to wear mask above the nose.Speaking to reporters, Vardhan said, “As the festival season is around the corner, hence we should be more vigil towards taking precautions against Covid-19. Never forget to wear your masks above your nose, frequently sanitise and wash your hands and maintain social distancing.”With a spike of 78,524 new cases and 971 deaths reported on Thursday, India’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 68-lakh mark, as per the Union health ministry.The Covid-19 count in the country stands at 68,35,656 including 9,02,425 active cases and 58,27,705 cured and discharged or migrated cases.As per the MoHFW, with 971 deaths the toll due to the disease has now reached 1,05,526 in the country.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-has-made-india-realise-need-for-a-strong-healthcare-system-harsh-vardhan/story-INAEqIDQIgvVDBCUGmRCjO.html
08-10-2020||India||How changes in taxation policy are affecting Indians living abroad from October 1||The Union Budget this year introduced the provision for tax collected at source (TCS) under which the Indian government imposed a tax to be collected at source from individuals on remittances made through the Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).Under the revised rules, five per cent tax will be imposed on all remittances above Rs 7 lakh under the scheme. The rate of tax will increase to 10 per cent in absence of PAN or Aadhaar details.As per the initial order, the changes were supposed to come into effect from April 2020, but were delayed in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The latest changes do not directly affect Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) or Persons of Indian Origin (PIOs) living outside the country. But people studying abroad, going on packaged tours or making an investment outside the country will have to shell out a little more money.The changes came into effect from October 1 and here is how they have affected NRIs and PIOs:After the revision in taxation policy, TCS is being deducted on remittances of Rs 7 lakh ($9,529) or more. It will be collected at source by the remitting banks. Amount below Rs 7 lakh will not be subjected to TCS.Payments for foreign tour packages are also subjected to five per cent TCS. However, if a person is booking tickets, hotels on their own, they are not liable to the tax. Under the LRS, Indian residents can remit up to $250,000 every year for medical treatment abroad, education, investment in stocks, real estate, or bonds. The same will be applied for remittance for relative maintenance outside the country.The TCS will not apply to buyers of the foreign exchange who are already subject to Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) under the Income-Tax Act, 1961. The collected tax paid under TCS can be claimed back, fully or partially, while filing for an income tax return, just like TDS. The person’s total income should be below the tax threshold limit for the year.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-changes-in-taxation-policy-are-affecting-indians-living-abroad-from-october-1/story-8RFGLs6BpzYSRMIvwk94zO.html
08-10-2020||India||Haryana’s AQI plunges as farm fires increase, Covid-19 patients may face higher risks||An increasing number of farm fires in Haryana is now affecting the air quality in many parts of the state with the Air Quality Index (AQI) in many cities of the state turning poor.According to the central pollution control board, the AQI in several cities of Haryana including Faridabad (212), Charkhi Dadri (275) Dharuhera (229) Jind (202), Kurukshetra (203) Panipat (213) and Yamunanagar (275) was categorized as poor on Thursday afternoon.Even, Charkhi Dadri has very poor air quality as the AQI was measured at 351. Last month, the AQI in almost all the cities of the state was in ‘satisfactory’ and ‘moderate’ categories and it started worsening soon after the harvesting started after September 20. Officials in the health department said the poor air quality could increase the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and there is a need to put a check on the stubble burning before the AQI deteriorates further.“The stubble burning is increasing pollutants and it may affect the respiratory conditions of the Covid19 infected persons. Moreover the poisonous gasses emitted from the stubble burning are very dangerous for human health, thus the stubble burning may cause severe problems for Covid-19 patients”, said Dr Shailnder Mamgai, superintendent of LNJP government hospital Kurukshetra.The number of active fire locations (AFL) in the state had increased to 621 by October 7 after the state reported around 95 incidents of fires in 24 hours.Officials in the state pollution control board say the government needs to focus on the districts of Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Ambala and Fatehabad as 464 or 75 per cent of total AFLs were reported.Since, the incidents of AFLs were two and half time more than the last year, Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan has directed the Deputy Commissioners to achieve the goal of zero burning of stubble in the state and also directed them to ensure the availability of crop residue management machinery to small and marginal farmers on a priority basis.The state government has also announced that it will provide cash awards to the Panchayats falling under red zone, for making efforts to curb stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-s-aqi-plunges-as-farm-fires-increase-covid-19-patients-may-face-higher-risks/story-ULqT4R0m6AjV3ru7IMsFuL.html
08-10-2020||India||Prez Kovind urges citizens to stand united to defeat Covid-19 through collective determination, discipline||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday urged citizens to stand united to defeat coronavirus through collective determination and discipline. He also asked them to wear masks, wash hands and practice social distancing.“The nation stands united to defeat Covid-19 through collective determination and discipline. I urge fellow citizens to #Unite2FightCorona! Let us all - Wear a mask, Wash hands, Practice social distancing. Together we will fight, we will win!,” Kovind tweeted. The Union government on Thursday launched a public awareness drive as part of its fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prez-kovind-urges-citizens-to-stand-united-to-defeat-covid-19-through-collective-determination-discipline/story-UtTzkSHE05zuOvK13WhlcJ.html
08-10-2020||India||‘The India story is strong today, will grow even stronger tomorrow’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India is one of the most attractive centres of investments as there are opportunities for everyone to set up units and run investments in the country while virtually addressing the Invest India Conference in Canada.Speaking to Canadian investors, he highlighted that both nations India and Canada have contributed to each other’s growth. He said, “Canada is home to some of the largest & most experienced infrastructure investors. Canadian Pension Funds were among the first investors to start investing in India. Many of them have already discovered great opportunities in a range of areas like highways, airports, logistics.”He said investors have an opportunity to grow in India and work with governmental as well as private bodies. PM Modi said, “In the post-Covid world, you will hear that there are multiple problems, problems of manufacturing, supply chains etc. but problems are natural. But, India has emerged above these problems and by showing resilience we have made it a land of solutions.”PM Modi highlighted that despite ‘disrupted logistics’ India has been able to deposit money directly to farmers, poor and needy people and women. He also said that foodgrains and cooking gas was supplied to those who needed it the most during the pandemic. Speaking to investors, Modi said during the pandemic India has played the role of ‘pharmacy of the world.’ He said, “Before the pandemic, India hardly manufactured PPE kits. Now, India is one the largest manufacturers of PPE kits.” He reiterated that India is ready to help the world with Covid-19 vaccine production and storage.Highlighting the liberalisation of the foreign direct investment PM Modi said that India has created a ‘friendly regime for sovereign wealth and pension funds.” He said, “We have undertaken several reforms to develop robust bond market.”PM Modi assured investors present in the virtual conference that incentive schemes have been brought up for several sectors like pharmaceuticals and medical devices and electronical manufacturing. “We want to ensure high-level intention and effective handholding for investors,” he further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-answer-to-all-your-questions-is-india-there-is-opportunity-for-everyone-pm-modi-tells-canadian-investors-at-invest-india-conference/story-k0GbXHjPMnvOVF2H5KoBBL.html
08-10-2020||India||Two virtual expos breathe life into Bhadohi’s carpet industry with Rs 250-cr orders||Bhadohi’s handmade carpet exporters, whose business had plunged amid the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, received a much-needed shot in the arm after foreign buyers placed orders worth Rs 250 crore recently, Carpet Export Promotion Council (CEPC) chairman Siddhnath Singh said Thursday.The orders came on the heels of two virtual exhibitions organized by the CEPC.“The pandemic badly hit carpet export due to which there was an extremely disappointing scenario in the carpet industry. There were no orders from foreign buyers from February till mid-August this year. Carpet manufacturers, exporters, workers and weavers all were upset due to it,” Singh said. “In July, the carpet manufacturers suggested an international virtual exhibition to draw foreign buyers to get the industry going. Thereafter, the first ever international virtual carpet expo was held from August 21 to August 26,” he said.“Nearly 365 overseas buyers from 61 countries and 191 buyers’ representatives from across the world visited the virtual carpet expo and evinced interest in handmade carpets and floor coverings. In fact, the virtual expo infused fresh life into the carpet industry,” Singh further says.Overwhelmed by the response, the CEPC organised a second international virtual carpet expo-cum-international buyers/sellers meet from September 29 to October 1 with special focus on Oceania markets. The second exhibition also received an overwhelming response. “The two exhibitions together brought orders worth about Rs 250 crores from the foreign buyers,” Singh said.Oceania is a geographic term referred to the region comprising Australia, New Zealand, New Guinea and several other island nations in the surrounding area. The idea behind the virtual meet of buyers and sellers was to bridge the gap between Indian handmade carpet products and their demand across the globe in the post pandemic period.India exports carpets worth about Rs 12,000 crore annually. Bhadohi and its neighbouring districts, including Mirzapur, Varanasi and certain pockets of Chandauli, together make up a carpet hub that accounts for Rs 7,000 crore of the exports, according to CEPC data.Singh said the virtual exhibitions have emerged as a potential platform for carpet export promotion. Echoing a similar view, senior CEPC member and carpet manufacturer Umesh Gupta said, “There has been around 10 per cent increase in the business ever since the first exhibition took place in August.” “Covid-19 has changed the world forever. Carpet industry and business sector are no exception. International buyers cannot come and exporters cannot visit foreign lands to showcase our products. Under such circumstances, the virtual platform has been proved to be a boon for us. We exhibited both handmade and factory manufactured carpets in the virtual expos,” said Gupta who has received more than 10 orders from the international buyers. Alpa Mewawala, a Bhadohi-based carpet exporter, also endorsed the virtual expo.“The virtual expo was a pretty good experience. Several international buyers watched and inquired about the carpets. Of them, five placed orders including two each from Sweden and Germany and one from the USA. Besides, potential international buyers inquire about our products almost daily.”Buoyed by the overwhelming response, the CEPC has decided to organise four more international virtual carpet exhibitions in the next two months.Of them, two exhibitions, including one each for Canada and Latin American countries, will be held in November and one each for Persian Gulf countries and Europe will be held in December. The carpet hub of Bhadohi generates direct and indirect employment to about 10 lakh people, including over three lakh weavers. Among the carpet weavers, over 50 per cent are women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-virtual-expos-breathe-life-into-bhadohi-s-carpet-industry-with-rs-250-cr-orders/story-CgNjDraSAMugA6E8RoPjxI.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Will sue police chief’: Arnab Goswami on Mumbai police’s probe naming Republic TV in TRP fraud||Television anchor Arnab Goswami on Thursday said he will take legal action against Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh who named his Republic TV among three channels for rigging Television Rating Points (TRP). The Mumbai top cop claimed to have busted a racket that involved private television channels manipulating their TRPs. Republic TV and two other local Mumbai channels have been found guilty of manipulating the crucial data, the police commissioner said.Threatening criminal defamation, Goswami issued a statement saying, “Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh has made false allegations against Republic TV because we have questioned him in the Sushant Singh Rajput case investigation. Republic TV will file a criminal defamation case against Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. “ Republic Media Network's Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami's statement pic.twitter.com/axhbJZ47eAAlso read: Mumbai police probes Republic TV for TRP fraud, Arnab Goswami hits backThe statement further stated that the probe by Mumbai police is a ‘desperate measure’ because the police commissioner-led investigation in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death ‘remains under a cloud’.“There is not a single BARC report that mentions Republic TV. The people of India know the truth. Mr Param Bir Singh’s investigation in the Sushant Singh Rajput case is under a cloud and this is a desperate measure because of Republic TV’s reportage on Palghar, the Sushant Singh Rajput case or any other case. This kind of targeting only strengthens the resolve of everyone at Republic TV to push for the truth even harder.” “Param Bir Singh stands completely exposed today since BARC has not mentioned Republic In any single complaint. He should issue an official apology and get ready to face us in court,” the statement read. According to the Mumbai police, its probe found that a 30,000 audience measurement metres were purchased by a private firm, out of which 2,000 were installed in Mumbai.At a press conference, Mumbai police chief said their probe found that a set of households where these metres were installed were paid money to tune to a particular channel. In one case, Mumbai’s top police officer said, investigators found that a household comprising people who were not literate always had an English news channel switched on.These particular households were paid about Rs 400-500 every month for viewing an English news channel.The Mumbai police commissioner has said that Republic TV is next on their radar and officials of the news channels will be summoned soon.“No one involved will be spared,” the senior police officer said. Singh said that they earlier believed that some news channels carried out propaganda stories to boost their TRP and “now it appears they manipulate audience data too”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-sue-police-chief-arnab-goswami-on-mumbai-police-s-probe-naming-republic-tv-in-trp-fraud/story-eQ8IwIc75DiFAXQLgFi3wI.html
08-10-2020||India||Wildlife-friendly roads pay off, 18 species using special underpasses in Pench||Scientists from Wildlife Institute of India (WII) Dehradun who conducted a two-year study have found that 18 wildlife species are using special underpasses on National Highway-44 which passes through the Pench Tiger Reserve in Maharashtra. WII scientists said this is India’s first and largest road stretch where such mitigation measures have been used on such a scale and studied. The scientists came to the conclusion after observing the movement of wild species for the past two years, through the nine underpasses built on the National Highway-44. As part of a study on, “Ecological Impact Assessment of Existing and Proposed Road Infrastructure on Important Wildlife Corridors in India for Strategic Planning of Smart Green Infrastructure,” three sites were studied in India. These included the Central Indian tiger landscape including major roads cutting across the animal corridors in the landscape, the National Highway 37 (now 715) cutting through the Kaziranga-Karbi Anglong landscape in Assam, and the State Highway 33 passing through the Nagarhole Tiger Reserve, Karnataka. “As part of the project, we also monitored the animal underpasses constructed on the National Highway 44 passing through the Pench Tiger Reserve, Maharashtra. We used camera traps to capture the movement of animals under the nine crossing structures during March-December 2019. We found 18 species of wild animals that were using the crossing structures, with varying frequencies. Seven species of small mammals were also found to use the structures,” said the report published by the institute on this project. The wildlife species included Indian hare and jungle cat, which are the most frequent users of the underpasses, and the rare rusty spotted cat. “Among wild ungulates, the five major species that were captured on camera included spotted deer, gaur, nilgai, sambar and wild pigs,” the report said.“Tigers, leopards, wild dogs, sloth bears and jackals, the major carnivore species in the landscape, were found using the structures with varying frequencies. Wild dogs were found to use the structures the most, followed by tigers. A total of 89 tiger crossings were recorded from six of the nine structures, by 11 individual tigers,” it said.Bilal Habib, senior scientist at WII and principal investigator in this study said that in the past nine months of monitoring, more than 5,000 animals were seen to be crossing the road through these underpasses. “We have more than 5,000 animal crossings including that of 11 individual tigers which are using this area. These roads actually fragment the wildlife habitat and the landscape. It was being upgraded which would have led to more traffic affecting animal movement from one place to another or cross properly, which is why these mitigation measures of underpasses were important. So far, these are the first such mitigation measures at such a scale that have been put in place for wildlife in the country,” said Habib. Elaborating more on the need for making wildlife-friendly roads in the central Indian landscape, Akanksha Saxena, a researcher on the project said that the Pench Tiger Reserve acts as a source population of tigers for the landscape making it an important area for conservation. “The Central Indian landscape is one of the tiger conservation landscapes with the highest potential of long-term tiger conservation in the country. The landscape has some prime tiger habitats and the most genetically diverse tiger population in India. The landscape is also one of the most fragmented due to human activities. It is therefore very important to maintain the connectivity in this landscape through wildlife-friendly roads,” said Saxena. The scientists have suggested improving mitigation measures and reducing pressure of human activities on the crossing structures. These include, levelling/ terracing/merging with surrounds, planting of shrubs or grass, regular patrolling, painting of pillars walls with camouflage paints, weekly cleaning of underpasses, creation of trails to enhance use by wildlife among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wildlife-friendly-roads-pay-off-18-species-using-special-underpasses-in-pench/story-shrXxuxfnuyssdn7npZ78I.html
08-10-2020||India||2 TV channel owners arrested for ratings fraud, Republic TV on radar: Cops||The Mumbai police have arrested two television channel owners while the directors and promoters of the third channel - Republic TV - will be investigated for allegedly manipulating television rating points or TRPs. “The arrested accused are owners of Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema channels while Republic TV’s directors and promoters are yet to be questioned. We will be calling some of the employees of the Republic TV channels for inquiry,” said Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.The police swung into action after rating agency Hansa Services Private Limited, a contractor of BARC, which functions under Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) and the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) filed a complaint.The complainant firm claimed that it powers Rs 32,000 crore Indian television advertisement industry by providing sharp insights about television channels. It has installed approximately 30,000 barometers in various parts of India which monitor various programmes and channels. Based on the statistical metrics, BARC awards ratings to various television channels and advertisers pay the channels at the rates fixed on the basis of the ratings.Manipulated TRP ratings adversely result in miscalculated targeted audience for the advertisers, said the firm, adding, that this further results into losses of hundreds of crores of rupees because of the manipulated statistics of TRP.Hansa Research Group found manipulations in the TRP and approached the Mumbai police. Following their complaint, the Mumbai police arrested an ex-employee of Hansa and recovered cash of Rs 20 lakh from his residence. Police also arrested his associate and recovered Rs 8 lakh in cash from his residence.During inquiry they revealed that they were paid by certain channels to distribute money to the households, where barometers were installed, to keep the English channel on throughout the day.The police then inquired with some of the households and learnt that they were paid Rs 400 to Rs 500 for per month to keep the channel on. At some places police found people not familiar with English staring at the television sets with the English channel on, said Singh.“During the inquiry, we also found that one of the arrested accused persons and some of the wanted accused were employees of Hansa and they have misused the confidential information with them. It has apparently been done for wrongful gain to certain television channels which resulted in wrongful loss to advertisers and advertising agencies,” Singh added.Preliminary investigations also revealed that these accused persons have manipulated the sampling metering services by inducing the barometer users by paying them periodically to watch particular television channels. Many of the people in whose homes these barometers have been installed, have accepted that they have been monetarily beneficial for keeping their TV sets on even if they actually didn’t watch.The case has been registered in the Kandivali police station for breach of trust and cheating against the accused. They were arrested and produced in the court and sent to police custody till October 9. Republic Media Network's Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami's statement pic.twitter.com/axhbJZ47eARepublic TV has, however, issued a statement saying, “Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh has made false allegations against Republic TV because we questioned him in the Sushant Singh Rajput case investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-cops-arrest-2-tv-channel-owners-will-probe-republic-tv-now/story-CjYGaoghgCFUAB2OXIiUcP.html
08-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Teesta Setalvad takes Hathras gang-rape case to Supreme Court, accuses UP cops of complicity||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Hathras gangrape: Teesta Setalvad moves Supreme Court, accuses UP cops of complicitySocial activist Teesta Setalvad has accused the Uttar Pradesh Police of “complicity” in shielding the men accused of gangraping and fatally assaulting a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, following recent attempts by the police top brass to underplay the offence. Read moreNIA busts 14-member IS module in BengaluruThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) has busted a module of the so-called Islamic State (IS) and arrested its two alleged operatives, Ahamed Abdul Cader, 40, and Irfan Nasir, 33, from Bengaluru on Wednesday, people familiar with the matter said. Read moreAmerican poet Louise Glück wins Nobel Prize in Literature 2020American poet Louise Glück won 2020 Nobel Literature Prize on Thursday. “Her unmistakable poetic voice that with austere beauty makes individual existence universal,” the academy said while announcing the award. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Can’t stop theft till thieves repent, I can’t be police forever,’ R Ashwin talks about not Mankading Aaron FinchWhether he gives a warning before going for a ‘Mankad’ or not, Ravichandran Ashwin is certain to be in the news with whatever he does at the bowling crease when a batsman backs up too far. Read moreMy family has been destroyed’: Rhea Chakraborty’s mother says she’s considered suicide, is paranoid about what will happen nextActor Rhea Chakraborty’s mother, Sandhya, admitting that she contemplated suicide, has said that she hasn’t been able to eat properly or sleep on the bed ever since her children were arrested and put behind bars. Read moreLong working hours and night shifts amid Covid-19 got you losing sleep? Here are some expert tips to help you outWorking from home during the coronavirus has proven to be a lot more stressful than most of us imagined, and with more flexibility in working hours, more and more people are working during the nights too. Read moreEQC, the first all-electric Mercedes SUV, launched in India at ₹99.30 lakhMercedes EQC has officially been launched in India at ₹99.30 lakh (ex showroom, India, for first 50 units only), available in six cities in phase 1 - Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai and Hyderabad. Read moreBritish lecturer invites Twitter’s wrath after calling idlis ‘boring’. Here’s what happenedAn innocent tweet by Zomato and a seemingly regular response to it caused something of a storm on Twitter. Read moreWatch: The fly that set Twitter abuzz during VP debate between Pence & HarrisAfter a 90 minute long US vice presidential debate between Mike Pence and Kamala Harris, a fly seems to have emerged as the star, at least on social media. During a heated debate on the issue of racism, a fly landed on the vice president’s head and stayed put for several minutes. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-teesta-setalvad-takes-hathras-gang-rape-case-to-supreme-court-accuses-up-cops-of-complicity/story-6kpDxpI8uoipjQL1yVf5OL.html
08-10-2020||India||2 Haryana villages resolve to boycott Covid-19 tests, list reasons||Two village panchayats in Haryana’s Fatehabad district have passed resolutions not to allow tests to detect coronavirus to be conducted on the residents in these villages.The panchayats of Tamaspura and Alipur Bharota villages unanimously passed a resolution on October 6 that their residents will not undergo a Covid-19 test. The resolutions signed by sarpanches Balam Singh of Tamaspura and Maina Devi of Alipur Bharota villages stated that government health teams would not be allowed to collect samples for Covid-19 testing from their villages.Sarpanch Balam Singh of Tamaspura village said the resolution was passed after villagers asked the panchayat to ban the entry of health officials and refused to give samples for Covid-19 test.“The decision was taken as all the residents in the village are healthy and they are scared that any asymptomatic health official, who has not been tested for coronavirus, can spread the disease in the village. Now, we are creating awareness among the villagers to appear for the test,” he added.He further said that the villagers were also apprehensive that if anyone found infected in the village was taken away by a health official then it would cause an atmosphere of terror in the village.Last month, Nakta village in the district had stopped the health officials and destroyed their Covid-19 testing kits when they visited the village to collect samples. The police had registered a case against the villagers for obstructing health workers on duty and for burning the rapid antigen test kits.Also Read: Haryana mulling to reopen schools for classes 6 to 9 studentsThe other village head Maina Devi of Alipur Bharota mentioned the same reasons in the resolution passed by the panchayat. However, she could not be reached for a comment.A health official pleading anonymity, said the stance taken by the villagers was problematic as no one will likely come forward to take responsibility for any resident showing symptoms of the virus.“Such resolutions were passed because of rumours and lack of awareness. It will take time to convince people that testing is more important to stop the chain of infections. Many people had shared rumours that the quarantine and treatment protocols are not good and there are no medicines to treat an infected person,” he added.Also Read: Home ministry modifies Covid-19 guidelines for 12 poll-bound states, allows political rallies with immediate effectFatehabad deputy commissioner Narhari Singh Banger said he has ordered the district development and panchayat officer (DDPO) to issue show cause notices to both the village heads for passing such resolutions.“The government is conducting Covid-19 tests to detect the spread of infection and to save people’s lives. I am surprised how a village head can pass such resolutions by ignoring the health concerns. We will take action against both the village heads,” the DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-haryana-villages-resolve-to-boycott-covid-19-tests-list-reasons/story-gfd5EPbettBNToTqPd1lXO.html
08-10-2020||India||Hathras gangrape: Teesta Setalvad moves SC, accuses UP cops of complicity||Social activist Teesta Setalvad has accused the Uttar Pradesh Police of “complicity” in shielding the men accused of gangraping and fatally assaulting a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, following recent attempts by the police top brass to underplay the offence. In an application, Setalvad demanded a court-monitored probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation and urged witnesses in the case to be provided with protection by central paramilitary forces.On Monday, the Supreme Court took up a Public interest litigation (PIL) filed by three lawyers led by Satyama Dubey demanding the Uttar Pradesh Police investigation to be transferred to CBI. The court had termed the incident “horrific” and asked the state government to highlight steps taken to provide protection to the woman’s family and witnesses in the case.Also read: Hathras case: Wanted ‘Swaraj’ not for ‘Raj’ to be back, says Sibal after journalist booked under UAPAIn the PIL, expected be heard next week, Setalvad said she was alarmed by the repeated statements issued by top police officers and elected representatives denying the rape even before the investigation in the case had concluded.On October 1, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said that the forensic reports in the case did not establish rape. In her application, Setalvad, through her NGO Citizens for Justice and Peace, said, “In view of the fact that the victim was found naked by her mother with vaginal bleeding indicates that sexual violence has indeed taken place. The statement being made to the contrary is irresponsible and indicates malafides as well as complicity.”Also Read: ‘No govt ever invoked sedition after rape’: Congress to Yogi AdityanathHer lawyer Aparna Bhatt, who filed the application, said, “It is alarming that when the Supreme Court has held that cases of sexual violence have to be handled with utmost sensitivity, these brazen statements are being made in the public domain.” The application has sought a court-monitored probe with regular progress reports of investigation to be submitted before the top court.Setalvad also demanded a judicial probe into the decision to cremate the woman’s body in the dead of the night under vigil of policemen and district officials. “There has to be an investigation into the line of command as to who ordered the cremation….The decision (to cremate) was not spontaneous but well planned and organised.” The application has asked for a former Supreme Court judge to probe the circumstances that led to the cremation of the woman after midnight in an open field near Hathras.Highlighting a statement issued by the UP government spokesperson on October 2 that mentioned subjecting the woman’s family members to polygraph and narco analysis tests along with the accused, Setalvad said, “Subjecting the family members to such tests when they are neither accused nor booked under any charges in the matter is a great defiance of law. Moreover, a Supreme Court Constitution bench in Selvi v State of Karnataka (2010) has held that no individual can be forcibly subjected to narco analysis as doing so would amount to an ‘unwarranted intrusion into personal liberty’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gangrape-teesta-setalvad-moves-supreme-court-accuses-up-cops-of-complicity/story-C8ZocEYfXr0o1jLz6FGEGP.html
08-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand forest dept identifies 34 wild mushroom species, 14 of them edible||Uttarakhand forest department’s research wing has identified 34 mushroom species that grow in the Sal forests of Kumaon region, of which 14 have been found to be edible. The study over the last three month was conducted in five different sites in the Sal forests of the Kumaon region. Out of the five sites, three were in Nainital district and two were in Udham Singh Nagar district. According to the study conducted by the forest research wing’s junior research fellows Kiran Bisht, Tanuja Pandey, Jyoti Prakash, and Kanish Kumar (forest guard), a total of 34 different species of mushrooms or macrofungi were collected from Sal forests of Kumaon region). “Out of the 34 wild mushroom species that have been identified, fourteen species are edible. The most common edible species collected from Sal forests included Termitomyces and Xylaria hypoxylon,” said Kiran Bisht. “The local people have good knowledge of wild edible mushrooms which they have achieved through their experience and the knowledge passed on from generation to generation. Since these mushrooms are being sold in the markets during monsoon by the local people, this survey will further help people here and create more awareness about mushroom diversity”, said Jyoti Prakash Wild mushrooms fetch local people good income as their price ranges between Rs 150 to 200 per kg for common mushrooms like Button mushrooms to Rs 20,000 to Rs 40,000 per kg for morel mushrooms. Tanuja Pandey said some of the edible mushrooms that they identified include Coprinellus disseminatus, Coprinus comatus, Hygrocybe Cantharellus, Rusulla brevipes, Macrolepiota procera, Ganoderma lucidum, Coprinellus micaceus and so on. Sanjiv Chaturvedi, chief conservator of forests (CCF) and in-charge research wing said study of mushrooms in Sal forests hold significance as wild edible mushrooms are a source of food and income for the local people, who collect them mainly during the rainy season. Chaturvedi said the Sal forest in Baggha area of Khatima in US Nagar showed maximum diversity of mushrooms followed by the Sal forest in Musabandar. “This is the first kind of its survey in Sal forests here. On the basis of soil analysis, it was observed that the nitrogen content was the highest in the Baggha Sal forest followed by Sal forest near Nandhaur area However, the moisture content was almost equivalent in all the sites”, he said. Talking about the importance of studying mushrooms, Chaturvedi said mushrooms are a major group of decomposers and as such essential for the survival of other organisms in the ecosystem as they contribute to the nutrient cycle and the maintenance of local ecology. “Mushrooms play a significant role in soil formation, soil fertility, and improvement of the habitat where they grow. They are also indicators of good health of forests”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-forest-dept-identifies-34-wild-mushroom-species-14-of-them-edible/story-kVnbJ9nTPYdhHIaJCtUetK.html
08-10-2020||India||India to see pre-Covid air traffic numbers by January 1: Minister Hardeep Puri||Projecting a positive forecast for India’s civil aviation sector, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday said that with more than 1.5 lakh passengers travelling by air today and 1.2 crore domestic passengers since May 25, Indian skies can expect air travel numbers to reach pre-Covid numbers by January 1, 2021.“Our skies are opening up further. Flying is considered as a safe & efficient mode of transport by people. More than 1.2 crore domestic passengers have flown since 25 May 2020. We had 1,56,565 passengers on 1525 flights today. We should touch pre-COVID numbers by New Year,” the Union minister for civil aviation said.Air traffic and revenue has been drastically hit in India due to the coronavirus disease outbreak since March this year, when all the flights were grounded. The flights are still operating in a graded manner.Puri added that airlines may be allowed to operate at 75 per cent of their pre-Covid operations on the domestic front, provided that the passenger numbers continue to show a healthy trend in the next 7-10 days. Indian airlines are currently operating up to 60 per cent of its pre-Covid capacity within the country.The minister had also issued a stern warning to foreign airlines and their operations which will come at the expense of the Indian carriers.“Indian carriers at a significant disadvantage resulting in inequitable distribution of traffic in favour of Lufthansa. The issue is not about allowing foreign carriers in or not. We are all for foreign carriers operating here. Make no mistake. But I think the time has come for the message to go out loud and clear that it will not be done at the expense of the Indian carriers,” Puri said while addressing the reporters.The minister was referring to the move by Lufthansa which cancelled its flights operating between India and Germany for 21 days, starting September 30 after DGCA withdrew permissions for them, citing restrictions on Indian travelling to Germany.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-see-pre-covid-air-traffic-numbers-by-january-1-minister-hardeep-puri/story-IB6wK1QtasHmGgH06gBM4H.html
08-10-2020||India||14-member IS module that returned ‘disillusioned’ from Iraq, Syria busted: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has busted a module of the so-called Islamic State (IS) and arrested its two alleged operatives, Ahamed Abdul Cader, 40, and Irfan Nasir, 33, from Bengaluru on Wednesday, people familiar with the matter said. The agency has found at least 13-14 people from Bengaluru travelled to Iraq and Syria in 2013-14. Two of them are believed to have been killed in Syria while fighting for the IS while some returned quietly in 2014, the people said. Many of them are still absconding.The IS overran swathes of Iraq and Syria in 2014. Iraq declared a victory over the terror group in 2017. In March 2019, US-backed forces in Syria said they have defeated the group in Syria as well and marked an end to the group’s territorial control.Also Read: Islamic State group Al-Hind plotted to build province in jungles of South India: NIA charge sheetThe people said NIA has identified all members of the module and they are being examined to know about those they were in touch with and their activities. They added the returnees from the module in Bengaluru were disillusioned by the life IS promised as there was nothing Islamic about its activities.Cader, a business analyst with a bank, and Nasir, who runs his family business, allegedly radicalised most of the members of the module and arranged finances for the travel of at least its five members.A larger 22-member module travelled to Iraq and Syria in 2016 from Kerala’s Kasaragod and Palakkad districts. This is believed to be the biggest group to have ever travelled to the region from India.Officials said several operatives have travelled to IS-held territories in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan since 2014 but in smaller groups or individually. “Kasaragod module was the biggest module and now this latest Bengaluru module seems to be big as 13-14 people went together,” said an official on condition of anonymity.Also Read: NIA court sentences IS recruit from Kerala to life imprisonmentOfficials said the agency learnt about the Bengaluru module while questioning Abdul Rahman, an ophthalmologist arrested from Bengaluru in August in connection with the case involving Jahanzaib Sami and Hina Bashir Baig, the couple arrested for their alleged links with IS.They cited Investigations and said Cader, Nasir and some of their associates were members of Hizb ut-Tahrir (HuT) and later formed a group named Quran Circle and radicalised gullible men in Bengaluru. They allegedly collected funds and funded their visits to Syria to aid the IS and further its ideology and activities.Officials said Cader allegedly collected funds from HuT and sent them to Syria through his bank account. Cader, Nasir and their other associates arranged funds for facilitating the visit of accused Abdur Rahman and other men from Bengaluru to Syria to join IS, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-busts-14-member-is-module-in-bengaluru/story-SWQ9TKFXtsWFqgigRvNUrL.html
08-10-2020||India||Missing woman’s body found in UP’s Fatehpur, kin allege gang rape||Protests rocked a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Fatehpur district late Wednesday night and Thursday morning after a 20-year-old woman who had been missing for several hours, was found dead in a field.Superintendent of police, Fatehpur, Prashant Varma said the police registered a case of murder and arrested one man and a probe is on.The woman’s family and villagers in Kasgava village, 80 km from Kanpur, did not allow the police to send the body for a post mortem examination for more than 10 hours and alleged that she was gang raped before being murdered.People confronted the police at the district mortuary late in the morning on Thursday as they feared the police could cremate the body and not allow it to be taken back to the village.The two-hour deadlock ended after the police agreed to the cremation in the village. A massive police force has been deployed in the village. Movement of outsiders towards the village was allegedly restricted.The woman had gone to the family’s field at night, but did not return, prompting a search by her family members and other villagers who found her body in a field around 10 pm.Her dupatta was tied around her neck and there were no clothes on the lower part of the body. Police found a cell phone on her body. Screening the calls, the police officials said she had spoken to a man 13 times the night before. The man, identified as Ashok Raidass, was arrested from his house and booked for murder.The family refused to accept the police theory and said the woman was raped and alleged that more than one person was involved in the crime. Officials said the post mortem was later conducted by a panel of doctors and they were waiting for the autopsy report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-woman-s-body-found-in-up-s-fatehpur-kin-allege-gang-rape/story-yOWGrApD0uXhtg9RqSjAGK.html
08-10-2020||India||Foreign airlines’ flights will not be allowed at expense of Indian airlines: Hardeep Singh Puri||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday said the time has come to send a loud and clear message that foreign airlines’ flights will not be allowed at the expense of Indian airlines. On September 28, Lufthansa had to cancel its flights between India and Germany from September 30 to October 20 as the DGCA withdrew permission for them saying there are restriction on Indians who want to travel to Germany and this puts “Indian carriers at a significant disadvantage resulting in inequitable distribution of traffic in favour of Lufthansa”. During a press conference, Puri said, “The issue is not about allowing foreign carriers in or not. We are all for foreign carriers operating here. Make no mistake. But I think the time has come for the message to go out loud and clear that it will not be done at the expense of the Indian carriers.” “Under the regulated (air bubble) arrangements, we are not insisting on total parity. Even near parity will do,” the minister added.After the aforementioned Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s (DGCA)decision that led to cancellation of Lufthansa’s flights, Air India was forced to cancel all Frankfurt flights till October 14 as Germany withdrew permission for them.Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been allowed since July under the bilateral air bubble pacts formed by India with around 16 countries, including Germany.Puri said, “There is an opportunity in India for all foreign economic entities. But equally, where the commercial advantage is concerned, we also expect our carriers - when they go there (to those countries) - to also get those facilities.” In September, Lufthansa was operating around 20 flights per week to India while Air India was operating around three flights per week to Germany.“If the (air bubble) arrangement is being carried out only for sixth freedom right, then obviously we would want parity because we have direct flights between us and the US and between us and Canada. And we would like the US and the Canadian carrier (to operate). So, there is no difficulty in negotiation either,” Puri mentioned.Sixth freedom right allows an airline to fly passengers from one country to the hub airport in its home country, and then put those passengers on a connecting flight to a third country.A significant number of Indians use European carriers like Lufthansa or Gulf carriers like Emirates to go to the US or Canada. The DGCA told Lufthansa a few weeks back to not carry any sixth freedom passengers on its India-Germany flights. An airline operating flights under an air bubble pact cannot carry sixth freedom passengers from India, as per the DGCA.Aviation Secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola said at the press conference that India and Germany are in talks on how to re-establish the air bubble arrangement between the two countries.“We had the first round of talks with Germany on Tuesday. They were held in a congenial atmosphere and they were very constructive talks. They put forth their viewpoint and we put our viewpoint. We are going to meet them in a day or two once again and the air bubble arrangement will be finalised with Germany,” Kharola said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-airlines-flights-will-not-be-allowed-at-expense-of-indian-airlines-hardeep-singh-puri/story-4VO3cT00yWipseEmPzADeN.html
08-10-2020||India||TN CM requests Yediyurappa to fill vacancies of Tamil teachers in Karnataka||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Thursday requested his Karnataka counterpart B S Yediyurappa to take steps to fill vacancies of Tamil teachers in government and state-aided schools, citing an association’s plea.Palaniswami said, over the years, while the Karnataka government started many Tamil schools in various districts to enable Tamil students to study in their mother tongue and granted approval as well as grants to private Tamil schools, a representation has now been received by his government on vacancies.In a letter to the Karnataka Chief Minister, he said: “We have received a representation from the Karnataka Tamil School and College Teachers Association, indicating that there are many vacancies of Tamil teachers in government and government aided schools and that the state government has also not given approval for opening new private Tamil schools.I enclose a copy of the representation for your kind perusal.” Palaniswami urged Yediyurappa to accord permission to open new private schools with Tamil as a medium of instruction and grant them recognition and reopen recently closed schools.Also, he urged “restoration of Tamil schools, which have been converted into other language schools” besides filling up vacancies of Tamil language teachers.He said Tamilians have been contributing significantly to the all-round economic development of Karnataka and “in particular, Tamilians have made immense contribution in developing Kolar Gold Mines, Hutti Gold Mines, Sandur Manganese Mines, Coffee Estates in Chikmagalur, Mangalore etc.” They have also been playing a major role in construction and agriculture sectors in Karnataka, he said and requested action to protect the interests of Tamil speaking people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-cm-requests-yediyurappa-to-fill-vacancies-of-tamil-teachers-in-karnataka/story-YdgiMLfTfFxO6LbkE4JbqN.html
08-10-2020||India||Home ministry modifies Covid-19 guidelines for 12 poll-bound states, allows political rallies with immediate effect||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Thursday modified its Covid-19 guidelines issues on September 30 for 12 states where elections are scheduled to be held.The new MHA order allows political rallies to be held in these states with immediate effect. These gatherings were originally prohibited till October 15.The announcement will have an impact on Bihar’s electoral preparations as large gatherings were not allowed under the Covid-19 preventative rules due to which political parties could not hold electoral rallies and gatherings.Apart from Bihar, the other states where elections (bypolls) are scheduled to be held are Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Haryana, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Manipur, Nagaland and Odisha. Poll preparations are underway for the bypoll elections in Madhya Pradesh which are being contested on 28 seats.The home ministry has asked all political parties to ensure that people follow all measures taken to prevent the curbing of Covid-19. It has said that all the rules mentioned in its guidelines issued on September 30 must be adhered to.Bihar will vote in three phases - the first phase of voting will be held on October 28, November 3, and November 7. The results of the election will be declared on November 10. The voting for 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh will be held in November 3 and the results will be announced on November 10. Bihar will also be among the first Indian states where the polls will be held under the shadow of the pandemic. The Delhi Assembly Elections were also held when the coronavirus pandemic was spreading in China and Italy but it had not impacted India largely during those months. Other countries which held elections amid Covid-19 are Korea, Belarus, Israel, Hong Kong and Poland. United States will also contest presidential elections on November 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-ministry-modifies-guidelines-for-12-poll-bound-states-allows-political-rallies-with-immediate-effect/story-GN6RQi8RlBV7tN9tstrQXI.html
08-10-2020||India||Almost everyone injured in Kerala crash discharged, 1 undergoing plastic surgery: Air India chief||One person injured in the Air India Express flight crash-landing in August this year is undergoing plastic surgery, the national carrier’s CMD Rajiv Bansal said on Thursday.The accident happened on August 7 when an Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people onboard, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway at Kozhikode in Kerala. The incident happened due to heavy rain.The narrow-body B737 plane fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into pieces, killing 18 people, including both pilots.“21 passengers, including 2 pilots, died. Almost everybody has been discharged from hospital, but two are still receiving some treatment - one of them is undergoing physiotherapy and another is undergoing plastic surgery,” Bansal said on Thursday.He also said that all expenses of injured and kin of the deceased have been looked after by the insurance agency. “They have already been paid interim compensation. We have also received the first tranche of interim compensation for aircraft that we lost,” Air India CMD said.The crash-landing is under-investigation by a five-member panel of the Aircraft Accident Investigation Board. The headquarters of the investigation will be in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/almost-everyone-injured-in-kerala-crash-discharged-1-undergoing-plastic-surgery-air-india-chief/story-ANGe2KHUnu7cmsUwEMDCYP.html
08-10-2020||India||13-yr-old specially-abled boy missing from UP 5 years ago, reunites with mom in Assam||Nearly 63 months after he went missing from his home in Uttar Pradesh, 13-year-old Shom reunited with his mother on Wednesday, nearly 1,250 km away in Assam. It was an emotional scene at Destination, a Guwahati-based NGO working with special children, when Shom Soni met his mother Rita for the first time since July 13, 2015 - the day he went missing from Handia, around 35 km from Prayagraj in UP.“We had been searching for Shom since the day he went missing. Though we never lost hope, with each passing day it seemed impossible we would find him. It’s a miracle he was found after so long and so far away,” said Rita. The emotional mother hugged her son, who is severely autistic and suffers from bouts of epilepsy, and cried with joy after years of separation and desperation.“Shom was playing outside our home in the morning on the day he disappeared. We don’t know how he ended up in Assam. The past five years, we have searched almost all parts of UP and Bihar looking for him,” said Rita. Shom appears to have boarded a train and reached Bongaigaon in Assam where child welfare department officials found him and handed him over to Destination. Later he was brought to the organisation’s Guwahati office. “The child wasn’t able to recollect many details about his family. But he knew his name and the school where he was studying. From the way he talked, we assumed he could be from UP,” said Rupa Hazarika, founder of Destination. “Many attempts were made to find out the exact location of the school, but we failed. Shom started living with other children in our facility where we took care of his needs,” she added. Despite months and years passing, like Shom’s family Hazarika too didn’t give up the search to trace his home. Since Hazarika is also a member of the Assam State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (ASCPCR), she reached out to the child welfare board in Uttar Pradesh last year. “After lot of back and forth, the child welfare committee in Prayagraj was able to trace Shom’s family in February this year. But they couldn’t come to collect him all these months because of the lockdown. We are happy to see Shom reunite with his family, but a bit sad too to see him leave,” said Hazarika.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-yr-old-specially-abled-boy-missing-from-up-5-years-ago-reunites-with-mom-in-assam/story-UyJ5GnbOxLOCoBNKmprt1K.html
08-10-2020||India||India’s sulfur dioxide emissions see first decline in 4 years||India’s sulfur dioxide emissions dropped in 2019, the first decline in four years for the world’s largest spewer of the pollutant responsible for human health risks and acid rain.Emissions from India dropped 6% last year as the country consumed less coal, mirroring a similar decline in global emissions of the toxic gas, according to a report by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air, and Greenpeace. All three of the world’s top emitters -- India, Russia and China -- saw reductions in sulfur dioxide, according to the report which analyzed NASA satellite data.The reduction in sulfur dioxide, which increases the risks of heart and lung diseases, is good news for Indian cities that have some of the world’s dirtiest air. Still, dangers remain as coal is set to dominate the nation’s energy mix for years to come.“In India we’re getting a glimpse of what reduced coal use means for air quality and health,” Avinash Chanchal, campaigner at Greenpeace India, said in a press release. “But our air is still far, far from safe. We must speed up the energy transition away from coal and toward renewables, for our health and the economy.”India accounted for 21% of global SO2, mostly from coal-fired power plants that lack pollution-curbing equipment, the report said. In contrast, China, the world’s biggest coal burner, saw SO2 emissions plummet 5% last year and 87% since 2011, thanks to strengthened emissions standards and increased use of scrubbers at power plants.India’s environment ministry in 2015 set new standards for emissions of SO2, nitrogen oxides and mercury, asking power plants to comply in two years. The generators instead successfully lobbied to get the deadline pushed back until 2022, and are now seeking a further extension, citing lack of clarity on how the costs will be compensated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-sulfur-dioxide-emissions-see-first-decline-in-4-years/story-u86AxEBOK34wNsoOlS319M.html
08-10-2020||India||BJP govt to stay for 30-35 yrs if Vivekananda’s pictures hung at homes: Tripura CM||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb said that the BJP-led government in state would remain in power for another 30-35 years if at least 80% houses in the state hung pictures of Swami Vivekananda along with his messages at their doors.He urged members of the Mahila Morcha, the women wing of the ruling BJP, to distribute pictures of Swami Vivekananda to every household in the state and ensure that they are put up at their doors.“I have personally seen, even in my village, that the communist leaders have pictures of Jyoti Basu, Joseph Stalin, Mao Zedong in their drawing rooms. Their pictures were hung at the doors where we hang pictures of our gods. Did we hang pictures of Swami Vivekananda in our houses in the past two and a half years? Our party will keep our ideologies and sanskars (values) – If 80 percent of Tripura houses hang pictures of Swami Vivekananda, then this government will remain for another 30-35 years,” Deb said this at a programme of Mahila Morcha organised at state BJP headquarters in Agartala on Wednesday.“Swami Vivekananda said one should talk less, keep silence and concentrate on work. Our energy gets wasted if we talk too much. So, we should not waste our energy,” said Deb.Earlier in August, Deb had distributed books on Swami Vivekananda to Covid-19 patients with a stated intent to keep them “mentally strong and motivated”.Also Read: Tripura BJP’s ally to hold strike for separate statehood demandLater during the function, the chief minister said the BJP-IPFT government had hiked the amount given under different social pensions, salaries of government employees, monthly allowances of village panchayat pradhans and their deputies, introduced e-public distribution system, Ayushman Tripura health scheme, increased allocation of funds for MLA fund relief scheme etc.Also Read: Police use tear gas, lathi charge protesters at BJP youth wing’s Nabanna Chalo rally in KolkataDeb also asked the women wing activists to learn about all initiatives taken by the central and state governments including for women empowerment along with details of their implementation.“There is a difference between taking an initiative and its implementation. Former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi took the initiative of introducing three-tier panchayat system, but the results started coming during ex-Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee’s tenure. And after Narendra Modiji came to power, he decided to give a fund of Rs 80 lakh directly to the village panchayats to strengthen them. So, Modiji implemented Gandhiji’s Gram Swaraj,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-govt-to-stay-for-30-35-yrs-if-vivekananda-s-pictures-hung-at-homes-tripura-cm/story-gJEYL7qOHoqS2wm5o5GTwL.html
08-10-2020||India||27-year-old unemployed engineer dies by suicide in Dehradun||A 27-year-old man died by suicide at his home on Wednesday afternoon in Dehradun’s Indra Colony area. He was an engineer but was unemployed, police said. No suicide note was found from the spot. “The Kotwali police station of Dehradun got information about the suicide from the hospital where he was taken by his family. He used to live with his family including his parents and three brothers in the Indra Colony area where he took the drastic step in the afternoon,” said Arun Mohan Joshi, senior superintendent of police, Dehradun. “He was the youngest among five brothers and was an engineer but was out of job. He was in the room during the afternoon when the incident happened. He was then rushed to hospital by his family members where doctors declared him brought dead,” said Joshi. He said no suicide note was found from the spot and reasons behind the suicide are not known yet. Meanwhile, in another incident, police found the body in the Yamuna river of a 32-year-old man who went missing while bathing on September 12. The deceased identified as one Ashish Rawat, a resident of Dehradun had gone for a picnic near the river with three of his friends.According to the police, the four men were bathing in the river when he was swept away by the current. The local police and state disaster response force men tried to find him but failed. His body was found stuck between two boulders in the river on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/27-year-old-unemployed-engineer-dies-by-suicide-in-dehradun/story-U2vpnm4NXXmfUCrsbILtOJ.html
08-10-2020||India||PM Modi assures Abdullah Abdullah of India’s support for Afghan peace process||Prime Minister Narendra Modi assured Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah on Thursday of India’s continued backing for the peace process in Afghanistan. Abdullah, chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation in Afghanistan, met Modi at his official residence to brief him on the peace process and the talks currently being held by the Afghan government and the Taliban at Doha in Qatar. “Pleased to meet HE Narendra Modi @narendramodi, the Prime Minister of Republic of #India. In our friendly discussion we took stock of the latest developments on the #AfghanPeaceProcess, the talks in Doha, & India’s support for the peace efforts,” Abdullah tweeted. HE PM assured me of India’s continued support for the peace process, & Afghanistan. I thanked him & the people of India for the invitation, & generous hospitality. I also thanked India for its principled position on the #AfghanPeaceProcess. 2/2“HE PM assured me of India’s continued support for the peace process, & Afghanistan. I thanked him & the people of India for the invitation, & generous hospitality. I also thanked India for its principled position on the #AfghanPeaceProcess,” he added in another tweet. Abdullah arrived in India on Tuesday for a five-day visit as part of an outreach to key countries in the region for seeking support for the negotiations in Doha. He travelled to New Delhi after a three-day visit to Islamabad last week. He is also scheduled to deliver a speech at the Institute of Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA) and hold talks with external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday. Before arriving in India, Abdullah said in a statement that India is a “strategic partner of Afghanistan”. He added “the role of India in establishing a lasting peace in Afghanistan and the region is vital”, and that he would discuss the need for regional consensus and support for the Afghan peace process with the Indian leadership. Also Read: NSA Ajit Doval meets Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah in DelhiOn Wednesday evening, Abdullah met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, who told him India favours a democratic and sovereign Afghanistan “where no terrorists can operate”. Doval also hosted a dinner for Abdullah’s delegation that was attended by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, army chief Gen MM Naravane, senior officials of the external affairs ministry and key members of the High Council for National Reconciliation. In Islamabad, he had met Prime Minister Imran Khan, foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa. Abdullah told the Pakistani leadership that a message about reducing violence and showing greater flexibility in negotiations should be communicated to the Taliban leadership participating in the negotiations in Doha. India, the region’s largest provider of development aid to Afghanistan, has expressed concern at a recent spike in violence by the Taliban and terror attacks on minorities such as Sikhs. It has said intra-Afghan negotiations must ensure the interests of minorities, women and vulnerable sections of society and reduce violence across Afghanistan and its neighbourhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narendra-modi-assures-abdullah-abdullah-of-india-s-support-for-afghan-peace-process/story-OM0hjqdNYzViMC8DdzG1PM.html
08-10-2020||India||One dead, six injured in clash over naming of village square in MP||A man was killed and six others were injured in a clash between people of two communities over the naming of a square at a village in Bhopal district late Wednesday night, police said. The deceased was identified as Shivam Meena, 22, a resident of Dobra village of the district. Six injured from the same village were admitted to Hamidia hospital in Bhopal where their condition is stated to be stable, according to police. Two FIRs were registered by both the sides at Eintkhedi police station against more than 35 people from both sides under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 146 (rioting), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) on Thursday morning. Seven of the accused have been arrested, said Dinesh Kaushal, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Bhopal zone-4. Kaushal said the two groups had been fighting over the naming of a newly constructed square in their Dobra village for the past two days. “On Wednesday, some people from Pal samaj led by Sanjay Pal and Pradeep Pal put up a board at the square naming the square in the community’s name. Meena samaj members took exception to it and staged a protest. In the night, Pradeep Pal fought with Shivam Meena over the issue following which some members of Meena samaj vandalized his shop at the village.” “Later in the night, more than 100 people of both communities gathered at the square and attacked each other with canes and sticks. An unidentified man from the Pal community started firing with his 12 bore gun resulting in death of Shivam Meena,22, and bullet injuries to Karan Meena, 32,” said the ASP. A team from Eintkhedi police station reached the spot and called in reinforcements from at least three police stations before the situation was brought under control at 4 am on Thursday, police said. The members of both the communities lodged FIRs against each other this morning. “A heavy police force has been deployed in the village to meet any eventuality. Police are trying to nab the accused and an investigation is on,” Kaushal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-dead-six-injured-in-clash-over-naming-of-village-square-in-mp/story-S32ewy5tX5RgpORxrxizQL.html
08-10-2020||India||22 states/UTs report positivity rate less than national average: Health Ministry||At least 22 states including union territories (UTs) have a Covid-19 positivity rate less than the national average which is at 8.19 per cent, informed the Union Health Ministry on Thursday.These states include--Bihar (2.61), Gujarat (3.30), Jharkhand (3.82), Uttar Pradesh (3.92), Himachal Pradesh (4.93), Rajasthan (5.11), Madhya Pradesh (5.98), Punjab (5.99), Haryana (6.65), Odisha (6.71), Uttarakhand (7.13), Jammu and Kashmir (7.24), Telangana (7.38) and West Bengal (8.15).While India is fulfilling the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) advise of 140 tests per day per million population, the country is testing more than 15 lakh Covid-19 samples every day, said the health ministry.Nearly 12 lakh tests were conducted in the last 24 hours in the country. With 11,94,321 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the cumulative tests have crossed 8.34 crores (8,34,65,975), it said.In another row of achievements, 35 states/UTs have exceeded the advised number of tests. The national average of tests per day per million population stands at 865.About 83,011 single day Covid-19 recoveries were registered in last 24 hours as against 78,524 new confirmed cases. The total recovered cases stand at 58,27,704. The gap between the total number of recoveries and active cases has crossed 49 lakh (49,25,279).Active cases in the country are less than 10 lakh for the 17th day in a row. Presently, the 9,02,425 active cases comprise merely 13.20 per cent of the total positive cases.A higher number of recoveries has aided the national recovery rate to further improve to 85.25 per cent, said the health ministry.According to the government, about 75 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states/UTs. Maharashtra alone has contributed the maximum with more than 16,000 single day recovery.At least 78,524 new confirmed cases were recorded in the last 24 hours while 79 per cent of the new cases are from 10 states and UTs. Maharashtra continues to be the state reporting a very high number of new cases with more than 14,000 cases followed by Karnataka with nearly 11,000 cases.The government said that at least 971 Covid-19 case fatalities have been reported in the past 24 hours.Of these, nearly 82 per cent are concentrated in ten state/UTs of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, and Madhya Pradesh.More than 36 per cent of new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra i.e 355 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-states-uts-report-positivity-rate-less-than-national-average-health-ministry/story-opwxUZuF8POnqsTKvA9rDL.html
08-10-2020||India||Meet two Samaritans — Baba Siddique and Mudassar Patel||On the occasion of MLA, Zeeshan Baba Siddique’s birthday, on October 3, Haji Mudassar Patel of Ya Ma Patel’s Foundation team organised a charity function where the team helped the needy in the city. Speaking about it, Patel says, “Our Team is always there for this noble cause, it’s our honour to serve our people of Mumbai by helping the needy during this pandemic .” Patel is a social activist and vice-President from the minority department of a political party in India. Patel feels it’s his duty to stand with those in need in these challenging times. “I’m more than happy that our team could once again provide food grain kits to families in Mahim west and Bandra west for which I invited former minister Baba Siddique,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/meet-two-samaritans-baba-siddique-and-mudassar-patel/story-3wp1fTKYInearm3e03uQJI.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Not hard for govt to fight China’, Shiv Sena taunts Centre over border standoff||Amid India’s standoff with China in Ladakh, the Shiv Sena attacked the Centre on Thursday over its stand on national security and taunted that it should not be difficult for the government, which can fight political opponents through cyber attack, to take on China.Referring to the 80,000 fake social media accounts that were created in June to discredit the Mumbai Police and Maharashtra government in the investigation into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, an editorial in the Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana, said, “It is not hard for a government that can launch a cyber attack on political opponents in the country to fight China. Despite creating 80,000 fake accounts, ultimately they had to taste defeat but we will have to win in Ladakh and in Kashmir valley.”In a veiled jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the editorial said, “Why is the one who used to issue threats to Pakistan not ready to even name China? Why is China not taught a lesson like they claimed to have taught Pakistan?” The editorial went on to say that focusing on China has given Pakistan a free run to infiltrate into Kashmir that has led to skirmishes where our soldiers are being martyred. “By conducting surgical strikes elections were won but we were not able to break the spine of Pakistan. The earlier we accept this truth it will be better for our national security,” it said.The Sena mouthpiece also backed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s attacks on Modi earlier this week. It said, “Rahul Gandhi has said that Chinese troops will withdraw in 15 minutes (had his government been in power). Prime Minister Modi must speak to him (Rahul Gandhi) on what plan he has to ensure this. After all, this is a matter of national security.”Backing Gandhi’s statement to push back Chinese troops behind the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, the editorial said, “Those who think what Rahul Gandhi said was ‘rubbish’ must examine the statements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Who had made statements of bringing Pakistan-occupied Kashmir into India and who had promised ‘ghar wapsi’ of Kashmiri Pandits in the Valley?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-hard-for-govt-to-fight-china-shiv-sena-taunts-centre-over-border-standoff/story-uzlYnaXbyF6MDuzoxjodQL.html
08-10-2020||India||IAF’s Dhruv helicopter makes precautionary landing in UP’s Saharanpur||An ALH Dhruv helicopter of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on routine training sortie carried out a precautionary landing in the rural areas of Saharanpur district on Thursday. People gathered in the area while the ALH Dhruv helicopter carried out the precautionary landing here. The landing was carried out in an open field here. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-s-dhruv-helicopter-makes-precautionary-landing-in-up-s-saharanpur/story-eQerVYI2qc4Cn76PwF7SdI.html
08-10-2020||India||Ramping up cold storage facilities critical as India preps for Covid-19 vaccine: Experts||The safe delivery of vaccines for mass immunisation against Covid-19 is a massive challenge and India will need to significantly ramp up its cold chain facilities, say experts as the world’s second most populous nation moves into the next stage of management of the disease and looks towards a preventive.  With most frontrunner vaccine candidates likely to require ‘extra cold’ storage, the private sector could also be roped in for effective delivery of a preventive when it is available, suggest several experts and industry insiders.  Some vaccine frontrunners are in advanced stages of trial and could hit the market by early next year, making the task of securing “last mile connectivity” and ensuring that nothing goes wrong before the shot is administered more urgent.  Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said earlier this week that the government expects to receive and utilise 400-500 million vaccine doses for Covid-19, and cover approximately 20-25 crore people by July 2021. The Centre has also reportedly directed states to make a robust plan for vaccine storage and distribution by October 15.  “Most if not all the current frontrunners require extremely stringent cold chains, making them immensely challenging for India to implement,” said Satyajit Rath from New Delhi’s National Institute of Immunology (NII).  The immunologist noted that some Covid-19 vaccines will need storage temperatures that simply cannot be realistically managed in any large-scale Indian campaign.  He said the real problems will arise once vaccines are ready to go into the market.  Vaccine candidates by Moderna and Pfizer will require stringent standards for refrigeration that may hamper how they are distributed to millions of people across India’s length and breadth, according to scientists.  Unlike drugs, virtually all vaccines need to be transported at cold temperatures, usually between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius, said Raghavan Varadarajan, professor at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Bengaluru.  “The necessity is to keep the vaccine product cold, either refrigerated or frozen. This is a constraint especially with large numbers of doses,” Varadarajan told PTI, explaining the particular problems of India that has a population of 1.3 billion, second only to China.  Many vaccines lose potency when exposed to higher temperatures, he said, and re-cooling does not help.  Thus we need what is called the cold chain of handling before use, said Varadarajan whose team at IISc is working on a “warm vaccine” that can be stored for over a month at 37 degrees Celsius, and needs no cold chain for storage.  Pawanexh Kohli, the founding CEO of India’s National Centre for Cold-Chain Development (NCCD), agreed that protocols will require Covid-19 vaccines to be kept between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius, while in transport and storage until delivery.    “The Moderna vaccine candidate is shipped in minus 20 degrees Celsius and held at 2-4 degrees for seven days. The Pfizer (vaccine) that requires minus 70 degrees temperatures,” Kohli, honorary professor of post-harvest Logistics at the University of Birmingham in the UK, told PTI.  Both the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines use a synthetic version of genetic material from part of the coronavirus.  The genetic material called messenger RNA (mRNA) then prompts the cells to make a tiny piece of the virus, which the immune system recognises as foreign. If the person is later exposed to the real virus, the immune system will attack it.  Noting that RNA vaccines have never been used on humans, Vardarajan said it is possible high temperatures can affect these structures and thus affect the efficacy of the formulation.  While a bulk of the vaccines will be distributed through the Centre’s Universal Immunization Programme (UIP) mechanism, experts also suggest that the government rope in private cold chain operators.  The vast scale of India’s UIP is supported by more than 27,000 functional cold chain points of which 750 (3 per cent) are located at the district level and above. The rest are located below the district level, according to the government’s comprehensive multi-year UIP plan for 2018-22.  This includes 76,000 cold chain ‘equipment’, 2.5 million health workers, and 55,000 cold chain staff, the plan report said.  Cold chain logistics involves many moving parts, including cold storage  facilities that store products waiting to be transported, cooling systems to keep it at an appropriate temperature during all aspects of the supply chain such as storing and transporting. Gel packs are also often used for medical and pharmaceutical shipments.Approximately 390 million doses are administered annually at nine million sessions held across the country to immunise 26 million children and 30 million pregnant women, it said.  Noting that cold storage protocols are well established in India, Kohli said the public health network is limited in capacity.  “Luckily, the food cold chain has synergistic use for this purpose and should assist in this battle. Existing cold chain enterprises may need to allocate specific resources in their network,” noted Kohli.  He added that the food cold chain has the maximum reach, with extensive last mile connectivity, and will require minor redesign to designate storage space and transport load for this purpose.  “Almost every cold chain owner I have spoken to is willing to contribute space and assets towards this, should the need arise,”  Kohli added.  Kohli also believes that India must restructure with purpose to start and finish the immunisation programme within a short time period to be effective.  “Even if the vaccine is ready, the programme should not be commenced until the last mile for administering the vaccine is prepared,” he said. According to the World Heatlh Organisation, at the higher levels of the cold chain, i.e. at primary and regional intermediate stores, the oral polio vaccine must be kept frozen between minus 15 degrees Celsius and  minus 25 degrees Celsius. At other levels of the cold chain, the vaccines should be stored between 2 degrees Celsius and 8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramping-up-cold-storage-facilities-critical-as-india-preps-for-covid-19-vaccine-experts/story-0J9R6atCAvEt7N4RIGVqZJ.html
08-10-2020||India||IMD reviews preparedness, plan for cyclone season October-December||The meeting was participated by experts from IMD, National Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting (NCMRWF), Indian Air Force (IAF), Central Water Commission (CWC), India Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi, and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) among several others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-reviews-preparedness-plan-for-cyclone-season-october-december/story-w5WTLAaD7AXOoUy0VTbGNN.html
08-10-2020||India||PLA at its doors, India looks at new security rule to punch Chinese firms||Indian national security planners are mulling over a security architecture that weeds out inimical countries from participating in core sectors such as power, telecommunications and roads by verifying origins of equipment imported into the country and testing its trustworthiness, people familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times.Besides, India will opt for collaborative partnerships in development of critical technologies such as 5G and 5G plus at each stage through government-to-government or industry-to-industry partnership rather than go for off-the-shelf purchases in future.“India will no longer buy black box units and will instead participate through the entire development process so that it has the option to go for a different partner in case of any technology denial. Foreign companies participating in the Indian core sector will not be allowed to mask their origins and will have to go for full disclosure in case of any suspicion,” said a senior government official involved in the move.Also Read: The internal drivers of China’s Ladakh offensiveThe “verifying of the origin” debate started in July this year against the backdrop of China throwing all bilateral agreements on the Line of Actual Control out of the window and attempting to occupy Indian territory in East Ladakh. The face-off escalated in mid-June when soldiers from two sides clashed leading to loss of lives on both sides. India has deployed nearly 50,000 soldiers with support elements in Ladakh after the Chinese side made it clear that it would not step back.Also Watch: Ladakh | Tanks, combat vehicles: Indian Army ready to counter China amid tension Since then, the power ministry has decided to come up with specific testing guidelines that requires importers to declare the country of origin of the equipment and ensure there is no malware embedded in the critical sector equipment.Also Read: How will China’s offensive play out in Ladakh? IAF war games have an answer“The new testing guidelines for power equipment ensure that the country of origin does not install a malware that can be activated to engineer a power crisis in India,” said a senior power ministry official.Although national security planners and the technology advisors to the government are on the same page on this rule, there is some push back from the industry and telecom department, which believes that this could raise the cost of clean equipment and there is a need for a defined threshold for disclosing the country of origin.Even in developing 5G and 5G plus technologies, India is keen to know the provenance of the imported technology with test bed collaboration being the first step in achieving clean telecommunication equipment. While India is very keen to collaborate on 5G with Japan, it has kept open the option of European and US telecom companies in case of any opaqueness in the joint venture.In the past two decades, it has come to the notice of the government that foreign companies bidding for core sectors often mask their country of origin through third country and use state subsidy to qualify for the lowest bidder guideline of the central vigilance commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-pla-at-its-doors-india-looks-at-new-security-rule-for-foreign-companies/story-kLibBVaqTDBhTwKLuelzHI.html
08-10-2020||India||Freedom of speech is most abused, says SC on ‘fake news’ on Tablighi Jamaat||Freedom of speech is one of the most abused freedoms during recent times, the Supreme Court said on Thursday while hearing a case seeking action against television channels for allegedly disseminating fake news about the Tablighi Jamaat and communalising the Nizamuddin markaz incident. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde, also took strong exception to the affidavit filed by the central government in response to the petition and stated that it has been filed by a junior officer and also does not address any specific instances of bad reporting raised by the petitioner.“You cannot treat this court this way. The affidavit is filed by a junior officer. It is also extremely evasive and does not respond to the incidents of bad reporting,” CJI Bobde told solicitor general Tushar Mehta.Also Watch | ‘They acted as Corona carriers, action justified’: Yogi on Tablighi Jamaat Mehta said that he will see to it that a fresh affidavit is filed.The court asked Mehta to ensure that the concerned department’s secretary files the fresh affidavit.“Secretary must tell us what he thinks of the specific incidents (cited by the petitioner) and not make nonsensical averments like what has been done now,” Bobde said and posted the case for further hearing after two weeks.Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, who was representing the petitioner, submitted that the government has claimed that the issue involves muzzling of free speech.“Freedom of speech is one of the most abused freedoms of recent times,” CJI Bobde remarked.The court was hearing petitions filed by Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, Peace Party, DJ Halli Federation of Masjid Madaaris and Wakf Institute and one Abdul Kuddus Laskar alleging that the media was reporting the incident in a skewed manner and demonising the Muslim community.Also Read: Transfer all Tablighi Jamaat cases in UP to three chief judicial magistrates: Allahabad HCThe Nizamuddin area in Delhi was sealed on March 30 after it came to light that several people, who had attended a religious event held in March at Nizamuddin by a Muslim sect called Tablighi Jamaat, were found to be infected with coronavirus.At least 16,500 people had visited Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin between March 13 and 24.The petitioners have submitted that the reportage of the incident by certain sections of the media were in violation of journalistic norms and the provisions of the Cable TV Networks Regulation Act and the programme code under that Act which prohibits telecast of programmes containing attacks on a religion or communities or promoting communalism.Also Read: SC directs Rajasthan EC to notify election program for civic polls within weekThe petition also pointed out that a number of such fake news has been debunked by fact checking organizations like Altnews.During the hearing on Thursday, the court also asked the centre to clarify which provision would specifically be used by the government to impose a bar on the broadcast of television channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/freedom-of-speech-is-most-abused-sc-while-hearing-case-seeking-action-against-tv-channels-for-spreading-fake-news-on-tablighi-jamaat-congregation/story-AIny7fcoKPFmtZrsHH0ZHM.html
08-10-2020||India||75% new Covid-19 recoveries, 79% positive cases from 10 states each, says health ministry||With India recording 83,011 Covid-19 recoveries and 78,524 new infections in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry on Thursday said 75% of new recoveries and 79% positive cases were from 10 states and union territories each.“83,011 single-day recoveries were registered in the last 24 hours across India as against 78,524 new Covid-19 confirmed cases. 75% of new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and union territories. 79% of the new positive cases are from 10 states and UTs,” the ministry said. 83,011 single-day recoveries were registered in the last 24 hours across India as against 78,524 new #COVID19 confirmed cases. 75% of new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states/UTs. 79% of the new positive cases are from 10 states & UTs: Ministry of Health pic.twitter.com/3Agdu2soD3The 10 states/UTs contributing 75% of new recoveries are: Maharashtra (16,715), Karnataka (9,832), Andhra Pradesh (6,349), Kerala (6,161), Tamil Nadu (5,524), Uttar Pradesh (4,219), Odisha (3,455), Delhi (3,370), Chhattisgarh (3,277) and West Bengal (3,024).Meanwhile, the 10 states and UTs which reported 79% of new positive cases are: Maharashtra (14,578), Karnataka (10,947), Kerala (10,606), Tamil Nadu (5,547), Andhra Pradesh (5,120), West Bengal (3,455), Uttar Pradesh (3,389), Odisha (2,995), Delhi (2,871) and Chhattisgarh (2,846).The ministry further said India has performed ‘remarkably’ on the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) advice of 140 tests per day per million population. “National average of tests per day per million population stands at 865 with 35 states/UTs performing more than 140 tests per day per million population,” it said.With 78,524 new Covid-19 cases, India’s caseload crossed the 6.8 million mark to reach 6,835,655, as per the health ministry’s dashboard.With 83,011 recoveries, the number of recovered cases stand at 5,827,704 . Active cases are at 902,425 and death toll at 105,526 with 971 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75-new-covid-19-recoveries-79-positive-cases-from-10-states-each-says-health-ministry/story-aMpr2UjXfbFuAAJW8doLoL.html
08-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Prahlad Patel to hold virtual meet of state/UT tourism ministers ahead of festive season||Union tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel will interact with state tourism ministers and senior officials on October 15 and 16 ahead of the peak tourist season, sources said on Thursday. The minister is expected to discuss the post Covid protocols and put plans in motion to ensure that the tourism sector opens up with safety measures in place.The virtual meetings would see Patel interacting with tourism ministers of the northern and western states and Union territories on October 15 and those of the southern, eastern and northeastern states the next day, they said. These meetings are a part of confidence building measures by the minister who has over the last two months met industry leaders and stakeholders of the travel and tourism sector.The tourism sector has, according to industry estimates, suffered a loss of over Rs 5 lakh crore due to the coronavirus driven shutdown.The government has announced several stimulus packages for the sector, including extended moratorium from RBI on term loans till August 31, the Atma-nirbhar Bharat package’ of Rs 3 lakh crore, and easy PF withdrawals.The central government has also rolled out relief from regulatory compliances under the Income Tax Act, Companies Act and the GST Act for different time frames in order to help with business continuity and survival.Last month, Patel held a brainstorming session on promotion of Incredible India campaign post Covid-19 with influencers and travel media organisations, assuring them that the ministry would help them in any way possible to speed up tourism-related activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-prahlad-patel-to-hold-virtual-meet-of-state-ut-tourism-ministers-ahead-of-festive-season/story-GIwxm9o5tMgIRxWEqLcGbP.html
08-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 500 pages of electronic records trace evidence against Vikas Dubey, step by step and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.500 pages of electronic records trace evidence against Vikas Dubey, step by stepUttar Pradesh police is relying heavily on 500 pages of purported electronic evidence included in the 1700 pages long charge-sheet filed with the hope to mount a foolproof case against slain Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides, accused of involvement in a planned ambush of a police raid party on July 2. Read moreFarm bills: Congress to continue opposition, could move Supreme Court against legislationThe Congress plans to continue its opposition to the farm laws passed last month politically even as it has not ruled out the option of going to the Supreme Court against the legislation. Read moreInduction of Rafale, Apache, Chinook will transform IAF, says President KovindPresident Ram Nath Kovind said the ongoing process of modernisation with induction of Rafale, Apache and Chinook will transform the Indian Air Force (IAF) into an even more formidable strategic force. Read moreMG Gloster premium luxury SUV aims big, launched at ₹28.98 lakhMG Gloster SUV has been officially launched in India at an introductory starting price of ₹28.98 lakh, going all the way to ₹35.38 lakh for the top-end Savvy variant (introductory, ex showroom). Read moreIPL 2020: MS Dhoni explains reasons behind CSK’s fourth defeat of seasonAfter a resounding 10-wicket mauling of Kings XI Punjab, it looked as if Chennai Super Kings were back doing what they do best, but a 10-run defeat to Kolkata Knight Riders has once again pegged back the three-time champions. Read moreNobel laureate Emmanuelle Charpentier has a special message for young girlsScientist Emmanuelle Charpentier from France and Jennifer A. Doudna, America recently won the prestigious Nobel Prize for their contribution to the world of chemistry. They were awarded for developing a genome editing known as CRISPR. Read moreHathras Case: Dalit Perspective with Suraj Yengde | On The RecordIn the latest episode of On The Record, Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury speaks to author Suraj Yengde about what the Hathras case tells one about the status of Dalits in India. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-500-pages-of-electronic-records-trace-evidence-against-vikas-dubey-step-by-step-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Uxvc0FUQFO0VMkrbqOr1fN.html
08-10-2020||India||Rajasthan police arrest prime accused in gang rape of minor girl in Barmer||The prime accused in the gang rape of a 14-year-old girl in Barmer was detained late Wednesday night and was arrested Thursday morning, police said.Barmer superintendent of police Anand Sharma said the accused was identified as Gangaram Bheel, a resident of Dantal village in Jaisalmer district. He said the accused confessed his crime during interrogation.Police said the accused is a farm labourer and worked in the fields of the girl’s grandfather. On Tuesday when the victim’s family members had gone out to vote in the panchayat election, the accused took the girl to an isolated place and raped her.The accused fled from the spot after the assault.Sharma said that investigation so far revealed that there was only one accused. He, however maintained that at this stage they were not denying the survivor’s statement about there being one more accused. The girl had told the police that the other accused filmed the assault.Meanwhile, rape has not been confirmed in the medical examination. “Medical board has reserved the opinion and a sample has been sent for the swab test to the FSL,” Sharma said. There was no sign of injuries in the survivor’s genitalia, the SP added.Barmer police registered a case of gang rape on Wednesday. According to the complaint, the two accused fled the crime scene leaving the survivor unconscious by the roadside in the evening. Her family members found her after searching for her.Sharma and Barmer district collector (DC) Vishram Meenahad had visited the hospital to enquire about the case. In her statement to the police, the survivor said the accused who were on a motorcycle, abducted her about a few metres from her home. She was, however, unable to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-police-arrest-prime-accused-in-gang-rape-of-minor-girl-in-barmer/story-Y6YdbsQcgQSBXkkEPQDyXK.html
08-10-2020||India||PM Modi to deliver keynote address in virtual Invest India conference in Canada||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver a keynote address at the Invest India conference in Canada through video conferencing on Thursday.Representatives from banks and insurance companies, investment funds, companies from various sectors like aviation, electronics and manufacturing, consulting firms, universities etc are expected to take part in the conference.“The forum aims to give Canadian business community a first-hand perspective of the opportunities to invest in India,” the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement.PM Modi will deliver the address at around 6:30pm today.The long list of speakers includes Howard Davies, British economist and chairman of the Royal Bank of Scotland; Ridham Desai, Managing Director of Morgan Stanley; and Nouriel Roubini, professor of economics at New York University’s Leonard N. Stern School of Business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-deliver-keynote-address-in-virtual-invest-india-conference-in-canada/story-03MjTVbzOJaCE9r6hD6svJ.html
08-10-2020||India||International flights: Travel bubbles likely to continue till March-April, says Hardeep Singh Puri||Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday said the future of international flights is now depending on the availability of a vaccine. Answering a question on whether travel bubble arrangements will continue till March-April, the minister said, “It is difficult to say as there is no country which has completely opened its borders for all. It depends on the availability of a vaccine as countries will feel more confident once a vaccine is there.”Air bubbles are specific arrangements between countries to allow airlines of both the countries to carry passengers. Regular international passenger flight services have been suspended till October 31. The minister hinted that this suspension is likely to be in place till March-April. “There are basically three issues to consider before resuming regular international flights. One, resuming domestic connectivity connecting bigger cities to smaller town, which we have already done. Second, the nature of the virus on which I can’t comment and the third is international restrictions. Every country wants their people to return, but for others there are plenty of restrictions,” Puri said.Domestic airlines will soon be allowed to increase their capacity to 75 per cent. At present, they are operating at 65 per cent capacity, after domestic flights resumed operations on May 25 — following a gap of two months of lockdown. “There is no deadline. But this can happen soon as the domestic numbers are going up. Before this I said that the pre-covid domestic number will be achieved between Diwali and New Year. Now I am confident that by the first quarter next year, we will be able to surpass the pre-covid number,” the civil aviation minister said.“This marks the beginning of the second phase of domestic travel as we are now gearing up to face the challenge of welcoming more people in the airports as the festive season is almost upon us. We had a meeting with the airlines recently in this regard,” Pradeep Singh Kharola, civil aviation secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-allow-domestic-airlines-to-increase-capacity-to-75-per-cent-soon/story-uqXhq3gUykc0kVX5H6Lv8H.html
08-10-2020||India||Hathras case: Wanted ‘Swaraj’ not for ‘Raj’ to be back, says Sibal after journalist booked under UAPA||Senior Congress leader and lawyer Kapil Sibal on Thursday slammed the government for booking a journalist, among others, under provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and sedition in connection with the Hathras incident in Uttar Pradesh.An FIR lodged in the Mant police station, against four who were arrested near Mathura, enroute to Hathras, on Monday charges them under various laws, for promoting enmity between groups and UAPA, apart from others.Sibal, taking to Twitter, reminded that earlier in the Parliament he had said that the UAPA would be used to “target our own” and to “silence dissent”.“UAPA. Journalists booked under UAPA: “Alleged conspiracy behind their visit to Hathras” Intervening in debate in Rajya Sabha I said UAPA will be used to target our own. Being used to silence dissent. Wanted “Swaraj” not for the “Raj” to be back,” Sibal’s tweet read. UAPAJournalists booked under UAPA : "Alleged conspiracy behind their visit to Hathras"Intervening in debate in Rajya Sabha I said UAPA will be used to target our own Being used to silence dissent Wanted "Swaraj" not for the "Raj" to be backEarlier, an FIR has been registered against four people, with links to Popular Front of India (PFI), in Mathura. The registered FIR states that pamphlets, six smartphones and a laptop had been recovered from the possession of Atiq ur Rehman, Alam, Siddiqui and Masood Ahmed.Also Read: Journalist, 3 others on way to Hathras arrested, charged with anti-terror lawAccording to the FIR, four persons who were apprehended from Mathura on October 5 and had links with PFI “were going to Hathras to disrupt peace as part of larger conspiracy”. It also states that media reports have pointed out that some antisocial elements are plotting to harm social harmony by instigating caste factions using the pretext of the Hathras incident.Prashant Kumar, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order), had earlier said that they received credible information about the movement of some suspicious people towards Hathras from Delhi, after which police started a checking drive at Mathura toll plaza, during which they were nabbed.Kumar said they came to know about their connection with the PFI and its co-organisation, the Campus Front of India, during interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-wanted-swaraj-not-for-raj-to-be-back-says-sibal-after-journalist-booked-under-uapa/story-Y1Aedh5vHw8vdv2a1xN86O.html
08-10-2020||India||500 pages of electronic records trace evidence against Vikas Dubey, step by step||Uttar Pradesh police is relying heavily on 500 pages of purported electronic evidence included in the 1700 pages long charge-sheet filed with the hope to mount a foolproof case against slain Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides, accused of involvement in a planned ambush of a police raid party on July 2. The electronic evidence in the charge-sheet contains the call details report (CDR) of all the 36 accused in the case. The investigators built a matrix analysing the numbers and locations to show that the accused were at one place and in touch with each other. The police investigation has placed the numbers in chronological order to establish a step by step sequence of events, which led to brutal killings of eight policemen. For example, the first CDR placed in the charge-sheet is of sub-inspector KK Sharma, establishing that he spoke 13 times with Vikas Dubey and his men. It places emphasis on the conversation Sharma had at 11.44 pm on July 2 with Ram Singh, one of the accused. The investigation claims it was during this conversation, which took place 10 minutes before the FIR was registered and the police party left for the gangster’s village, that the details related with the raid were leaked. This follows the CDR of Vikas Dubey, which establishes that he called police constable Rajeev Singh of Chaubeypur police station and threatened to kill the police team coming to raid his house. In corresponding calls, he spoke to his aides Amar Dubey, Prem Prakash Pandey and Prabhat Mishra, all of whom were killed in various encounters with the police.Other CDRs of accused were mentioned in the charge-sheet to establish that they called each other in Bikru to coordinate the ambush on the police team. Also Read: Kanpur’s Bikru ambush was planned; women helped in carnage, says chargesheet The call records of four women accused in the case have been attached separately in the charge-sheet. Officials said Manu Pandey, whose audio clips confirmed the involvement of women in the attack, according to police, hadn’t been given a clean chit either. She would be made an accused in the supplementary charge sheet, said an official. An official said the police tried to explain through these records how the attack was planned, how the accused remained in touch with each other, how they escaped, the routes they took after killing the policemen and how the police officers accused in the case were in touch with some accused and helped them. Also Read: UP gangster killed in road accident in police car. It is Vikas Dubey reduxDistrict government counsel (DGC) Kanpur Dehat, Prashant Mishra, said the charge-sheet was comprehensive and enough evidence was on record to secure conviction of the accused. But Shivakant Dixit, a lawyer representing a minor accused, Khushi Dubey, said the charge-sheet was riddled with loopholes. There were 500 pages of CDR but how the police would establish what conversation took place between the accused, he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-pages-of-electronic-records-trace-evidence-against-vikas-dubey-step-by-step/story-gfrWjFLdXxC74bALpdaz2L.html
08-10-2020||India||Be happy, wrote ex-CBI chief Ashwani Kumar before death by suicide||Former governor and ex-CBI director Ashwani Kumar found dead in his Shimla house left a note for his family that attributed his decision to “disease and disability”, Himachal Pradesh police chief Sanjay Kundu said. Kundu, according to news agency ANI, confirmed that the police and the family did not suspect foul play.Kumar, the 1973-batch Indian Police Service officer, was found dead in the attic of his Shimla house by his son and daughter-in-law soon after they returned from a walk at about 7 pm on Wednesday. The retired police officer, who once headed the Himachal Pradesh police and the Central Bureau of Investigation, left behind a note for his family.“We found a suicide note in which he wrote that he is ending his life due to disease and disability, of his own free will. He said his soul is embarking on a new journey and everyone needed to be happy, and that there should be no rituals or ceremonies,” Sanjay Kundu told reporters, according to the ANI report.Kundu confirmed that the family did not suspect foul play.“He used to meditate in the attic around 7 pm every day, with all doors open. On Wednesday when his son and daughter-in-law were going for a walk, they found all the doors of the attic locked. They broke the door and found Kumar hanging from a rope there,” the Himachal DGP, also an IPS officer, said about the death of Kumar, 16 years his senior in service.Ashwani Kumar was the Himachal Pradesh police chief from 2006 till 2008 when he returned to the Central Bureau of Investigation to lead the investigation agency. Kumar led the central investigation agency from August 2008 to November 2010. It was during his tenure as the CBI chief that the investigation agency arrested Union home minister Amit Shah in the Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter case. The 22 accused who faced trial in this case were acquitted in December 2018.Kumar also oversaw the agency’s investigation into the 2008 Aarushi murder case. He had expressed his displeasure over the probe into the case and had taken upon himself to take it to a logical conclusion. In 2013, the Manmohan Singh government appointed him as the governor of Nagaland and Manipur governor. Kumar stepped down from the post after the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power after the 2014 general elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-happy-wrote-ex-cbi-chief-ashwani-kumar-before-death-by-suicide/story-4OeJeVht9kxZNa5csLin2H.html
08-10-2020||India||SC directs Rajasthan EC to notify election program for civic polls within week||The Supreme Court, while refusing to interfere with a plea to extend the dates for Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota municipal corporation elections, on Thursday directed the Rajasthan Election Commission to notify the election program within one week.A bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar asked the Rajasthan government to file an application for extending the date of municipal polls. “We direct the State Election Commission to notify the election program within one week from today,” the bench said.The state government had moved the apex court challenging the Rajasthan High Court order dismissing its application for extending the poll dates from October 31, 2020, to March 20, 2021, for Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota municipal corporations.During the hearing, the bench observed that it will not interfere with the High Court order but asked the government to approach the High Court and convince it.“No further indulgence is required from this court. Go and convince the High Court to give you further time. First, notify the election and then go to the High Court. Explain to the High Court why the election in October is not possible,” the bench noted.The top court also took into the submission of the State Election Commission that it is already in the process of conducting the Panchayat elections.Recently, the High Court while rejecting the application moved by the state government had directed that the elections should be completed by October 31.The civil polls in the three municipal corporations were due in November 2019 but were first postponed for delimitation of wards, following the government decision to bifurcate the corporations in the three and then again due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The government had then assured the court that the elections would be held within six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-directs-rajasthan-ec-to-notify-election-program-for-civic-polls-within-week/story-WK1XBorKwDuPGgQTHapCON.html
08-10-2020||India||Induction of Rafale, Apache, Chinook will transform IAF, says President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind said the ongoing process of modernisation with induction of Rafale, Apache and Chinook will transform the Indian Air Force (IAF) into an even more formidable strategic force. On the occasion of 88th foundation day of the IAF, the President tweeted that the nation remains indebted to the contribution of the force in securing our skies and assisting civil authorities handle humanitarian crisis.“On Air Force Day, we proudly honour our air warriors, veterans, and families of the Indian Air Force. The nation remains indebted to the contribution of the IAF in securing our skies and assisting civil authorities in humanitarian assistance and disaster relief,” his tweet read.ALSO WATCH | Air Force Day 2020: Rafale & other jets showcase prowess in air display He expressed faith in the force and said that he was confident it will maintain its high standards and continue to prove its mettle. “Confident that in the years to come, the Indian Air Force will continue to maintain its high standards of commitment & competence,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/induction-of-rafale-apache-chinook-will-transform-iaf-says-president-kovind/story-a1ldlrdwM2E9Mo0RuTOgQI.html
08-10-2020||India||Delhi-Katra Vande Bharat train to resume soon: Union minister Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Thursday said the Vande Bharat train from Delhi to Katra, home to Shri Mata Vaishno Devi shrine, will resume soon.  He said the matter of resumption of train to Katra in Jammu and Kashmir ahead of Navratri festival was discussed with Railway Minister Piyush Goyal.“Discussed with Railway Minister Sh @PiyushGoyal. #VandeBharatExpress train from Delhi to #KatraVaishnoDevi to resume soon. This should be a reassuring piece of information for pilgrims from across the country planning a visit to Holy shrine during #Navratri festival,” Singh tweeted. Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, is Lok Sabha member from Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur constituency.Train services in the country, which were halted in late March due to coronavirus induced lockdown, are being resumed in a graded manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-katra-vande-bharat-train-to-resume-soon-union-minister-jitendra-singh/story-8xt6HeTAChSqDNy0RTp1vO.html
08-10-2020||India||Fire breaks out at a Narela factory in Delhi||A Delhi Fire Service official said they are trying to douse a fire at a PVC sole factory in outer Delhi’s Narela.DFS Director Atul Garg said a fire incident was reported at the factory around 11 am and 10 fire tenders were rushed.Fire-fighting operations are underway, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-a-factory-in-delhi-10-fire-tenders-rushed-to-the-spot/story-umf4PbjQu2sKC920zqhB0K.html
08-10-2020||India||Farm bills: Congress to continue opposition, unlikely to move court||The Congress plans to continue its opposition to the farm laws passed last month politically and is unlikely to move the Supreme Court against the legislation.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi led a tractor rally in Punjab and Haryana this week as the party stepped up its attack on the government over the laws. The laws were passed amid protests that led to the suspension of eight Opposition lawmakers from Parliament’s Upper House.Gandhi hit out at the government on Monday saying none of its policies over the last six years has benefitted the poor. “They passed the three black farm bills amid the coronavirus outbreak. What was the haste in doing it at this time? They did it because they thought the farmers would not be able to do anything, but they do not know the power of the farmer,” he said at a Kheti Bachao Rally in Punjab’s Sangrur. He also criticised the government over the implementation of Goods and Services Tax and demonetisation.Also Read: ‘Would’ve thrown out China in less than 15 mins’, says Rahul GandhiThe party has asked the Congress-ruled states to call special assembly sessions and pass their own farm bills. Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi has prepared a draft of the proposed laws.With political protests gathering steam and Congress-ruled states set to push their own bills, the party believes it is not the time yet to move the Supreme Court as the matter would take a different turn when it will be sub-judice.“There is time and scope for the political movement. Similarly, there is time and scope for asserting legal remedies in the court. The Congress retains the right to go to court and will do so at an opportune moment,” said Singhvi.Another Congress leader said, “I have strongly advised avoiding [legal option] completely. Let us focus on the political movement.”The party leaders feel that if the Congress goes to the court, the move to pass bills in state assemblies might get affected too as the issue would be sub-judice. “The President, who has to give his assent to every bill for becoming law, can very well cite the ongoing cases to not sign the state bills,” said a third Congress functionary.The party is also unsure of the outcome in the court. “If the apex court rules in the favour of the government, we will lose ground and it will be difficult to continue the agitation. The Rafale [fighter jet deal] episode was an eye-opener,” said another leader.The Supreme Court last year rejected petitions seeking an investigation into the fighter jet deal with France’s Dassault Aviation.Congress lawmaker TN Prathapan has moved the court over the farm legislation. But the Congress has not taken a final decision on moving the court as a party. Prathapan has clarified that he has challenged one of the three laws passed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-congress-to-continue-opposition-could-move-supreme-court-against-legislation/story-O80t367diXv5wXxqyEQW2N.html
08-10-2020||India||French envoy extends best wishes to IAF on 88th Air Force Day||French Ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain on Thursday extended best wishes to the Indian Air Force (IAF) on 88th Air Force Day.In a tweet, Lenain mentioned that from Ouragan/Toofani in the 1950s to Mirage2000 and now Rafale, France has always partnered with the IAF.“Congratulations @IAF_MCC on 88th Air Force Day2020! From Ouragan/Toofani in the 1950s to Mirage2000 and now Rafale, France has always partnered with the Indian Air Force!” he tweeted. Earlier this year, India received five of the 36 rafale fighter jets from France, as part of a 2016 deal worth Rs 60,000 crores. It was the largest-ever defence deal signed by India. ALSO WATCH | Air Force Day 2020: Rafale & other jets showcase prowess in air display On the Air Force Day 2020, President Ram Nath Kovind, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh have also extended their wishes.The IAF was established on October 8, 1932, in undivided India which was under colonial rule. It was given the prefix “Royal” by King George VI for its contribution during the Second World War. The prefix was later dropped in 1950 when India became a republic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-envoy-extends-best-wishes-to-iaf-on-88th-air-force-day/story-wdQHZjwo0qmjAQc7nfdhNO.html
08-10-2020||India||Chhattisgarh girl’s death mystery persists amid conflicting claims by kin, cops||Nearly two months after a 17-year-old minor girl died by suicide after she was allegedly gang-raped by five persons in Chhattisgarh’s Kondagaon district, her body was exhumed for further examination by the police amid allegations of inaction by one of her family members. Police claimed that the incident was not reported to them and the victim’s family claimed that the police were informed after the incident in July, but no action was taken. “We have formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the incident,” said Sundarraj P, Bastar range’s inspector general of police (IGP). He added that as per the statement of the victims’ family, total five persons were involved in the alleged gang-rape. “As per the statement of her family members, on July 19, the girl had gone along with them to attend a wedding in nearby Kanagaon village. On the same night at around 11 pm, she was sexually assaulted by five persons in a nearby forest. Next morning, the victim returned home and died by suicide without informing anyone about the incident,” the IG said. “Unaware of the incident of sexual assault, the family members performed the last rites and buried the deceased girl on the outskirts of their village,” he added. The IG said that three accused have been detained by police.“Her body was exhumed from the grave for the post-mortem in presence of the police team and the tehsildar on Wednesday. A case of gang-rape was registered and three accused have been detained,” the IG said. Also Read: BJP dubs Rajasthan as hub of crime against women, on offensive against GehlotThe uncle of the victim, however, told reporters that after the girl’s death, two boys from the locality had told him that his niece was sexually assaulted by some men in Kanagaon. Just two days after that revelation, Dhanora station house officer (SHO) had called him to the police station and asked why he did not report the matter to police, he claimed. He alleged that the SHO had assured him that he would lodge a case, but no further action was taken. Also Read: Educated minors behind more crimes in Ludhiana than illiterate ones: NCRB reportThe IG, however, ruled out any lapse on the part of the police. He said that after the girl’s death, a police team had gone to the village and asked her family members to report the matter if they get any clue about the reason behind her extreme step. “We learnt that the family was later told about the rape incident by one of the friends of the victim, but they did not approach the police,” he claimed. “Recently, the girl’s father also tried to kill himself by consuming poison, but he was saved after he got timely medical treatment. The exact reason behind his suicide attempt was not known,” Sundarraj added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-girl-s-death-mystery-persists-amid-conflicting-claims-by-kin-cops/story-EHq81DEY976QzBTBcjJUKN.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Ever ready to safeguard nation’s sovereignty’: Air chief Bhadauria on IAF Day||Indian Air Force (IAF) chief, Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria, on Thursday addressed the force on its 88th foundation day, saying it stands ever ready to protect the nation’s sovereignty and interests ‘in all circumstances.’Addressing the air warriors after inspecting the parade at the Hindon airbase in Ghaziabad, Bhadauria said as it enters its 89th year, the IAF is undergoing a transformational change. “As we enter the 89th year, the IAF is undergoing a transformational change. We are entering an era which will redefine where we employ aerospace power and conduct integrated multi-domain operations,” he said.“I want to assure the nation the IAF will evolve and be ever ready to safeguard our nation’s sovereignty and interests,” the air chief further said.ALSO WATCH | Air Force Day 2020: Rafale & other jets showcase prowess in air display On the ongoing standoff with China in Ladakh, Bhadauria said, “I commend all air warriors for a quick response in the recent standoff on the northern frontiers, when we deployed our combat assets at short notice to handle any eventuality and provided proactive support to all requirements of deployment and sustenance for Indian Army.”The air chief also remarked how 2020 has indeed been an ‘unprecedented year.’ He said the nation’s response was firm as Covid-19 spread across the globe. “The tenacity and resolve of our air warriors ensured that the IAF continued to retain its capability to undertake full-scale operations throughout this period,” Bhadauria added.Earlier, a host of politicians, including President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh and others extended their greetings to the IAF on its 88th anniversary.Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, army chief General MM Naravane and navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh are also attending the ceremony at the Hindon airbase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-day-2020-ever-ready-to-safeguard-nation-s-sovereignty-says-air-chief-rks-bhadauria/story-GeloLfOf1Xq91AbM4MBTLM.html
08-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 68 lakh-mark, ‘our fight is people-driven,’ tweets PM Modi||India’s Covid-19 tally has crossed 68 lakh-mark with 78,524 new cases reported in the last 24 hours on Thursday. In the same period, India registered 971 deaths. Over 11 lakh people have been tested for Covid-19 test on Wednesday, taking the total number of testing done so far to over eight crore, Indian Council of Medical Research data revealed.Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Kerala, Odisha, Telangana continue to the top 10 states with maximum number of cases. Following the recent number of active cases as against the number of recoveries, experts have hinted that the first wave Covid-19 appears to be receding for the first time across the country. The seven-day average of daily cases in India touched 93,617 on September 16, the highest till date. In the three weeks since, this number has dropped every single day and on Wednesday it stood at 74,623, though on Thursday it went up to 78,524.As the festival season is coming up, it is apprehended that the curve may rise again. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch an awareness campaign to promote Covid-19 appropriate behaviour ahead of the upcoming festive season and amid reopening of the economy.Ahead of the launch on Thursday, PM Modi tweeted several Covid-19 preventive measures. “Let’s unite to fight Corona! Always remember: Do wear a mask, keep your hands clean, follow social distancing, maintain ‘two yards’ distance from others,” he tweeted.“India’s COVID-19 fight is people driven and gets great strength from our COVID warriors. Our collective efforts have helped saved many lives. We have to continue the momentum and protect our citizens from the virus,” PM Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-68-lakh-mark-our-flight-is-people-driven-tweets-pm-modi/story-uOTsbcpHxQBSrhT763M95L.html
08-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 fight people-driven, let’s #Unite2FightCorona: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that India’s Covid-19 fight is people-driven and asked the citizens to #Unite2FightCorona.In his clarion call, the Prime Minister said India’s fight against Covid-19 gets strength from Covid warriors, and the country has to continue the momentum and protect the citizens from the virus.“India’s Covid-19 fight is people-driven and gets great strength from our Covid warriors. Our collective efforts have helped saved many lives. We have to continue the momentum and protect our citizens from the virus. #Unite2FightCorona,” the Prime Minister tweeted.Click here for full Covid-19 coveragePM Modi asked citizens to remember wearing a mask, wash hands, and practice ‘Do Gaj Ki Doori’to win against Covid-19.“Let us #Unite2FightCorona! Let us always remember: Wear a mask. Wash hands. Follow social distancing. Practice ‘Do Gaj Ki Doori.’ Together, we will succeed. Together, we will win against Covid-19,” he said in another tweet. Earlier today, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare tweeted that India’s Covid recoveries have witnessed a steep exponential rise from 50,000 in May to over 57 lakh in October.“IndiaFightsCorona India’s #Covid Recoveries have witnessed a steep exponential rise - from 50,000 in May to over 57 lakh in October. A high level of more than 75,000 recoveries reported every day. Recoveries are 6.3 times the Active Cases (currently only 13.4% of total cases),” the Ministry tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-fight-people-driven-let-s-unite2fightcorona-pm-modi/story-sTUjf4k9fSFq8aF18KEfNI.html
08-10-2020||India||President Kovind, PM Modi lead nation in wishing IAF on foundation day||The Indian Air Force (IAF) is observing its 88th foundation day on Thursday. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and others took to Twitter to wish India’s air warriors.Here are some top political reactions on 88th IAF Day:President Ram Nath Kovind: On Air Force Day, we proudly honour our air warriors, veterans, and families of the Indian Air Force. The nation remains indebted to the contribution of the IAF in securing our skies and assisting civil authorities in Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief.Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu: I extend my warmest greetings to all Air Force personnel on the 88th Air Force Day. Our Air Warriors are known for their professionalism, excellence and courage. They have made the country proud in war and peace. May they touch the sky with glory.Prime Minister Narendra Modi: Many congratulations to all the brave warriors of the Indian Air Force on Air Force Day. You not only keep the skies of the country safe, but also play a leading role in the service of humanity in times of disaster. Your courage, valour and dedication to protect Mother India is inspiring everyone.Defence minister Rajnath Singh: The nation is proud of its men and women in blue and salutes the prowess of the IAF as it stands today ready to face challenges and deter adversaries. We remain committed to enhancement of IAF’s combat compatibility through modernisation and indigenisation.Home minister Amit Shah: Greetings on Indian Air Force Day! From safeguarding our skies to assisting in all odds, our brave Air Force personnel have served the nation with utmost courage and determination. Modi govt is doing everything possible to keep our mighty air warriors roaring loud in the skies.UP CM Yogi Adityanath: Best wishes to all the airmen on “Indian Air Force Day”. The entire nation is proud of your unforgettable duty from the wartime to the peacetime.US ambassador to India Ken Juster: Congratulations to @IAF_MCC on their 88th anniversary. Defence cooperation is a cornerstone of the US-India relationship, as we work together to secure a free, open and rules-based Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-day-2020-president-kovind-pm-modi-lead-nation-in-wishing-indian-air-force-on-88th-foundation-day/story-c7QbOArshMO4JKg41XAd3O.html
08-10-2020||India||PM Modi greets IAF on its foundation day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday greeted the Indian Air Force on its foundation day, saying the courage, valour and dedication of its soldiers to protect the country inspire everyone. In a tweet on the Air Force Day, he lauded the force and said its brave soldiers do not only protect Indian skies, but also play a leading role in serving humanity during any crisis.The prime minister also posted a brief video in which he speaks of the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) beginning in 1932 as a force of six pilots and 19 airmen and its rise to become one of the strongest forces in the 21st century.It is a memorable journey, Modi said, as he praised the IAF and noted the pride and respect it commands from people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-greets-iaf-on-its-foundation-day/story-8CnH7g2T0AA1UCjcN9iT3H.html
08-10-2020||India||DGCA issues detailed refund guidelines after Supreme Court verdict||Aviation regulator DGCA issued detailed guidelines on Wednesday regarding a refund of the ticket price for the flights cancelled amid the coronavirus-triggered lockdown.The guidelines came six days after the Supreme Court directed that a full and immediate refund should be given to passengers for the air tickets cancelled between March 25 and May 24. No domestic passenger flights operated in the country in this period.The top court had, on October 1, also passed directions about the refund and credit shell formation for the bookings and cancellations done during the other time periods around the lockdown.Based on the court order, the DGCA categorised passengers in three categories -- those who booked tickets between March 25 and May 24 for travelling within the same period, those who booked tickets prior to March 25 but the travel period was till May 24, those who booked tickets anytime but for a journey post May 24.The regulator said the passengers belonging to the first category must be given a full refund by the airline concerned for the tickets cancelled.The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said the airlines should “make all endeavours” to refund the passengers belonging to the second category within 15 days.“If on account of financial stress, any airline/airlines are not able to do so, they shall provide a credit shell equal to the amount of fare collected (to the passenger),” it added The passengers can then use the credit shells to book any ticket by March 31, 2021, the DGCA noted.Those belonging to the third category will be given a refund in accordance with the existing DGCA rules.The Indian aviation industry has been hit hard due to the coronavirus pandemic and as a result, all airlines in the country have opted for cost-cutting measures such as layoffs, leave without pay for the employees etc.Scheduled domestic passenger flight services resumed in the country after a gap of two months on May 25. Currently, airlines are permitted to operate only up to 60 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights.Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 23. However, special international passenger flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat mission since May and under air bubble arrangements formed with various countries since July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-issues-detailed-refund-guidelines-after-supreme-court-verdict/story-0tT93evbCIQxTeYZOmkY7K.html
08-10-2020||India||PM Modi to launch Covid-19 awareness campaign, tweets preventive measures||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch an awareness campaign to promote Covid-19 appropriate behaviour ahead of the upcoming festive season and amid reopening of the economy.Ahead of the launch on Thursday, PM Modi tweeted several Covid-19 preventive measures. “Let’s unite to fight Corona! Always remember: Do wear a mask, keep your hands clean, follow social distancing, maintain ‘two yards’ distance from others,” he tweeted. आइए, कोरोना से लड़ने के लिए एकजुट हों! हमेशा याद रखें: मास्क जरूर पहनें। हाथ साफ करते रहें। सोशल डिस्टेंसिंग का पालन करें। ‘दो गज की दूरी’ रखें। #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/L3wfaqlhDnThe campaign, launched to encourage people to help deliver messages of mask wearing, physical distancing and hand hygiene, got the Union Cabinet’s nod on Wednesday.“Mask, social distancing and washing hands are the only weapons to remain safe, in the absence of a Covid-19 vaccine,” information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said.According to an official statement released Wednesday, the campaign will be conducted in various languages across the country and a Covid-19 pledge will be taken by all.“An action plan will be implemented by central ministries and state and UT departments,” the statement said.“Dissemination throughout the country using all media platforms, banners and posters at public places, involving frontline workers and targeting beneficiaries of government schemes, will be part of the plan,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-tweets-covid-19-safety-measures-hours-before-launching-jan-andolan-campaign/story-kq1zUwOllGBMzmIfY2q4LP.html
08-10-2020||India||Covid-19: India won’t allow trial of Russia’s Sputnik V in large study||The Drugs Controller General of India has declined the proposal of pharma company Dr Reddy’s laboratories to conduct the third phase trial of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine as the early trials have been condicted on a small group of overseas population.After Russia became the first country that claimed to have come up with an effective Covid-19 vaccine, Dr Reddy’s Lab joined hands with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine as well as its distribution.However, global experts raised concerns over the safety of the vaccine as it was rolled out in a short time. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan recently hinted that India has not given its nod to Dr Reddy’s to go ahead with the trial of the vaccine among Indian population yet. No final decision on #SputnikV vaccine developed by Russia has been taken yet. #ModiGovt will take a decision which is in the best interest of the people of India.@MoHFW_INDIA #sundaysamvaadwithdrhv #VaccineSafety pic.twitter.com/gCuAWBf9bsThe phase-3 trial of Sputnik V is underway in Russia on around 40,000 subjects since September 1.“After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should follow the regulatory requirements and conduct phase 2/3 trial in the country with proper monitoring for humoral and cell mediated immune response,” the committee that looked into Dr Reddy’s proposal said. What next?Instead of jumping straight to a large-scale trial, Dr Reddy’s has been advised to consider a small trial.Other vaccine updatesThree vaccine candidates are at present under trial in India. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate, is conducting phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials. The vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and the other developed by Zydus Cadila Ltd. are in the second phase of human trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-won-t-allow-trial-of-russia-s-sputnik-v-in-large-study/story-0N9UirQqVn5cabYQRcLHlL.html
08-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India’s first coronavirus wave finally recedes and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India’s first Covid-19 wave finally recedesThe first wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) appears to be receding for the first time across the country, with cases seeing a steady drop for three consecutive weeks now. Experts warn that with the festive season coming up, the curve may rise again if people let their guard down during the celebrations. Read morePM Modi to handover 132K property deeds in landmark rural reformPrime Minister Narendra Modi will, on Sunday, hand over physical copies of property titles of their homes and the surrounding areas they own (as opposed to the cultivated land) to around 132,000 land owners across 763 villages in a significant land ownership reform. Read moreUS Election 2020: If Donald Trump tells us we should take it, I’m not taking vaccine, says Kamala HarrisHere are the top quotes from the only vice presidential debate between incumbent Mike Pence and his Democratic Party opponent Kamala Harris. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Can’t stop theft till thieves repent, I can’t be police forever,’ R Ashwin talks about not Mankading Aaron FinchRavichandran Ashwin had divided the cricketing world when he ran Jos Buttler out for backing up too far without a warning in last year’s IPL, and this year, he grabbed the headlines after giving a warning to Aaron Finch for the same offence. Read moreAkshay Oberoi: ‘If I could, I would just be a stay-at-home dad. I love it’Akshay Oberoi seems to have his hands full with multiple projects, releasing one after the other on OTT platforms. Born and brought up in the US, the actor is well aware of his good looks and consistently picks up roles to prove his acting prowess and versatility, in order to not be passed off as just a good looking face. Read moreSamsung Galaxy F41 to launch in India today, all you need to knowSamsung Galaxy F41 is scheduled to launch in India later today. Galaxy F41 is the first phone from Samsung’s new Galaxy F series. Samsung has been teasing its upcoming phone on Flipkart where it will be available. Read moreMG Gloster luxury SUV launch today: Live and latest updatesMG is all set to officially launch Gloster SUV as its fourth offering in India in little over a year since the company made its India debut. Read moreAutomatic door opens only for those wearing mask. Watch viral videoMasks are a necessity of the current times. It is a safety gear that one should always wear whenever they’re stepping outside their house. In other words, adding mask to their regular wardrobe is something that everyone should do. Time and again, various posts on social media also remind people about its importance. Read more‘Blessing in disguise that I caught Coronavirus’: Donald Trump lauds RegeneronUS President Donald Trump has said that it was a blessing in disguise that he caught Coronavirus. Trump said that he was not feeling very well when he went in to the Walter Reed Medical Centre and then he was administered Regeneron which worked wonderfully for him. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-s-first-coronavirus-wave-finally-recedes-and-all-the-latest-news/story-AJO11bJL3U90LKNUj7mqoI.html
08-10-2020||India||NHRC asks states to expand category of prisoners who can be released||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked all the states and union territories to consider expanding the categories of prisoners who could be released in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, as social distancing is difficult to observe inside the prisons, and hiring medical officers at a “war-footing”. It has also asked police departments not to arrest persons accused of minor and bailable offences so as to keep public interaction minimum. On Monday, the rights body issued an advisory to all the states/Union Territories (UTs) and the Centre on the rights of prisoners and police personnel based on an impact assessment by a Committee of Experts formed by it to look into the human rights and future response. Also Read: Covid-19: India crosses 82 million tests in 9 monthsThe Supreme Court had, in March this year, asked the chief secretaries of all the states/UTs to release a certain category of prisoners to avoid overcrowding in the jails in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. A large number of under trial inmates has been released by states in the past five or six months. In its communication, NHRC has said that all inmates should be provided with soaps, sanitisers, masks and their regular use must be mandated. It has also asked the jail authorities to fill up vacancies of medical officers and paramedical staff on a “war-footing”—preferably within the next six months. “In the meantime, where there are only visiting doctors available, efforts may be made to explore collaboration with local private doctors as the pressure on public health care system would be immense,” states the advisory. The rights body has suggested that jails can also collaborate with local and specialist hospitals so that inmates and jail staff can be provided appropriate testing and treatment quickly. Sufficient stocks of medicines like paracetamol, Vitamin E, Zinc and others should be maintained in all jails, for which extra budget should be given to prison authorities, NHRC said. NHRC also issued an advisory for the police, asking them to not arrest persons accused of minor, bailable offences. In its advisory related to the rights of police officers, who are most vulnerable to contracting Covid-19 due to the nature of their job, NHRC said, “Arrests and remand to be undertaken only in serious [cases]. In non-bailable offences, the accused be produced before the court at the earliest if he or she is no longer required for investigation.” Police departments have also been asked to have a worst-case scenario business continuity plan—ensuring the continuity of core functions of police services, while supporting the public health services and general governance of the state. For managing big crowds or protests, NHRC has said that police should use proportionate force only when necessary. The rights body said that law enforcement officers are likely more heavily impacted as they are one of the “essential workers” that must continue to work and respond to calls for service while others shelter at home. It also said that police departments should use a single spokesperson as a source of authoritative information for the public. Police stations have been asked to prepare detailed SOPs (standard operating protocols) for the overall sanitisation of the reception area, lock-up, waiting areas, toilets, and interview rooms while dealing with public work. The Station House Officers (SHOs) of police stations have been told to form a WhatsApp group of all personnel in their jurisdiction for sharing important information. As of September 28, 124,000 police personnel have already tested positive for Covid-19 across the country, of which 674 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-asks-states-to-expand-category-of-prisoners-who-can-be-released/story-Y6CE8EQ3tLdNuql17a4GuO.html
08-10-2020||India||Covid-19: India crosses 82 million tests in 9 months||Testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has picked up exponentially in the past 9 months, with around 82 million cumulative number of samples having already been tested so far.At least one million samples are being tested for Covid-19 each day on an average since past month and a half, with country’s current Covid-19 testing capacity being 1.5 million tests each day.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) that is spearheading the Covid-19 testing initiative in the country has currently approved 1,893 laboratories from across the country that also include several standalone labs.Also read: What you need to know about Covid-19 todayOf all ICMR approved laboratories performing Covid-19 tests in India, 1,104 are in the government sector and 789 labs are in the private sector.There are at least 15 more applications pending for approval before ICMR that are currently being processed. Of these, 15 are in Maharashtra, and 1 each in Sikkim and Andhra Pradesh.There are 973 laboratories in all that are performing the gold standard real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test; 791 that perform Covid-19 tests using the TrueNat testing platform; and about 129 labs that perform CBNAAT testing for Covid-19.Both TrueNat and CBNAAT testing platforms are used to conduct tuberculosis testing, and have been re-purposed to also conduct Covid-19 tests in a bid to enhance country’s overall Covid-19 testing capacity. “There are multiple factors behind India’s low death rate; from implementing public health measures such as nationwide lockdown, to inter-ministerial collaborations for launching several make-in-India initiatives, and increasing testing,” says Dr Samiran Panda, head, epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR. “Testing was increased by not only enhancing laboratory network in a short span of time but also by repurposing of existing diagnostic platforms, for example that for tuberculosis, to use for Covid-19 testing. All these were crucial in identifying the infected, and isolating them as per requirement very early on in the disease stage,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-crosses-82-million-tests-in-9-months/story-0hP0CWROjGsxsL6N2l6FkN.html
08-10-2020||India||GJM reiterates Gorkhaland demand||The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) on Wednesday reiterated its demand for a separate Gorkhaland state comprising Darjeeling and its adjoining areas in a meeting with the minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy and Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla. A tripartite meeting was called by the Union home ministry (MHA), with GJM and the West Bengal government, to discuss issues related to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA). However, the West Bengal government skipped the meeting, which was attended by a seven-member GJM delegation at North Block. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, GJM working president Lopsang Lama said that they submitted a memorandum saying that their only demand is for a separate Gorkhaland state. “We have not discussed anything about GTA. We have submitted a memorandum on how and why GTA has failed... Our only demand is a Gorkhaland state, and we have raised that,” Lama said, adding that the minister assured them he would take up the matter with Union home minister Amit Shah. The BJP won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat three times since 2009 by forging an alliance with GJM. In 2019, the BJP’s alliance was with the GJM (Gurung faction), the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), and other small political parties in the Darjeeling hills. Its candidate, Raju Bista, beat the TMC candidate by over 300,000 votes. The BJP has promised to find a permanent political solution to the demand for a Gorkhaland, which has been raised by the Nepali-speaking Gorkhas living in the Darjeeling hills and adjoining Siliguri, the Terai and the Dooars region in north Bengal, and has mentioned this in its election manifestos in 2014 and 2019. The demand for a separate state of Gorkhaland in the hills of Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kursegaon, ethnically dominated by the Gorkhas, has been made since 1980s. Welcoming the Wednesday’s development, Mahendra Chhetri, the GNLF spokesperson said “The Centre should start dialogues to find a permanent political solution as promised by the BJP in the last Lok Sabha election manifesto.” The West Bengal government has repeatedly claimed that the Centre is trying to divide the state, which is not acceptable to Trinamool Congress (TMC)-led government. Lama said in a statement after meeting that the delegation raised the demand for a separate state of Gorkhaland and grant of Scheduled Tribe status to 11 Gorkha sub-communities. “When the issue of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration was raised, GJM delegation submitted that the delegation was there to discuss the statehood demand and grant of Scheduled Tribe (ST) status and not GTA since the Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) signed between the Union of India, government of West Bengal and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha in 2011 was not honoured by the state of West Bengal,” the statement said. The TMC accused the BJP government of playing mischief. “There was no compulsion to call a meeting on GTA now. This is mischief making by the Centre...,” said TMC Lok Sabha member and spokesperson Saugata Roy. “The GTA was an outcome of a tripartite agreement. The state and the Centre are equal stakeholders in it. Legally, the GJM cannot even raise the Gorkhaland issue at a meeting called on GTA. Politically, the BJP will lose the ground it gained in Bengal in 2019 if splits Darjeeling, Terai and Dooars from the state. Bengalis will not accept that,” said Kolkata-based political science professor Udayan Bandopadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gjm-reiterates-gorkhaland-demand/story-GH88K1jMxwsaqDwqD9F57N.html
08-10-2020||India||Edappadi K Palaniswami is AIADMK’s chief minister face for 2021 elections||Tamil Nadu’s ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagm (AIADMK) on Wednesday said it would project Edappadi K Palaniswami as its chief ministerial face in the assembly elections due in the first quarter of 2021. The announcement was made by deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, who is also the joint coordinator of the party, at AIADMK’s headquarters in Chennai. AIADMK also announced the setting up of a 11-member steering committee to guide the party as a part of a deal between factions owing allegiance to the CM and deputy CM. The announcement that Palaniswami, popularly known as EPS, will be the chief ministerial face of the AIADMK in the next polls and the formation of the steering committee signalled a truce between the two top leaders, who were rivals at one time.Panneerselvam, or OPS, has been chief minister thrice in the past - twice when former AIADMK supremo J Jayalalithaa had to step down from the post and once after she died in December 2016. He had wanted to be projected as the CM face in the next polls, but EPS, a former loyalist of Jayalalithaa’s confidante Sasikala Natarajan and who had established firm control over the party since she was sentenced to four years in prison in 2017 for amassing wealth disproportionate to her sources of income, and made sure he won the race. The six EPS loyalists who are a part of the steering committee include forest minister Dindigul C Sreenivasan, minister for municipal administration S P Velumani, minister for electricity, prohibition and excise P Thangamani, minister for fisheries D Jayakumar, minister for law, courts and prisons C Ve Shanmugam and minister for food and civil supplies R Kamraj.Former MP’s Manoj Pandian, R Gopalkrishnan, Sholavandan MLA K Manickam and former MLAs P Mohan and JCD Prabhakar are the five OPS loyalists who are on the steering committee. The term of the assembly expires in May 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/edappadi-k-palaniswami-is-aiadmk-s-chief-miniter-face-for-2021-elections/story-CRuAHQLdtuIlx8YJtqS5pO.html
08-10-2020||India||Anil Pawar: Three decades of tireless service||‘Tension mat lena Seema… aur bacchon ka dhyan rakhna (Try not to worry, Seema. Take care of the kids)’. That was senior police inspector Anil Pawar’s last text message to his wife. Six days later, he was gone, survived by 43-year-old Seema and their two daughters, Prachi, 25, and Gauri, 23. Anil, 55, had been a policeman for 30 years. He’d been on duty with the traffic control department until June 11, when he first felt the fever and body ache. He tested positive for Covid-19 two days later and was admitted to hospital, but his condition quickly deteriorated. Seema tested positive days later, and was treated at the same facility. “Before that, we talked every day. We spoke on video call, so I would see him,” Seema said. At the hospital, she was in a ward and he was in the Intensive Care Unit. “We were so close. But I could not talk to him or see him.” In his neighbourhood in Mira Road, a fringe suburb of Mumbai, Pawar is remembered as a cheerful man who loved to sing. “He did not get much time to do household chores, because of the job he had. But during the lockdown he did all the shopping,” Seema said. “He wouldn’t let any of us to go out.” In earlier times, if Pawar was home, relaxing and enjoying some time to himself, you knew it from the sound of him humming. “He loved to see new places and cities, so we took a family vacation at least once a year. Last December, we, his friends and their wives all travelled to Rajasthan. We sang old songs together — he loved to do that. Singing meant that he was happy,” Seema said. Anil loved festivals — Ganesh Chaturthi and Diwali were his favourites — but he never got to celebrate them. He was always on duty. Those were often his busiest times. But mornings were family time, and whenever he could, he loved to have dinner with everyone sitting down together. “I was his tea person. He didn’t like his morning tea if I hadn’t made it,” Gauri said. “My father didn’t like meat, but he loved fish. And whenever we went out, he would order the same things — either dal khichdi or Manchow soup.” Prachi is studying medicine in Russia; Gauri aims to take on the uniform. “He always wanted to see me become an officer, in a post higher than his,” Gauri said. “He used to say he wanted to be able to salute me before retirement.” Colleagues remember Anil as “a good officer and a very good human being”. He made a special effort to keep in touch with old friends. “Whenever he went to another city, he would set aside time to catch up with former batchmates,” said senior inspector Baba Salunkhe of the Kurar police station. “And now we have all the photographs he took on those visits, sitting in our WhatsApp group.” Pawar joined the police force in 1990. He is one of 247 police personnel to have died from Covid-19 in Maharashtra. Over 23,500 have tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anil-pawar-three-decades-of-tireless-service/story-67ApT7NnvfwirVXa0GJazI.html
08-10-2020||India||Dr JN Pande: Pioneer and teacher who inspired all||Dr Jitendra Nath Pande, 78, retired as the head of the department of medicine at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi more than a decade ago, but he continued treating at least 50 patients a day in private practice till before his death due to the coronavirus disease, or Covid-19, on May 22.A pulmonary specialist who advised the government on several issues, including the health impact of air pollution, Dr Pande also set up one of the first intensive care units in the country. Known fondly as an encyclopaedia of medicine and a pioneer of critical care in northern India, Pande taught and inspired a generation of doctors and medical professionals at AIIMS.To his students, colleagues and patients, Pande was a great clinician with uncanny diagnostic skills , a great teacher, a stickler for punctuality, an academic, and a doctor who could repair medical equipment on his own. “He was a wizard on computer operations and used to do statistical analysis himself despite there being a team to do it for research work. I remember him spending a whole day reading a manual of bedside cardiac monitors, which was procured for the first time in the department. He used to open the ABG machine (a machine to monitor the levels of various gasses like oxygen and carbon dioxide in a patient) and repair it himself,” said Dr GC Khilnani, chairman of pulmonary, critical care and sleep medicine at PSRI hospital. He narrated an incident of a 41-year-old asthma patient Pande was treating at AIIMS, who could not be weaned off a ventilator. “He listened to me on the way and as he reached the patient’s bedside, he just lifter her arm and gave a diagnosis. I was shocked,” said Dr Khilnani. Dr Ashok Kumar, who studied under Dr Pande and currently heads the department of rheumatology at Fortis Vasant Kunj, said, “He was like an encyclopaedia. Sometimes when we asked questions, he could give the exact page number and the table that we should refer to. It was as if he remembered the whole book.” Pande had in-depth knowledge of other specialities as well. “When we used to have the grand rounds – where doctors from all the departments come together to discuss the cases – he was always the one with the maximum number of questions or ideas. And, people would listen to him because he could speak with authority about other specialities as well,” said Dr Anant Mohan, head of the department of pulmonology at AIIMS. He worked a senior resident under Dr Pande. His team’s study on ‘Outdoor air pollution and emergency room visits at a hospital in Delhi’ in 1997-98 was referred to by the Supreme Court of India in its judgment banning diesel buses in Delhi in 1998. His research focused on high altitude physiology, lung mechanics in health and disease, exercise physiology, and interstitial lung disease (a group of diseases that affect the interstitium or the network of tissues that supports the air sacs). When patients queued up outside his clinic, he would call them according to their serial number without consideration about whether it was a “VIP patient”. “He would always call in patients on a first come first serve basis. He was a passionate teacher and reached for his morning rounds even before his students,” said Dr Mohan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-jn-pande-pioneer-and-teacher-who-inspired-all/story-3Ao3dQqBPYxaWdzeuns3dO.html
08-10-2020||India||HT Codeathon: Coding Olympiad to help train for a digital future||Hindustan Times is launching India’s biggest coding Olympiad, Hindustan Times Codeathon, on Thursday to offer students a platform to learn coding and boost algorithmic thinking, mathematical and computing skills, and analytical thinking to prepare them for careers of tomorrow in science and technology. HT Codeathon is open for students from grade 6 through grade 9 and offers a curriculum designed to make coding languages such as HTML, CSS & and Python appealing for school students. The top 100 performers will be chosen for the finale in December. “Careers of the future would necessarily involve an interconnected vision towards solving global and national issues, such as healthcare and climate change. An investment in science and technology is an investment in greater equality; scientific knowledge. Science education brings tools and techniques that empower individuals and can help to combat inequalities,” said Dr Archana Sharma, senior scientist at CERN (European Organization for Nuclear Research), Geneva, Switzerland, best known for discovering the Higgs Boson or the God Particle in July 2012. .Interest in science must start young. “I strongly feel that more and more children should be trained for the digital age as the future will be driven by machines. AI (artificial intelligence) will lead to a lot of job disruption. Some reports say that 75 million jobs would be wiped out in the future but at the same time, 13.3 million new jobs would be created. That means there will be a lot of disruption in the labour market and therefore our children need to be ready for human-machine collaborations that will become common in the future. If they can learn coding languages, then they can probably get to do the better jobs such as creating new software, new AI agents and programming robots.,” said Professor Mausam, head of the school of artificial intelligence at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi. “It is not just about learning coding or computer science, but there is a need for training students to think critically and independently,” said Professor Soumitra Banerjee, general secretary of Breakthrough Science Society, Kolkata, a not-for-profit organisation that promotes science.Teaching machines human language is an upcoming field of research,experts said. “This is a big area of research called natural language processing and spoken language understanding. Some early successes have happened like Google translations, but there are a lot of mistakes, which tells us it is not ready yet. If children are trained in the language of the machines and the machines learn human languages, it can lay the foundation for an interface in the future,” said Professor Mausam. “With coding skills, students will be able to analyse and creatively solve problems by picking up a suitable programming language, design patterns and empower process of logical expression to implement solutions. Learning these coding basics at the school level will help break down challenging concepts into engaging exercises for young children,” said Anuradha Sharma, principal, Ryan International School, Vasant Kunj, New Delhi. “HT Codeathon is a sure route for our students to learn to code. It is a most important aspect of being digitally fluent. There’s no denying that technology now dominates all aspects of life. Being computer-literate just won’t cut it anymore. And everyone from Bill Gates to Prime Minister Narendra Modi is encouraging young people to give it a go. There is currently a shortage of software developers worldwide so learning to code can be an easy route into an open field of work,” said Nita Arora, principal, Sri Venkateshwar International School, Dwarka, New Delhi. With over 22,000 registrations on the platform, the Codeathon will train participants for a tech-enabled future. All participants will receive mentorship from technical experts, get a certificate and an opportunity to win laptops or smart watches at the event. You can register at www.htcodeathon.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-codeathon-coding-olympiad-to-help-train-for-a-digital-future/story-UwnnjKey2kDPMJq2CmyqHK.html
08-10-2020||India||Three terrorists gunned down in encounter in J-K’s Shopian||Three terrorists were killed in an overnight encounter in south Kashmir’s Shopian district, police officials said on Wednesday. The police, army and CRPF started a joint search and cordon operation in Sugan area of the district on Tuesday evening, officials said. “During the search operation, the terrorists were given the opportunity to surrender. However, they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party, which was retaliated leading to an encounter,” a police spokesperson said. He said that the operation was suspended due to darkness and the area was cordoned off. “Terrorists trapped inside made certain attempts to break the cordon and escape,” he said. Early on Wednesday morning, the operation resumed and the three militants were killed. “Their bodies were retrieved from the site of encounter,” he said. The terrorists were identified as Sajad Ahmad Malla, affiliated with Hizbul Mujahideen and Waseem Ahmad Magray, who was affiliated with Al-Badar outfit. The third militant has been identified as Junaid Rashid Wani. The spokesperson said that the militants were part of groups involved in planning and executing several terror attacks in the area. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the bodies of the terrorists will be sent to Handwara for burial following medico-legal formalities. “The nearest family members of the killed militants shall be allowed to participate in the last rites,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-terrorists-gunned-down-in-encounter/story-MuPAGCJgyLDZQd3ywS28EK.html
08-10-2020||India||PM Modi starts 20th year as the head of a govt||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his leadership as he started his 20th year as head of government, 13 years as chief minister of Gujarat and six years as Prime Minister of the country. “The Cabinet congratulated the Prime Minister for entering the 20th year as a government head, uninterrupted, and by democratic means. He gave the corruption-free government to the nation, fulfilled long-awaited pending schemes. He made foundational reforms for development,” Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said. BJP, also heaped praises on PM Modi for achieving the feat.Party president J P Nadda on Twitter said, “October 7, 2001, when Modi was sworn in as Gujarat chief minister for the first time, is a “milestone” in India’s political history. Modi has since been notching up bigger victories and his popularity has only gone up.” The party also projected graphic images showing Modi’s record in elected office as compared to legendary figures like Franklin Roosevelt, Margaret Thatcher and Francois Mitterand. “Be it as a chief minister for Gujarat or as the Prime Minister of the world’s largest democracy, Narendra Modi has always been a crusader for people’s welfare,” the party said on social media. Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri also lauded Modi for “20 years in service of humanity & Maa Bharati with dedication, vision & selflessness”.“Heartiest congratulations to PM @narendramodi Ji for becoming the only democratically elected world leader to serve the people continuously for 20 years since 2001,” Puri said. “PM Sri @narendramodi Ji has completed 6941 successful days in total as CM of Gujarat & PM of India. One of the unblemished tenures ever seen. Kept public welfare as a priority and never worried about himself,” its spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-starts-20th-year-as-the-head-of-a-govt/story-a701UuRN79VfkIiix7597J.html
08-10-2020||India||PM Modi to launch Covid-19 awareness campaign today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch an awareness campaign on Thursday to promote Covid-19 apropriate behaviour ahead of the upcoming festival and winter season as well as the opening up of the economy.The Union Cabinet on Wednesday gave nod to the campaign, which will be launched to encourage people’s participation (Jan Andolan) and will be a “low cost high intensity” affair aimed at delivering messages of mask wearing, physical distancing and hand hygiene.“Mask, social distancing and washing hands are the only weapons to remain safe, in the absence of a Covid-19 vaccine,” information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said. To achieve a multiplier effect, the campaign will involve those working in anganwadis, health sector and around 500 influencers from sports, culture and the film industry. Communication touch-points such as markets, railway stations, anganwadi Centres will be utilized for the campaign.“A Covid-19 pledge will be taken by all. A concerted action plan will be implemented by central ministries and state and UT departments,” said an official statement, adding there would be region-specific targeted communication in high case-load districts.The government has prepared slides – with photos of PM Modi -- to be used both physical and online. The tagline of these slides will be “no carelessness until there is a cure” and they will contain messages such as “stay protected from corona”, “wear your mask properly” and “maintain safe distance” with visual representation. Officials said the campaign will be conducted in various languages across the length and breadth of the country. Bodies such as the Confederation of Indian Industry and Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry may also be encouraged to participate while Doordarshan has already initiated a Mask Up India campaign, it is learnt.Dissemination throughout the country using all media platforms, banners and posters at public places, involving frontline workers and targeting beneficiaries of government schemes, will be part of the plan, the official statement said. Running mobile vans for awareness generation, audio messages and seeking support of Local Cable Operators for running Covid-19 messages, will be the other dimensions of the campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-covid-awareness-campaign/story-she8m3L9YJFpDTf0PQ9VeJ.html
08-10-2020||India||In a first, PM Modi to hand over Aadhaar-like cards for properties mapped by drones||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will, on Sunday, hand over physical copies of property titles of their homes and the surrounding areas they own (as opposed to the cultivated land) to around 132,000 land owners across 763 villages in a significant land ownership reform that could improve the finances of rural property-owners and also end property disputes that have gone on for years, sometimes decades.The title deeds can be leveraged by their holders as financial assets for loans and will also help keep a record of properties in the rural areas; no such records exist currently. The title deeds will be handed over under the “Svamitva” project launched by PM on April 24 and will map all urban or abadi (populated) areas of 6.40 lakh villages by 2024. House owners from 763 villages including 221 from Haryana, two from Karnataka, 100 from Maharashtra, 44 from Madhya Pradesh, 346 from Uttar Pradesh and 50 from Uttarakhand will receive physical copies of title deeds as well as digital property cards, people familiar with the matter said. The objective of this scheme is to provide an integrated asset verification solution for rural India, they added on condition of anonymity. The land of the residents in rural abadi areas will be demarcated using the latest survey methods using drones and with the help of the Ministry of Panchayati Raj, State Revenue Departments and the Survey of India. This will not only enable village household owners to use their homes as a collateral for loans but also cut down on costly rural litigation. Also Read | PM Modi dials Putin, wants to host him as soon as global health crisis wanesThe local representatives of the revenue department and representatives of other allied departments will prepare a record of the ownership of the people in the presence of the inhabitants. Along with this, a detailed arrangement has been set in place for on the spot settlement of disputes, the people explained. ALSO WATCH | Linking your Aadhaar with Pan Card, 8 things you should know Since the very beginning, the villages of India have been the backbone of its economy, because “Malgujari” or land revenue was the main source of the state income, these people said. When the British took over the reins of governance here, they inherited a land record system established over centuries. As their sole objective was to collect as much land revenue from tenants as possible, the British established the Zamindari system in many parts of the country and the so-called ryotwari system in the remaining parts. Even as the ownership of the cultivated land and their measurement maps were prepared , they did not make any effort to measure the populated area of the village; nor did they try to determine the ownership of residents in those populated areas . This was not done as there was no land revenue to be collected from the abadi area . Unfortunately even after independence , no effort was made to either demarcate the abadi land or create ownership rights there.Also Read | Decoding the secret of Modi’s communicationDue to the absence of any kind of ownership records or demarcation of abadi land , whenever any dispute arose regarding possession , drainage, or boundaries, the parties have to go to a civil court for settlement of disputes, a lengthy process that sometimes transcends generations. According to a person well versed in land titling issues who asked not to be named, of the total number of cases pending in the civil courts of our country, at least 40% are related to the disputes concerning the abadi land.The concept of property ownership being a way to access credit and improve the financial position of the poor is well established. It is the central thesis of Peruvian economist Hernando de Soto Polar who argues that providing the poor with access to listless would unlock their economic potential and prevent their assets from being what he terms dead capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hand-over-copies-of-132k-property-titles/story-Agp9BY5eWi97BzlQm2QNIO.html
08-10-2020||India||Can’t occupy indefinitely, says Supreme Court on Shaheen Bagh||The Supreme Court ruled on Wednesday that the right to protest and express dissent against governments is a fundamental right, but not absolute and also that public places cannot be occupied indefinitely to stage protests and demonstrations. The court also slammed the authorities for failing to disperse protesters who occupied a public space in the city for longer than three months.The ruling came in the context of the long-running protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, in south Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh that started on December 15, 2019, and ended on March 23, not because of police action but the lockdown imposed to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The stage and other facilities put in place by the protestors were subsequently dismantled by the police.“We have to make it unequivocally clear that public ways and public spaces cannot be occupied in such a manner and that too indefinitely. Democracy and dissent go hand in hand, but then the demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone,” a three-judge bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said.The protest in Shaheen Bagh blocked public way and caused grave inconvenience to commuters and that’s not acceptable,the bench, also comprising justices Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari, held. Such protests should be allowed only in areas specifically designated for the purpose, it said.The ruling came in response to a plea filed by advocate Amit Sahni in February, who wanted the road blockade in the Shaheen Bagh–Kalindi Kunj stretch lifted. The protest in Shaheen Bagh blocked one of the key thoroughfares to Noida. The court was also critical of the authorities for their failure to act against the protesters,saying they should have taken timely action to keep public areas free of encroachments. The administration neither started negotiations with the protesters nor acted against them that warranted the court’s intervention, the bench said. Law and order in Delhi comes under the purview of the Union government, and Delhi Police reports to it.“The courts adjudicate the legality of the actions and are not meant to give a shoulder to the administration to fire their guns from,” it said in the verdict. The apex court also observed that although the creation of an independent India can be traced to the seeds of protest sown during the freedom struggle, the mode and manner of dissent against colonial rule cannot be equated with dissent in a self-ruled democracy.India’s constitutional scheme envisages the right to protest and express dissent, but with certain obligations, the court said.“Article 19, one of the cornerstones of the Constitution of India, confers upon its citizens two treasured rights, i.e., the right to freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) and the right to assemble peacefully without arms under Article 19(1)(b). These rights are subject to reasonable restrictions, which, inter alia, pertain to the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India and public order,” the judgment stated.The CAA, which was passed on December 12, 2019, replaced the Citizenship Act, 1955, to fast-track the grant of Indian citizenship to members of the Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi and Christian communities from the Muslim-majority nations of Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan. The exclusion of Muslims triggered widespread protests across the country as did the linking of citizenship with religion.Petitioner Sahni had stated that while people have the right to protest, it was subject to reasonable restrictions and protesters cannot be allowed to occupy public roads indefinitely. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the central government, concurred with the petitioner.“Every right is qualified,” Mehta argued.During the hearing of the case, the court had on February 17 attempted to resolve the issue by sending two lawyers, senior advocate Sanjay Hegde and advocate Sadhana Ramachandran, to mediate with the protesters. The effort did not yield any results.Hegde declined to comment on the matter because the court had appointed him as an interlocutor. “Sadhana [Ramachandran] and I were required to do a job and we did it to the best of our abilities in the given situation,” Hegde added.In its judgment, the Supreme Court made some interesting observations on the nature of the protest itself. The protest had won the limelight because most participants in the sit-in were women.The court, after going through the report submitted by Hegde and Ramachandran, stated that “while the women protesters had sat in protest inside the tent, there was a huge periphery comprising mainly of male protesters, volunteers and bystanders who all seemed to have a stake in the continuance of the blockade of the road.”There was no common leadership helming the protests, the court said. “It appeared that an absence of leadership guiding the protest and the presence of various groups of protesters had resulted in many influencers who were acting possibly at cross-purposes with each other. Thus, the Shaheen Bagh protest perhaps no longer remained the sole and empowering voice of women, who also appeared to no longer have the ability to call off the protest themselves,” the judgment noted.The protestors also did not fully realise the ramifications of the pandemic, but divine intervention finally led to the protestors deserting the site, it added.Welcoming the ruling that the right to protest is a fundamental right, organisers of the sit-in at Shaheen Bagh expressed reservations on the part of the judgment that public spaces cannot be occupied indefinitely. “This is against all oppressed people who try to protest against injustice,” said Abid Sheikh, one of the organisers of the protest.Recently, 82-year-old protester Bilkis — popularly known as dadi (grandmother) of Shaheen Bagh — was included in Time magazine’s list of the 100 most influential people of 2020. Bilkis told HT about the verdict: “We respect the judgment. We will not be protesting now due to the Covid-19 crisis and our first priority is to fight against the pandemic. However, we still want the government to talk to us and repeal CAA.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-occupy-indefinitely-says-supreme-court-on-shaheen-bagh/story-IlT5EU5GMn9CujGGX2ZoSL.html
08-10-2020||India||Kerala records highest single-day spike with 10,606 new Covid-19 cases||Kerala’s Covid-19 woes continue unabated as the viral caseload on Wednesday crossed 10,000, the highest since the outbreak began in January. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said 10,606 new cases were reported on Wednesday and asked people to listen to the directives of the health ministry to tide over the crisis. Among those who tested Covid-19 positive is Power Minister M M Mani, the fourth minister to get infected in the state. The pressure on the overworked hospitals is quite visible as most of them are filled to the brim and there is a shortage of beds and ventilators. But the state government put up a brave face saying the state’s mortality rate is the lowest in the country. State health ministry statistics show among 92,161 active cases 610 are in intensive care units and 179 patients are on ventilator support. The surge in Covid-19 cases came as the state conducted the maximum number of tests (73,816) on Wednesday and experts said it will have to hike tests exponentially to contain the spread. They said the state had conducted only 33 lakh tests in six months and more than 60 per cent of them were antigen tests. Latest statistics show the test positivity rate has gone up to14.37 per cent against the national average of 8.4 per cent. The government has recorded 906 fatalities so far but independent doctors who are monitoring the pandemic situation put the toll at 1622. “The situation is really alarming. With high density of population and a large number of elderly population the state is going through a difficult phase. Political leadership will have to accept the fact rather than finding refuge in technicalities,” said Dr S S Lal, a public health expert who earlier served with the World Health Organisation. Many health experts in the state are up in arms saying they were kept away and the government was only heeding the bureaucracy. The CM and the Indian Medical Association had locked horns a couple of days back, with the former criticizing the doctors’ body saying it was propagating half-baked facts. But experts said going by the present surge the state may beat Maharashtra and Karnataka in active cases.“It is time for the state to surge ahead as a single unit foregoing political differences. Personally, I feel local body elections should be postponed. Lives are precious we have to save them. We are making suggestions to improve the system and minimize damage. But the government is taking them personally and singling out those who criticise it,” said Dr Lal. He said the government will have to come out of its Nipah fight record as it was a self-limiting virus but more dangerous than the present virus. “This was expected. We have been warning the government about the need for more tests. It is natural once you increase tests, cases will go up. It is time for the state to re-draw its strategies,” said IMA president Dr Abraham Varghese. However, state health minister KK Shailaja asked people not to panic but take utmost precaution and heed the directives of the government. After the situation deteriorated, the state has strengthened its curbs and asked the police to enforce norms strictly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-10-606-new-covid-19-cases/story-FpKNDoMIqtZW7QmYggopyM.html
08-10-2020||India||Govt wants to shut road for repairs; police resist||Closing the Ashram-Nizamuddin section of the Mathura Road for 10 days is the only way to address the chaos at the intersection with Ring Road, Delhi minister Satyender Jain said on Wednesday during a visit to the area after HT reported how the project to decongest one of the busiest junctions of the national capital has instead turned it into a traffic and pollution hot spot.The government’s view was supported by experts, who said there was no other option, but opposed by Delhi Traffic Police, which is the final authority on road closures, on the grounds that the road in question is one of the city’s principal arteries.Along with officials from the public works department (PWD) and the Delhi Jal Board, Jain on Wednesday reviewed the state of the area where traffic has been slowed to a crawl at all times of the day, the road surface cratered, and the air filled with dust from open construction material and the crumbling tarmac.“Both the functional carriageways on the Bhogal side of the Ashram intersection are in a dilapidated state because there are water pipelines right under them. Delhi Jal Board (DJB) officials have said that every time they repair the water pipelines during the night time, it breaks due to the heavy traffic that starts from the morning. The constant digging and repairing have damaged the road,” Jain said.To carry out necessary repairs, the stretch of the road between Ashram and Bhogal will have to be entirely shut, he said. “We will request the traffic police to give permission to the PWD to shut both the carriageways on the Nizamuddin side for 10 days. In 10 days, the water pipelines will be totally replaced and a completely even and paved road will be built. Even the ramp for the proposed underpass will be ready by then. We hope the traffic police cooperate.”Taj Hassan, special commissioner of police (traffic), however, said it will be practically impossible to close both the carriageways for 10 days. “This is a main arterial road. Closing it fully in the day time will cause a lot of public inconvenience. We had permitted them to close the road for night hours, and we stand by that only,” said Hassan, adding that no letter making this request was received till Wednesday evening.According to traffic department estimates, about 20% of the 400,000 vehicles that use the Ashram intersection come from or head towards Bhogal. The stretch is also used by people accessing the Nizamuddin railway station from the southern part of the city. Experts said there is little option but to close the stretch entirely, especially because of the scale of repairs required to address the problems with the water pipelines. They warned that if the road was not shut temporarily, the problem would not be solved.“Water is the biggest enemy of bitumen. The pipelines, in this case, were not at much depth so the top layer of the road will keep breaking if it is not fixed for once and for all,” said Dr S Velmurugan, chief scientist, traffic engineering and safety division, CSIR-CRRI.“What is being done right now is merely a stop-gap arrangement. Allowing heavy and light commercial vehicles and buses on the stretch is worsening the situation. The road should be closed and the people should be asked to take Barapullah instead,” he said.Velmurugan added that such problems would not have emerged in the first place had the PWD conducted a feasibility study for traffic management during the construction of the underpass.The underpass cuts beneath Ashram Chowk and will allow traffic on the Mathura Road to proceed freely once built. But for its construction, a 175-m access ramp is being built on either side of the crossing. This portion is roughly 20m wide, which in the Bhogal direction accounts for two-thirds of the existing road width.PWD chief engineer PK Parmar said a 10-day closure will allow the department to finish work on the access ramps and pull back barricades by 1-1.15 metre (about the width of a car). “The intervening night between Tuesday and Wednesday was the first of the three days given to us when the DJB started repairing the pipeline. But, by today afternoon the line broke again and the road was back to square one. Because of such less time given, PWD also cannot do filling and carpeting of the operational carriageways because it takes at least 10 hours for the carpeting to set,” Parmar said.He added that if permission to close the road completely is not given, the situation is likely to remain the same. For now, some of the mitigating measures include the rerouting of Delhi Transport Commission (DTC) buses, which could help reduce surface wear. Jain directed DTC to divert all its buses on the stretch, following which the transporter issued an order. “Bus route number 460 operating between Badarpur Border and Minto Road terminal has been diverted to Lajpat Nagar flyover across Modi Mill flyover to connect to Mathura road. Buses on route number 413, operating between Nizamuddin Railway station and Mehrauli have been diverted from Sunder Nagar where they will have to turn right from Subj Bhurj Circle onto Lodhi road and then taking the Lala Lajpat Rai road…” the order said. The order also covers the privately run buses under the cluster bus service. In all, 10 bus routes use the stretch.A senior official of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which built the underground Ashram Metro station at the same congested area without hampering the traffic much, said the agency always carries out trials before beginning work. “We always get a study done by an expert consultant and plan based on that during the construction phase. We carry out trials and hold public consultation,” the official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-wants-to-shut-road-for-repairs-police-resist/story-Yld6Vyt3n0WYZ7PU1vEsJM.html
08-10-2020||India||Assam cabinet decides to notify Bodo as associate official language of the state||The Assam cabinet on Wednesday decided to notify Bodo as an associate official language of the state. The development comes nine months after signing of the Bodo Peace Accord among the Centre, the Assam government, four Bodo rebel groups and two Bodo organizations, which included declaring Bodo as associate official language as one of the clauses. The state cabinet also decided to set up a Bodo Kachari autonomous welfare council for people belonging to Bodo community residing outside 6th Schedule areas—another clause mentioned in the accord signed in January. “The state cabinet has taken two important decisions. Bodo will be the associate official language for the state of Assam. (Setting up of) Bodo Kachari autonomous welfare council outside the 6th Schedule area for welfare of Bodo community,” senior Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted. The Bodo Peace Accord was signed in January by four militant factions of the National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB), All Bodo Students Union (ABSU) and United Bodo Peoples’ Organisation (UBPO) with the Centre and Assam government. Last month, the Assam government announced setting up a commission to redraw the boundary of Bodoland Territorial Areas District (BTAD), which comprises Baksa, Kokrajhar, Udalguri and Chirang districts-one of the accord’s main clauses. BTAD has since been named Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) as per another clause in the accord Elections to Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC), which was ruled by Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), a partner in the BJP-led ruling coalition in the state, was scheduled in April this year, but the entire BTAD was placed under Governor’s rule the same month as polls couldn’t be held due to the Covid-19 lockdown. On Tuesday, the state government held an all-party meeting to discuss election to BTC where the state health department proposed holding the polls in December in view of the existing Covid-19 scenario.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cabinet-decides-to-notify-bodo-as-associate-official-language-of-the-state/story-JrOXl5Nf54Udxaf36gxqgM.html
08-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt to home deliver ‘Pahadi mutton’, ‘Himalayan fish’ to boost economy of hilly areas||The Uttarakhand government in an initiative to promote meat products of the state’s hilly areas and boost the economy amid the Covid-19 pandemic will now home deliver mutton sourced from the hills or ‘pahadi’ goats and fish from the rivers up in the Himalayas. The initiative named Bakraw for mutton of pahadi goats and Uttarafish for fish from hilly areas was launched by minister of animal husbandry and pisciculture Rekha Arya in Dehradun on Wednesday. The development has come after about a month of Arya announcing the move to introduce Trout fish from Denmark in the waters of hilly areas. Launching the initiative, Arya said the move will be of great help to “increase the income of people involved in pisciculture and goat rearing in the nine hill districts of Uttarakhand”. “So far the people in animal husbandry and pisciculture in the hill districts were not aware of a proper market of the valuation of their produce and the work was not organised. Under these two initiatives, the sector has been organised and they will get to sell their produce at appropriate market price directly to the customers on just a phone call on the lines of pizza home delivery,” the minister said. She informed that under the Bakraw initiative people would be able to savour Himalayan goat meat while under Uttarafish; they can buy the Himalayan Trout fish. The minister said, “Till date Himalayan goat rearing and Trout cultivation was done by the women associated with cooperative societies. They have now formed a cooperative federation that would be supplying both the goat meat and fish under these initiatives. It will help the women by increasing their income.” The minister informed that the initiative has so far been launched only in Dehradun district but would soon be started in other districts like Nainital and US Nagar. “We are likely to be the first Himalayan state in the country to brand our goat meat and fish to sell it. We will soon start supplying it outside the state and even country after proper evaluation,” Arya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-to-home-deliver-pahadi-mutton-himalayan-fish-to-boost-economy-of-hilly-areas/story-cAT4cbgNp1dtxlM6YOX8BM.html
08-10-2020||India||Amid Covid-19, EC trims star campaigner lists for parties ahead of Bihar polls||The Election Commission has restricted the number of star campaigners that political parties can deploy for the Bihar assembly elections, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The maximum limit on the number of star campaigners for recognised national and state political parties shall be 30 in place of 40 and for unrecognised registered political parties it shall be 15 in place of 20 during the period of pandemic,” the EC said in a statement issued on Wednesday. The Commission justified its decision, saying its team that visited Bihar between September 29 and October 1 was informed about the potential health concerns during the visits of star campaigners, especially as “huge crowds gathered at the landing of helicopters”. “The matter was further deliberated in the Commission today,” the EC said. “After considering all facts and circumstances emerging due to the pandemic and keeping a balance between the requirements of campaign by the political parties, the commission has decided to revise the norms of star campaigners.”Political parties have now been instructed to submit a revised list of star campaigners. The Commission has further said that parties will have to seek permission before their star campaigners are allowed into the state. “Request for permission for the campaigning by star campaigners shall be submitted to the district election authorities at least 48 hours before the start of campaign so that all necessary safety measures are put in place by all concerned stakeholders well in time,” the EC said.The Commission further said that district authorities have completed the identification of locations for the electoral campaign in each constituency. “They are in the process of marking it for public gathering, keeping Covid-19 safety norms in view,” the EC said.The Bihar elections are the first major polls that the EC is undertaking amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The three-phase polls are to be held on October 28, November 3 and November 7. The results for the 243-member assembly will be declared between November 10 and November 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-ec-trims-star-campaigner-lists-for-parties-ahead-of-bihar-polls/story-vsvC81Px6OadeeQZDx9btO.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Inspect tyres’: Mamata Banerjee amid concerns trucks are Covid carriers||Covid-19 could be spreading via airborne transmission and coming to Bengal through trucks and lorries originating from other states, noted chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday. The chief minister’s apprehension comes a day after the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said Covid-19 can spread through airborne transmission. “No matter what others say, Covid-19 is surely spreading through air-borne transmission. We still don’t know till how far the virus is spreading through air. Everyone is giving a different opinion. All we can do is to take precaution till the time a vaccine is developed,” she said at an administrative meeting on Tuesday. The CDC in an updated guidance on Monday had said that Covid-19 can spread through airborne transmission. A month ago, the CDC took down a similar warning. The updated guidance said that the virus can linger in the air for minutes to hours in small droplets and particles, or aerosols, and some people could get infected by exposure to these. The chief minister advised officials of Jhargram district, where the administrative meeting was being held, to check the tyres of some trucks entering the state. Jhargram shares its borders with Jharkhand and Covid-19 numbers have been rising in the district over the past few weeks. “We need to test the tyres of a few trucks which are entering the state through toll plazas. If the virus can be transmitted through clothes and shopping bags, then why not tyres,” Banerjee said. Even though studies have shown that the virus could spread readily in a closed, small setting like public transport, no study has been published yet hinting that the virus could be transmitted through tyres of moving vehicles. “In my locality, six members of one family had tested positive. From them, the disease had spread to 36 others. I had stopped the movement of vehicles on the road where the house was located because as vehicles move from one place to another, they can spread diseases. The tyres of vehicles can carry organisms, which can trigger diseases. Soon after the locality was turned into a containment zone and the movement of vehicles was stopped, the disease stopped spreading. But as soon as the restrictions were withdrawn on September 8, it again started spreading. Two of my office-bearers have tested positive after the restrictions were lifted,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inspect-tyres-mamata-banerjee-amid-concerns-trucks-are-covid-carriers/story-2z8vokCUR2b7bFuJtvkKHJ.html
08-10-2020||India||Third man arrested in Bengal BJP leader’s murder case||The West Bengal Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on Wednesday arrested Muhammad Nasir Khan, an alleged criminal, from Barrackpore in North 24 Parganas district in connection with the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manish Shukla at Titagarh in the same district on Sunday night. This is the third arrest since the early hours of Tuesday. It is suspected that Khan knows the motorcycle-borne shooters who opened fire on Shukla in front of several people on a crowded BT Road around 8.27 pm on Sunday. Forensic experts visited the spot on Wednesday afternoon. They collected some soil samples and calculated the possible trajectory paths of the bullets fired. The shooters carried out the entire operation in 78 seconds, CID officers have found from security camera footage. During this short time they fired 18 rounds, of which more than seven hit Shukla in the head and torso. One round did not fire and the ammunition was found near Shukla’s body. “He was fired at even after he had fallen. This indicates that the shooters wanted to ensure his death. They were professionals,” an officer told HT on condition of anonymity. CID teams have conducted raids at several places in South 24 Parganas and Kolkata in search of the shooters and the murder weapons. A team has gone to Jharkhand as well. Shukla, 39, was an outgoing councilor of the Titagarh municipality and also a lawyer at Barrackpore court. Officials involved in the investigation said that Nasir Khan has several criminal cases pending against him. He was involved in running gambling operations and was accused in at least two murder cases in the past. Khan was released on bail from judicial custody a few months ago. It is being probed whether he is an Indian national or an illegal immigrant from Bangladesh who procured documents to prove his citizenship, an officer said on condition of anonymity. The father of Muhammad Khurram, one of the men arrested earlier, was murdered 10 years ago, said BJP leaders and the police. Shukla was one of the accused in the murder case registered in April 2010. The charges against him were later dropped. It is suspected that Khurram tried to take revenge. He was earlier charged for carrying out attacks on Shukla. There have been four attempts on Shukla’s life between 2009 and 2018. Sheikh Gulab, the second man arrested by CID, is suspected to have followed Shukla’s movements and passed on the information to the hitmen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-man-arrested-in-bengal-bjp-leader-s-murder-case/story-hVb04PNIzEAatQBafvyQ7J.html
08-10-2020||India||Delhi riots: Cops blow cover of own secret witnesses||A two-page document listing names and addresses of at least 15 protected witnesses, who have given evidence against those arrested for alleged conspiracy in February’s Delhi riots cases, have inadvertently been included in the police’s charge sheet filed in a city court last month.HT has seen the document but is not revealing the names of the witnesses to protect their identity. The document contains the names and address of protected witness otherwise referred to only by their pseudonyms such as Alpha, Beta, Hector, Delta, Echo, Mike, and others. News of the document was first reported by The Wire on Wednesday. Pramod Kuswah, the special cell’s deputy commissioner of police who prepared and submitted the charge sheet, did not respond to repeated calls and text messages from HT. Kuswah is heading the investigation behind the alleged conspiracy. Delhi Police released a statement on Wednesday evening that a court-related document containing the identities of the witnesses was “inadvertently included” and that they are “taking steps for the security and safety of the witnesses”.Other than in this two-page document, these protected witnesses in the 17,000-page charge sheet have been referred to by their pseudonyms in their statements before police and court. Police have claimed that these protected witnesses were insiders/eyewitnesses who saw some of the accused persons such as Pinjra Tod activists Natasha Narwal and Devanagana Kalita, and former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain mobilising the rioters. The accused have denied any wrongdoing. Police had told the court that there was a threat to the witnesses’ life, hence their identities were protected. Though the charge sheet is not a public statement, its copies are with the lawyers of the arrested persons since September 21. The copies are also with journalists, and the contents were widely circulated on social media. The statements were recorded before different judges between March and August, and are admissible evidence during trial. These witnesses appear to hold the key to the police’s narrative that the riots were planned at anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protest sites. The accused have maintained that there was no conspiracy.Experts say the disclosure of the identities of such protected witnesses would not only harm the outcome of the cases but also pose a threat to their lives. Former top of Uttar Pradesh police, Vikram Singh who was the state’s director general of police between 2007 and 2008, said: “I would not call this inadvertent error. This is the callousness by one of the officers, who was involved in preparing the charge sheet. Too many cooks spoil the broth. When there are too many officers as part of the probe or preparing a document, the weakest one ends up making such a costly mistake. I hope that Delhi Police have taken adequate steps and ensured the protection of those people because they are a part of an important investigation. Their security is police’s responsibility now. If anything untoward happens to them, it will be a blot on Delhi Police.”Singh said the police must quickly find a legal recourse and get the witnesses examined. “God forbid, even if anything happens to them or they turn hostile, police must quickly find a way to ensure that the case is not affected. Police must fix accountability and find the officer who fumbled and made this mistake.”Advocate Mehmood Pracha, representing Gulfisha Khatoon (one of the arrested persons) in the riot cases, said this was a “Himalayan blunder” by the police even as he disapproved the statements made by those protected witnesses. “First, let me say that this is a biased investigation and the witnesses are fake. They have misused the use of protected witnesses, which will not pass muster during trial. The witnesses will be cross-examined during trial. Secondly, it is a lapse on their part to reveal the names of their so called protected witnesses,” he said.Delhi Police in their statement said, “During the course of investigation, it was deemed necessary that the identities of some witnesses should not be disclosed in the public domain. However, a court-related document containing the identities of some of these witnesses has been inadvertently included in the copies of the charge sheet provided to the accused persons as part of compliance of judicial orders. Since the witnesses are court-protected, their identities should not be published. Media is requested to cooperate in this matter. Steps are being taken to ensure the safety and security of these witnesses and to address all concerns in this regard.”At least 53 persons died while 400 others were injured in the 2020 Delhi riots. The clashes started when groups of people -- one supporting the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and another opposing it -- clashed near the Jafrabad metro station on the evening of February 23. It snowballed into large-scale Hindu-Muslims clashes in parts of north east Delhi between February 23 and 27. Delhi police have arrested at least 21 persons for conspiring to orchestrate the riots. The arrested persons include prominent faces of the anti-CAA protests such as former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, student activists Sharjeel Imam, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Safoora Zargar. They have all denied any role in inciting the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-cops-blow-cover-of-own-secret-witnesses/story-iBcz3ZaHHyrElxh2PmfmAJ.html
08-10-2020||India||Restaurants in Delhi may open 24x7 soon||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday issued directions to allow restaurants to operate 24x7 with necessary safety measures in place and to do away with several licence-related restrictions, including those on service in open spaces such as balconies. The move was in keeping with promises that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) made ahead of assembly polls in February this year.Currently, restaurants are allowed to operate from 11am to 11pm in the Capital. Those licensed to serve liquor can operate from 11am to 1am. There are roughly 20,000 registered restaurants in the city, of which nearly 650 are licensed to serve alcoholic beverages.The relaxations initiated by the chief minister include doing away with the health-trade licence, a mandatory requirement for running a restaurant (and one that needs to be renewed periodically), from municipal corporations, and the tourism licence, apart from changes in excise rules to allow restaurants to store liquor anywhere in the premises and review of fire safety norms, especially in old and heritage markets such as Connaught Place and Khan Market, a senior official in the chief minister’s office said.The official said Kejriwal assured the business fraternity that he would soon chair another meeting to discuss the possibility of doing away with a licence that restaurant owners have to avail from the police. The relaxations announced by the CM are covered under departments and agencies that include the municipal corporations, tourism, excise, fire and the police. Some of these could require a separate approval by the agencies concerned — including the police and the lieutenant governor, which report to the Centre. Kejriwal announced the measures after a meeting with a delegation of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), which was also attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, chief secretary Vijay Dev and commissioners of the three municipal corporations, the official said.“Delhi’s restaurants are the pride of Delhi and provide employment to lakhs of people. I have directed all the respective departments to remove unnecessary hassles in the smooth running of restaurants in Delhi,” said Kejriwal after the meeting, adding that a detailed representation was received from the NRAI to “provide relief and ease regulations and the permit raj” acting as hurdles in the growth of the industry in the Capital.In its manifesto for the 2020 assembly elections, the AAP had promised to do away with “permit raj” in Delhi. During the poll campaign, it mentioned 24x7 markets in Delhi, including both shops and restaurants, in line with a similar decision by the Maharashtra government in January.Also Read | India’s first Covid-19 wave finally recedes“On the request of restaurateurs to allow 24x7 business, it was agreed that the restaurants will be allowed to operate at all hours subject to the condition that they submit an undertaking that they will take care of the health and security of their entire staff. This will help the industry generate more employment in the national capital through higher demand. This will set an example for the Delhi Model of ease of doing business,” the Delhi government said in a press statement.The official in the chief minister’s office said, “The law does not prohibit round-the-clock operation of restaurants. There can be policy decisions that have been followed. That can be one reason why Delhi restaurants could never operate 24x7 despite the matter being on the table for several years now. That is going to change.”Another government official added that the police had opposed the 24x7 policy at several points in the past.“The police were opposed because 24x7 restaurants or bars would mean more patrolling and security during the night. The strength of the force was also not enough, which may be the reason for opposition to the plan. There are 24x7 outlets in five-star hotels in Delhi too. In my opinion, we can have round-the-clock restaurants but the plan needs to be carefully worked out. In a place like CP, which is a popular marketplace, having such restaurants won’t be a problem but what happens if such a place is located in a residential colony. It cannot be a carte blanche,” said former Delhi Police commissioner Neeraj Kumar. In its statement, the Delhi government said, “The CM instructed (on Wednesday) that health-trade licences, which are issued by the municipal corporations to restaurants should be abolished within 10 days.”The official in the CMO said, “The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), a body operating under the Union government, already has a protocol for issuing safety and hygiene licences. So, health-trade licences of the MCDs would lead to duplication. Restaurant associations had requested the CM’s intervention in this regard. There are other fees and charges which restaurants have to pay to MCDs; those can stay. But the health-trade licence can be done away with.”A spokesperson of the south municipal corporation said they will respond after getting an official communication. “We shall examine the matter and respond accordingly. The municipal corporations are legally empowered to grant health-trade licences to eateries and such commercial establishments under sections 417 and 421 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act.”The government statement said: “In addition, a decision was also taken to completely do away with licences from the tourism department to open or run a restaurant. Decisions were also taken in today’s meeting to immediately amend excise rules to permit service in open areas, balconies, verandahs, etc, without any additional fee, …to permit licences for all types of music, including DJs, live music bands, and karaoke, to abolish the requirement of a designated liquor store and to allow the stock to be kept anywhere in the licensed premises.”Excise and tourism departments come under the domain of the Delhi government.A senior government official said since the police come under the domain of the central government, the CM would need further discussions with the stakeholders before taking any calls on licences and permissions issued by the police. “Restaurant owners have urged intervention in this matter. Their argument is that restaurants are a part of the retail sector and no other retail establishment is required to obtain a licence from the police,” the official said.Dinesh Arora, a restaurateur and president of the Delhi restaurants and clubs association, said: “Restaurants are not dealing with anything illegal so why do they need a special licence from the police. It never made any sense. Fire safety, food and hygiene-related licences are still understandable. As far as law and order issues are concerned, people in restaurants can always dial 100 like people in any other place in the city. These licence-related relaxations and the freedom to operate 24x7 are a welcome move.”Former commissioner Neeraj Kumar said the formula is followed in cities that follow the commisionerate system. Before granting the licence, officers check the safety plan, which is important during an emergency, he said. Another important aspect they look at is traffic and the parking management plan. It is important to check if the place could be a source of traffic hazard, Kumar said. “Police are the first responders and it is important that they have a look at the place before issuing the licence to operate,” he said. The government statement said, “On the request of simplifying fire norms for restaurants situated in old and heritage sites such as CP, Khan Market, etc, it was decided that a technical committee would be constituted, which in 10 days will examine ways to enhance fire safety in such locations, without the need to make structural changes to the existing restaurants. Based on the recommendations of the committee, the CM will decide on the application of uniform fire safety norms in Delhi.”Navneet Kalra, owner of restaurants such as Khan Chacha and Townhall in Khan Market, said: “Currently, structural changes are not allowed in heritage buildings. The law should provide room for certain measures which can ensure better compliance to fire safety rules. For instance, in Khan Market there is a proposal for a fire safety corridor. Such structural changes are necessary for ensuring safety. The directions of the chief minister, if implemented in time, can bring big relief to the industry.”Riyaaz Amlani, a restaurateur and member of the National Restaurants Association of India, said: “Restaurants are one of the key sectors for employment generation in the city, with lakhs of people employed in the industry. It is currently one of the most overregulated industries, requiring multiple NOCs and duplication of licences. These measures will provide the necessary boost that the industry needs, unleash employment potential and help the tourism industry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/restaurants-in-delhi-may-open-24x7-soon/story-61AtAtQtAcn1yEuNKDyBQJ.html
08-10-2020||India||India’s first Covid-19 wave finally recedes||The first wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) appears to be receding for the first time across the country, with cases seeing a steady drop for three consecutive weeks now. Experts warn that with the festive season coming up, the curve may rise again if people let their guard down during the celebrations. The seven-day average of daily cases in India touched 93,617 on September 16, the highest till date. In the three weeks since, this number (also referred to as the daily case trajectory) has dropped every single day and stands at 74,623 on Wednesday — down around 20% from the peak.This has meant that India’s doubling rate — the number of days it takes for the number of infections to double — has seen a drastic improvement in the past month. On Wednesday, it stood at 60 days, as against 32.6 days on September 7.This drop is also mirrored in the death trajectory. The seven-day average of daily deaths in the country was at its highest on September 15, when it touched 1,169. This number has dropped near consistently since then, and as on Wednesday, it stands at 977 — a drop of 16% from the peak.This is the first time a drop of this magnitude and consistency has been recorded in the Covid-19 case and death trajectories in India. Across the world, there have been fluctuations and waves in the case (and death) trajectories — the US, for instance, is on its third wave currently — but India’s trajectory has been climbing throughout till mid-September.This reversal in trajectory has been led by the some of the states that have so far caused the national spike in cases — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi. Together, these four states have been responsible for 46% of all infections in the country. In Maharashtra, India’s worst-hit state responsible for a little under a quarter of all infections in the country, daily cases peaked at 22,149 on September 17, a day after the peak in the national trajectory. The trajectory in Delhi also peaked the same day, although Delhi is the only major region in the country that has seen a distinct second wave of infections. Cases in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, meanwhile, have been dropping since the start of September — their respective peaks were on September 2 and 1 respectively.A handful of states, particularly Kerala and Karnataka, however, appear to be defying the larger trend and cases there remain currently at peak levels and appear to be rising .“Even though cases have started dropping, we are nowhere close to the end of the first wave. We are still reporting close to 75,000 cases a day, which is by no means a small number. However, it is still a significant drop, especially if it is not artificially influenced by a change in testing strategy. But if our testing strategy is the same as it was in August and early September, then this is a very good sign,” said Dr Shahid Jameel, virologist and director of Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University.The threat of a festive resurgence, however, is very real, as India’s own experience shows. In Kerala, festivities for Onam (celebrated between August 22 and September 2) appear to have caused a spike in cases. While the trajectory in the state was largely in control through much of the pandemic, it has seen a huge spike from the start of September — average daily cases have increased from around 2,000 in the start of September to nearly 8,000 in the last week of the month.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan identified Onam as the key factor that caused the spike in the state. “The highest increase in active cases in the country has been seen in Kerala and the surge is possibly due to the Onam festivities,” he said in Tuesday’s health briefing.Dr VK Paul, member of Niti Aayog, stressed last Tuesday that the coming festive season will be all about masks — “mask wali Chhath, mask wali Eid, mask wala Dussehra aur mask wali Diwali”. Dussehra will be celebrated on October 25, Eid Milad-un-Nabi on October 28-29, while Diwali will be on November 14 and Chhath on November 20.“This is all for our own good; and needs to be promoted big time. Community heads should ensure and appeal that festivals should be celebrated with caution; not in large groups but smaller groups. Large gatherings, especially in marketplaces, could be detrimental, so we have to be careful,” he said, during the government’s weekly Covid-19 media briefing.On Tuesday, the Union health ministry issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) ahead of the festive season to curtail the spread of the infection. These included a cap on the number of people at events and gatherings, staggered timings and restricted entry during fairs, Puja pandals, Ramlila pandals or concerts and plays.“The next few weeks will be extremely crucial because quite a few factors will be at play that can cause a rise in cases. With the festive season here, people need to develop a sense of individual responsibility when they visit temples, pandals or family gatherings. Add to this the fact that in winter people tend to stay indoor with shut windows, creating ideal conditions for viruses to thrive. Wearing masks, observing hand hygiene and social distancing become even more important now, and I hope people don’t forget this,” Dr Jameel said.“During the festive season people will be visiting relatives, and since it will be cold, they may gather indoors with windows shut. All of this ends up creating ideal conditions for the spread of infections. In the festive spirit, people also tend to talk louder or they end up singing — studies have also shown that viral particles tend to travel larger distances in such circumstances. All of this increases the chances of infections rising,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-first-covid-19-wave-finally-recedes/story-clQaMmmD2TiYD3i1CSmw3J.html
08-10-2020||India||PM says welfare of India, impoverished people will always remain a priority||As he entered his 20th year as head of an elected government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said he wants to assure the countrymen once again that the welfare of the nation and the poor is paramount for him. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Modi said he will continue to strive to make himself worthy of people’s blessings and love. “I would like to assure the countrymen once again that the welfare of the nation and the poor is paramount for me and will always be so,” Modi said. “No person can ever claim that he does not have any shortcomings. A long period of holding such responsible positions...being human, even I can make mistakes,” Modi said. He said it is his good fortune that despite all these limitations, people’s love for him is growing. Modi said the way people have showered blessings and love on him from every corner of the country today, the power of his words to thank them is falling short. BJP leaders on Wednesday heaped praise on Modi and his leadership as he entered his 20th year without a break as the head of an elected government, including close to 13 years as chief minister of Gujarat. Modi, who turned 70 last month, started as a volunteer of the RSS and then served in the BJP’s organisation for many years before the party leadership sent him to Gujarat, his home state, as its chief minister in 2001. Since then, he has never tasted electoral defeat and led the BJP to power in the state three straight times before steering the party to its biggest, until then, Lok Sabha poll win in 2014 and then scripting an even bigger win in the 2019 general elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/welfare-of-nation-poor-is-paramount-for-me-and-will-always-be-so-modi/story-AejzBkJBLVcrW46ZIvduMP.html
08-10-2020||India||Orissa high court asks state to open temples in graded manner||The Orissa high court on Wednesday asked the state government to open the temples in a graded manner in accordance with the modalities after assessing the Covid-19 situation.The order of the high court came while disposing of two writ petitions that sought direction to extend financial relief to priests of registered temples for the lockdown period. The petitions were filed by a priest of Dadhibaman Dev temple of Nayagarh district and an organisation of priests of the same district.“Taking a view on the grievances of the petitioners with regard to (providing) financial assistance or ration kits, or in the alternative for the opening of temples, as expeditiously as possible, but not later than eight weeks from the date of copy of this order is produced before the authority,” the HC said.All the temples in Odisha, including Jagannath temple in Puri, are closed since the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March. In the Jagannath temples, more than 450 servitors have tested positive for Covid-19, affecting the temple’s daily activities.The court order came on the day many priests and devotees across the state beat gongs, rang bells and blew conches urging the Odisha government to reopen the temples.The priests of Odisha Mandira Sebayat Sangha began their protest at 9 am for nine minutes demanding that the temples should open soon as their livelihood is at stake.“The livelihoods of temple priests have been hit hard due to closure of temples since March. Most of the priests are going through severe financial constraint. They have no alternative to earn their livelihood. Our families are suffering. We had requested the government but no one addressed our issues. That is why we had to ring bells and blow conches to draw the attention of the government towards our plight,” said a member of OMSS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orissa-high-court-asks-state-to-open-temples-in-graded-manner/story-sMp0P6bMLqdSTTs8N61hpN.html
08-10-2020||India||BJP gives 11 seats to VIP in bid to keep JD(U) alliance intact||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has moved to pre-empt cracks from surfacing in its alliance with the Janata Dal (United), or JD (U), ahead of the Bihar elections by allotting 11 seats out of its quota to a smaller ally and issuing a clear directive to the Lok Janshakti Party not to use Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s images and speeches and central government policies in the poll campaign. Giving up the 11 seats to the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) means the BJP will contest 110 seats in the 243-member Bihar assembly; chief minister Nitish Kumar’s JD (U), which has allotted seven seats out of its 122 to Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustan Awam Morcha (Secular), will be in the fray for 115 seats.The BJP initially wanted to contest the same number of seats as the JD (U) before agreeing to settle for less.According to two BJP functionaries.LJP chief Chirag Paswan’s sharp remarks against the JD(U) and chief minister Nitish Kumar after deciding not to contest the Bihar elections as part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) while simultaneously heaping praise on the Prime Minister was seen as an attempt to create friction between the alliance partners.Subsequent speculation that the LJP’s decision had the tacit approval of the BJP and that the latter wanted to emerge from the elections as the single-largest party in the assembly and lay claim to the CM’s post also upset the JD(U). The LJP’s decision to oppose the JD(U) has raised fears hat it could play spoiler in seats where Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal and the JD(U) were set for a direct contest. “The LJP seems to think it holds the key to the election,” said a BJP functionary who asked not to be named. In the 2005 assembly Bihar assembly elections, the LJP, citing differences with the RJD, fielded candidates against it and not against the Congress. All three parties were allies and part of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA). “The LJP won 29 seats and considered itself as the kingmaker, but the state went for a re-election later in the year and the LJP failed to get as many seats,” the BJP functionary added. On the assumption that the LJP could dent the JD (U)’s vote bank, something that will work in favour of the BJP, a second party functionary said the BJP expects the NDA to win over 200 seats in the elections. “Between Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM and the VIP, which counts the most backward communities as its support base, we do not foresee the LJP damaging the NDA or playing a spoiler. We will honour our pre-poll alliances,” the second functionary said. Analyst Shankar Dutt of Patna University said the LJP’s decision to go it alone, oppose the JD (U) and possibly dent the former’s vote bank may have affected the NDA’s prospects “It is quite possible that the post- poll scenario that will emerge may force a new alliance and also that a lot of pre-poll arrangements may not last,” Dutt said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-gives-11-seats-to-vip-in-bid-to-keep-jd-u-alliance-intact/story-M8p8Jdd0MSFmEamUu458gP.html
08-10-2020||India||Victim’s family alleges illegal confinement at Hathras home, approaches HC||The family of the 19-year-old woman who was raped and brutalised in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras last month, causing her death a fortnight later, has filed a petition in the Allahabad high court accusing the district administration of illegally confining them in their house. The petition, filed by National General Secretary of the Akhil Bharatiya Valmiki Mahapanchayat Surender Kumar on behalf of the family, has said that the victim’s parents, two brothers and two other relatives have been prevented from meeting or communicating with people freely, thereby violating their Right to freedom of speech and expression. In the petition, the family has alleged that they were detained in their house by the district administration on September 29 and 30, and were not allowed to meet anyone. While later they were allowed to meet a few people, they have not been allowed to move out of their house at free will.The habeas corpus plea has sought the release of the petitioners from illegal confinement. The case is listed on Thursday for hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/victim-s-family-alleges-illegal-confinement-at-hathras-home-approaches-hc/story-POwgxfoB7JdyYMPABgx2xH.html
08-10-2020||India||Ex-CBI director Ashwani Kumar found dead in Shimla, leaves behind a note: Cops||Former governor and CBI chief Ashwani Kumar was found dead in his Shimla house on Wednesday, Shimla superintendent of police Mohit Chawla said. He was 69. Police suspect death by suicide but have made no formal statement.Himachal Pradesh police chief Sanjay Kundu, who rushed to the spot, said that investigation in the case was on and a team of forensic experts has reached the crime scene and collecting evidences.Police said a note, ostensibly written by Kumar, had been found.Retired police officer AP Singh, who succeeded Kumar at the CBI, described Kumar’s death “absolutely shocking”.“I have worked closely with him as a special director. He was a gentleman. Never lost his temper. I always found him very pleasant, soft spoken; he never ever said a word to anybody in a raised voice,” AP Singh said about his mild-mannered predecessor at the CBI.Kumar, a 1973 batch officer of the Indian Police Service, headed the Central Bureau of Investigation from August 2008 to November 2010.Three years later, the Manmohan Singh government appointed him as Nagaland governor in March 2013, provoking howls of protest from the Bharatiya Janata Party. Kumar was the first CBI chief to be appointed to a gubernatorial office. A few months later, he was also appointed Manipur till December 2013.Ashwani Kumar, however, had to step down from the Nagaland Raj Bhavan weeks after the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power in the 2014 general elections and started pushing out governors appointed by the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government. Kumar was one of the first to go.It was during his tenure as the CBI chief that the investigation agency arrested Union home minister Amit Shah in July 2010 in the Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter case. Shah was then the BJP general secretary and minister in the Gujarat government led by chief minister Narendra Modi. Veteran Congress leader P Chidambaram was then the Union home minister.The 22 accused who faced trial in this case were acquitted in December 2018. In its verdict, the judge called it a politically-motivated case designed to implicate political leaders such as Shah.Ashwani Kumar had started out as a young IPS officer in Himachal Pradesh where he was, back in 1985, the superintendent of police of Shimla district. It was during this assignment that he was selected in the newly-created Special Protection Group responsible for the security of then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi.He was in the SPG from 1985 to 1990 in various capacities including that of Assistant Director in the Prime Minister’s Office. It was during this tenure that he came in close contact with the Gandhi family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-cbi-director-ashwani-kumar-found-dead-in-shimla/story-OH8LpfWwHsTnD4X7ENJPfJ.html
08-10-2020||India||Bengal logs spike in Covid-19 count as people flock to shops ahead of annual festival||With West Bengal entering the Durga Puja-mode and festive-season shopping going on in full swing, the state is witnessing a steady spike in Covid-19 numbers. The positivity rate - the proportion of people testing positive to those tested – has shot up from around 6.6% on September 5 to around 8.3% on October 5 in the state. “Puja shopping has started. People are out on the streets and markets are getting crowded. The members of puja committees are also gathering where pandals are coming up. The positivity rate is increasing because of this. We have to be very cautious and strictly ensure that people wear masks,” said a top official of the state government. The number of new Covid-19 cases reported daily has also witnessed a sharp spike of 73% in Kolkata in the last one month. While the city had registered 428 new cases on August 30, on October 6, the number of new cases reported from Kolkata stood at 742. Daily cases are also rising in the city’s fringes. The district of North 24 Parganas which has the second highest Covid-19 numbers after Kolkata in West Bengal had registered less than 600 cases on August 30. On September 6, it recorded 712 cases. With the festive season beginning from mid-September with Viswakarma Puja and Mahalaya, the Durga Puja, the biggest annual festival of Bengal that continues for over a week, is scheduled for the last week of October. “I request people to wear masks when they are going to markets for puja shopping. Try to wear gloves or at least try to sanitise your hands during shopping. We need to take precautions. Care should also be taken during the puja when pandal-hopping starts. Puja committees should arrange for hand sanitisers,” Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal said while addressing an administrative meeting on Tuesday in West Midnapore district. The state government had earlier issued detailed guidelines to puja organisers and police on how the Durga Puja would be held this year. On Tuesday, the Union home ministry also issued standard operating procedures on how to contain the spread of the viral infection during the festive season. This year more than 37,000 pujas will be organized across the state, including more than 2500 in Kolkata and around 1700 pujas which are organized by women. The list doesn’t include those organized inside housing societies and houses. “There would be no post-immersion carnival and cultural festival during the puja days. A series of dos and don’ts have been prepared on how to the puja would be organised. These have already been distributed among all the puja committees,” said Saswata Basu, general secretary of the Forum for Durgotsab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-logs-spike-in-covid-19-count-as-people-flock-to-shops-ahead-of-annual-festival/story-yqn3UAGvQ6H4Po9t9dNvpO.html
08-10-2020||India||UGC declares 24 universities as fake. Here’s full list||The University Grants Commission (UGC) on Wednesday announced a list of 24 self-styled, unrecognised institutions in the country, terming them as fake with maximum of them operating from Uttar Pradesh followed by Delhi.“Students and public are informed that currently 24 self-styled, unrecognised institutions are functioning in contravention of the UGC Act, which have been declared as fake universities and these are not empowered to confer any degree,” UGC Secretary Rajnish Jain said. While eight of these universities are from Uttar Pradesh, Delhi has seven, and Odisha and West Bengal two each.Here’s full list of fake universities as listed by the UGC:  Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Puducherry and Maharashtra have one fake university each. ALSO WATCH | ‘Delhi government cancels all state university exams due to Covid’: Sisodia||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-declares-24-universities-as-fake-here-s-full-list/story-OJFjvl88YfSZ6mvClQ9TcN.html
