09-10-2020||India||Kumaon literature festival kicks off Saturday||The two-day Kumaon literature festival- Himalayan Echoes 2020 - will start in its digital avatar from Saturday. For the last four years, writers have been participating in this festival in Nainital. But this year due to Covid-19, it was decided to hold the festival virtually. This year will be the 5th edition of the festival mentored by Namita Gokhale, advised by Kapil Dhawan and Saif Mahmood and directed by Janhavi Prasada. Janhavi Prasada, festival director, who is also the founder of the Nainital Book Club said this year the theme of the festival is ‘Mountain Paths’. “Each of us has a mountain to conquer and what better way to express it than listening to mountain minds speak from their heart in Covid times. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the festival will be held online this year on social media platforms,” she said. She said the endeavour of the festival is to encourage authors, poets and other creative minds to enhance “our vision, our minds with their voices, their writings”. The two-day festival will have various sessions, ranging from the culture of Uttarakhand, the legacy of leaders that shaped the history of India, growing up in Nainital, environmental conservation, climate change to wellness, Ayurveda, fitness and sustainable business solutions and organic produce. Prasada said the main speakers in the festival this year are Anuradha Roy, an award-winning writer, Prof Makarand Paranjape, author and director of Indian Institute of Advanced Studies at Shimla, Shekhar Pathak, historian, Dr Alka Pande, art historian, Pritam Bhatty, cheesemaker from Mukteshwar, Shagun Khanna, wellness expert, Suhel Seth, CEO Counselage, a branding and marketing consultancy, Sharon Prabhakar actor-singer and motivational speaker, and debutant author Priyanka Pradhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kumaon-literature-festival-kicks-off-saturday/story-2FE6oBLCfBYrFNWYvq7yBP.html
09-10-2020||India||Uproar after Sikh man pushed, turban pulled at BJP Bengal rally||A day after a man named Balbinder Singh was arrested with a pistol from GT Road in Howrah during the agitation by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers, the party alleged that the Sikh community was insulted as Singh’s turban fell off when he was being taken into custody. The police, however, have denied the charge, saying that the pagri fell off during the scuffle and that the man was asked to put it on before he was arrested. The outrage over the incident had cricketer Harbhajan Singh tweeting to chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday, saying: “Please look into this matter @MamataOfficial this isn’t done.”He posted tweets and news video clippings tweeted by BJP’s Delhi unit secretary Impreet Singh Bakshi. The same tweets and videos were also shared by BJP national secretary Arvind Menon and other leaders.“In Bengal, is there no respect for people from other religious faiths except a specific one?” tweeted Menon. A few members of the Sikh community staged a silent protest in central Kolkata. They carried small posters that sought “justice” for Singh. News footage of Thursday’s incident showed that Singh grappled with three policemen and there was jostling during which his turban came off. Police charged Singh under the Indian Arms Act as the licence he carried was issued in Rajourie, Kashmir. It was not valid in West Bengal. Singh was produced in Howrah court on Friday and remanded in custody. “The concerned person was carrying firearms in yesterday’s protest. The Pagri had fallen off automatically in the scuffle that ensued, without any attempt to do so by our officer (visible in the video attached). It is never our intention to hurt the sentiments of any community,” The West Bengal Police tweeted around 10 pm on Friday, attaching a video of the incident.  The concerned person was carrying firearms in yesterday's protest. The Pagri had fallen off automatically in the scuffle that ensued,without any attempt to do so by our officer (visible in the video attached). It is never our intention to hurt the sentiments of any community(1/2) pic.twitter.com/aE8UgN36W5“West Bengal Police respects all religions. The officer specifically asked him to put his Pagri back before the arrest. The attached photo has been clicked right before he was escorted to the Police Station. We remain committed to our duty to uphold law and order in the state,” said a second tweet. “It is a licensed weapon and should be returned to its owner. The man is the bodyguard of one of our state BJYM leaders. He has a valid licence for carrying the weapon. He works for a private security agency,” said BJP state president Dilip Ghosh. “The BJP is doing dirty politics. Nobody intentionally took off the man’s turban. It happened during the jostling,” said Trinamool Congress spokesperson and former Rajya Sabha MP Kunal Ghosh. BJYM national president and Lok Sabha MP from Bangalore South, Tejasvi Surya has also accused the police of insulting the party’s MPs.Surya and two BJP MPs from Bengal went to Jorasanko police station to lodge complaint against the police for the injuries suffered by party workers during the baton charge on Thursday. The BJP MP alleged that he and the others were shoved by the officers. In a video of the incident that he tweeted on Friday, Surya said the MPs will bring a motion of breach of privilege against these policemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uproar-after-sikh-man-pushed-turban-pulled-at-bjp-bengal-rally/story-cYyDfiCWCqSKQoG3sTmF6K.html
09-10-2020||India||Don’t malign individuals: Govt to pvt channels||The Information and Broadcasting ministry on Friday asked all private television channels to adhere to the content norms and emphasised that no programme should criticise, malign or slander any individual or certain groups.The advisory comes in the wake of actor Rakul Preet Singh’s plea in the Delhi high court, alleging that defamatory programmes were being run against her in connection with the drugs probe related to the Sushant Singh Rajput case.In its advisory, the I&B ministry said, on various occasions, it has issued advisories to TV channels to broadcast content adhering to the Programme and Advertising Codes under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995.Attention is drawn to the provisions of the Programme Code as per which no programme should contain anything obscene, defamatory, deliberate, false and suggestive innuendos and half truths, the advisory said.As per the Code, no programme should criticise, malign or slander any individual in person or certain groups, segments of social, public and moral life of the country, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-malign-individuals-govt-to-pvt-channels/story-mtIkapX1ViJH9yKz42pMtL.html
09-10-2020||India||Video of Sikh man’s turban being pulled at BJP’s Kolkata march sparks outrage||A video of a Sikh man being pushed, shoved and his turban pulled off by the police in Kolkata during a protest march by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s youth wing has gone viral on social media with the BJP and many others, including cricketer Harbajan Singh, criticising the force for hurting religious sentiments.The man has been identified as Balvinder Singh, who is the personal security guard of BJP leader Priyanshu Pandey, . He was held by the police during the protest march by the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) to the state secretariat Nabanna on Thursday. According to reports, a 9mm pistol was seized from Singh and he provided a license for the gun valid till January next year.The BJP’s national secretary Arvind Menon condemned Singh’s arrest. “By pulling the turban of Sardar Balwinder Singh ji, Bengal police has insulted all the Sikhs of the country. Today it seems that Mughal rule has been established again in Bengal. Is there no respect for the religious sentiments of any other community except a particular one in Bengal?” Memon tweeted in Hindi. सरदार बलविंदर सिंह जी की पगड़ी खींच कर बंगाल पुलिस ने देश के सभी सिखों का अपमान किया है, आज ऐसा प्रतीत होता है कि बंगाल में पुनः मुग़लों का शासन स्थापित हो गया है। क्या बंगाल में एक समुदाय विशेष को छोड़ कर बाकी किसी की भी धार्मिक भावनाओं का सम्मान नही रहा? pic.twitter.com/uYjCl7G6zeFormer India cricketer Harbhajan Singh also tweeted over the incident along with a video where the Kolkata Police personnel is manhandling the man, who reports said was a resident of Punjab’s Bathinda. “Please have a look into this matter @MamataOfficia l. This isn’t done,” the cricketer wrote. 😡😡😡😡🤬 https://t.co/gLwxZviwRCThe BJYM had held the “Nabanna Chalo” (Let’s Go To Nabanna) rally, which was led by its newly-appointed president MP Tejasvi Surya, over the alleged corruption in SSC/TET and unemployment in the West Bengal. The BJYM was demanding an increase in the upper age limit for various exams and simplification of the PSC recruitment process.Kolkata Police have registered a case against several BJP leaders, including national secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, national vice president Mukul Roy, members of Parliament Locket Chatterjee, Arjun Singh, and Rakesh Singh for alleged “unlawful assembly” and “law violation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-of-sikh-man-s-turban-being-pulled-at-bjp-s-kolkata-march-sparks-outrage/story-w1gxRj8nUixsU19utmUeTN.html
09-10-2020||India||First time since lockdown, commercial vehicles in Assam begin carrying 100% passengers||Commercial passenger vehicles in Assam started carrying 100 percent passengers from Friday - the first such instance since March when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to control the spread of Covid-19. The move follows concessions made by the state government after the All Assam Motor Transport Association (AAMTA) launched an indefinite strike since Monday, seeking an increase in fares to offset losses suffered due to Covid-19 restrictions. “The bus operators have been asked not to carry passengers beyond the total seating capacity, provide hand sanitisers, ensure everyone wears a face mask and sanitise the buses after each trip,” Ashok Bhattarai, chairman of Assam State Transport Corporation (ASTC) said. The list of demands by the AAMTA included waiving of road tax for one year, waiver of quarterly tax on vehicles, increase in bus fares and financial relief to transporters due to Covid-19 restrictions. Also read: Flipkart tells Nagaland customer no service outside India. Then apologisesAs per the government guidelines, buses and other commercial passenger vehicles in Assam were operating with 50 percent occupancy to maintain social distancing among passengers. To press for their demands, buses and other passenger vehicles stayed off the roads since Monday while the government tried to ease problems faced by passengers by plying around 650 buses belonging to the Assam State Transport Corporation (ASTC) on the roads. After a round of deliberations on Tuesday between the AAMTA and the government failed to end the strike, another meeting was held on Thursday where it was agreed that operating vehicles with 50 percent occupancy with the existing rates was not commercially viable. “We received a notification from the government on Thursday evening allowing us to operate with 100 percent occupancy. We have called off our strike and most vehicles are back on the roads from Friday,” Pradip Das, general secretary AAMTA told media. The government, however, refused to allow transporters to increase bus fares.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-time-since-lockdown-commercial-vehicles-in-assam-begin-carrying-100-passengers/story-gcRQKent5at82PWZCzwLFO.html
09-10-2020||India||Flipkart tells Nagaland customer no service outside India. Then apologises||E-commerce company Flipkart has apologised after it told a customer from Nagaland that it doesn’t supply goods to places outside India. According to a report in Dimapur Today, the company made the faux pass in a recent reply to a customer from Nagaland who asked the company why it was not delivering goods to the northeastern state. “Sorry to hear that. We appreciate your interest in shopping with us. However, sellers do not provide our services outside India,” Flipkart mentioned in its reply to the customer.  Hello @Flipkart is this true ? If true then Don’t u know that Nagaland is not outside India ! Shocking really pic.twitter.com/fRgymptLKwThe post uploaded on Dimapur Today’s Facebook page on Thursday soon went viral leading many to ridicule the e-commerce company and question whether it had granted independence to Nagaland. “Hello Flipkart, is this true? If true, then don’t you know that Nagaland is not outside India! Shocking really,” Tripura royal scion and founder of Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance Pradyot Manikya Deb Barman tweeted on Thursday. This prompted an apology later in the day from the Flipkart team.  To those who were questioning me ! Here is the @Flipkart reply ! Don’t shoot the messenger 💪 Nagaland and NE is India even if your heart may not think so pic.twitter.com/qocNMXqH3N“We are extremely sorry for the inadvertent error earlier. We strive to ensure serviceability across the nation, including regions in Nagaland. We are happy to connect with you and provide currently available options,” it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flipkart-tells-nagaland-customer-no-service-outside-india-then-apologises/story-IgXLM6cnqFuhFcP5EnGm3L.html
09-10-2020||India||Over 350 new species of animals, more than 250 new plants discovered in India last year||Scientists have discovered at least 364 new species of animals and 253 new species of plants from India in 2019.While these 364 animal species were unknown to humans, another 116 species of animals, which were earlier found elsewhere in the world but not recorded from India previously, have also been found in the last one year.The list of discoveries, published in the form of two books by the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) and Botanical Survey India, both of which have their headquarters in Kolkata, were released by Union minister of state for forest and environment Babul Supriyo on Friday. “Out of the 364 new species that have been discovered, four are fossil species. Another four sub-species have been discovered. The maximum numbers of species that have been discovered are of insects. The list also includes reptiles, fish and amphibians among others,” said Kailash Chandra, director of the ZSI. Also read: ‘Horror on street’ - UP man cuts off wife’s head, walks with it to police stationWith the new animal discoveries, India now has 102,161 species of animals – starting right from one-celled protozoans to large animals such as elephants and tigers. This is around 6.52 percent of the global share. More than 50,000 species of plants have also been identified from the country. “India is a signatory to the Convention on Biological Diversity, hence it is important that we document our bio-resources in a bid to establish sovereign rights, use it sustainably and share the benefits derived from these resources equitably,” said Supriyo. Scientists from across the globe have managed to identify 1.8 million species till date which is only a small fraction of the estimated 30 to 50 million species thought to exist in the world. India ranks 8th in the world with its 1.02 lakh species.“The list of newly discovered plants includes seed-bearing plants, ferns, fungi, algae and various species of microbes. Many close relatives of crop plants, potential plants for product development, horticultural value and alternative foods, such as wild jamun, balsams and mushrooms have also been discovered,” said Ashiho Asosii Mao, director of the Botanical Survey of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-350-new-species-of-animals-more-than-250-new-plants-discovered-in-india-last-year/story-ceHau24QhTTZU7AWMx0dUL.html
09-10-2020||India||Ministry issues SOPs for sportspersons as pools open from October 15||The Ministry of youth affairs and sports on Friday issued SOPs for training of sportspersons at swimming pools in the wake of coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19).The SOPs apply to all Sports Authority of India (SAI) and non-SAI centres wherein training of sportspersons may resume, provided no orders of the local authorities prohibit such facilities to resume operations i.e. micro-containment zones and are meant to serve as safety guidelines for operating the facility in consonance with any other guidelines issued by state government while granting such permission, the ministry said in a statement.After being shut since March to contain the deadly coronavirus, swimming pools across the country were finally allowed to reopen for training of sportspersons from October 15 in areas outside containment zone. The SOPs directed by the ministry are as follows:1. Competitive Swimmers to be defined as all sports person not below the age of 12 and engaged in training for purposes of preparing for participating in swimming competition, and shall not include contact sport like Waterpolo, learn to swim or swimming for general fitness.2. Coaches and Support Staff directly responsible for the training of these athletes. Head coach shall ensure that the training is carried out with the minimum required staff only.Protocols and precautions for the training of (Athletes/Coaches/Support Staff/Facility Management) Residential and Non Residential trainees1. It is the responsibility of the centre head and coach in-charge to ensure complete adherence to training protocols and to secure agreement from respective athletes that any training activity undertaken shall be in full compliance to the protocols mentioned hereunder.2. Obligatory self-declaration of the infection-free condition by players and staff re-joining the centre shall be provided to Covid Task Force officers before entering the premises.3. All personal training equipment belonging to an athlete shall be disinfected while the athlete is inducted into the training centre.4. Athletes and staff shall be screened before being allowed access to common field-of-play/ training facilities.5. RT-PCR test shall be conducted for new/returning athletes. Public health authorities may be consulted for the same regarding Government guidelines and the cost of testing.For residential trainees:1. They need to produce a negative Covid Report 72 hour/96 hours before arrival to the centre followed by 14 days quarantine period.2. On the 6th/7th Day of the quarantine period, another Covid Test must be conducted. Thereafter, trainees can mix with the other quarantined trainees only. Only after completing 7 more days, they can mix with other trainees.This SOP applies to all SAI and non-SAI centres wherein training of sportspersons may resume, provided no orders of the local authorities prohibit such facilities to resume operations.SOP for Training Facilities :1. Resumption of training of sportspersons in swimming pools at any place within the facility other than toilets shall be prohibited.2. Athletes shall also perform hand hygiene before and after the use of all training equipment.3. Athletes/coaches/facility staff who begin to cough/sneeze/above normal temperature for any reason must move away from others until coughing/sneezing dissipates.4. In case of above normal temperature, a coach or staff member should ask athletes, as they come into practice, specifically listing certain symptoms, and send home those athletes reporting illness or experiencing symptoms.5. Use of the Arogya Setu app shall be made mandatory for all athletes and staff at the centre. The Task Force shall ensure a 100% coverage of Arogya Setu among all athletes and staff at the centre.Protocols and precautions at Swimming Pools1. Maximum Pool Capacity / Batch 50 M 10 lane – 20 Swimmers 25M/50M8lane-16/16swimmers2. Chlorine levels in the pool will be measured 45 min before the start of practice.3. Toilets and showers will be off-limits. In case swimmers required to use the toilet facilities at the pool, coaching staff shall ensure not more than one person is in the toilet at the same time.Protocols and precautions at Facility (Swimming Pool Management)1. A Covid Task Force shall be constituted at each training centre to guide and monitor all trainees, coaches and staff within the centres. 2.The Task Force shall be responsible for the overall implementation of protocols outlined in this SOP.3. Swimming pool operators should have a dedicated officer responsible for Covid-19 considerations.When Preparing to Swim1. Use a hand sanitizer if soap and water are not readily available before going to the pool.2. Do not share equipment.3. Wear your suit to and from practice. Change in your respective room.4.If you need to sneeze or cough, do so into a tissue or upper sleeve/arm5.Arrive as close as possible to when activity begins.6. Avoid touching gates, fences, benches, etc. if you can.7. Do not attend practice if you do not feel well.When Swimming1. Follow directions for spacing and stay at least six feet apart from others.2. Do not make physical contact with others or giving a high five.3. Try not to take water in your mouth while swimming and if you need to spit do so in the gutter4. Avoid physical contact with other swimmers when taking a break.After Swimming1. Leave the facility as soon as reasonably possible after practice.2. Wash your hands thoroughly or use a hand sanitizer after leaving the pool.3. Do not use the locker room or changing area.4. Shower at one after you reach your respective room.The Covid Task Force shall work closely with the coaches and support staff to define guidelines and protocols to conduct the training in the Covid environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministry-issues-sops-for-sportspersons-as-pools-open-from-october-15/story-UdHTZQtmfLVwJB486svkfN.html
09-10-2020||India||India gets second set of data on Swiss bank account holders: Official||The Switzerland authorities have shared details of bank accounts of Indians nationals and entities allegedly holding black money as part of a confidential agreement between the two countries, people familiar with the development said. The data will be examined by agencies dealing with black money investigations to see if there are any irregularities in these bank accounts belonging to Indians, people cited above added. The latest exchange of financial data by Switzerland’s Federal Tax Administration (FTA) – second time in last one year - is part of the framework of the global standard on the Automatic Exchange of Information (AEOI) to combat the problem of offshore tax evasion and avoidance and stashing of unaccounted money abroad requiring cooperation amongst tax authorities, a senior finance ministry official said.The information exchange this year with 86 countries including India involves nearly 3.1 million (31 lakh) financial accounts, FTA said in a statement on Friday. It is not immediately known exactly how many of these are accounts linked to Indians.India has activated AEOI relationship for receiving information from over 96 jurisdictions such as Switzerland, Luxembourg, Bahamas, British Virgin Islands and Mauritius. Switzerland and India had signed a joint declaration on the introduction of AEOI on tax matters on November 22, 2016 on reciprocal basis. The first set of documents on accounts held by Indian residents in Swiss banks was shared in September last year for the year 2018, said this finance ministry official. “The data, thus, received are processed by tax authorities and agencies and the processing of information takes time. If some suspicious activities are found involving certain individual accounts, agencies probe their details further and on the basis of material evidence, notices are served and taxes along with penalties are recovered,” the official said. This official declined to divulge any detail because of the confidential agreement.Amit Maheshwari, Partner AKM Global, a tax and consulting firm told HT, “AEOI is an important tool under the aegis of Gobal Forum to help countries get important information on an automatic basis instead of on request. This will help countries and in this case India to use this information to investigate whether account holders have correctly paid taxes on these overseas assets. Overseas assets by Indians are a focus area of the government and this exchange of information would form the backbone of the quest to bring to task tax evaders who have stashed money abroad.” Sherbir Panag, Partner at Panag and Babu and international legal expert on white collar crimes, said: “The Global Forum is a step in the right direction towards a more cohesive exchange of financial accounts between countries. Safe havens and lack of transparency, touted by some countries for foreign investment attraction - remain a big impediment to the global fight against money laundering and financial crimes. Nothing frustrates the efforts of national law enforcement authorities and victims of fraud, as much as lack of international cooperation. That said, there’s a long way to go for meaningful reform.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gets-second-set-of-data-on-swiss-bank-account-holders-official/story-kSR7acJlyEthdb3iipO5WP.html
09-10-2020||India||Odisha CM’s Twitter handle falls victim to fake news on Oxford University||A spate of news articles on a study by a team of researchers at the Oxford University, UK, and the Northeastern University, US, on the Odisha model of Covid-19 may turn out to be fake. The news was also shared by the official Twitter handle of Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik but the post was deleted. On Thursday, a few websites reported that a study by UK’s Oxford University and the Northeastern University of the United States praised the Ganjam district of Odisha and Dharavi slums of Mumbai for their strategy to deal with the pandemic. First reported by a little-known website called pledgetimes.com on October 8, the report described how a study by the Oxford University found Ganjam in Odisha and Dharavi slums in Mumbai managed to “imprison Corona”.The news item did not mention the title of the study but spoke of how Ganjam and Dharavi managed to control the surge in Covid-19 cases trying to pass off the success as the findings of the study. Several news portals and websites of local newspapers picked up the story with each of them repeating that “Oxford University study praised the Ganjam and Dharavi model of fighting the pandemic”.Also read: ‘Modi made crises’ India could’ve avoided: Cong’s 10 point attack at CentreWhen asked on Twitter to post the link of the study, the CMO Twitter handle did not reply. However, a senior official of Odisha government later pointed out to a study titled ‘Crowding and the shape of Covid-19 epidemics’ by the Oxford University and the Northeastern University that was published in the highly-respected “Nature Medicine” journal on October 5. The study said small, close-knit communities are at high risk for rapid, intense Covid outbreaks especially if they haven’t yet experienced outbreaks of Covid-19. The study showed that whether Covid outbreaks come to a fast, dramatic peak or whether they are long and drawn-out is more closely related to city layout and social structures than city size and density.The paper, ‘Crowding and the shape of Covid-19 epidemics’ used epidemiological data from Chinese cities and Italian provinces, climate and population data, and the response to local interventions as measured by human mobility and Covid-19. Aggregated Mobility Research Dataset was used to identify drivers of transmission and create a model to predict the risk of high-peak outbreaks based on similar data from 310 cities around the world.While several websites claimed that the study praised the Ganjam and Dharavi model of dealing with the pandemic, none of these claims was found in the report whose central hypothesis was how unaffected area can see a rapid peak in cases when individuals had high rates of contact within social units, such as households, care homes and prisons.The study also did not include Ganjam as it selected only 310 urban centres from the European Commission Global Human Settlement Urban Centre Database. To ensure global coverage, up to five most populous cities in each country were selected including Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai and Chennai.An e-mail sent to the study’s lead authors Samuel V Scarpino, Oliver G Pybus and Moritz UG Kraemer, seeking reply whether the paper praised any particular model of controlling the pandemic, did not elicit any response.Ganjam, which saw an influx of over 5 lakh migrant workers from Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and other parts of India after lockdown, had become a Covid-19 hotspot by late July when it reported around 10,000 cases. Apart from the returning migrants, the compartment-like dwelling housing of the people in the district contributed to the surge. Later, intensive door-to-door screening of people with Covid-19 symptoms and quick treatment brought the numbers down. Though it recorded the highest Covid-19 casualty of 221, the active caseload has come down too.Ganjam district collector Vijay Amrita Kulange, whose Twitter handle too posted a tweet talking of the praise from Oxford University over its handling of the epidemic, said he has not seen the study. “The Oxford University people may have done the study independently. But no one has contacted me for the study,” said Kulange. After several people started questioning the authenticity of the claim of the government, the CMO’s Twitter handle deleted one post which referred to the praise by Oxford University.This is not the first time when well-known, verified Twitter handles have fallen victims to fake news. In August this year, Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal and Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi congratulated IAF wing commander Nikhil Rath for a feat he never accomplished.While all of them took to Twitter to congratulate Wing Commander Rath for being “selected for the country’s first manned space mission Gaganayan” scheduled for 2022, none of them had checked the authenticity of the information. Though Rath had been included among the 25 pilots shortlisted in 2019 for Gaganayan, he never made it to the four candidates who were finally selected for the mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-s-twitter-handle-falls-victim-to-fake-news-on-oxford-university/story-Wbp9TQZksoNJBFf8rYcmVK.html
09-10-2020||India||Ram Vilas Paswan’s daughter, son-in-law protest denial of entry inside Patna airport to receive his body||Former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s daughter from his first wife and her husband staged a protest at Patna Airport on Friday after they were not allowed entry inside to receive the body of the departed leader.Paswan’s daughter Asha Devi and her husband Anil Sadhu protested in front of the car of deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi when he had come to receive the body of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder. “Why politics is being played on such a sad occasion? Why his daughter and family members are not allowed entry inside the airport?” Paswan’s son-in-law told reporters.Sadhu is presently associated with Lalu Prasad’s RJD.Asha Devi also fumed at the district administration for preventing her from going inside the airport.Chief minister Nitish Kumar has also come to the airport to receive the body of the veteran leader.Officials said that only selected people are permitted to go inside the airport in view of security considerations.Asha Devi is the daughter of Paswan from his first wife Raj Kumari Devi, who still lives in their native Saharbanni village in Khagaria district of Bihar.Besides Asha Devi, Usha Devi is another daughter of the departed leader from his first wife.Paswan had married Raj Kumari Devi in 1960s. In 2014, he disclosed that he had divorced her in 1981, after his Lok Sabha nomination papers were challenged.In 1983, he had married Reena Sharma, an air hostess and a Punjabi Hindu from Amritsar. They have a son and a daughter. His son Chirag Paswan is heading the LJP at present.From the Jay Prakash Narayan Airport, his body will be taken to the Bihar Legislative Assembly premises where legislators and others will pay respect to him.From there, his mortal remains will be taken to the LJP headquarters in the state capital where it will be kept in the night, party sources said.He will be cremated on the bank of the river Ganga at Digha ghat with full state honours on Saturday.Ram Vilas Paswan was born to Late Shri Jamun Paswan and Late Siya Devi in a Dalit family in Shaharbanni village on July 5, 1946.Paswan, who held a Bachelor of Laws and a Master of Arts degrees, started his innings in electoral politics with a win from Alauli Assembly seat in 1969 on Samyukta Socialist Party ticket.The leader had hit the national headlines after winning the 1977 Lok Sabha election from Hajipur seat with a record margin of votes on Janata Party ticket. Since then, he represented Hajipur seat for eight times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-vilas-paswan-s-daughter-son-in-law-protest-denial-of-entry-inside-patna-airport-to-receive-his-body/story-MlVJqmovOk4nkZgxtFzjDJ.html
09-10-2020||India||‘Modi made crises’ that India could have avoided: Congress launches 10-point attack at Centre||The Congress on Friday focussed on 10 moves taken by the Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government during the coronavirus pandemic, including the lockdown and the three farm laws, which the opposition party said could have been avoided.“10 Modi made crises that could have been avoided but have instead devastated our nation. #BJPseNaHoPayega,” the grand old party posted on Twitter along with a video. In a one-minute clipping, the Congress slammed the government for India being on the spot in terms of Covid-19 tally, ‘ill-planned” lockdown decision, farms laws and “lying” on Chinese intrusion in Ladakh.  10 Modi made crises that could have been avoided but have instead devastated our nation. #BJPseNaHoPayega pic.twitter.com/VAYVwjYnlMAmong others issues, the Congress targeted the government over the migrant workers’ crisis, scams amid the pandemic, Covid-19 relief package, passing of bills without discussion in the Rajya Sabha, allowing gross violations of human rights in Uttar Pradesh and lying about data related to migrants, Covid-19 and jobs. The party added that the list goes on and on.Here’s a look at some of Congress’ key allegations against the Modi government1. Ill-planned 8pm lockdownThe Sonia Gandhi-led party slammed the government for suddenly announcing the 21-day nationwide lockdown on March 24 when the coronavirus disease had claimed 12 lives and there were more than 500 confirmed cases in the country. Prime Minister Modi had stated that a shutdown was the only way to break the chain of infections.The Congress has time and again slammed the move as “ill-planned” saying that the government did not take into consideration the plight of migrants and daily-wage workers. It had also called the lockdown a “pause” and not a solution for the crisis at hand.2. Migrant workers’ crisisThe grand-old party also took note of the migrant workers’ crisis as scores of them across states had to walk back on foot to their home states as no transport was available during the initial days of the lockdown. Former party president Rahul Gandhi also met some migrants in Delhi in May. In a video, the migrants were seen saying that more than the coronavirus, hunger is hurting them and that is why they were not afraid of getting killed on the roads.3. Scams amid pandemicIn the video on Friday, the party accused the government of leading scams amid the pandemic but did not reveal any details about the claim it made in this regard. It was an apparent reference to senior Congress leader and former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah’s allegation that the BJP government in the state was involved in a Rs 2,200 crore scam related to the purchase of Covid-19 related equipment.4. Lied on Chinese intrusionThe Congress had earlier too attacked the Centre over the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) intrusion amid an ongoing border standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. A row had erupted over a defence ministry statement on August 4 that acknowledged that the Chinese army had transgressed into multiple areas in the sensitive sector but was taken down two days later.5. Jumla relief package for the economyThe Congress renewed its attack on the Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package that the government launched in view of the coronavirus crisis. Senior Congress leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram had earlier said, “There is nothing in what the finance minister said for the lakhs of poor, hungry and devastated migrant workers who have walked — and many thousands are still walking — back to their home states. This is a cruel blow dealt to those who toil every day,”6. Black farm bills that will destroy farmers, benefit crony capitalistsDays after concluding several tractor rallies in Punjab and Haryana, the Congress again accused the Modi government of passing “black farm bills” during the monsoon session of Parliament. The party was referring to The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, which were cleared in the Rajya Sabha amid a ruckus by the Opposition parties that the bills were passed without voting.7. Gross violations of human rights in UPIn an apparent reference to the gang-rape of a 19-year-old Dalit woman by four “upper caste” men in UP’s Hathras district, the Congress has alleged the government has allowed gross violations of human rights in the state. This comes after the victim died last week in a Delhi hospital and her body was cremated by the UP police at 2:30am the following day against the wishes of her family members, who were allegedly locked inside their home and were being threatened. A Congress delegation, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, met the victim’s family members and assured them of support in seeking justice for their daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-made-crises-that-india-could-have-avoided-congress-lists-a-10-point-jibe/story-iU7rKe8ioMWkBn9ByfBYVO.html
09-10-2020||India||Rajpal Yadav on a film completion spree!||Rajpal Yadav is on a roll and is wrapping up film projects, stalled due to lockdown, one after the other.“In September, I completed Ram Gopal Verma’s ‘Dragon Girl’ in Goa. There was some patchwork left in Farhan Akhtar’s ‘Hello Chalie’, and have now finished ‘Safaibaaz’ in Lucknow,” the actor said after completing his shoot in the state capital. In November, he will be finishing his portions in ‘Hungama-2’, ‘Bole Chudiyan’ and ‘Bhool Bhuliya-2’. But, right now, he is geared up for the shooting of Hindi-Punjabi ‘Mitthu Singh Da Bya’ in Patiala.“For the first time in my career, I am playing a Sikh. I am playing the title role and it’s a very ‘jaandaar’ character. Besides, I have a good role in ‘Coolie No 1’ which is ready. So, there is a beautiful bouquet of films that the audience will get to watch in the coming months,” he said.Rajpal has done his theatre academics from Bhartendu Natya Academy in Lucknow. “First I did ‘padhai’ (education) here, then did ‘ghumai’ (roaming) and now got an opportunity to do some ‘safai’ (cleaning) with my role in ‘Safaibaaz’. If Shahjahanpur is my ‘maa’ (mother), Lucknow is my ‘dai-maa’ (granny) who has nurtured me as an actor due to which I could make a name in the world of cinema.”The actor also went to his native village in Pilibhit. “I am very happy that UP is coming up with a film city and it’s a dream come true for me. But, instead of Noida, I feel the film city should come up in Pilibhit where we have forests, foothills, plains and the Himalayas in the backdrop. I have done a comprehensive study on it and I am ready to share all the details,” he suggested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/rajpal-yadav-on-a-film-completion-spree/story-si7XJTi1KpxNWxDJahvBhL.html
09-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Nationalist Congress Party to go it alone in Bihar polls, contest over 150 seats and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sharad Pawar’s NCP to go it alone in Bihar polls, contest over 150 seatsUpset over denial of its demand for seats in the Grand Alliance (GA), the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has decided to go it alone in Bihar and field candidates in 150 out of 243 seats for the upcoming polls. Read moreMicrosoft takes on Apple with its own Windows app store policiesMicrosoft has made some “firm commitments” to the future of app stores by publishing 10 principles that it is going to adopt as promises to app developers. These ‘promises’ include not blocking competing stores on the platform or blocking specific business models an app may be using to make money. Read moreIshaan Khatter and Ananya Panday’s Khaali Peeli will be first Bollywood film to release after theatres reopenMaqbool Khan’s Khaali Peeli, starring Ishaan Khatter and Ananya Panday, will be the first Bollywood film to release in Indian theatres in months. The film, which came out on the pay-per-view streaming service Zee Plex on October 2, will re-release on the big screen on October 16, a day after theatres across the country are set to reopen. Read more‘We are taking coding education in schools to next level’: Manish SisodiaIn an interview with Hindustan Times Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia stressed that coding is the need of the hour. The Delhi government which had introduced scratch level coding in school curriculums earlier this year is now taking it to the next level by partnering with Hindustan Times Codeathon. Around 12,000 government school students in the capital are set to benefit from the initiative, says Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio. As part of the Codeathon campaign, students will go through self-learning modules on HTML, CSS and Python. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-nationalist-congress-party-to-go-it-alone-in-bihar-polls-contest-over-150-seats-and-all-the-latest-news/story-e48ItsljA9orSM07hgVR2J.html
09-10-2020||India||MHA gets complaint against BJP lawmaker for ‘violating’ Covid guidelines||A Biju Janata Dal minister has written to union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai complaining about BJP’s Bhubaneswar MP Aparajita Sarangi’s alleged violation of Covid-19 guidelines while celebrating her birthday amid party supporters on Thursday.Citing videos of Sarangi’s birthday celebration with her supporters, Odisha’s minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra alleged that the MP had violated Covid guidelines as she was surrounded by hundreds of women without masks.“I would not have brought this to your notice, had this been the first occasion where the Honourable MP has blatantly violated Covid guidelines. In addition to repeated advisories, warnings and booking of at least three cases against MP for violation of Covid guidelines, there is no improvement in behaviour,” Mishra wrote in the letter.“Such irresponsible behaviour on the part of a people’s representative will demotivate the Covid Warriors and is an insult to all those who have lost their lives. And it also sends a completely contradictory message to the people at large especially in the light of the Honourable Prime Minister’s repeated messages and his appeal yesterday,” he said.Sarangi, who in July was penalised by police for violating social distancing guidelines, however denied that she had violated any Covid guidelines.“After arriving at Bhubaneswar two days ago, I have always been masked up. PM Modi ji has asked us to do our work with proper masking and I have not forgotten it. But did the minister raise any questions about one of his ministers and party MLA attending the funeral of party MLA Pradip Maharathy last week despite testing positive for Covid-19. Did he write to CM questioning their conduct,” asked Sarangi.The minister further wrote that as Sarangi is a people’s representative and national spokesperson of the BJP, it is important that she inspires people to follow the Covid guidelines at this very critical juncture.“These are tough times when people have obeyed the lockdown and sacrificed their livelihood. But the video clearly shows Sarangi surrounded by hundreds of women who are neither wearing masks nor maintaining social distance and indulging in song and dance with utter disregard to Covid guidelines issued under the National Disaster Management Act despite repeated appeals made by the Prime Minister regarding the same,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-gets-complaint-against-bjp-lawmaker-for-violating-covid-guidelines/story-kePPUfZc8CEvpi2RhKT2RI.html
09-10-2020||India||‘Horror on street’: UP man cuts off wife’s head, walks with it to police station||A man cut off the head of his wife and walked for around two kilometres, carrying it along with the axe he used to behead her, to Baberu police station in Banda on Thursday morning, leaving the passers-by in shock and disbelief. Incensed on seeing his wife speaking to his neighbour on his return to the house, Kinnar Yadav attacked her with an axe and beheaded her, said the police. Additional superintendent of police, Banda, Mahendra P Chauhan said the neighbour, Ravi Kant, was injured in the attack and was being treated at the district hospital. Yadav was later charged with murder and sent to jail, said Chauhan.He told the police that his wife Vimla, 35, used to speak regularly to Ravi Kant, an electrician, who also used to visit his house in his absence. Yadav said he was opposed to her friendship with Kant. On Thursday morning, their sons Bhagat and Prahlad left to their coaching centres and Yadav went for his morning stroll. On his return, he found Kant in his house which infuriated him, the police said. Yadav picked up the axe lying nearby and attacked Vimla and then severed her head with. He also attacked Ravi Kant and injured him badly. Also read: Hathras crime scene to be recreated to find ‘missing links’; victim’s kin to be presentYadav then picked up his wife’s head and walked to the police station through the main road even as commuters watched with shock and disbelief. At the police station, the policemen stayed away from him as he stood there for more than 15 minutes. Senior police officers later reached the police station and spoke to Yadav who told them that he had murdered his wife and had come to surrender to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/horror-on-street-up-man-cuts-off-wife-s-head-walks-with-it-to-police-station/story-SHkx4kupjbZeW4jJKJHT5K.html
09-10-2020||India||Book Kangana Ranaut: Karnataka court directs police over her ‘anti-farmer’ tweet||A local court in Karnataka’s Tumakuru district on Friday directed the police to book Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut over her tweet allegedly targeting farmers protesting the recently-cleared farm laws, according to a report.The Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) court directed the inspector of Kyathasandra police station to register an FIR against Ranaut based on a complaint by lawyer L Ramesh Naik, according to news agency PTI. The court said Naik had filed an application under section 156(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) for investigation. “The office is hereby directed to issue intimation to the circle police inspector of Kyathasandra police station along with (a) photostat copy of the complaint for the report,” the court said, according to PTI.Watch | ‘File FIR against Kangana Ranaut’: Karnataka court over ‘anti-farmer’ tweet Naik, who hails from Kyathasandra, said the court had directed the jurisdictional police station to register an FIR and inquire in connection with his criminal case against the actor.“People who spread misinformation and rumours about CAA that caused riots are the same people who are now spreading misinformation about Farmers bill and causing terror in the nation, they are terrorists. You very well know what I said but simply like to spread misinformation,” Ranaut had tweeted on September 21 from her Twitter handle @KanganaTeam. Naik said Ranaut’s tweet had hurt him and prompted him to file a case against her.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, in a series of tweets, reassured farmers that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and the government procurement of farmers’ produce will continue after the bills were passed by the Rajya Sabha. The actor had picked up one of PM’s tweets, described the protesters as “the same terrorists who indulged in bloodshed even though no countryman lost citizenship due to CAA”.She had clarified that she did not call farmers terrorists and dared anybody to prove it. “Like Lord Krishna has Narayani Army, similarly Pappu has his Champu army that knows only to fight on the basis of rumours. This is my original tweet, if somebody can prove that I called farmers terrorists then I will apologize and leave Twitter forever,” she tweeted in Hindi later.According to Live Law, Naik in his plea alleged that Ranaut’s tweet has a clear intention to injure the people who are opposing the farm bills, “wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riots and promote the culture of non-violence in the young minds of society.”“....this posting on twitter account of the accused posted by her may lead to collision between the people of different group believe in different ideology. It seems that the government authorities have turned a blind eye to the same and does not have any established measures or rules and guidelines to control and regulate the same. On the bare perusal of all these content it is more than evident that the government is least bothered and as usual waiting for some dangerous consequences to happen before taking some appropriate actions,” he had said, according to Bar and Bench.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/book-kangana-ranaut-karnataka-court-directs-police-over-her-anti-farmer-tweet/story-QRc2qB7wnLEPfhr59FeSHN.html
09-10-2020||India||Maharashtra govt to postpone MPSC exam scheduled on Oct 11||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said that the state government has decided to postpone the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) examination scheduled on October 11. The new date for the MPSC exam will be announced soon, Thackeray added.The decision to reschedule the MPSC exam was taken following a second round of meeting with various Maratha organisations after a previous one on Thursday, which was attended by Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and other key ministers from the state cabinet for a dialogue with three delegations led by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) member of Parliament Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje, BJP legislator Vinayak Mete and Suresh Patil of Maratha Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti.The Maratha outfits believe that in the absence of Maratha reservation, youth from the community may lose out on job opportunities in the government sector if the exams are not postponed till the quota matter is resolved.The Supreme Court had on September 9 stayed the reservation to Marathas in jobs and education for 2020-21. The community was given reservations of 12% and 13% in employment and admissions, respectively, in 2018, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act. Many students had also requested earlier that the MPSC exam be postponed. More than 250,000 students have applied for the exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-led-govt-to-postpone-maharashtra-public-service-commission-exam-scheduled-on-oct-11/story-QTfvOJOTqemEGa6rEO6MsN.html
09-10-2020||India||Full support for peace in Afghanistan, Jaishankar to Abdullah Abdullah||Afghan negotiator Abdullah Abdullah rounded off his talks with the Indian leadership on the Afghan peace process with a meeting on Friday with external affairs minister S Jaishankar, who said India remains committed to peace and stability in Afghanistan. Since he arrived in New Delhi on Tuesday, the chairman of Afghanistan’s High Council for National Reconciliation has met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and army chief Gen MM Naravane and briefed them on the peace process and the talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban in Doha. After the meeting on Friday afternoon, Jaishankar tweeted that he and Abdullah had a “good discussion on our bilateral cooperation and regional issues”. Jaishankar added: “Welcomed his insights and perspectives on recent developments. As a neighbour, India remains committed to peace, prosperity and stability in Afghanistan.” Abdullah said in a tweet that he and Jaishankar had “exchanged views on the #AfghanPeaceProcess, bilateral relations, & regional support for peace efforts. He assured me of India’s full support for peace in Afghanistan.” Abdullah’s visit is part of an outreach to key countries in the region to seek support for the negotiations in Doha. Before travelling to India, he visited Pakistan last week for talks with the civil and military leadership. Abdullah told the Pakistani leaders that a message about reducing violence and showing greater flexibility in negotiations should be communicated to the Taliban. At their meeting on Thursday, PM Modi assured Abdullah of India’s continued backing for the Afghan peace process. Abdullah also said Modi had assured him that India will back any settlement acceptable to the Afghan people. However, Abdullah said at an event organised by a think tank on Thursday that a premature withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan will have consequences, especially if the Taliban don’t deliver on commitments to prevent the use of Afghan soil by groups such as al-Qaeda and Islamic State. He made the remarks shortly after US President Donald Trump tweeted that he planned to pull out all American troops from Afghanistan by Christmas, months ahead of the earlier deadline of May 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-support-for-peace-in-afghanistan-jaishankar-to-abdullah-abdullah/story-GVuBoC3UO6vrBrGG4bAUYM.html
09-10-2020||India||‘Navratri special’: Vande Bharat train likely to shuttle between Katra and Delhi||Ahead of the nine-day-long Navratri festival, the BJP government plans to run Vande Bharat express trains to Katra town in Jammu and Kashmir from Delhi for Shri Mata Vaishno Devi pilgrims. The plan, however, is likely to materialise after things settle down in neighbouring Punjab where farmers have blocked rail tracks over controversial farm laws recently passed by the Parliament. This year, the Navratri festival will begin from October 17. Vande Bharat train service was suspended in March this year after the pilgrimage was suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “To begin with, Vande Bharat Express trains will be run but we are waiting for Punjab protests to settle down,” union minister Dr Jitendra Singh told HT. On Thursday, he said that the Vande Bharat express train from Delhi to Katra, a town near the Mata Vaishno Devi temple, will resume soon. “Discussed with Railway Minister Sh @PiyushGoyal. #VandeBharatExpress train from Delhi to #KatraVaishnoDevi to resume soon. This should be a reassuring piece of information for pilgrims from across the country planning a visit to Holy shrine during #Navratri festival,” Dr Singh had tweeted on Thursday. Also read: Ram temple construction - Carved stones being moved from Nyas workshop to JanmabhoomiRailways have plans to run two trains to Katra for the ensuing Navratri festival when the cave shrine attracts maximum pilgrims from India and abroad. “Though there is no request from us to run special trains for the ensuing Navratri festival, we have come to know that Vande Bharat trains are likely to be run following intervention by union minister Dr Jitendra Singh,” said officials of the shrine board. They informed that the board has started making arrangements for the Navratri festival. “However, this time around there will be no extravaganza. Only Durga Saptshati Paath shall be held at the main bus stand at Katra purely as per SoPs for the Covid-19 pandemic,” they informed. Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, however, has decided to increase the cap on the number of pilgrims to 7,000 from 5,000 per day. “From October 15, the shrine board has decided to allow 7,000 pilgrims per day and there is no rider on how many outsiders should be present among the number of pilgrims,” they added. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic the, sanctum sanctorum will be decked up with exotic flowers. “The Bhawan (sanctum sanctorum) will be decorated with flowers from abroad like we do every Navratri festival. The mobilisation has started on Friday,” said officials. They informed that flowers from Britain, Switzerland, South Africa, Sri Lanka and Dubai will be brought and floral decorators will get down to the task of tastefully decorating the sanctum sanctorum. These flowers include gladiolus, carnations, lilies and anthurium orchids. They remain fresh for almost ten days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navratri-special-vande-bharat-train-likely-to-shuttle-between-katra-and-delhi/story-63Q0oLSuiNl3AHtlU6Gt6L.html
09-10-2020||India||Hathras crime scene to be recreated to find ‘missing links’; victim’s kin to be present||The Uttar Pradesh police will recreate the crime scene in the Hathras gang-rape case to find the “missing links” amid contrasting statements from the family of the 19-year-old Dalit victim’s family and the versions offered by other villagers, said senior police officials privy to the investigation.The 19-year-old Dalit victim was injured in the brutal attack after she was allegedly gang-raped by upper caste youths on September 14. She succumbed to her injuries at a Delhi hospital on September 29.A senior police official said the investigators are trying to collect all possible evidence related to the crime. He further said they (investigators) have decided to recreate the crime scene in different ways as the statements of the family and other witnesses are quite different.Another official, requesting anonymity, said the investigators have found four sickles and a slipper from the crime scene in a ‘bajra’ field near the victim’s house. He said it suggests that there were at least four people who were cutting crops and may have been eyewitness to the entire episode.The statement of the victim’s mother and brother, the officer said, will be recorded in detail to recreate the sequence of events in their presence. He said although the state government has already recommended a CBI probe into the case, but police investigators are trying to collect all details related to the crime and it will be handed over to the CBI when it takes over the case.5 police officers suspended Meanwhile, the three-member SIT recorded the statement of several witnesses on Friday. On the basis of SIT’s preliminary report earlier, the state government suspended five police officers, including the then Hathras superintendent of police Vikrant Vir, earlier.The SIT comprising secretary (home) Bhagwan Swaroop Srivastava, deputy inspector general of police Chandra Prakash and commandant, Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), Agra, Poonam (goes by one name).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crime-scene-in-hathras-case-to-be-recreated-in-presence-of-victim-s-family/story-YGWpfe69df9QtmpWwzTVJO.html
09-10-2020||India||Delhi’s Connaught Place to get a smog tower: What you need to know||The Delhi Cabinet on Friday approved a proposal to install a smog tower in Connaught Place to deal with air pollution. The government has stationed Rs 20 crore, and the tower will come up in 10 months, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said, claiming that it will be the first of its kind in the world.Following high pollution levels in the national capital, the Supreme Court had in November 2019 asked the Centre and the Delhi government to come up with a road map on installing smog towers in the national capital region (NCR) to combat air pollution. Delhi’s first smog tower came up at Lajpat Nagar central market on January 3. Gautam Gambhir, former cricketer and BJP MP from East Delhi inaugurated a prototype air purifier at Lajpat Nagar. The 20-feet-tall tower is fitted with exhaust fans to suck in polluted air and can remove up to 80% of the particulate matter (PM 2.5 and PM10) -- the primary pollutant in Delhi’s air.Know everything about smog tower and how it works:1. Smog towers are structures designed to work as large-scale air purifiers. They are usually fitted with multiple layers of air filters, which clean the air of pollutants as it passes through them.2. The smog tower sucks the polluted air, which is purified by the multiple layers before re-circulated into the atmosphere. To purify the air; the highly effective H14 grade Highly Effective Particulate Arrestance (HEPA) filter would be used. This filter can clean up to 99.99% Particulate Matter (PM) present in the air with the help of pre-filter and activated carbon.3. The smog tower installed in Lajpat Nagar is cylindrical in design and built like a pole with a big inlet and four outlet units. The giant air purifier is fitted with exhaust fans to suck in polluted air with the help of a big inlet unit. It is painted in four colours – orange on the top, white in the middle, green colour just above the bottom and blue at the bottom. The tower will run on electricity.4. The cost of each smog tower is to be around Rs 10 to 12 crore which includes filtering equipment, monitoring system and construction of the tower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-connaught-place-to-get-a-smog-tower-what-you-need-to-know/story-UQ4l6aJvlMVjYUfDqWlqpN.html
09-10-2020||India||Judge holds midnight hearing, sends major to army custody in dowry case||A local court here held a midnight hearing on Thursday and decided to send a major arrested in a dowry torture case to army custody instead of jail.The judge of sub-divisional judicial magistrate’s (SDJM) court S K Mishra visited the court at 10 pm after attempts to hold the hearing through video conferencing failed. The hearing continued till past 1.30 am.After the hearing, the judged ordered that the major arrested be send to army custody instead of jail.Earlier, the Mahila Police Station had arrested the major on the basis of his wife’s allegation of physical and mental torture for dowry and attempt to murder. The army officer was staying in Nayapalli area in the city.A case has been registered against the army officer at the police station under various sections of IPC and Dowry Prohibition Act.The officer had allegedly threatened his wife to shoot her to death if she doesn’t bring money from her parents.The wife in her complaint said that though the matter was settled mutually earlier, her husband continued the torture. Though police served a notice to the major, he did not respond. On Thursday, he was arrested by police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judge-holds-midnight-hearing-sends-major-to-army-custody-in-dowry-case/story-sxdiW3wxddRacSvFYhm9cP.html
09-10-2020||India||AI device to monitor quality of mid-day meals developed by IIM startup||A startup incubated in Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Kashipur, Uttarakhand has developed an artificial intelligence (AI) and internet of things (IoT) based device which could help in real-time monitoring of the quality and quantity of food and agriculture products. The device developed could largely help in monitoring the quality of food being offered to children in schools under the mid-day meal programme in the country. It could also potentially help the farmers in selling their produce directly to the buyers by enabling the buyers to assess the quality of the produce from any corner of the state. Ankur Jain, founder and CEO of the startup named Udyog Yantra said, “The device was developed in about one and a half years before it was launched in March this year.” “It is based on AI and IoT based mechanism with connection to the internet. Recognised by Startup India, the device ensures real time monitoring and quality control of food, agricultural and farm supplies” said Jain. Also Read: Uttarakhand forest department uses solar repeller technique to check movement of wild animals He informed that the startup is in talks with some state governments to install the device in schools to monitor and control the quality of food served under mid-day meal programme. “Once installed in the schools, if a child with his mid-day meal food stands in front of the device, it will provide all information like how much nutrients it has, its temperature and even quantity. This will help the authorities concerned to monitor the programme, riddled with complaints of sub-standard food,” said Jain. “It would have been installed in some schools of the country by now but due to Covid-19, it got delayed,” said Jain. Also Read: Uttarakhand govt told to answer 97 questions scrutinising health facilitiesStartup co-founder Puneet Gulati, said the device would also be very helpful in farmers selling their produce anywhere in the world. “Usually, there are middlemen in between the farmers and the buyers. But if the farmer wants to sell his produce on the basis of quality claims, this device will enable him to contact the potential buyer sitting anywhere. The buyer will be able to evaluate the quality and quantity of the produce and match it with farmers claims,” said Gulati. Gulati add that the device has been used by some cloud kitchen platforms in Mumbai to let the customers know the quality and quantity of the food they were going to buy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ai-device-to-monitor-quality-of-mid-day-meals-developed-by-iim-startup/story-40xvnknmUpQaOLJEoriq3H.html
09-10-2020||India||India committed to peace in Afghanistan: Jaishankar after meeting Abdullah Abdullah||Minister of external affairs S Jaishankar on Friday met Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah and assured that India was committed to peace, prosperity and stability in the neighbouring country.The two leaders also discussed bilateral cooperation and regional issues during the meeting. “Pleased to meet Chairman HCNR @DrabdullahCE. A good discussion on our bilateral cooperation and regional issues. Welcomed his insights and perspectives on recent developments. As a neighbour, India remains committed to peace, prosperity and stability in Afghanistan,” Jaishankar wrote on Twitter after meeting the Abdullah, who is the chairperson of High Council for National Reconciliation, at Hyderabad House in New Delhi.Abdullah too took to Twitter and said that the two leaders also talked about the Afghan peace process apart from bilateral ties and regional issues. “As always pleased to meet HE @DrSJaishankar, the External Affairs Minister of India. We exchanged views on the #AfghanPeaceProcess, bilateral relations, & regional support for peace efforts. He assured me of India’s full support for peace in Afghanistan,” he tweeted.Jaishankar’s meeting with Abdullah comes after the Afghan leader met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday to brief him on the peace process and the talks currently being held by his country’s government and the Taliban at Doha in Qatar.Before meeting Modi, he also met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval on Wednesday. Doval told Abdullah that India favours a democratic and sovereign Afghanistan “where no terrorists can operate”.Abdullah is in India for a five-day visit, which began on Tuesday, as part of an outreach to key countries in the region for seeking support for the negotiations in Doha. He travelled to New Delhi after a three-day visit to Islamabad last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-committed-to-peace-in-afghanistan-jaishankar-after-meeting-abdullah-abdullah/story-mKNtndPPDMUNDixOj4yvcN.html
09-10-2020||India||NCPCR decision to send children in care centres back to their families draws Supreme Court ire||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) to explain why it had ordered the immediate repatriation of children in child care institutions (CCIs) to their families when they were more prone to domestic violence and abuse during the pandemic.The letter issued by the NCPCR’s Senior Consultant, Legal Division, on September 24 to Karnataka was produced before the court in a suo moto proceeding. In addition to Karnataka, seven other states received similar letters from NCPCR.Taking serious view of the letter, amicus curiae Gaurav Agarwal, who is assisting the court in the suo moto proceeding, said, “The pandemic has rendered children even more vulnerable, as it appears that cases of domestic abuse, child labour, child marriages are increasing, and increasing poverty has led to a substantial increase in the number of children in need of care and protection.”Annexing the letter with a short note, Agarwal said that such a direction could not be given by NCPCR unless they were satisfied about the suitability of the parents, guardian, or fit person with whom the child is to be repatriated. This duty is cast upon NCPCR under Section 40(3) of Juvenile Justice Act, Agarwal said.The three-judge bench of justices LN Rao, Hemant Gupta and Ajay Rastogi agreed with Agarwal and issued a notice to the Centre and NCPCR to file a response. The bench said, “Such repatriation may be done on a case to case basis but not as a general order…This may be problematic for children who have been sent back.” The court has posted the matter for hearing on November 24.The Centre, too, shared the concern expressed by the Court. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhatti said, “Our officers are trying to find out the circumstances under which such a direction was issued by NCPCR. It is true that cases of domestic violence and abuse of children are on the rise during the pandemic.”The apex court had issued an order on April 3 this year asking CCIs and shelter homes to ensure there is no crowding of inmates in their institutions. Two instances were brought to the attention of the court wherein children contracted Covid-19 as necessary precautions were not taken.“The NCPCR seems to have made the April 3 order of the Court as the basis for its letter,” Agarwal said, pointing out that the April 3 order was a temporary measure to help contain the spread of pandemic. “Many children are in CCIs due to poverty or their parents’ incapacity to look after them. There are children who are orphaned, abandoned, victims of child abuse, trafficking, child labour, child marriage, and homeless. For them, institutional care is the only resort,” Agarwal stated in his note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncpcr-decision-to-send-children-in-care-centres-back-to-their-families-draws-supreme-court-ire/story-gu4hfUlcuOPir8TovL6h5I.html
09-10-2020||India||‘Kerala hasn’t learnt’: Ecologists react to tunnel project in Western Ghats||Green activists in Kerala are opposing the proposed 6.8 km tunnel along Kozhikode-Wayanad road, to be the third longest tunnel in the country once completed, calling it a recipe for ecological and other natural disasters. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had launched the project on Monday with much fanfare and vowed it will be completed in three years time. The state government had given administrative sanction for the first phase of the project, worth Rs 658 crore, and roped in the Konkan Railway Corporation Limited for its construction. The government also took the Catholic Church into confidence before announcing the project. Thamarassery Bishop Remigiose Inchananiyil was one of the guests at the launch ceremony. During protests against Madhav Gadgil and Kasturirangan committee reports on the Western Ghats, the church was at the forefront as most of the fringe forest areas were allegedly occupied by associated believers. The church had said the two reports were a ploy to push believers out of their land. The project is yet to get mandatory environmental clearance from various agencies and no environmental impact study has been done, claimed a prominent group of environmentalists. “It is a big joke that the CM announced the project one fine morning and gave it much publicity like the recent Atal tunnel in Leh. No environmental impact or feasibility study was done. We feel it is only a poll gimmick and we suspect mining barons want to plunder granite and stones in the name of tunnel construction,” said Wayanad Prakruthi Samraskshna Samiti, a prominent group of environmentalists and nature- lovers. However, the Left parties said the “dream project” will go ahead and there will be no surrendering to “hyper green activism.” Also Read: IIT Mandi researchers develop cost-effective, environment friendly catalystThe CM said many projects were stalled due to controversies in the past and the tunnel project will not be allowed to meet the same fate. They have asked grassroots units of the party to muster support for the project. “Many development projects are mired in controversies. Now controversies can wait, developmental projects will go ahead,” the CM said, and added that the government will clear all the hurdles in its path. According to the government the tunnel will reduce the distance between Kozhikode and Mysuru by 30 kms. It is alleged that the state forest department was kept in the dark over the tunnel project, which will pass through mountain ranges of the ecologically sensitive Camel Hub Complex. State forest minister K Raju is reported to have registered his protest on the issue. Also Read: Kanjur draws black kites, may threaten aircraft safety while landing: BNHS tells Bombay HCIt is the same area where a massive landslide took place last year claiming many lives in Puthumala. Geological Survey of India had suggested minimum human interference in the area. “Kaladi, where the tunnel will end is a high intensity rainfall area which receives at least five times the normal rainfall. In both expert panel reports on Western Ghats (Gadgil and Kasturirangan), it was earmarked as the most sensitive area. It is also a favourite habitat of the Asian elephants,” said N Badusha, a conservationist. He said it was difficult to buy the government’s theory that a subterranean tunnel won’t affect dense forests and pristine hills. Environmental activists are planning a convention in Wayanad against the tunnel once Covid-19 situation improves. They say they are shocked by the way the CM announced the project and set a deadline. “It seems Kerala is yet to learn a lesson from two consecutive floods that claimed many lives; its greed is not on the wane either. It has kept its eyes on some of the remaining green cover. Votaries of the tunnel should think about the next generation also,” said Dr V S Vijayan, environmental scientist who was in the team of Madhav Gadgil committee that prepared a report on the fragile ecology of depleting Western Ghats. Vijayan said it is one of the most vulnerable areas of the 1,600 km long Western Ghats mountain ranges that play a key role in breaking clouds during the monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hasn-t-learnt-ecologists-react-to-tunnel-project-in-western-ghats/story-C17vG9Zr9Jsm7G2yNaiG5M.html
09-10-2020||India||BJP leader Satish Poonia slams Rajasthan police after priest’s death||The Rajasthan Police now seems to be following the slogan “Apradhi Mast, Janta Trast” (criminals having fun, public in distress) under Congress rule, said State BJP President Satish Poonia on Friday over the incident of a temple priest being set on fire in the Karauli district.“This case of a temple priest being burnt alive proves that law and order machinery in the State has collapsed and criminals have no fear of the law. Rajasthan Police’s slogan seems to have now changed to ‘Apradhi Mast, Janta Trast’ under Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot,” Poonia told reporters here.The BJP leader further condemned the incident, terming it “inhuman” and “horrifying.”Meanwhile, police have arrested the main accused in connection with the incident, in which a temple priest succumbed to his injuries on Thursday night after he was allegedly burnt alive by few people over a row on land at Bukna village in Sapotra, Karauli district.Superintendent of Police (SP), Karauli, Mridul Kachhwa said that the prime accused has been arrested and the remaining suspects will also be nabbed soon.“Priest Babulal gave a statement to police in the hospital that few influential people including accused Kailash Meena and his sons tried to encroach his land and during a dispute accused set the fence on fire in which priest got severely burnt. Six of our teams are working currently and the remaining accused too will be nabbed soon,” Kacchwa said.Meanwhile, Additional Commissioner, Law and Order, said that the victim’s family had put forth some demands which will be conveyed to the administration.“Relatives of the victim demanded ex-gratia, we will send the proposal to the government. Secondly, they also want action against local police, alleging negligence. We have assured probe and action against the cops in 24 hours if they are found guilty,” Additional Commissioner Rahul said.The official said that a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) level officer from another circle will carry out the investigation.Furthermore, the late priest Babulal’s relatives have demanded the arrest of the accused’s entire family, along with action against the local officers.“Only one accused has been arrested for burning the priest. We demand the accused’s entire family involved in this case should be arrested and police officials should be suspended for inaction. There is anger in the entire Brahmin community,” Ramakant Sharma, a relative of the late priest said.Earlier, the State’s former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje has condemned the incident and urged the Congress government to “wake up from its slumber and ensure strict punishment to the culprits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-satish-poonia-slams-rajasthan-police-after-priest-s-death/story-KxDBwDBqBKtGWN4k6b94AJ.html
09-10-2020||India||Rudram missile: Know more about India’s indigenously developed NGARM||India successfully test-fired Rudram 1, its first indigenous anti-radiation missile developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for the Indian Air Force, on Friday. A Sukhoi-30 fighter aircraft was used to test-fire the indigenously developed new generation anti-radiation missile (NGARM) off the country’s east coast.Rudram 1 can be integrated to IAF’s Sukhoi-30 jets and used as its launch platform. Rudram 1 can be used to detect and hone in on a radio source, according to defence website defenceupdate.in. This gives Rudram 1 the ability to detect enemy radars on the ground. Once these missiles disarm enemy radars on the ground, it can help inflict more damage in the attacks that follow the first wave.NGARM’s primary guidance system is an on-board passive homing head (PHH) armed with broadband capability. These features allow it to choose and select a target among the range of emitters that it sees at that point of time. The new NGARMs with PHH operates in the D-J band and can detect radio frequency emission from 100km away. Rudram 1 is a target seeking missile and contains a radar dome which is critical for missiles which can be used to target and destroy enemy based radars on the ground. Rudram can strike any range between 100-250 km.Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated IAF and DRDO for its successful test. “The New Generation Anti-Radiation Missile (Rudram-1) which is India’s first indigenous anti-radiation missile developed by DRDO for Indian Air Force was tested successfully today at ITR, Balasore. Congratulations to DRDO & other stakeholders for this remarkable achievement,” the defence minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rudram-missile-how-do-ngarms-work/story-C2mUYlqGY9hvU34D7lty2H.html
09-10-2020||India||PM Modi to launch property cards under SVAMITVA scheme on Oct 11||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Sunday launch the physical distribution of property cards under the SVAMITVA (Survey of Villages And Mapping With Improvised Technology In Village Areas) scheme that enables rural masses to use property as a financial asset, the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement on Friday.The launch event will begin at 11am on Sunday where PM Modi will also interact with some of the beneficiaries. Union minister for panchayati raj Narendra Singh Tomar will also join the programme. The property cards being rolled out under the SVAMITVA scheme launched by the Prime Minister in April are physical copies of property titles of the villagers’ homes and the surrounding areas they own (as opposed to the cultivated land), which will be handed over to around 132,000 landowners during the event.Post the launch, the state governments will physically distribute the cards to people from more than 750 villages across six states. “The historic move set to transform rural India” will enable around 100,000 property holders to download their property cards through an SMS link delivered on their mobile phones.According to the PMO, the beneficiaries are from 763 villages including 346 from Uttar Pradesh, 221 from Haryana, 100 from Maharashtra, 44 from Madhya Pradesh, 50 from Uttarakhand and 2 from Karnataka.Beneficiaries from all the states, except Maharashtra, will receive the physical copies of the property cards within one day and since the western state has a system of recovering the nominal cost these cards, it will take a month’s time, it added.The SVAMITVA scheme will cover 662,000 villages in a phased manner over a period of four years and the move will pave the way for using property as a financial asset by villagers for taking loans and other financial benefits, the statement said. The PMO also hailed the exercise as the first such large-scale exercise, involving the most modern means of technology, that will benefit millions of rural property owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-property-cards-under-svamitva-scheme-on-oct-11/story-6ortWNs79HseKp26cTMmRP.html
09-10-2020||India||PM Modi phones Putin, appreciates his ‘personal contribution’ to deepen ties||Although Russia wants India and China to bilaterally resolve the Ladakh military stand-off, President Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister Narendra Modi maintain a close personal relationship that is the bedrock of bilateral Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership.On Wednesday, PM Modi called up President Putin to wish him 68th birthday, just as the latter phoned PM Modi to wish him on his 70th birthday on September 17. In a tweet, PM Modi later said he appreciated Putin’s “immense personal contribution” to strengthening the special and privileged strategic partnership between the two counries. Among others who congratulated President Putin on his birthday were leaders of Israel, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Cuba, Moldova, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan.It is interesting to note that while Russia and China have an economic and security relationship, the personal touch between President Putin and President Xi Jinping has been missing from both sides.According to diplomats based in Moscow and New Delhi, while Russia has offered India winter clothing and Sprut light weight tanks with a T-90 barrel for Ladakh stand-off, there are reports that Moscow has delayed the supply of the second S-400 surface to air missile system ostensibly on account of the coronavirus pandemic. China has contracted to buy four S-400 systems from Russia, the first one has already been deployed near Nyingchi across Arunachal Pradesh.India has a deal to buy 5 S-400 systems from Russia, deliveries of which are likely to begin at the end of next year. The order of additional Su-30 MKI and MiG-29 fighters to replenish the reserve are already on schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-phones-putin-appreciates-his-personal-contribution-to-deepen-ties/story-mg8pCmFI2Vrko45fFUUumI.html
09-10-2020||India||BSP revives 2007 Dalit-Brahmin formula, hopes to unseat Yogi in 2022 polls||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) is looking to recreate the Dalit-Brahmin chemistry for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. The party had used the same formula in 2007 assembly polls in which it won a majority.With about 18-months left for UP polls, BSP’s Brahmin face, Satish Chandra Mishra has started holding meetings of Brahmins district committees to mobilise them in favour of BSP.In the last two months, Mishra, also party’s national general secretary, has chaired meetings of 73 such committees in which an impressive number of Brahmins participated.“Except for a few districts of west UP, the Brahmin committee meetings of east UP, central UP and Bundelkhand regions have been concluded. The party is getting an immense response, similar to what we got in 2007 assembly elections,” said Mishra.He added that the meetings were a success despite the restrictions in place due to Covid-19 guidelines. “Due to Covid-19, the meetings have been organized according to the government guidelines. Batches of hundred influential Brahmin community members participated in each meeting to ensure social distancing and were told to hold meetings of the community in their areas,” Mishra said.“I will hold meetings of the Brahmin community in all 403 assembly segments after October 15 when the central government is expected to announce fresh guidelines for political and social meetings and after which I will plan the next round of the meetings across UP,” he said, giving a glimpse of his planned outreach to the influential community. Also Read: Yogi Adityanath government extends laundry scheme to all DalitsBSP is also contesting the bypolls on all the seven assembly seats in the state. It has also declared its candidates on six seats, where Mishra is leading the party campaign. Party leaders and office bearers have been directed to mobilise their resources for the bypolls in which the BSP is anxious to do well. Of the 7 assembly seats due for bypolls, BJP held six while the Samajwadi Party had held one. Also Read: UP BJP chief authorised to finalise names for bypolls“Riding on the social engineering formula the BSP grabbed power in the 2007 assembly election. It went for pre-poll alliance with Samajwadi Party in the 2019 Lok Sabha election and due to the Dalit-Yadav combination, the party managed to secure victory on 10 seats. BSP enjoys considerable support over the Dalit voters and it’s evident from the fact that in 2014 Lok Sabha, 2017 assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha elections, it polled anywhere between 21% to 19% votes,” said AK Saxena, a political analyst.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-revives-2007-dalit-brahmin-formula-hopes-to-unseat-yogi-in-2022-polls/story-itVY7gmYOFQmMkHcKIU6IP.html
09-10-2020||India||A look at Serum Institute, its CEO Adar Poonawalla as world awaits Covid-19 vaccine||Cyrus Poonawalla of Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine producer by the number of doses manufactured, entered the Forbes List of India’s 100 richest that was released amid the outbreak of Covid-19.Cyrus Poonawalla was at the sixth spot on the coveted list. “Amid the Covid-19 pandemic which hit India hard and led to a sharp economic contraction, half of the nation’s 100 richest on the 2020 Forbes India Rich List saw gains,” Forbes said.Cyrus Poonawalla’s son Adar Poonawalla is the current CEO of SII. He joined the company his father started in 1966, after graduating from the University of Westminster in 2001.SII has been in the spotlight for the past few months as it is to manufacture the coronavirus vaccine developed by Oxford University’s Jenner Institute and AstraZeneca in India. It began trials in the country in August-end and in last week of September, the third phase of human clinical trial began at the state-run Sassoon General Hospital in Pune.On September 26, Poonawalla tweeted whether the Indian government would have Rs 80,000 crore available over the next one year because that is the amount which is required to buy and distribute vaccine everyone in the country. A day later, he applauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision. “We share and applaud your vision @narendramodi ji, on providing vaccines to the global community. It is a proud moment for India, thank you for your leadership and support. It is clear that all your arrangements for India will take care of all needs for the Indian people,” he said.After overcoming a hurdle on September 10, when the trials had to be paused in India a day after the United Kingdom-based developers announced a global halt of the human experiments because a patient developed a potentially serious condition, SII has got back to planning around manufacturing and distributing the vaccine once it is ready. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave approval to the institute a week later to resume the trials.“The permission has been given to restart the trials with certain conditions,” said a senior official aware of the developments in the DCGI office. “Extra care during screening, additional information [for] informed consent and close monitoring for similar events during the study follow-up would need to be followed,” DGCI said. According to Adar Poonawalla, the SII is to produce one billion doses of the vaccine candidate which is among the front-runners in the fight against coronavirus.In September, the institute claimed that it along with along with Gavi and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation will manufacture an additional up to 100 million Covid-19 vaccine doses for India and low- and middle-income countries, according to news agency PTI.The latest collaboration between the partners brings the total number of vaccine doses to be covered to an aggregate of up to 200 million doses, SII said in a statement.Another recent statement that put Poonawalla under the spotlight was his response to a tweet by film producer Ronnie Screwvala. Screwvala had tweeted about a special quota of Covid-19 vaccine for Parsis. “More than enough” doses of the vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca will be kept for the Parsi community, Poonawalla replied.He, however, did not specify the quantity of the doses that will be kept for the community which is grappling with shrinking population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-look-at-serum-institute-and-its-ceo-adar-poonawalla-s-2020-journey-as-world-awaits-covid-19-vaccine/story-A7L1IJZCkivgQ2fTJnpR5H.html
09-10-2020||India||‘They bring happiness to countless lives’: PM Modi greets India Post Office team on World Post Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday extended greetings to employees of India Post on the occasion of World Post Day.“We are extremely proud of the @IndiaPostOffice Team for their efforts to connect India. They bring happiness to countless lives. On #WorldPostDay, greetings to them and their families. Best wishes for all future endeavours,” the Prime Minister tweeted. Union Minister of Communications, Electronics and Information Technology and Communications Ravi Shankar Prasad also extended congratulations to the employees of India Post for their service even amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “On #WorldPostDay, I want to congratulate all the employees of @IndiaPostOffice - the largest postal network in the world, for their stellar service to citizens even during the pandemic. My tribute to those employees who lost their lives during the pandemic while serving the nation,” the Union Minister tweeted. He also shared a video that narrated the contributions made by India Post employees in the last few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-bring-happiness-to-countless-lives-pm-modi-greets-india-post-office-team-on-world-post-day/story-kKx1AzOMKlJq2GL4ypOuxM.html
09-10-2020||India||India test-fires Rudram 1, its first anti-radiation missile to kill enemy radars||India on Friday successfully test-fired Rudram 1, the tactical anti-radiation missile that the Indian Air Force can launch from its Sukhoi-30MKI fighter jets to take down enemy radars and surveillance systems. The missile has a launch speech of up to 2 Mach, twice the speed of sound, people familiar with the matter said.The Defence Research and Development Organisation developed the new generation weapon. It was tested at the interim test range Balasore, off the coast of Odisha in the Bay of Bengal, at about 10.30 am.“This is a huge step forward,” a senior government official said about the DRDO’s successful test firing. “The IAF will now have the capability to perform SEAD (Suppression of Enemy Air Defence) operations deep into enemy territory to destroy enemy air defence setup,” the official said.This would allow the IAF’s strike aircraft to carry out their mission unhindered effectively. “This test demonstrates the capability of an Anti-Radiation Missile with large stand-off ranges,” a second official said.Watch l Watch: India test fires anti-radiation missile Rudram-1 l All you need to know The New Generation Anti-Radiation Missile, or NGARM, is integrated on Su-30MKI fighter aircraft. Its range depends on the height at which the fighter jet is flying. It can be launched from a height ranging from 500 metres to 15 km and can hit radiation emitting targets within a range of 250 km.All radars and Electro Optical Tracking System tracked the launch and point of impact, a senior government official told Hindustan Times.The tactical, air-to-surface anti-radiation missile is equipped with a passive homing head that tracks sources of radiation of a wide range of frequencies. It can lock into a target not only before launch but also after it has been launched.Also Read: India launches Rudram missile. How do NGARMs workThe missile is comparable to the tactical air-to-surface missile AGM-88E Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided Missile that was inducted by the US Navy only in 2017 and can engage relocatable Integrated Air Defence targets and other targets equipped with shutdown capability. This means that if the enemy shuts down the radar after the missile is launched, it will still hit the target.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh tweeted his congratulations to the DRDO team that developed the supersonic-capable missile that can be launched at speeds ranging from 0.6 Mach to 2 Mach.“The New Generation Anti-Radiation Missile (Rudram-1) which is India’s first indigenous anti-radiation missile developed by DRDO for Indian Air Force was tested successfully today at ITR, Balasore. Congratulations to DRDO & other stakeholders for this remarkable achievement,” Rajnath Singh said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-test-fires-rudram-1-its-first-anti-radiation-missile-to-take-down-enemy-radars/story-SYP6qWQOXmZrK7ViSPG54K.html
09-10-2020||India||Dhanora rape case: Chattisgarh BJP demands Bhupesh Baghel’s resignation, prompt action was taken, says Congress||Amid the war of words between political parties over the Hathras gang-rape case, the Bhartiya Janata Party has demanded the resignation of Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel over the state government’s handling of the Dhanora gang rape case.In July, a 17-year-old tribal girl died by suicide after she was allegedly gang-raped by five men in the Kondagaon district. Three accused have been arrested so far.While speaking to news agency ANI, Chhattisgarh BJP President Vishnu Dev Sai condemned the incident and said that the Congress-led government has no right to protest against the Hathras case when rsimilar incidents are taking place in Congress-ruled Chattisgarh.“There are constant attacks happening on tribals in the state, the Chhattisgarh government’s police are not ready to register FIRs. Congress is holding protests against Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras incident in Chhattisgarh, but they themselves are not able to do anything about the multiple Hathras’ in the state,” Sai said, adding that there is no rule of law in Chhattisgarh.State Congress chief Mohan Markam defended the state government’s approach by saying that the incident came to knowledge recently and prompt action had been taken, including the arrest of the three accused.“Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel government is sensitive to such incidents and believes in taking prompt action. It is definitely a matter of concern that such acts are taking place repeatedly, it cannot be allowed to happen in the civil society,” he added.On Wednesday, the victim’s body which was buried at the Dhanora police station area was exhumed for further examination by the police after her family members alleged that there was no action taken. Police officials said that the incident was not reported to them.Meanwhile, Bastar range’s inspector general of police (IGP) Sundarraj P said that a Special Investigation Team has been formed to investigate the case.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhanora-rape-case-chattisgarh-bjp-demands-bhupesh-baghel-s-resignation-prompt-action-was-taken-says-congress/story-gz3LfoYzbJ7xGEqIgv2pRN.html
09-10-2020||India||On ex-CBI chief’s ‘suicide,’ Shiv Sena asks why no one interested in knowing exact reason behind his death||The Shiv Sena on Friday said the alleged suicide by former CBI director Ashwani Kumar was shocking and wondered why no one was interested in knowing the exact reason for his mysterious death.An editorial in Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ said, “It is unbelievable that a person like Kumar, who was not just director of the CBI, DGP of Himachal Pradesh, but also served as Governor of Nagaland and Manipur after retirement, can end his life. He had also served in important capacity in the SPG (Special Protection Group).” Kumar was found hanging at his home in Shimla on Wednesday. The 69-year-old left behind a suicide note saying he was “embarking on a new journey”, officials have said.The editorial said the retired IPS officer had a strong mind and body and that is why the government gave him important assignments during his decades-long career.“Such a person ends his life and nobody questions it ...this is surprising,” the Marathi daily said.Without naming Kangana Ranaut, the editorial said, “An actress who is currently residing in Himachal Pradesh should speak on whether Kumar was really fed up with his life or was under some kind of pressure.” The saffron party said news channels should also speak up on the circumstances which led to Kumar’s suicide.The Sena publication said questions raised in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case can come up in the Kumar matter as well.“Sushant was a reel life hero,while Ashwani Kumar was a real-life hero,” it said.The editorial said despite medical proof, some people are not ready to accept that Rajput committed suicide.“But no one is interested in knowingthis mystery (behind Kumar’s death). Times are very difficult,” it said.“We recovered a suicide note in which he (Kumar) had written he is embarking on a new journey. His family members were present when he went inside the room, locked it and committed suicide by hanging himself with a nylon rope.“The family does not suspect any foul play. We have seized the items in the room, Himachal Pradesh DGP Sanjay Kundu had said. PTI MR RSY RSY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-ex-cbi-chief-s-suicide-shiv-sena-asks-why-no-one-interested-in-knowing-exact-reason-behind-his-death/story-iC8kSJwKEJkJsUEA6R8yQM.html
09-10-2020||India||UP: Man beheads wife suspecting infidelity, carries head to police station||In a horrifying incident, a man on Friday decapitated his wife suspecting infidelity and walked with her severed head to the police station where he surrendered.According to police, the accused -- Chinnar Yadav had a quarrel with his wife Vimla (35) at around 7.30 am in their Netanagar locality house. In a fit of rage, Yadav chopped her wife’s head with a sharp edged weapon and carried it to the Baberu Police Station where he surrendered, Superintendent of Police, Mahendra Pratap Singh Chauhan said. A video of the accused walking on the road holding his wife’s chopped head has gone viral on social media, police said.Police have arrested Yadav and recovered the weapon used for the murder. The body of the victim has been sent for postmortem, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-man-beheads-wife-suspecting-infidelity-carries-head-to-police-station/story-aaoDwGP5mjBJnpJjpQUtZL.html
09-10-2020||India||Union Minister Goyal gets additional charge of Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution following Paswan’s death||Union Minister Piyush Goyal on Friday was assigned the additional charge of Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. He was given the additional charge following the death of Lok Janashakti Party (LJP) founder and union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. Goyal is currently serving as the Minister of Railways and Minister of Commerce and Industry in the NDA-led government.Ram Vilas Paswan: Socialist icon, consummate politicianRam Vilas Paswan was hospitalized for the past few weeks and passed away on Thursday evening at the age of 74 at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. He was elected to Lok Sabha eight times and also held the record of winning with high margins from his constituency Hajipur. Politicians across party lines expressed their grief upon receiving the news of Paswan’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-piyush-goyal-gets-additional-charge-of-ministry-of-consumer-affairs-food-and-public-distribution-following-ram-vilas-paswan-s-death/story-0fgFCaSyELynW7QkUjFONN.html
09-10-2020||India||‘Deeply saddened’: Rahul Gandhi writes letter of condolence to Chirag Paswan||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrote a condolence letter to Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan after the death of his father Ram Vilas Paswan on Thursday.“I am deeply saddened by the sudden demise of your father Shri Ram Vilas Paswan. We have lost a veteran leader who left a lasting imprint on politics and public service in both Bihar and our nation,” his letter read.Ram Vilas Paswan died at the age of 74 in a hospital in New Delhi a few days after undergoing a heart surgery. “In an illustrious public life spanning over five decades, he gave voice to the most marginalised sections of our society and defended the rights of the poor and the vulnerable. As member of Parliament and Union Minister, he voiced their interests and concerns with passion,” Gandhi said in his letter.The consumer affairs minister was one of the most noted Dalit leaders of the country. He founded the LJP in 2000, and stepped down as party president after 19 years in November 2019. MP Chirag Paswan holds the top post currently.“His unwavering commitment to social justice and equality is particularly relevant in these times. His enduring legacy will continue to inspire people dedicated to public service,” his letter added.“My thoughts and prayers are with you and your family in this difficult time,” Rahul Gandhi said.Paswan is the second union minister to die in the space of two months - Suresh Angadi died of coronavirus in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deeply-saddened-rahul-gandhi-writes-letter-of-condolence-to-chirag-paswan/story-SMFyxHZpDexkJFahUtbKsK.html
09-10-2020||India||Two low pressure systems will halt monsoon withdrawal, bring rain, says IMD||There are likely to be two low-pressure cyclonic systems in the north Andaman Sea and the Bay of Bengal one after the other over the next week, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The systems will bring above-normal rainfall to major parts of the country except for northwest regions and the western Himalayas and the southern-most part of peninsular India.The two low-pressure systems will also prevent the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon, according to the forecasts. “The withdrawal of the southwest monsoon will not be possible because of the two consecutive low-pressure systems. It will only happen after October 22,” said Dr AK Das, senior scientist, IMD. The monsoon withdrawal starts by September 17 over northwest India and is completed by October 15.Also read: Mumbai monsoon misses withdrawal date; could take another 8-10 days, says IMDThe first low-pressure system will form over the north Andaman Sea and adjoining Bay of Bengal on Friday and move west-northwest towards North Andhra Pradesh and South Odisha coast and reach there as a deep depression around October 11 afternoon.The second system will develop on October 14 and will intensify into a cyclonic disturbance in the subsequent two days. The IMD on Thursday met with all agencies to prepare for the cyclone season between October and December when the conditions are favourable for a cyclone.There have been two cyclones this year, Amphan in May and Nisarga in June.With winter approaching, the night temperatures are also likely to remain below normal in northwest India this week, according to IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-low-pressure-systems-will-halt-monsoon-withdrawal-bring-rain-says-imd/story-ef3yeg254dZGXDGQIofG6H.html
09-10-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine tracker: EU seals new deal, no Oxford vaccine side effects reported in India||Amid the ongoing rage of Covid-19 pandemic, all eyes are on the roll-out of an effective vaccine. Vaccine producers are carrying out clinical trials as countries are sealing new deals. Apart from the safety concerns of the vaccines under trial, the flurry of deals has become a new worry as richer nations are at an advantage to pre-book vaccines, which may lead to unavailability for other countries. Here are the latest Covid-19 vaccine updates:Hong Kong to start trial of nasal sprayHong Kong will start trials for an experimental vaccine which will be administered through nasal spray. This vaccine will be a dual vaccine — to be used for both influenza and Covid-19. Research on the experimental spray received funding from the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations in Norway and Hong Kong’s government, and will join dozens of clinical trials around the world aimed at identifying safe and effective vaccines to prevent Covid-19, Bloomberg reported.University of Hong Kong’s department of microbiology. The candidate vaccine is similar to a nasal spray flu immunization already on the market that’s designed to start working where respiratory viruses typically enter the body: the nose.European Union seals new deal with Johnson & JohnsonThe European Commission has sealed a deal with Johnson & Johnson for the supply of its potential Covid-19 vaccine for up to 400 million people. This is the third advance purchase contract signed by the EU. The other two were with Astrazeneca and Sanofi. Oxford vaccine safe in India so farAbout 53 persons participating in the Covid-19 vaccine trials at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) have not reported any major side effects seven days after being vaccinated. China joins COVAXChina has formally joined COVAX, an initiative by the World Health Organisation — which will ensure equitable distribution of vaccines in the world. The United States and Russia have not yet joined this global vaccine pool. Moderna not to enforce patent rightsVaccine producer Moderna has said that it won’t enforce patents against other vaccine makers during the pandemic. “Moderna recognises that intellectual property rights play an important role in encouraging investment in research… Beyond Moderna’s vaccine, there are other Covid-19 vaccines in development that may use Moderna-patented technologies. We feel a special obligation under the current circumstances to use our resources to bring this pandemic to an end as quickly as possible,” the company said in the statement.“Accordingly, while the pandemic continues, Moderna will not enforce our Covid-19 related patents gainst those making vaccines intended to combat the pandemic. Further, to eliminate any perceived intellectual property barriers to vaccine development during the pandemic period, upon request, we are also willing to license our intellectual property for Covid-19 vaccines to others for the post pandemic period,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-tracker-eu-seals-new-deal-no-oxford-vaccine-side-effects-reported-in-india/story-i0DzY0TxnlQUDIEENCv82L.html
09-10-2020||India||Bengaluru’s Narayana Hospitals employs artificial intelligence to fight Covid-19||Marking a paradigm shift from in-person assessment to online and remote tracking, Narayana Hospitals, a chain of multi-speciality hospitals, heart centres, and primary care facilities headquartered in Bengaluru, has broken away from the traditional doctor consultations to leverage artificial intelligence to reduce the risk of virus transmission. Provision of patients’ vitals in real-time on doctors’ mobile phones, robots that transport blood samples, virtual assessments of cardiac risk and telemedicine are at the forefront of the Covid-19 fight at the Bengaluru hospitals now.The hospitals use technology platforms called Atma and Neha. Atma facilitates payment for consultation, acts as a discharge counter and the pharmacy. Doctors employ Neha to remotely access data such as a patient’s temperature, blood pressure, cardiac arrest risk assessment and to advise patients. Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6.9 million mark; active cases further fall below 900,000The overhaul was discussed as part of a session at the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY)’s conclave RAISE (Responsible Artificial Intelligence for Social Empowerment). MEITY additional secretary Rajendra Kumar moderated the session, which was attended by researchers and participants from across the medical ecosystem. “Analytics can provide relevant information to manage diseases; it can make our access to affordable care easier and promote technology for the poor and the common man. Artificial intelligence for diagnostic solutions, personalised predictions and drug discovery, and repositioning is the future. It can help us tackle Covid-19 and other future pandemics,” Kumar said. Dr Devi Prasad Shetty, chairman and executive director of Narayana Hospitals, said that Covid-19 has fast-tracked the legalisation of telemedicine. “At present, we are treating 400 Covid-19 patients, 100 of whom are in the Intensive Care Unit,” Shetty said. “Our attempt has been that the least number of doctors and support staff comes to the hospitals.” He added that over 17 years, the hospital has treated 53,000 patients with technology. “We asked for telemedicine to be legalised but it didn’t happen. One week of Covid-19 and telemedicine is now a reality,” he added. Shetty said the hospitals leveraged artificial intelligence to develop tools, such as devices attached to patients, that transmit real-time data to doctors’ phones. “We were able to segregate 20% of the patients who were at a higher risk of cardiac arrest, due to comorbidities or other reasons, so that we could provide the vulnerable extra care,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-s-narayana-hospitals-employs-artificial-intelligence-to-fight-covid-19/story-CDml4Fr0kNraNJGSPNOR4O.html
09-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Nagaland govt issues guidelines for Durga Puja celebrations||The Nagaland government has issued guidelines for the celebration of the forthcoming Durga puja, allowing pandals to be set up only at temples in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said.The guidelines issued by the principal secretary, Home Department, R Ramakrishnan on Thursday said as Durga Puja pandals usually see a congregation of a large number of people, it is imperative that suitable regulations are put in place and appropriate measures are taken during the celebration to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Durga Puja pandals will be allowed to be set up only in temples and no pandal shall be allowed to be erected on and by the side of any road, it said, adding that no stalls shall be set up near pandals.The four-day Durga Puja will be held from October 23 to 26.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe guidelines said that a maximum of 30 people including organisers and priests shall be allowed to gather at any time in puja pandals.The puja organisers should not allow any person to enter the puja premises without face cover or mask, Ramakrishnan said, adding that it shall be the responsibility of puja organisers to arrange for facilities for handwashing or sanitisation at the entrance of puja premises.All visitors to the puja pandals shall be subject to thermal scanning by puja organisers and no person with any symptom related to Covid-19 shall be allowed to enter the puja pandals, the guidelines said.Devotees can visit the temples from 5 am till 10 pm and the organisers should ensure sanitisation of the premises before opening and after closing and every six-hours during the day, it said.People above 65 years of age, children below 10 years of age and persons with comorbidities and pregnant women may be advised to avoid visiting the puja pandals, he said.The respective District Task Force headed by the Deputy Commissioner should also make necessary arrangements with the concerned puja committees to ensure that immersion of the idols is suitably staggered so as to avoid congestion and large gatherings at the immersion sites, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-nagaland-govt-issues-guidelines-for-durga-puja-celebrations/story-ENJg8bzeUB8wiH6JbqgFOJ.html
09-10-2020||India||‘Fake evidence planted’: Jharkhand activist Stan Swamy claims before arrest||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested 83-year-old social activist Father Stan Swamy from his residence near Jharkhand’s capital Ranchi in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case on Thursday. Swamy alleged that fake evidence had been planted in his computer before he was arrested by the NIA. Swamy had been questioned as a suspect in the case by the investigating agencies, including by the Pune police in 2018 and also by the NIA on several occasions since 2018.He is likely to be produced before the special NIA court on Friday, where the agency may seek his custody. Swamy is known for fighting for tribals rights in the state of Jharkhand and was part of the Jharkhand Organisation against Uranium Radiation (JOAR), a campaign run against Uranium Corporation India Limited in 1996. He has been working for welfare and rights of displaced people of Bokaro, Santhal Parganas and Koderma. A senior NIA official, who confirmed the arrest, said Swamy was a member of CPI (Maoist) and was actively involved in the activities of the banned outfit.“He also received funds through an associate for the furtherance of CPI (Maoist) activities. He is the convenor of persecuted prisoners’ solidarity committee (PPSC), a frontal organization of CPI (Maoist). The documents related to aiding the activities of CPI (Maoist) and propaganda material of the banned outfit, including its literature, were seized from his possession,” the NIA official said on the condition of anonymity.Swamy had approached the Bombay High court in October 2018 for quashing the complaint filed against him in this case. His lawyer Mihir Desai had then submitted to the court that PPSC has no political colour.Also Read: Bhima Koregaon judicial panel requests state to put hearings on hold due to Covid“The persecuted prisoners solidarity committee is formed by the elite in the society with the aim of assisting prisoners, unnecessarily languishing in various jails in several states and it has no political colour,” reads the submissions made by Desai, mentioned in the court order. The prosecution had also claimed then that Swamy is just considered a suspect and not an accused. The court had dismissed the plea. Two years later, the NIA, which took over the probe in January this year, again began probing his role in the violence case.Also Read: Minor sisters found dead in Jharkhand, police launch probe In a statement released just before he was arrested, Swamy said, “The nature of the present NIA investigation of me has nothing to do about Bhima-Koregaon case in which I have been booked as a ‘suspected-accused ’ and consequently raided twice (28 August 2018 and 12 June 2019). But it had everything to do to somehow establish (i) that I am personally linked to extremist leftist forces, (ii) that through me, Bagaicha is also related to some Maoists. I denied both these allegations in the strongest terms.” Bagaicha is a Jesuit-run social centre, where Swamy lives in a room.Swamy also alleged that NIA fabricated evidence against him. “I was interrogated by NIA for 15 hours during a span of 5 days (July 27 to July 30 and on August 6). Apart from my bio-data and some factual information, several extracts allegedly taken from my computer implicating my connection to Maoist forces were placed before me. I told them all these are fabrications stealthily put into my computer and I disowned them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-evidence-planted-jharkhand-activist-stan-swamy-claims-before-arrest/story-AjN6dIkfBgZ6WkRschPPPO.html
09-10-2020||India||IFS day: PM Modi congratulates IFS officers for furthering national interests||Greeting Indian Foreign Service officers on IFS day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that their work towards serving the nation and furthering national interests globally are commendable.Their efforts during the Vande Bharat Mission, which was launched to bring Indians home from abroad during the COVID-19 pandemic as international travel came to a halt, and other related help to our citizens and other nations is noteworthy, Modi added.In a tweet, the prime minister said, “On IFS day, greetings to all #IndianForeignService officers. Their work towards #ServingTheNation, furthering national interests globally are commendable. Their efforts during Vande Bharat Mission and other COVID related help to our citizens and other nations is noteworthy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ifs-day-pm-modi-congratulates-ifs-officers-for-furthering-national-interests/story-GahDHs7KIvSRikynPmuP9K.html
09-10-2020||India||NIA arrests activist Stan Swamy in Bhima-Koregaon violence case||Ranchi-based human rights activist Father Stan Swamy was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon violence case on Friday.Swamy, 83, has earlier denied involvement in the case. He was detained by the agency for questioning on Thursday. “Yes, we had called Stan Swamy for questioning today and he is at NIA office in Ranchi currently being interrogated about his role,” an official, on the condition of anonymity, said on Thursday.There are high chances that Swamy would be arrested by early morning on Friday, he had added.“Stan Swamy is a member of CPI (Maoist) and actively involved in its activities. He also received funds through an associate for furtherance of the CPI (Maoist) activities. He is convenor of PPSC, frontal organizations of CPI (Maoist). The documents related to communications for furthering the activities of CPI (Maoist) and propaganda material of the CPI (Maoist) and literature were seized from his possession,” another official said.“Further, he was found to be in contact with some of the conspirators namely Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Hany Babu, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde etc. for the furtherance of its activities,” he added.Swamy was questioned for two hours on August 7 in Ranchi and was later summoned to the NIA office in Mumbai for further questioning in the case that relates to an Elgar Parishad event of December 31, 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-activist-stan-swamy-in-bhima-koregaon-violence-case/story-asJbYzvxNETfZ2qZGR0V9M.html
09-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6.9 million mark; active cases further fall below 900,000||In the last 24 hours, India registered 70,496 fresh coronavirus (Covid-19) cases and 964 deaths, which pushed the overall tally and death toll to 6,906,151 and 106,490, respectively. The country’s active cases- which have been below one-million for seventeen consecutive days - further dropped below 900,000 on Friday while over 5.9 million people have recovered from the disease so far. The difference between active cases and recoveries has now climbed to 5,012,477. Also Read| Regeneron’s Covid-19 treatment that Trump claims cured him: All you need to knowMaharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat are some of the states which continue to be worst-hit from the pandemic. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally is nearing the 1.5 million mark and 39,430 people have succumbed to the infection.Although fewer fresh cases have been logged in Maharashtra in the past eight days, officials pointed out that Covid-19 testing is still less than the full capacity. Last month, the state government had set a target of carrying out 150,000 tests per day but only over 77,000 tests have been conducted per day from October 1 to October 8.Also Read: China joins COVAX coronavirus vaccine allianceAt the national level, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Friday tweeted that over 80 million samples have been tested for Covid-19 till now out of which 1,194,321 samples were tested on Thursday. COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/1hta96AgHpMeanwhile China, which was the epicentre of Covid-19 and has faced global criticism over its initial handling of the pandemic has joined the WHO-backed vaccine initiative called COVAX that aims to give poorer nations equal access to vaccines as richer nations. As per reports, details of China’s commitment towards the initiative which also includes the amount of funding was not immediately disclosed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-6-9-million-mark-active-cases-further-fall-below-900-000/story-gjH1QRYJygG18zSc7bQ0cI.html
09-10-2020||India||Trump’s words inspire extremists, says Michigan governor Gretchen Whitmer||Hours after police foiled an alleged plot to kidnap her, Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer argued in a speech Thursday that President Donald Trump’s words had been a “rallying cry” for extremists.Whitmer, a Democrat, said the Republican president has spent the last seven months of the coronavirus pandemic “denying science, ignoring his own health experts, stoking distrust, fomenting anger and giving comfort to those who spread fear and hatred and division.”She singled out Trump’s debate comments, when he didn’t condemn white supremacist groups and told one far-right extremist group to “stand back and stand by.”“Hate groups heard the president’s words not as a rebuke, but as a rallying cry,” Whitmer said. “When our leaders speak, their words matter. They carry weight. When our leaders meet, encourage or fraternize with domestic terrorists, they legitimize their actions and they are complicit. When they stoke and contribute to hate speech, they are complicit.”There’s no indication in the criminal complaint that the men arrested were inspired by Trump. Authorities also have not publicly said whether the men were angry about Whitmer’s coronavirus orders, which sharply curtailed businesses and individuals in an effort to slow the spread of the virus.Democrat Joe Biden sought to tie Trump to the plot as well, pointing to the president’s tweet earlier this year to “LIBERATE MICHIGAN!” Whitmer’s coronavirus response has faced criticism from conservatives, and the GOP-led Michigan Legislature sued her in May to try to invalidate her stay-at-home order and other measures.The arrests and Whitmer’s comments come less than a month before the presidential election in a key battleground state, where recent polls show Biden has a lead.Six men were charged in federal court with conspiring to kidnap the governor in reaction to what they viewed as her “uncontrolled power,” according to a federal complaint. Separately, seven others were charged in state court under Michigan’s anti-terrorism laws for allegedly targeting police and seeking a “civil war.”Trump criticized Whitmer’s remarks, saying she has done a “terrible job” and should open the state. Her stay-at-home order was lifted months ago, but mask requirements and gathering restrictions remain.The president tweeted that “my” Justice Department and federal law enforcement had thwarted a dangerous plot against her.“Rather than say thank you, she calls me a White Supremacist,” he tweeted before accusing Biden and Democrats of not condemning “looters and mobs that burn down” Democratic-run cities.“I do not tolerate ANY extreme violence,” Trump said. “Defending ALL Americans, even those who oppose and attack me, is what I will always do as your President!”Whitmer also called for kindness and empathy during the pandemic and issued a warning to those who threaten violence.“Hatred, bigotry and violence have no place in the great state of Michigan,” she said. “If you break the law or conspire to commit heinous acts of violence against anyone, we will find you, we will hold you accountable and we will bring you to justice.”___This story has been corrected to reflect that Trump said “stand back and stand by,” not “stand up and stand by.”___Associated Press writer David Eggert in Lansing, Mich. contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trump-s-words-inspire-extremists-says-michigan-governor-gretchen-whitmer/story-mu1sRpHoKmYXIrJirN80qJ.html
09-10-2020||India||Ram Vilas Paswan passes away: National flag flies at half mast in capital cities||The national flag was flown at half mast in Delhi and Capitals of all States and UTs as a mark of respect to Cabinet Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who passed away on Thursday.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued a notification in this regard on Thursday, after the minister died at a hospital in New Delhi, saying that the flag would be flown at half mast on the day and at the place where his funeral takes place. State Funeral will be accorded to Paswan, the MHA said.Paswan, founder of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and one of the most noted Dalit leaders of the country, passed away at the age of 74 after undergoing a heart surgery a few days ago. He had been in active politics for more than five decades.LJP chief and his son Chirag Paswan broke the news on Twitter. “Papa .... Now you are not in this world but I know you are always with me wherever you are. Miss you Papa…,” he tweeted, with a throwback photo of his father hugging him. पापा....अब आप इस दुनिया में नहीं हैं लेकिन मुझे पता है आप जहां भी हैं हमेशा मेरे साथ हैं। Miss you Papa... pic.twitter.com/Qc9wF6Jl6ZPrime Minister Narendra Modi and union home minister Amit Shah were among the many politicians who tweeted their condolences to the departed leader’s family.“I am saddened beyond words. There is a void in our nation that will perhaps never be filled. Shri Ram Vilas Paswan Ji’s demise is a personal loss. I have lost a friend, valued colleague and someone who was extremely passionate to ensure every poor person leads a life of dignity,” Modi said in his condolence message.“Shri Ram Vilas Paswan Ji rose in politics through hardwork and determination. As a young leader, he resisted tyranny and the assault on our democracy during the Emergency. He was an outstanding Parliamentarian and Minister, making lasting contributions in several policy areas,” he said in subsequent tweet.“Modi government will be committed to fulfill his dream of the welfare of poor and development of Bihar. My condolences to his family and supporters. I pray for the peace of the departed soul,” Amit Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-vilas-paswan-passes-away-national-flag-flies-at-half-mast-in-delhi-other-capital-cities/story-267Ue4WPZQLf5xA2VxYisN.html
09-10-2020||India||IIT Mandi researchers develop cost-effective, environment friendly catalyst||Researchers from Indian Institute of Technology Mandi have developed a carbon-based nanosheet that can be used as a catalyst for industrial hydrogenation reactions, instead of the precious heavy metals currently in use. This could reduce the cost of the processes as well as make them environment friendly. Hydrogenation—a process of adding hydrogen to a compound—is commonly used in industries to produce aromatic alcohols for perfumes, pharmaceutical products, agrochemicals and other chemical substances. Instead of using hydrogen gas, which can be inconvenient and expensive, industries use hydrogen donor chemicals that release hydrogen for the reaction. Also Read: Shut down thermal power plants around Delhi, demands AAPHowever, a catalyst is needed for the completion of the reaction. A catalyst is a compound that increases the rate of a reaction without getting consumed in the process. For hydrogenation, industries currently use precious metals such as rhodium, iridium, platinum and ruthenium that are expensive and lead to environmental pollution. The recovery of these metal catalysts is also difficult. The team from the School of Basic Sciences at IIT Mandi, in collaboration with researchers from IIT Ropar, have developed a carbon-based graphitic carbon nitride (GCN) nanosheet that can be used instead of a metal catalyst. “We synthesised a catalyst by the chemical oxidation of graphitic carbon nitride (GCN) nanosheets, which results in the generation of water-loving (hydrophilic) carboxyl, hydroxyl and ketonic groups over the GCN surface,” said Dr Venkata Krishnan, associate professor at School of Basic Sciences, in a release. These hydrophilic groups are the active reaction sites for the hydrogenation process. Nanosheets are tiny sheets of the material, 100,000 times thinner than a single human hair, but present a large surface area for the reaction to occur. The team tried various hydrogenation reactions using the carbon-based catalyst and found it produced high yields for these reactions, proving it to be versatile. In addition, these nanosheets can be recovered and reused for several runs without any loss in catalytic activity. “We cannot overestimate the practical importance of catalysis. Almost all the synthetic products we use now relies on industrial preparations, which in turn make use of catalysts,” said Krishnan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-mandi-researchers-develop-cost-effective-environment-friendly-catalyst/story-OLFGhzOUUpTUxOpf9VWGnO.html
09-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Train tickets to be available 5 minutes before departure from tomorrow and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Train tickets to be available 5 minutes before departure from tomorrow. All you need to knowFrom October 10 onwards, railway seats will be available even five minutes before the train leaves the station, as the Indian Railways has decided to restore the pre-covid system of preparing the second reservation chart half an hour before the departure time. Read moreCoding is the need of the hour, says Delhi deputy CM Manish SisodiaAround 12,000 government school students in the capital are set to benefit from the HT Codeathon initiative because of collaborative efforts with the Delhi government, says deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio. Read moreUS Prez Trump says wants to hold campaign rally on Saturday in FloridaUnited States President Donald Trump on Friday said that he wants to hold campaign rally on Saturday in Florida. “I think I’m going to try doing a rally on Saturday night if we have enough time to put it together, but we want to do a rally probably in Florida on Saturday night,” he said during a Fox News interview with Sean Hannity. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘He pulled off a Dhoni, did what MS has been doing to other teams,’ Ajay Jadeja impressed with Dinesh Karthik’s captaincyFormer India cricketer Ajay Jadeja heaped praise on Kolkata Knight Riders captain Dinesh Karthik and said he did what Chennai Super Kings captain MS Dhoni has been doing all these years in the Indian Premier League and that is to dictate the game. Read moreEx-Bigg Boss contestant Sana Khan quits showbiz to ‘serve humanity and follow the order of my Creator’Former Bigg Boss contestant Sana Khan has announced her retirement from show business, citing religious reasons. Sana made the announcement in social media posts across platforms. Read moreGoogle Pixel 4a to launch in India today, all you need to knowGoogle will finally launch the Pixel 4a in India today. Google had earlier confirmed the Pixel 4a would launch on October 17 but Flipkart later listed the launch date as October 9. Google Pixel 4a launch is scheduled to take place at 12 pm later today. Read moreVideo of a man casting a net perfectly in water leaves people in aweIn today’s edition of random videos that you may want to watch in loop, here’s a clip of a man casting a net in water. It’s the way the net perfectly unfolds after being thrown which has left people mesmerised. Read moreWhich Neta represents Dalit rights? | Suraj Yengde On the RecordIn the latest episode of On The Record, Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury speaks to author Suraj Yengde about what the Hathras case tells one about the status of Dalits in India. A 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gangraped in UP’s Hathras by four men in her village on September 14 when she had gone to a farm. She breathed her last in Delhi on September 29. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-train-tickets-to-be-available-5-minutes-before-departure-from-tomorrow-and-all-the-latest-news/story-87u2auX6DTnvvbyXlmWmDM.html
09-10-2020||India||IMA questions health minister releasing Ayush-based Covid-19 management protocol||The Union health and science minister Harsh Vardhan releasing Ayush (ayurveda yoga and naturopathy unani siddha and homoeopathy)-based clinical management protocol to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients has not gone down well with the Indian Medical Association (IMA). The association on Thursday pointedly asked whether the proponents of this claim and his ministry were prepared to subject themselves as volunteers to an independent prospective double-blind control study in prevention and treatment of Covid-19.On Tuesday, the health and science minister had released the National Clinical Management Protocol for prevention and treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 cases based on alternative therapies.Also Read: Delhi may witness surge of 15k Covid-19 cases per day in winters: CentreThe largest body of private practitioners in the field of allopathy also asked the minister if there was satisfactory evidence regarding the claims made based on studies done on Covid-19 patients; and if so, whether the evidence was weak or moderate or strong. The evidence should be in public domain and available for scientific scrutiny, they said.“How many of his ministerial colleagues have so far made the informed choice of getting treated under these protocols? What is stopping him from handing over Covid-19 care and control to the Ayush ministry?” were the other questions IMA asked the minister.IMA said that science demanded reproducibility of a claim elsewhere in non-conflict situations, and double blind control studies.“…He admits that these are based on empirical evidence which means that the evidence is anecdotal and based on individual subjective experiences. He himself refers to Ayush as historical forms of treatment rather than current ones, by saying Ayurveda has contributed to foundation of modern medicine. IMA demands that the Union health minister come clean... If not, he is inflicting fraud on the nation and gullible patients by calling placebos drugs,” the members said in a statement.Also Read: Horse plasma can be used to treat Covid-19 patients, says ICMR studyIMA currently has 1,746 branches functional in different states across the country.“We have written an open letter to the health minister, and he has to answer to the people of India. He is the health minister, not the Ayush minister. What is the credibility of the document he has given? They have used words like ‘informed choice’ and ‘empirical evidence’ but these are quite vague. There is a risk of mixing systems during treatment—who will be answerable? We are in the middle of a pandemic, and trying to save lives. This is a serious issue,” said Dr RV Asokan, honorary secretary general, IMA.The officials in the health ministry said that the protocol was meant for treatment in Ayush hospitals.“This is a reference point for doctors in Ayush hospitals and Ayush practitioners treating Covid-19 patients,” said a health ministry official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-questions-union-health-minister-releasing-ayush-based-covid-19-management-protocol/story-YhMHKOU32tG2CXfq3pvbuL.html
09-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Health ministry issues preventive SOPs for amusement parks||Visitors will have to mandatorily sanitise their hands before and after using rides, says Union health ministry’s latest guidelines meant for amusement parks as part of its series of standard operating procedures (SOPs) on preventive measures to be taken at public places to contain spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The frequently touched surfaces of equipment must be disinfected before commencing the ride, along with ensuring physical distancing in rides.Prior to resumption of activities, all work areas, public utility areas and open spaces, including rides, museums, gardens, food courts, gift shops, theatres, etc. will have to be sanitised with 1% sodium hypochlorite solution. Thereafter, this needs to be done on a regular basis, as per the guidelines.Also read: MHA relaxes Covid curbs in poll statesEven though most swimming pools are to remain shut, administration of water themed amusement parks and water rides will have to ensure adequate and regular water filtration and chlorination as per laid down standards.The ministry guidelines advise the use of CCTV in large numbers to monitor crowding at any rides or food court etc. as entry of visitors inside the park will have to be limited to ensure proper physical distancing.Only asymptomatic persons (managerial staff, employees, visitors) will be allowed in the premises; and management staff, employees and visitors living in containment zones shall not be allowed entry in amusement park and other similar places. Employees who are at higher risk, such as, older employees, pregnant employees and employees who have underlying medical conditions must take extra precautions. They should preferably not be exposed to any front-line work requiring direct contact with the public, according to the guidelines. Persons above 65 years of age, those with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years are advised to stay at home. Also, amusement parks and similar places in containment zones have been prohibited to operate. Only those outside containment zones will be allowed to reopen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-health-ministry-issues-preventive-sops-for-amusement-parks/story-M9v4whZzP2tJ3T0OmjWlbP.html
09-10-2020||India||Train tickets to be available 5 minutes before departure from tomorrow. All you need to know||From October 10 onwards, railway seats will be available even five minutes before the train leaves the station, as the Indian Railways has decided to restore the pre-covid system of preparing the second reservation chart half an hour before the departure time. Regular passenger train services remain suspended in wake of the pandemic. But the Indian Railways in a staggered manner is restoring the pre-Covid practices and is also running special trains.Here is all you need to know about the new changes:1. The second reservation charts will be prepared 30 minutes before the schedule departure of trains from stations. This was normal before Covid. But when the Indian Railways started special passenger trains amid the pandemic, the second reservation chart was being prepared two hours before the schedule departure.2. Train tickets can be booked until second reservation chart is prepared. As from tomorrow, these charts will be prepared between 30 minutes to 5 minutes before the scheduled departure, tickets can be booked during this time. 3. The first chart is prepared at least four hours before the scheduled departure of the train. If seats become vacant owing to cancellation, they can be booked through PRS counters and online till the preparation of the second chart.4. Tickets can also be cancelled during this time, as per the provisions of the refund rules.5. The timings were changed during the pandemic as initially tickets were only available online. The Railways was avoiding crowding at the stations and the aim was to discourage people from travelling unless absolutely necessary.6. In the last few months, the situation has changed. The Centre has been focussing more on reopening instead of locking down. The Railways has started several new trains as well. With the festive season coming, the Railways has already announced 39 pairs of new special trains. It has not yet announced a date for these special trains but they will be operational between October 15 and November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/train-tickets-to-be-available-5-minutes-before-departure-from-tomorrow-all-you-need-to-know/story-CaEaQHnUaan1FG4pcn5yTP.html
09-10-2020||India||L-G promises justice and jobs to kin of men killed in ‘fake’ Shopian encounter||Jammu and Kashmir’s lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha has assured the grief stricken families of three Gujjar men-- allegedly killed in a fake encounter in Amshipora of Shopian district on July 18—that they will be served justice and promised a government job for a member of each bereaved family.“The LG promised all possible help including a government job to the next of kin of the three men killed in a staged encounter,” said a senior official. It has been learnt that Sinha travelled for six hours and walked for about 4 km to reach village Tarkassi in the far flung area of Rajouri in the Jammu division to meet the families on Thursday.He expressed grief and sorrow over the incident and assured them of justice. He said that the government will take care of all the three families and all assistance would be provided to them, said the official. Sinha also conveyed sympathies to the families on behalf of the PM. Close on the heels of the army’s findings of irregularities in the Amshipora operation, the family of the three young Gujjar men have demanded severe punishment to the guilty under the law. All the three men hailed from Tarkassi village of Rajouri district and were related.The family has also demanded that the alleged informant, who told the army officials that the three were terrorists, in the hope of receiving “rewards and awards”, should also be exposed. The three men- Imtiyaz Ahmad, Abrar Ahmad and Ibrar Mohammad- were missing since July 17 and the army confirmed that they were killed by the security forces in Shopian on that day. An army inquiry has found that the security forces involved in the Amshipora operation had breached the rules. Lal Hussain, uncle of the three youths, said “We have lost three young men. They were my nephews, who had gone to Shopian to earn money for the families back home. I demand that those involved in the fake encounter and the contact, who branded my nephews as terrorists and passed on the information to the security forces, must be punished under the law of the land.” “The pictures of the alleged terrorists killed in the encounter that went viral on social media sites were of my nephew Imtiyaz Ahmad and two other relatives Abrar Ahmad and Ibrar Mohammad Khan,” he added. The three young men aged 21, 26 and 18 years had left Rajouri and reached Shopian via Mughal Road on July 2 and July 17 to work as labourers. Thereafter, they remained missing. On July 18, the army claimed it had killed three unidentified terrorists in Amshipora of Shopian. Also Read: Three terrorists gunned down in encounter in J-K’s ShopianOn August 14, a police team from Shopian collected DNA samples of three families in Rajouri to match them with those of the three young men. Lal Hussain had been all along claiming that his nephews were innocent Gujjar boys, who had gone to Shopian to work as labourers and that they had nothing to do with terrorism. The Army had said that “The inquiry has brought out certain prima facie evidence indicating that during the operation, powers vested under the AFSPA 1990 were exceeded and the Do’s and Don’ts of Chief of Army Staff (COAS) as approved by the Hon’ble Supreme Court have been contravened. Consequently, the competent disciplinary authority has directed to initiate disciplinary proceedings under the Army Act against those found prima-facie answerable”. Also Read: Pak ‘spy’ arrested in J&K’s Samba“The evidence collected by the inquiry has prima-facie indicated that the three unidentified terrorists killed in Op Amshipora were Imtiyaz Ahmed, Abrar Ahmed and Mohammad Ibrar, who hailed from Rajouri. Their DNA report is awaited. Their involvement with terrorism or related activities is under investigation by the police,” it added. The Indian Army statement had also reaffirmed its commitment to “ethical conduct of operations” and added that further updates on the case will be given periodically without affecting due process of the law of the land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/l-g-promises-justice-and-jobs-to-kin-of-men-killed-in-fake-shopian-encounter/story-quu1LxJuszfezbqgo4uyFJ.html
09-10-2020||India||NIA detains activist Father Stan Swamy in Bhima-Koregaon violence case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday detained Ranchi-based human rights activist Father Stan Swamy for questioning in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case. Swamy (83) had, in the past, denied involvement in the case. Two NIA officials, who didn’t wish to be named, confirmed that they have detained Swamy in Ranchi in connection with its probe in Bhima-Koregaon case.They said that there are high chances that Swamy will be arrested by early morning on Friday and refused to provide information why he was being questioned again. “Yes, we had called Stan Swamy for questioning today and he is at NIA office in Ranchi currently being interrogated about his role. He hasn’t been arrested yet. Let’s wait till morning,” said one of the officers. The case relates to an Elgar Parishad event of December 31, 2017.Swamy was questioned for two hours on August 7 in Ranchi and was later summoned to the NIA office in Mumbai for further questioning. In a statement, Swamy said after six weeks of silence he was summoned to appear in Mumbai and he had informed the agency that he would not be able to undertake the journey because of his old age and pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-detains-activist-father-stan-swamy-in-bhima-koregaon-violence-case/story-sf2bq76Mtjp1MAPPsmH1fP.html
09-10-2020||India||IMD to use impact-based warning||An impact-based cyclone warning system will be used experimentally this year during the cyclone season, said the director general of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), who met on Thursday with key officials from the National Disaster Management Agency (NDMA), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), and others to prepare for the cyclone season between October and December. The system will use meteorological data in combination with geospatial and population data to assess the impact of the cyclone in a particular area and provide location of district-specific tailored warnings for the tropical cyclones. “Damage caused to infrastructure due to cyclones is increasing world over. With India’s growing economy, we aim to reduce the damage and economic losses to property and infrastructure. The dynamic, impact-based cyclone warning will be commissioned this season,” said Dr Mrityunjay Mohapatra, IMD’s director general. NDMA, meanwhile, has taken up National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project to develop a Web-based Dynamic Composite Risk Atlas (Web-DCRA) in collaboration with IMD and the governments of coastal states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-to-use-impact-based-warning/story-iCYq00aPiv0udkHZx66evL.html
09-10-2020||India||Allahabad HC rejects plea in Hathras case||The Allahabad high court dismissed on Thursday a petition that alleged the government illegally confined the 19-year-old Dalit gang rape victim’s family to their house, with the judges observing that the matter was being heard by the Supreme Court.This came on a day the victim’s brother rejected allegations by the prime accused in the case – Sandeep Singh -- that the Dalit’s woman family killed her because they disapproved of her relationship with Singh.“They are trying to pressure a Dalit family and leveling allegations against a family which has lost its daughter. These are afterthoughts aimed at twisting the case and will not sustain,” the victim’s brother said. “How can one think of killing his own sister? These are tactics being adopted to mislead the probe agencies,” he added. In high court, a two-judge bench of Justice Pritinker Diwaker and Justice Prakash Padia dismissed the petition filed by an organisation working for the Valmiki community, to which the victim’s family belonged.“In the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, judicial propriety demands that it will not be proper for this court to entertain the present petition on merits, especially when security has been provided to petitioners 1 to 6 and other family members of the deceased victim-girl on the observation made by the Hon’ble apex court and also on the basis of the directions issued by the Lucknow bench of this court,” the judges observed.On September 14, the victim was raped by four members of Thakur caste in Hathras district when she had gone to the fields to collect cattle fodder. She was partially paralysed in the attack.As her condition deteriorated, she was moved to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital on September 28 and died in the early hours of September 29. At 2.30am the next day, the police forcibly cremated the body without the family’s consent in a field near the village. Since then, Opposition leaders have made a beeline to the village even as the government has denied she was raped, citing the forensic report. Five police officials have been suspended even as the government has ordered a probe into an alleged “international conspiracy” to defame the administration. The four accused have also garnered significant support in the locality – especially after a mega meeting or mahapanchayat was organised by Brahmin and Thakur communities.On Friday, Singh wrote a letter to the superintendent of police (SP), Hathras, and claimed he was innocent. He said he was friends with the woman, and blamed her mother and brother for beating her to death because they never accepted his friendship with her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-hc-rejects-plea-in-hathras-case/story-obBHzuY7BINo7zzBnMoouJ.html
09-10-2020||India||BJP vice president Abdullakutty attacked in Malappuram||BJP national vice president AP Abdullakutty was allegedly attacked by a group of people in Malappuram late on Thursday while he was on his way to Kannur. When he stopped his car in front of a hotel, the gang recognised him and started behaving indecently with him. Later followed his car and rear-ended it, the party state unit said. The party has condemned the attack and sought stern action against the attackers. The party said Abdullakutty will lodge a police complaint on Friday. It has asked workers to protest the incident.A former CPM and Congress MP, AP Abdullakutty was elevated to the post of vice president in the last party reshuffle.Police said the incident was caused due to heavy rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/south/bjp-vice-president-abdullakutty-attacked-in-malappuram/story-eSdgKxqDbS6F5JooW3K3YK.html
09-10-2020||India||IAF has shown capability to engage adversary: Air chief||Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Thursday said the IAF had “clearly demonstrated” its resolve and operational capability to “effectively engage” the adversary should the need arise, at a time India and China are locked in border tensions in the sensitive Ladakh sector. In his address on the 88th IAF Day celebrations at the Hindon airbase, during which Balakot heroes were presented gallantry awards, the IAF chief said, “I would like to commend all warriors for the quick response, in the recent stand-off on our northern frontiers, when we deployed our combat assets at short notice to handle any eventuality, and provided proactive support to all the requirements of deployment and sustenance for the Indian Army.” Three days ago, the IAF chief said at his annual press conference that China couldn’t get the better of India in any conflict and the air force was ready to handle any contingency, with its capability and intent serving as a deterrent for the adversary. The IAF celebrated its 88th anniversary with a ceremonial parade and fly-past involving 59 aircraft including the Rafale jets. It was the second public appearance of the Rafales after the planes were formally inducted at the Ambala airbase on September 10. The fly-past this year was marked by elaborate air displays by front-line fighter jets, transport aircraft and helicopters that flew in synergy in line with the theme of ‘Innovate, Integrate and Intimidate.’ Bhadauria presented gallantry awards to several IAF personnel including fighter pilots who were associated with the air force’s 2019 airstrikes against terror camps in Pakistan’s Balakot. These awards were announced on the eve of Independence Day last year but given away on Thursday. Several Yudh Seva Medals and Vayu Sena Medals for gallantry were announced last year for officers who were a part of the Balakot operation on February 26, 2019 and dogfight with the Pakistan air force the next day. Those awarded the YSM by the IAF chief on Thursday included Air Vice Marshal Sunil Kashinath Vidhate, Group Captains Yeshpal Singh Negi, Hemant Kumar, Hansel Joseph Sequeira and Squadron Leader Minty Aggarwal. Aggarwal, a woman fighter controller, played a key role in intercepting the Pakistan air force’s attempt to launch retaliatory air attacks after the IAF’s Balakot airstrikes, which were in retaliation for the February 14, 2019 Pulwama suicide car bomb attack that killed 40 troopers of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). Those who were given Vayu Sena Medals for gallantry included Group Captain Pranav Raj, Wing Commander Amit Ranjan and Squadron Leaders Pankaj Bhujade, Shashank Singh and BKN Reddy. “With Atmanirbharta {self-reliance} as the bedrock, IAF has been rapidly shifting to indigenous equipment. The light combat aircraft, advanced light helicopter, Netra AEW&C, Akash surface-to-air missile systems, ASTRA air-to-air missile, BrahMos…are many successes of our home industry, which are already operational in the IAF today,” the IAF chief said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-has-shown-capability-to-engage-adversary-air-chief/story-s1z2nL7pDqBt2r0V6D3VtM.html
09-10-2020||India||Delhiwale: Portrait of a knife sharpener||His profession isn’t something common any more. “I am a dhaar walla (knife sharpener),” says Muhammed Waseem, explaining that his job is to sharpen the dhaar of the household knives. This morning, his stall is parked by a central Delhi street. The establishment is very makeshift and very mobile, consisting of a simple bicycle. A sharpening machine is installed on the crossbar — Mr Waseem calls it “shaan”. It comprises of a battery-operated metal disc that revolves with great speed when being used. The knife blade is placed directly over the disk; the sparks fly and the blade gets its dhaar.But right now Mr Waseem is standing idle, waiting for customers. “I spend the day going about many parts of the city.” Right now he is in Lakshmi Nagar. Later he will pedal to Preet Vihar and Karkardooma “and perhaps even to Anand Vihar”.Mr Waseem’s father is a dhaar walla too, in their native Mewat region, in Haryana. But Mr Waseem came to live in Delhi on his own. Only 21, he says he picked up the work five years ago. On being queried if he has any burning dream, he stays silent for a while, his gaze fixed ahead as if he was thinking really hard. After what appears to be a long pause, he shrugs his shoulders, muttering—“What dream, no dream.”He studied until 10th standard. He shrugs his shoulders again on the possibility of further studies. “I have two brothers... one is a carpenter... the other is very young.”Mr Waseem’s day starts at 7am. He doesn’t cook at his room. “I always eat in the hotels outside.” This morning he fortified himself with a glass of chai and two fens. He shall have a more substantial meal for lunch. Meanwhile, a great stack of knives are arranged on the handle bar of his cycle. “I sell them.” He didn’t make them, he clarifies, saying he buys the knives from a wholesaler in Sadar Bazaar. After posing for photos, he says, “people like me don’t think about dreams.” He will return to his room by 4pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-portrait-of-a-knife-sharpener/story-oflwtLtUfxYm2b4juxsAzI.html
09-10-2020||India||Ram Vilas Paswan: Socialist icon, consummate politician||In 1969, a tall and lanky Dalit political activist, in his early 20s, entered the Bihar legislative assembly as a legislator of the Samyukta Socialist Party.It was a time of political ferment. The hegemony of the Congress had been eroded, for the first time, in state elections in 1967, and alternative ruling coalitions — usually led by socialists — had taken over many state capitals in north India. But this political ferment itself was a result of social churn. The first cracks in upper caste dominance were visible. Backward communities were making their presence felt in democratic politics. Social justice for the marginalised was becoming a central political plank. It was in this milieu that the young Dalit man from north Bihar threw in his lot with socialists. On Thursday, 51 years after his entry into public life as an elected representative, the young activist, who went on to become one of India’s most senior politicians and, arguably, the most senior Dalit leader in the country, passed on.In life and death, Ram Vilas Paswan represented the possibilities and limitations of the politics of social justice in India. He symbolised the pathway that democratic electoral politics offered to marginalised communities to demand their space and challenge the hierarchies present in the social order. But he also symbolised the pragmatism — and what critics would call the opportunism — that often marks high politics in India. It was in how Paswan navigated the twin streams of the politics of justice and the politics of power, while remaining eternally relevant, that made him a true survivor of Indian politics.To understand what Ram Vilas Paswan meant for Dalit politics — much before Mayawati became its face and far surpassed Paswan’s political stature in the community — it is important to understand the social context in which he came from. In Bihar’s deeply stratified society, he entered the political realm not as a beneficiary of patronage or largesse but by unapologetically asserting his identity. As he said in an interview to HT two years ago, while his father’s generation would get slapped and abused and could do nothing about it, his generation would resist — this resistance did not bring outright change, but it created an opening.Resistance for Paswan was simple — a space in the mainstream political structure. Power, he believed, was key to justice. And it helped that he had an instinctive smell for power, earning him the label of “mausam vaigyanik”, or weather scientist, in recent decades for his ability to read the political winds and shift strategies accordingly.To achieve this, Paswan was committed to the constitutional and electoral route. After opposing the Emergency, in 1977, he entered the Lok Sabha for the first time — with a record margin from Hajipur. He was to return to the Lower House seven more times, and shifted just recently to the upper house. And in this period, he would ally with every political stream in India. He was a minister in the VP Singh government, and emerged as a key champion of the implementation of the Mandal Commission recommendations. He was a minister in United Front governments in the mid-1990s, arguing for the need for a Third Front, only to be disdainful of it in later years. He was a minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government on the grounds that India needed stability before he resigned, in 2002, citing the Gujarat riots. He was a minister in the Manmohan Singh government till 2009, on the grounds of wanting to defeat communal forces. And he was a minister for the past six years in the Narendra Modi government, on the plank of “sabka saath, sabka vikas”, in what can be termed as a supremely ironical twist given why he had resigned from the Vajpayee government. But he was able to pull off all these shifts, almost seamlessly and without controversy, because he was clear-headed about what he wanted. He was ambitious and wanted to expand his power and resource base; this was possible through political authority; and this also helped his political constituency get benefits. Paswan was careful to keep this constituency intact — be it the broader Hajipur belt in north Bihar geographically or Paswans socially. And so he focused on getting projects to his region, or employment for members of his community, or opposing atrocities when it became an emotive issue for Dalits. This base was not enough to win him Bihar’s chief ministership or become a pan-India Dalit leader. But it was enough to make him a key swing force in Bihar, with a loyal vote base, useful for other larger parties, which in turn allowed him to then bargain for a slice of power. In his final years, Paswan had only ambition — to establish his son, Chirag, as not just his political successor but as a leader meant to achieve even greater things than he did. He relentlessly promoted his son, be it through political introductions across the spectrum (he had friends in every party), encouraging media coverage (he was an accessible minister, giving interviews as well as off the record insights), and most recently, handing over the responsibility of the Bihar election. But he also understood that Dalit politics itself was changing. In the same interview quoted above, where he spoke about the difference between his father’s generation and his,Paswan said: “The Chirag Paswan generation is not ready to accept it (slaps and abuses). People ask, why is there a protest on smaller issues? It’s because young Dalits want a life of respect.” At a time when the Hathras protests have shaken the BJP, his word of advice to his bigger ally on how to handle Dalit protests may seem apt too: “Work without antagonising anyone. There is lava inside — when it comes out slowly, the volcano doesn’t erupt; but if you suppress it, then it becomes an active volcano.” It was because of this recognition that Paswan persuaded the Modi government in its first term to push back against the Supreme Court verdict which was seen as diluting the atrocities act or asking it to publicise the benefits Dalits received with welfare schemes. Paswan died just as his party, the Lok Janashakti Party, has decided to contest the Bihar elections separately — in opposition to Nitish Kumar, who is the face of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state, while remaining a part of the same alliance at the centre. While his death is sure to have an impact on Bihar elections, what many would see as the dualism of the LJP at the moment — of enjoying power while being the Opposition — is perhaps symbolic of the dualism of Paswan himself, of espousing the politics of justice while being enmeshed in the politics of power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-vilas-paswan-socialist-icon-consummate-politician/story-gpocgpVLzqUImxT2o0cwfN.html
09-10-2020||India||IMA asks health minister to give proof on AYUSH, yoga-based treatment of Covid||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Thursday asked the Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan to produce substantiating evidence on the protocol of prevention of Covid-19 infection based on AYUSH and yoga.IMA posed several questions to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan for issuing protocol of Covid-19 prevention and treatment of asymptomatic as well as mild cases based on AYUSH and yoga.On October 6, the Central government announced the National Clinical Management Protocol based on Ayurveda and Yoga for Management of Covid-19. Health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan released the protocol in the virtual presence of AYUSH Minister Shripad Yesso Naik.“Is there satisfactory evidence regarding the claims made from studies done on Covid-19 patients based on the above criteria? If so, whether the evidence is weak or moderate or strong? The evidence should be in the public domain and available for scientific scrutiny,” it said in a statement.The IMA asked, “whether the severe form of Covid-19 a hyperimmune status or an immune deficiency status?”“Whether the proponents of this claim and his Ministry are prepared to subject themselves as volunteers to an independent prospective double-blind control study in the prevention and treatment of Covid? How many of his ministerial colleagues have so far made the informed choice of getting treated under these protocols?” the IMA asked.“What is stopping him from handing over Covid care and control to AYUSH ministry?IMA has demanded that the Union health minister should come clean on the above posers. “If not, he is inflicting a fraud on the nation and gullible patients by calling placebos as drugs,” it added.Questioning the scientific basis of these protocols, the IMA has asked the health minister “to give reproducibility of a claim elsewhere in non-conflict situations and double-blind control studies”.The National Clinical Management Protocol based on Ayurveda and Yoga for Management of Covid-19 guidelines has recommended doing gargles with warm water added with a pinch of turmeric and salt. Water boiled with triphala also can be used for gargling. They also recommend nasal installation/application of medicated oil (anu taila or shadbindu taila) or plain oil (sesame or coconut) or nasal application of cow’s ghee (goghrita) once or twice in a day, especially before going out and after coming back to home.The protocol also recommends steam inhalation with ajwain or pudina or eucalyptus oil once a day and adequate sleep of 6 to 8 hours.The guidelines point out specific measures and symptom management for prophylactic care in the high-risk populations, primary contacts, for asymptomatic and mild Covid-19 patients.The AYUSH Ministry is also studying four studies covering a huge sample size for prophylactic care. It has also undertaken about seven studies on `Guduchi’ as prophylactic care on about 1.33 lakh population.AYUSH ministry is also studying the combination in about 200 participants through two studies in moderate Covid 19 with very positive trends. It has also undertaken six clinical studies across India which are showing very positive trends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-asks-health-minister-to-produce-proof-on-ayush-yoga-based-treatment-of-covid/story-MJbHmt3vyKb9YSldTzO6KM.html
09-10-2020||India||MHA relaxes Covid curbs in poll states||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Thursday partially modified its latest Covid-19 guidelines to allow political rallies with immediate effect in 12 states where elections are scheduled to be held. According to the original guidelines issued on September 30, political, social, religious and other gatherings were to be allowed, in open spaces, from October 15, with no ceiling on the number of attendees. In closed spaces, the upper bound on the audience for such gatherings was raised to 200 from 100. Both of these changes will now be applicable with immediate effect in the poll-bound states. The changes will mean political parties can hold election rallies and meetings, usually conducted outdoors, ahead of the Bihar assembly elections and by-polls in 11 other states -- Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Haryana, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Manipur, Nagaland and Odisha. The home ministry has asked all political parties to ensure that people follow all other safeguards listed in it September 30 guidelines, such as ensuring the wearing of masks, social distancing and checking the temperatures of the attendees. Bihar will vote in three phases , on October 28, November 3, and November 7. The results of the election will be declared on November 10. The voting for 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh will be held on November 3 and the results will be announced on November 10. In his order sent to the 12 poll-bound states, home secretary Ajay Bhalla said that “it is decided that the state governments concerned may permit political gatherings outside containment zones beyond the existing limit of 100 persons on any date before October 15, 2020 in those assembly / parliamentary constituencies only where elections are to be held subject to the following conditions”. As per the conditions, for holding political gatherings in closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed with a ceiling of 200 persons and the wearing of face masks, social distancing, provision for thermal scanning, and use of hand wash or sanitizers will be mandatory. In open spaces, the political gatherings will have to keep in mind the size of the ground or space with strict observance of social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitizers. “State or Union Territory governments will issue detailed SOPs (standard operating procedures) to regulate such political gatherings and strict enforce the same,” the home secretary’s order said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-relaxes-covid-curbs-in-poll-states/story-GSzuf07pfV0zXNHegw0QPN.html
09-10-2020||India||Vijay Mallya cannot be extradited till ‘secret legal matter’ in UK gets resolved, says MEA||India on Thursday said it is not a party to the “secret legal matter” in the United Kingdom that has held up fugitive businessman and former member of Parliament Vijay Mallya’s extradition to the country. Though extradition proceedings against the liquor baron concluded in May after the UK high court rejected Mallya’s plea to approach Britain’s Supreme Court against the move to send him back to India, the “secret” proceedings have delayed his departure. “We have been informed that there is a secret legal matter that is yet to be resolved, and that without its resolution, he cannot be extradited,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. “We are not a party to this matter and we continue to be in touch with the UK government,” he said, without giving details. On Monday, the union government told the Supreme Court that Mallya’s extradition had been stalled by the “secret” proceedings in the UK. “He has exhausted all avenues for appeal and after that, we are in constant touch with the UK government so that he is extradited to India as soon as possible,” Srivastava said. Mallya flew to the UK in March 2016 as a consortium of Indian banks, which claims he owes ₹9,000 crore, closed in on him to recover the money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijay-mallya-cannot-be-extradited-till-secret-legal-matter-in-uk-gets-resolved-says-mea/story-Az73YnxMpyJ3gDsfYkt4NN.html
09-10-2020||India||Govt may allow 75% flight ops, says Hardeep Puri||As demand for air travel increases steadily, the government is considering allowing airlines to operate at up to 75% of their pre-pandemic capacity, raising it from the current 60%, but the removal of restrictions on international flights depends on a raft of factors including the discovery of a Covid-19 vaccine, civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said on Thursday.A decision on raising flight capacity will be made over the next seven to 10 days, Puri said at a press conference, as the festive season that’s usually the peak period for air travel approaches.The civil aviation ministry has allowed limited domestic flight operations up to 60% of pre-Covid-19 capacity. After domestic passenger flights resumed on May 25 following a two-month gap because of the lockdown to curb the contagion, the Centre allowed Indian airlines to operate only 33% of their pre-Covid domestic flights. On June 26, the ministry increased the capacity to 45% and to 60% on September 2.Pre-pandemic, Indian airlines used to operate around 3,100 flights a day, according to Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) data. Airlines are currently operating around 1,500 flights per day, according to data until October 8. “Our internal thinking is that we will watch it for another week or 10 days....If the figures (of passengers travelling) continue to be healthy, we would open domestic civil aviation to 75% of pre-Covid levels. There is no deadline,” Puri said. “But this can happen soon as the domestic numbers are going up...I am confident that by the first quarter next year, we will be able to surpass the pre-Covid numbers.” “With regard to the number of daily domestic air passengers, the figure on October 2 was 176,000 passengers...by the end of this month, we’ll be at 200,000. Between Diwali and the year’s end, we will reach 300,000,” Puri said.According to the ministry, around 300,000 to 350,000 passenger travelled on domestic routes before the pandemic. Puri said a complete resumption of international flights depends on the availability of a vaccine for Covid-19, and hinted that so-called travel bubble arrangements may continue until March-April.“It is difficult to say (when regular international flights will resume) as there is no country which has completely opened its borders for all. It depends on the availability of a vaccine as countries will feel more confident once a vaccine is there,” the aviation minister said.“There are basically three issues to consider before resuming regular international flights. One, resuming domestic connectivity... Second, the nature of the virus on which I can’t comment, and the third is international restrictions,” Puri said.Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended since March 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-may-allow-75-flight-ops-says-hardeep-puri/story-An5Db00e47mQST6Nm22JWO.html
09-10-2020||India||Horse plasma can be used to treat Covid-19 patients, says ICMR study||Antibody-rich plasma obtained from horses can be used to treat patients infected with Covid-19, according to an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) pre-print study, following which the apex medical research body has received regulatory approval to conduct clinical trials using the equine plasma on humans. The study was published on Research Square.In the study, 10 healthy horses between the ages of four and 10 years were injected with inactivated Sars-CoV-2 antigen subcutaneously (under the skin) at the Hyderabad-based Biologicals E Ltd, and after 21 days of immunisation, their plasma samples were tested. Sars-Cov-2 is the virus that causes Covid-19. The plasma had Covid-19-specific high-quality antibodies with virus neutralising capacity, which is ideal for preventing infection. The results are in line with other studies on equine antisera that reported the generation of a high level of antibodies in horses against the receptor binding area of the virus’s spike protein. A receptor-binding domain is a key part of a virus located on its spike domain that allows it to dock to body receptors to gain entry into cells and lead to infection. It is safe, and can be prepared in bulk at a low cost, the ICMR study shows. “With Biologicals E we have developed horse sera which may be considered. We have completed some animal studies where we have a predictive dose… we have got clearance for a clinical trial,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR. The virus strain was isolated from the throat and nasal swab specimens of a Covid-19 positive patient at the maximum containment facility of ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune. Diseases for which equine sera has previously been tried include many viral and bacterial infections such as rabies, hepatitis B, vaccinia virus, tetanus, botulism and diphtheria. “…This study suggests promising efficacy and therapeutic potential of equine hyper immune sera against Sars-CoV-2. The quality control assessments of the different batches proved to have consistent nAb (antibody) titres (volume of antibodies produced)… that can demonstrate consistent and high neutralization activity,” says the paper. “Further, in-vivo testing for efficacy of this indigenously developed, cost effective product will pave the way to clinical evaluation. Additionally, being a donor independent method, this may prove as an efficient alternative to convalescent plasma for treatment of Covid-19 patients,” the researchers say. Virologists agree that animal antisera are a good option. “It does have advantages over convalescent plasma as the quality of convalescent plasma is entirely donor dependent. The quality will be different from one donor to the other. Use of antibodies that have been raised in large animals is common, and has worked successfully in the past. If an animal study has shown promise against Sars-Cov-2, then it is good news,” said T Jacob John, former head of the virology department at the Christian Medical College in Vellore, Tamil Nadu.Animal-derived plasma can help overcome the challenge of limited availability of convalescent plasma from recovered patients, and find a cost-effective alternative to monoclonal antibodies (man-made proteins that act like human antibodies in the immune system) that are laborious and expensive to generate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/horse-plasma-can-be-used-to-treat-covid-19-patients-says-icmr-study/story-wTDhCQSUjBWqx4orMhr6DO.html
09-10-2020||India||Four wanted men nabbed after shootout in Rohini||The Delhi Police Thursday arrested four men wanted for murders, attempts to murder and extortions in Delhi and Haryana following a brief shootout in Rohini. Police said all four suspects sustained gunshot wounds and were taken to a hospital for treatment.The men were identified as Sunil Gahlot, 23, Amit Raj, 26, Rohit, 23, and Ravinder Yadav, 31. Six pistols, three bulletproof jackets and three bulletproof helmets were recovered from them, police said.In the past 10 days, this is the third such encounter wherein the police and suspects have exchanged fire but ended with the arrests of the suspects. Four days ago, the special cell had arrested two alleged gangsters after a shoot-out. Both men were shot in their legs. On October 28, police had arrested another alleged criminal in Delhi after an exchange of fire.Giving details of Thursday’s arrests, deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said they had received information that members of the infamous Lawerance Bishnoi-Kala Jatheri -Sube Gujjar gang -- whose members are wanted in several cases of murder, attempts to murder, extortion and robbery in Delhi-NCR -- would be arriving in Rohini from Haryana early Thursday, allegedly to eliminate their rivals. “Acting on this information, a trap was laid in Khera village in Rohini on Thursday morning. Around 3.30am, a white car was spotted coming from Khera village. When our team signalled the driver to stop, the occupants of the car tried to speed away. As the road was blocked with a police SUV, their car hit the divider. They were asked to surrender but they instead opened fire at the police team,” Yadav said.Three bullets hits the police’s Innova that had been used to block the road. “One bullet grazed inspector Man Singh’s arm. Another hit sub-inspector Ravi Rana, but he was wearing a bulletproof jacket, which saved him. The police team returned the fire and two bullets hit Sunil in his leg, while one hit his hand. Amit was shot in his legs and so was Rohit, who carried a cash reward of ₹50,000 on his arrest. Ravinder was also injured in his leg,” Yadav said.A total of 22 rounds were fired by the suspects, while the police fired 28 rounds in retaliation. “The local area police were informed and ambulances called in to shift the injured to BSA hospital, Rohini. These men are wanted in more than a dozen cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, robbery, firing, etc. Four automatic pistols with 50 live cartridges and two countrymade pistols with 10 live cartridges, three each of bulletproof jackets and helmets were recovered from them. Further investigation is on,” the DCP said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-wanted-men-nabbed-after-shootout-in-rohini/story-SSsOsIWRgMneXgg3LUvctO.html
09-10-2020||India||Ram Vilas Paswan: A man who bridged political divisions||A nine-time member of Lok Sabha, Ram Vilas Paswan remained a prominent leader in national politics for over four decades.Timeline:1946: Born in Bihar’s Khagaria district1969: Elected to Bihar assembly as a member of the Samyukta Socialist Party 1974: Became general secretary of the Lok Dal 1975: Arrested during Emergency and spent the entire period in jail 1977: Became member of Janata Party and won election to Lok Sabha with a record margin from Hajipur1983: Established the Dalit Sena, an organisation for the emancipation and welfare of Dalits 1989: Appointed Union minister of labour and welfare in the VP Singh government. 1996: Became Union railway minister2000: Broke from Janata Dal to form Lok Janshakti Party (LJP).2002: Quit the National Democratic Alliance 2004: Joined United Progressive Alliance government and appointed Union minister of chemicals and fertilizers and steel. 2005: LJP emerged kingmaker in Bihar elections but after months of President’s Rule, fails to perform well.2009: Lost elections from Hajipur for first time in 33 years. 2014: Elected to Lok Sabha from Hajipur while his son Chirag won from Jamui. Appointed minister of consumer affairs 2019: Elected to Rajya Sabha  Tributes pour in:NARENDRA MODI I am saddened beyond words. There is a void in our nation that will perhaps never be filled. Shri Ram Vilas Paswan Ji’s demise is a personal loss. I have lost a friend, valued colleague and someone who was extremely passionate to ensure every poor person leads a life of dignity. RAM NATH KOVIND In the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, the nation has lost a visionary leader. He was among the most active and longest-serving members of parliament. He was the voice of the oppressed, and championed the cause of the marginalized AMIT SHAH I am pained by the death of our beloved Ram Vilas Paswan ji, who always fought for the welfare of the poor and the underprivileged. In his political life, he always prioritized national interest and public welfare. In his death, a void has been created in Indian politics LALU PRASAD I am devastated by the untimely death of Ram Vilas. The unbroken ties of the past 45 years and the social and political fights we waged together is flashing before my eyes. You left too soon. NITISH KUMAR I am personally pained by the passing of central minister and popular politician Ram Vilas Paswan ji. His death has irreparably damaged Indian politics. May god rest his soul.RAHUL GANDHI Pained by the news of Ram Vilas Paswan ji’s untimely death. The poor and Dalit sections have lost a strong political voice today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-vilas-paswan-a-man-who-bridged-political-divisions/story-QlqkcTkX0xUSJUesnmJhmI.html
09-10-2020||India||India weighs plan to keep ‘inimical’ nations out of core industries||Indian national security planners are considering a security architecture that weeds out inimical countries from participating in core economic sectors such as power, telecommunications and roads by verifying the origin and testing the reliability of imported equipment related to such sectors, officials aware of the development said.India will also forge collaborations in the development of critical technologies such as 5G and 5G-plus telecommunication standards through government-to-government or industry-to-industry partnerships rather than opt for off-the-shelf purchases of equipment in the future.The government will participate through the entire development process “so that it has the option to go for a different partner in case of any technology denial”, said a senior government official involved in the move who spoke on condition of anonymity. “Foreign companies participating in Indian core sector will not be allowed to mask their origins and will have to go for full disclosure in case of any suspicion,” the official added.While the Narendra Modi government is tight-lipped over the matter, the “verify the origin” debate started in July after China threw all past bilateral agreements out of the window and transgressed into eastern Ladakh, resulting in a tense military standoff that is yet to be resolved. The transgression and a June 15 clash in the Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian troops dead, besides an unspecified number of Chinese casualties, triggered calls for a boycott of Chinese products. Since then, the power ministry has decided to put in place specific testing guidelines that require the country of origin of imported equipment to be disclosed and to ensure that there is no malware embedded in critical sector equipment.“The new testing guidelines for power equipment are to ensure that the country of origin does not install a malware which can be activated to engineer a power crisis in India,” said a senior power ministry official, requesting anonymity.Although national security planners and technology advisers to the Modi government are on the same page, there is a push-back from the telecommunication department and industry whose representatives believe alternative equipment will cost more, and want the government to define a threshold for disclosure of the country of origin.Even in developing the 5G and 5G-plus technologies, India is keen to find out the provenance of imported technology, with test-bed collaboration being the first step in confirming that imported telecommunication equipment is clean. While India is keen to collaborate in 5G with Japan, it has kept the option of choosing European and US telcos open in case of any opaqueness in joint ventures. In the past two decades, it has come to the notice of the government that foreign companies bidding for core sector contracts would often mask their country of origin through a third country and use state subsidies to emerge as the lowest price bidder and win the contract.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-weighs-plan-to-keep-inimical-nations-out-of-core-industries/story-YNWpwbU1k4TTrsxfuK2iGI.html
09-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||October 7 saw a new record for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19): the highest number of daily cases around the world. According to worldometers.info, the world saw 343,386 new cases on Wednesday; according to the New York Times database, the number was marginally higher, 351,107. Countries may be seeing waves – the first wave seems to be over in India, and the number of daily cases has dipped – but the number of daily cases around the world continues to rise, powered, in many cases, by second waves that are, especially in some countries, steeper than the first. The world has seen around 36 million cases of Covid-19, and the numbers do not appear to be going down. Indeed, according to Johns Hopkins University’s Coronavirus Resource Centre, seven of the 10 countries with the highest number of daily cases currently are continuing to see a rise in their seven-day averages, an indication that case numbers are headed up in these.The 10 countries currently with the highest number of daily cases are: India, the US, Brazil, the UK, France, Argentina, Russia, Mexico, Spain, and Colombia. Among these, only India, Brazil, and Argentina are witnessing a fall in their seven-day averages (of daily cases). The rest are seeing a rise (including a sharp rise in some). Together, according to worldometer, these 10 countries accounted for 238,746 new cases of Covid-19 on October 7, or 70% of the world’s cases that day.RELENTLESS SPREADCountries may be seeing waves – the first wave seems to be over in India, and the number of daily cases has dipped – but the number of daily cases around the world continues to rise, powered, in many cases, by second waves that are, especially in some countries, steeper than the first. The world has seen around 36 million cases of Covid-19, and the numbers do not appear to be going down. As an aside, that level of concentration shouldn’t surprise anyone: most Covid-19 cases have come from a few countries. The three countries worst affected by the pandemic, the US, India, and Brazil, account for 54% of all global cases so far (they also account for 44% of all deaths). And the top 10 countries by cases (marginally different from the top 10 countries based on current daily cases) account for 71% of all cases seen thus far. The countries in this list are: the US, India, Brazil, Russia, Colombia, Spain, Argentina, Peru, Mexico, and South Africa. To return to the list of countries that are currently seeing the most cases, the seven whose seven-day average (of daily cases) is on the rise again account for 47% of daily cases in the top-10, and a third of all daily cases in the world on October 7. This is perhaps an indication that there will be no letting up in the increase in new cases around the world, even as countries in the northern hemisphere prepare for an onslaught of cases expected in the coming winter months.THREAT REMAINSThe continuing global march of the coronavirus disease reminds us of the severity of the threat. Election season has kicked off in India. The Union home ministry has allowed, with immediate effect, open-air political rallies in 12 poll-bound states. It’s also the festive season in India. Restaurants are open and cinemas will open soon. But India continues to see an average of 75,000 cases a day.According to worldometer, the seven-day average of daily cases on October 7 was 304,879, the highest it has ever been. There have been some dips in the trajectory of this metric over the months, but none very sharp; a fall in cases in one region has usually been more than offset by a rise in another.These numbers establish a simple truth: it isn’t over yet. As cities and states and countries open up, it’s sometimes easy to forget or ignore the looming threat in the background. The continuing global march of the coronavirus disease reminds us of the severity of this threat. Election season has kicked off in India –the assembly elections in Bihar and bypolls in several states will be held shortly. The Union home ministry on Thursday allowed, with immediate effect, open-air political rallies in 12 poll-bound states (they were previously allowed from October 15). It’s also the festive season in India with what is arguably the country’s biggest festival, Deepavali, in mid-November. Restaurants are open. Cinemas will open soon. But India continues to see an average of 75,000 cases a day (the seven-day average on October 7 was 74,623).The Jan Andolan (public campaign) launched by the government on Thursday needs to be seen in this context.As Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter: “Let us always remember: wear a mask; wash hands; follow social distancing; practice “Do Gaj Ki Doori” [a distance of six feet]; together, we will succeed.”I couldn’t agree more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-qsn4SNfrJGYdq2amOaeZLM.html
09-10-2020||India||Socialist icon, Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan dies aged 74||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, a socialist and anti-Emergency crusader who broke through Bihar’s deeply caste-stratified society to establish himself at the highest level of Indian politics in a career spanning five decades, died of heart failure in New Delhi on Thursday. He was 74.Paswan, one of India’s tallest Dalit leaders who nurtured relationships across political parties, held the portfolios of food, public distribution, and consumer affairs. He was an eight-time Lok Sabha member from Bihar’s Hajipur and, since 2019, was a member of the Rajya Sabha from Bihar.Paswan was admitted to Delhi’s Fortis Escorts Heart Institute with heart failure and kidney problems on September 11. He was subsequently put on ventilator and Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), but his condition deteriorated in the past 24 hours. He passed away at 6.05pm, read a statement from the hospital. “Papa... Now you are not in this world but I know you are always with me wherever you are. Miss you Papa,” tweeted Paswan’s son Chirag Paswan. The national flag will be flown at half mast on Friday in Delhi and capitals of all states and Union territories, and Paswan will be accorded a state funeral, the government announced.Often called a “kingmaker” in Bihar, Paswan was known to be affable and approachable. His death capped an eventful and consummate political career that saw him become a national leader, serve as a minister under six different prime ministers and earn for himself the sobriquet of “weathervane of Indian politics” for his ability to gauge the mood of the electorate. “Saddened beyond words. There’s a void in our nation that will perhaps never be filled. Ram Vilas Paswan’s demise is a personal loss,” tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi. President Ram Nath Kovind also paid tribute. “In the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, the nation has lost a visionary leader. He was among the most active and longest-serving members of Parliament. He was the voice of the oppressed, and championed the cause of the marginalized,” he said. Born in pre-Independence India in Khagaria district of Bihar, Paswan was selected as a state police officer but chose a life in politics, winning his first assembly election in 1969 as a member of the Samyukta Socialist Party. In 1974, he joined the Lok Dal, of which he became general secretary. When the Emergency was imposed next year, Paswan hit the streets and was arrested. In 1977, he stormed into the Lok Sabha on a Janata Party ticket from Hajipur, setting a record at that time for the highest victory margin of 424,000 votes. He would go on to win seven more Lok Sabha elections. He first became a minister in 1989 under prime minister VP Singh. In 1998, Paswan, who was then minister of railways, quit the United Front government and was back as minister in the ministry headed by Atal Bihari Vajyapee who came to power the next year. In 2002, he quit the Vajpayee Cabinet — only to be back two years later as minister of chemicals and fertiliser when the United Progressive Alliance won the elections.Paswan’s death came at a time when his Lok Janshakti Party, now led by his son 37-year-old son Chirag, is at a crucial juncture: it ditched the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance to fight the upcoming Bihar assembly elections on its own. Since 1990, Bihar’s politics was said to revolve around the big three socialist leaders — Lalu Prasad, Nitish Kumar and Paswan. Along the way, Paswan fell out with the others politically but continued to enjoy warm personal relations. In 2000, walked out of the Janata Party to form his own outfit, Lok Janshakti Party. “I am devastated by the untimely death of Ram Vilas. The unbroken ties of the past 45 years and the social and political fights we waged together is flashing before my eyes. You left too soon,” Lalu Prasad’s office tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/socialist-icon-union-minister-dies-aged-74/story-24mcF7QKs5jFtNriRXVM1N.html
09-10-2020||India||Fight against pollution: Graded Response Action Plan to kick in with Covid crisis in air||The winter phase of the mechanism to tackle air pollution comes into force in Delhi-NCR from October 15 with a ban on diesel-run electricity generators, instructions for washing of roads and increased patrolling of known hot spots, authorities announced on Thursday amid fears that this year’s pre-winter pollution could be even harder to control than usual due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), is a set of curbs triggered in phases as the air quality deteriorates, which is typical of the October-November period. Farm fires in neighbouring states and cooling weather typically combine at this time of the year to blanket the region in smoke. It includes strict measures such as a ban on the entry of heavy vehicles, the odd-even road rationing restrictions, and a halt of construction work – each of which are likely to be impractical at a time when the pandemic has exacted heavy economic costs and public transport has been seen as an infection risk.“This winter, all agencies and state governments of Delhi-NCR must come together to try and not allow the need to bring in any additional emergency measures such as banning vehicles and construction. We recognise the economy is already under stress post-lockdown and therefore our combined effort must be to ensure there is no further disruption,” said Bhure Lal, the chairperson of Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca), the agency set up by the Supreme Court to tackle the perennial problem.  According to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the air quality in Delhi was in the “poor” zone for the second consecutive day on Thursday – typical for this time of the year. In the last four years, the air quality index (AQI) entered poor for the first time after the monsoons between September-end and first week of October.Thursday’s AQI was 208, slightly lower than Wednesday’s 215. But these are the worst numbers seen since mid-June, and the trend of farm fires in Punjab and Haryana suggest the levels may deteriorate further soon. According to observations from National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) satellites, the number of farm fires in these two states in the last two months – at 2,636 -- has been the highest since 2014.The situation becomes such that cities have been likened to a “gas chamber” and experts warn that such conditions are likely to exacerbate Covid-19 infections. Lal said the agency recognises the Covid-19 risk factor link. “Hence, efforts are required on the ground to prevent pollution levels from rising,” he said. The Epca head added that a ban on entry of trucks may be unlikely this year since most such vehicles appear to have affixed radio tags that can help identify whether they have paid the Environment Concession Charge or are indeed meant to enter Delhi, instead of merely passing through. “The RFID (radio frequency identification) system is working well at 13 entry points. We plan to direct the Delhi government to deploy officials with hand-held devices at the remaining border points to check that trucks not destined for Delhi do not enter the city. Also, with both the eastern and western peripheral expressways, the truck traffic load has decreased significantly.” Stricter measures, however, have not been ruled out entirely and will depend on how bad the problem becomes, the authority decided at its Thursday meeting, according to a letter it sent to state authorities. Some measures that come into force from October 15 are meant for a more serious stage of air pollution, particularly the ban on diesel generators. Essential services such as hospitals will be exempted. Medical experts reiterated the need to curb pollution in order to mitigate Covid-19 risks. “There are several studies from across the world that show pollution certainly has an impact on Covid-19 related mortality. In Italy, there was 12% mortality in northern Italy as compared to 4.5% in the rest of the country. The study attributed it to high air pollution levels in the region. A study from Europe shows that 78% mortality was in regions with high Nitrogen Oxide levels. Another study from the US shows that every 1μg increase in PM 2.5 leads to an 8% increase in Covid-19 death rate,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Environment experts said the number of farm fires seen in Punjab and Haryana seen till now suggests the pollution peak may come sooner than usual. “With burning starting early, it may turn out that when the pollution peaks between October-end and November 15, the activity has receded and may not contribute to the peak as much. However, this is to be watched. Secondly, this year since many people are still working from home, vehicular emission will be somewhat lower than last year and pollution levels may not turn so severe as it has in the past,” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor at the Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, IIT-Delhi. He added that for a long-term measure, the four states -- Delhi, Haryana, UP and Punjab -- have to come together to draw up a plan to fight pollution. “Unless there is better coordination among these states, it will be difficult to bring down overall levels of pollution, as activities in all four states contribute to the pollution observed in Delhi every year,” he said. On Thursday, Epca decided that large-scale construction projects such as on highways and for the Delhi Metro in Delhi-NCR will need to give an undertaking to the respective state pollution control boards that they will comply with dust-control norms. Similarly, industries in the red and orange categories (classified as those with higher emissions) will be required to give an undertaking to the pollution boards that they will only use approved fuels. The Grap’s winter rules, which first were drawn up in 2017, will stay in force till March 31. (With inputs from Vijdan Mohammad Kawoosa)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grap-to-kick-in-with-covid-crisis-in-the-air/story-offtFn4eAdRvCo93nVZbKP.html
09-10-2020||India||Payal Tadvi suicide case: SC allows accused to resume studies||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed three women doctors from Mumbai accused of abetting the suicide of a junior colleague last year to resume their postgraduate medical course in gynaecology and obstetrics, relaxing a restriction imposed on them by the Bombay high court.A three-judge bench headed by justice UU Lalit ruled that the three, Dr. Ankita Kailash Khandelwal, Dr. Hema Suresh Ahuja and Dr. Bhakti Arvind Mehare, can go back to their studies provided they appear in court whenever the case is posted for a hearing and don’t attempt to influence witnesses.The three were accused of abetting the suicide of Dr. Payal Tadvi, who was also a student of the postgraduate degree course in gynaecology and obstetrics at the same college and their junior, who killed herself by hanging in May 2019.The Bombay high court, while granting bail to the doctors, had stipulated that they should not enter the Topiwala National Medical College (BYL Nair Charitable Hospital), where they were pursuing their postgraduate studies.“In our view, the appellants (accused) must be allowed to go back to their courses of study; otherwise the pendency of prosecution against them will add further penalty in the form of prejudicing their career. In our considered view, ends of justice would be met if condition no. 4 as laid down by the high court is relaxed and the appellants are permitted to go back to the college to pursue their studies,” the Supreme Court bench, which also comprised justices Vineet Saran and Ajay Rastogi, held.After Dr. Tadvi’s suicide, her mother lodged a complaint that she had been harassed by the three senior postgraduate students on grounds of caste -- Dr.Tadvi belonged to the Tadvi Bhil Muslim community, which is a scheduled tribe and that they were directly responsible for the suicide of her daughter. The accused were then charged with abetment to suicide under section 306 of the Indian Penal Code and also for offences under provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act of 1989 and the Maharashtra Prohibition of Ragging Act of 1999. They were arrested on May 29, 2019.Their bail plea was rejected by the sessions court on June 24, 2019, but was allowed by the Bombay high court on August 7, 2019. The high court , however, ordered that the three shall not enter the college and the licences issued to them by the Medical Council of India as well as Maharashtra Medical Council would remained suspended until the conclusion of the trial in the case.The top court, while relaxing the stipulation, said the stay of the three accused on campus should be minimized as much as possible.“The appellants shall avail study leave so that their actual period of stay inside the college and the hospital gets reduced...If there be any holiday or vacation and it is permissible for the residents to be outside the college and hospital, the appellants shall avail that and keep themselves away from the hospital and the college,” the court said.If any untoward incident takes place, the authorities should immediately report to the police station of the area and ensure that the life and liberty of everyone, including the accused, are protected, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/payal-tadvi-suicide-case-sc-allows-accused-to-resume-studies/story-OfreQ8YKQlg6MoLt88ohdL.html
09-10-2020||India||Minor sisters found dead in Jharkhand, police launch probe||Bodies of two sisters, aged 12 and 15, were found hanging from a tree in a village of East Singhbhum district late Wednesday afternoon, police said on Thursday. The two cousin sisters had gone missing on Monday after they had set out to cut grass in the nearby jungle in their village, police said. Villagers grazing cows and goats spotted the bodies of the girls following which police was informed.“We recovered the bodies late last evening [Wednesday]. Their deaths seemed to have happened under mysterious circumstances. We are investigating the matter and sent the bodies for post mortem examination today [Thursday],” Jyotilal Rajwad, Barsol police station officer-in-charge (OC), said. Jamshedpur SSP Dr Tamil Vanan said that they were waiting for the post mortem report to reach a conclusion if the cousin sisters were murdered or committed suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-sisters-found-dead-in-j-khand-police-launch-probe/story-8Pi7my59IMuZEzzKQwkpAL.html
09-10-2020||India||Two same-sex couples move Delhi HC for recognition of marriages||Two same-sex couples have moved the Delhi high court seeking legal recognition for their marriages, arguing that the lack of formal acceptance of their union under Indian laws was a violation of their constitutional rights.The petitions were heard on Thursday by justice Navin Chawla, who directed that they be listed before the chief justice of the high court, who is already hearing a petition seeking recognition of same sex unions under the 1955 Hindu Marriage Act. The next hearing is scheduled on October 14. A petition seeking the recognition of gay marriage under the Special Marriage Act pending before the high court. The two petitioners were represented by senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy and advocates Arundhati Katju, Govind Manoharan and Surabhi Dhar. Guruswamy and Katju were among the lawyers who successfully convinced the Supreme Court to read down Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, which criminalized homosexuality, in 2018. The first petition was filed by two mental health professionals -- Kavita Arora, 47 and Ankita Khanna, 36 -- who said they had been living together as a couple for eight years, were in love with each other and sharing the highs and lows of life, but unable to marry as both were women.“They share the highs, the lows, the joys and sorrows of life; they go through the wear and tear of living together; they have the deep, unbreakable bond of two people who have come together in love. The petitioners are like any other couple you might meet, except they are both women,” their petition read.The second petition was filed by two men – Vaibhav Jain, an Indian citizen, and Parag Vijay Mehta, an overseas citizen of India, who got married in the United States in 2017. An Indian consulate refused to register their union this year under the 1969 Foreign Marriage Act. The couple, who were in a relationship since 2012 and were supported by their families and friends, also claimed during the Covid-19 pandemic, non-recognition of their marriage prevented them from travelling as a married couple to India. “The petitioners submit that non-recognition of same-sex marriages is a wanton act of discrimination that strikes at the root of dignity and self-fulfillment of LGBTQ {lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer) couples,” the petition read. The two women said that things like opening a joint bank account, buying family health insurance, or securing address proof – things that a married couple takes for granted – were a struggle for them. On September 30, they approached the marriage officer (the sub-divisional magistrate, South East Delhi, Kalkaji) seeking solemnization of their marriage under the Special Marriage Act, 1954. “The marriage officer would have solemnized the marriage of any similarly placed opposite-sex couple. Sexual orientation discrimination is constitutionally prohibited under Article 15, but the petitioners were refused the right to marry a person of their choice on grounds of their sexual orientation alone,” they said.The petitions argued that the non-recognition of marriage between LGBTQ persons violated the fundamental rights of liberty, equality, life and freedom of expression guaranteed to them by the Supreme Court judgment, Navtej Johar vs Union of India, which decriminalised adult, consensual same-sex relations in 2018.The Delhi high court is already hearing a petition filed by defence analyst Abhijit Iyer Mitra and three others. In response to that petition, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said last month that Indian values didn’t recognise same-sex unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-same-sex-couples-move-delhi-hc-for-recognition-of-marriages/story-gzVejfNsnhCDFRyU7F8huK.html
09-10-2020||India||Oppn states seek GST dues redress system||States ruled by parties that are not part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) are demanding that a dispute resolution system be set up to tackle differences over the Goods and Services Tax (GST), saying they don’t expect an October 12 meeting of the GST Council to settle an imbroglio over compensating states for an expected Rs. 2.35 lakh crore shortfall in revenue this fiscal year, three people aware of the matter said.The 10 states have refused to accept either of two options suggested by the Centre to make up the shortfall -- borrow Rs.1.1 lakh crore (the portion of the deficit resulting from GST implementation issues) without paying either the principal or interest, or borrow the entire Rs.2.35 lakh crore (including the shortfall caused by the Covid-19 pandemic) at a significant cost. These states want the Centre to borrow the money, reimburse the states in full and retire the debt from the amount raised as cess on luxury and sin goods luxury and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and other tobacco products. The imbroglio has underscored an urgent need to put a GST dispute resolution system in place because the GST Council, which is headed by the Union finance minister and comprises her state counterparts, is unable to forge a consensus, the three people cited above said. It has happened once, on October 5, and the October 12 meeting is headed the same way, said two finance ministers of states opposed to the options, requesting anonymity.On October 5, the GST Council put off until October 12 a decision on compensating states for the shortfall in their share of GST revenue as the 10 states balked at the suggestion that they borrow from the market to make up a part of the shortfall.“A vote was almost certain on Monday [October 5] on this matter when the chairman deferred the matter to October 12 for more discussion. However, there is no material change in the respective positions as of now. Hence, the 10 states will demand a vote on this matter on Monday [October 12],” one of the ministers cited above said.When the new indirect tax regime came into force on July 1, 2017, subsuming a raft of central and state levies, the GST law assured states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years (up to 2022) and said their revenue shortfall should be made good using the cess levied on luxury goods and sin products. The GST Council has extended the cess beyond 2022.“It is unfortunate that the Central government is departing from the convention of consensus-based decisions in the GST Council. The new tax regime, a unique example of cooperative federalism, was launched on the premise that its decisions will be unanimous. Its first chairman, former finance minister Arun Jaitley, did live up to that. But now, the spirit of cooperative federalism is fast waning,” the first minister cited above said. The GST Council, for the first time since its inception on July 1, 2017 resorted to a division of votes on the issue of a tax on lotteries at its 38th meeting on December 18, 2019. Twenty-one members voted in favour of imposing a uniform 28% rate on both state-run and state-authorised lotteries, seven ministers opposed the proposal and three abstained.Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac said the states were, in effect, being threatened by the Centre that choosing neither of the options proposed by it would mean no compensation.“In the circumstances, if the avowed principle of consensus is not being upheld, the legal provisions for a dispute resolution mechanism within the Council should be activated without delay,” Isaac said. He also demanded the appointment of a vice-chairperson for the Council.An email query sent to the Union finance ministry did to elicit any response on the formation of a dispute resolution mechanism and the appointment of a vice-chairman.A Union government official said a proposal to form a dispute resolution mechanism had already been rejected. “A proposal to create a dispute settlement authority consisting of retired judges was mooted in 2011, even before the implementation of the GST regime, but it was rejected by the then Parliamentary standing committee,” he said, requesting anonymity.“Later, the then GST Empowered Committee headed by Sushil Modi also rejected the proposal, arguing that any such authority would undermine the sovereignty of the GST Council, which essentially consists of the Centre and states and whose recommendations are binding on state legislatures and Parliament,” he added. According to officials, the GST Council has committees such as the fitment committee, which determines the procedures to determine rates levied on various supplies, and the law committee to resolve disputes among members. The Council can also form groups of ministers (GoMs) and committees of officers to resolve any issue.“The present situation demands urgent action and cannot be expected through a dispute resolution mechanism even if it’s established at the earliest. However, given the rise in dissent from state governments, initiating constitution of a dispute resolution body should be done for speedy resolution in future and to avoid adding to litigation before the Supreme Court,” said Ayush Mehrotra, a partner at law firm Khaitan & Co.The law does empower the GST Council to establish a system to resolve disputes between the Centre and one or more states, said Abhishek Jain, tax partner at consulting firm EY India.“While one of the mechanisms could be setting up of an independent judicial body, various other avenues could as well be explored. Nonetheless, a formalised dispute resolution mechanism reflects lack of unanimity,” he added, noting that the ability to reach a consensus “has been quite an applaudable feature of the GST Council” so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-states-seek-gst-dues-redress-system/story-6Le4h7aQUpFla2oq9HScTM.html
09-10-2020||India||‘When he gets better…’: Son Chirag tweeted hours before Ram Vilas Paswan’s death||Ram Vilas Paswan, the 74-year-old Bihar politician who founded the Lok Janshakti Party 20 years ago, died in a Delhi hospital on Thursday evening, his son and political heir Chirag Paswan announced in an emotional tweet. Chirag Paswan had been camping in Delhi for his father who had been unwell and underwent a heart surgery over the weekend.Four hours before Chirag Paswan announced his father’s death with a throwback photograph, the 37-year-old had tweeted a list of 42 candidates of his party for the Bihar election later this month and promised to be back home as soon as he could.Also Watch | Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan passes away, son Chirag Paswan shares news “I am not able to be among you because papa is very unwell. I will be there as soon as he gets better,” Chirag Paswan had tweeted. Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan had undergone a heart surgery over the weekend. Doctors had then indicated that a second one might be needed. पापा....अब आप इस दुनिया में नहीं हैं लेकिन मुझे पता है आप जहां भी हैं हमेशा मेरे साथ हैं। Miss you Papa... pic.twitter.com/Qc9wF6Jl6ZThe nine-term parliamentarian, eight of them as Lok Sabha member, had taken his first steps in politics with the Samyukta Socialist Party in the late 1960s and won his first election to the assembly soon after. Over the next five decades, Ram Vilas Paswan shifted parties and coalitions, built new partnerships, won new friends and some rivals as well.Paswan, described by his admirers as a firebrand socialist, branched out of the Janata Dal in 2000 to form the Lok Janshakti Party. Lalu Prasad Yadav had walked out three years earlier to form the Rashtriya Janata Dal. They had worked together for a long time before turning into political rivals after the split of the Janata Dal.“Ram Vilas bhai, you went too soon,” Lalu Yadav, who is also in hospital, said in a tweet that recalled their association going back to 45 years. It was Lalu Yadav, who had famously described Paswan’s uncanny ability to predict the poll outcome long before elections and set his sails accordingly as the “mausam vigyanik”, or a weather scientist. रामबिलास भाई के असामयिक निधन का दुःखद समाचार सुन अति मर्माहत हूँ। विगत 45 वर्षों का अटूट रिश्ता और उनके संग लड़ी तमाम सामाजिक, राजनीतिक लड़ाइयाँ आँखों में तैर रही है।रामबिलास भाई, आप जल्दी चले गए। इससे ज़्यादा कुछ कहने की स्थिति में नहीं हूँ।ॐ शांति ॐPaswan spoke of his ability with pride, underlining that he knew the pulse of the people. “I was one of the first who publicly claimed that there will be a Modi tsunami this time, not just a wave, and that is what happened exactly,” Paswan told reporters. He had predicted 40 seats for the NDA in Bihar in 2019; the alliance won 39.For the three-phase Bihar elections that start later this month, Ram Vilas Paswan had left it to his son Chirag to decide how to navigate the alliances. Chirag pulled out of the alliance in Bihar but stayed in the NDA at the Centre. Janata Dal United’s Nitish Kumar is their prime target. It was a balance that the senior Paswan had struck back in 2005 when he stayed put in the Congress-led UPA at the Centre but contested against Lalu Yadav’s Rashtriya Janata Party in Bihar elections. 1969 मे मेरा DSP मे और MLA दोनो मे एक साथ चयन हुआ।तब मेरे एक मित्र नेपूछा कि बताओ Govt बनना है या Servant ?बस तभी मैंने राजनीति ज्वाइन कर लीBut Paswan, one of the most prominent Dalit faces in Bihar, almost didn’t join politics. As he tweeted a few years ago, back in 1969 he was in a fix when he won his first assembly election and cleared the examination to become a deputy superintendent of police in Bihar. Paswan consulted a friend who asked him: “Do you want to be the government or the servant?”. “I joined politics soon after,” Paswan tweeted in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-he-gets-better-son-chirag-tweeted-hours-before-ram-vilas-paswan-s-death/story-aCE1P2WvVQ45r105WZb4QN.html
09-10-2020||India||CBI searches rebel YSRC MP Raghurama Raju’s offices, residences in alleged Rs 826-cr bank fraud||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday conducted searches on the properties of rebel YSR Congress party MP Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju for allegedly duping a consortium of banks led by Punjab National Bank of Rs 826.17 crore. Searches were being conducted in 11 locations, including at Hyderabad, Mumbai and West Godavari in Andhra Pradesh and the office and residential premises of the borrower in Secunderabad, in Ranga Reddy district and other areas, the CBI said in a statement. Raju, a parliamentarian from Narasapuram in West Godavari district, is the chairman of Ind-Barath Thermal Power Limited, and is facing allegations of causing an alleged loss of Rs 826.17 crore to a consortium of banks led by Punjab National Bank.“It was alleged in the complaint that the accused had cheated the Punjab National Bank led consortium banks by way of diversion/siphoning off bank funds etc. We have booked a case and investigation is continuing,” the CBI statement said. The CBI searches on the offices and residential premises of Raju came in the wake of his revolt against the YSRC led by Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy in the last few months. In July, the YSRC petitioned Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla seeking Raju’s disqualification from his membership for defying the party discipline, after he challenged the show-cause notice served on him. Since then, he has been attacking the YSRC leadership almost every day. In April 2019, too, the CBI conducted searches in the residences and offices of Raju for alleged loan default of over Rs 947 crore. The CBI charged Raju’s company with taking loans worth over Rs 2,655 crore from three non-banking financial companies -- Power Finance Corporation, Rural Electrification Corporation Limited and India Infrastructure Finance Company Ltd. The loans were taken for establishment of a 666 MW coal-based thermal power project in Tuticorin, Tamil Nadu. It was alleged that the company defaulted in payments of Rs 947 crore which turned into non-performing assets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-searches-rebel-ysrc-mp-raghurama-raju-s-offices-residences-in-alleged-rs-826-cr-bank-fraud/story-Yem1uzUmDNFqQr0HCp8KwJ.html
09-10-2020||India||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan passes away days after surgery||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who was ailing for quite some time, has passed away, tweeted his son Chirag Paswan on Thursday evening. The consumer affairs minister was 74.पापा....अब आप इस दुनिया में नहीं हैं लेकिन मुझे पता है आप जहां भी हैं हमेशा मेरे साथ हैं। Miss you Papa... pic.twitter.com/Qc9wF6Jl6Z“Papa .... Now you are not in this world but I know you are always with me wherever you are. Miss you Papa…,” tweeted Chirag Paswan, with a throwback photo of his father hugging a younger him.Watch | Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan passes away, son Chirag Paswan shares news A stalwart of the socialist movement who later emerged as Bihar’s foremost Dalit leader with following across the country, Ram Vilas Paswan was instrumental in the implementation of the Mandal Commission report in the 1990s.Paswan is the second union minister to die in the space of two months - Suresh Angadi died of coronavirus in September. In November last, after helming the Lok Janshakti Party for 19 years, Paswan stepped down from his post to make way for the appointment of his son and MP Chirag Paswan as the new party president.He was elected to Lok Sabha eight times and also held the record of winning his constituency, Hajipur, with the highest margin for several years.He was a minister in central governments headed by parties of contrasting ideological persuasions, ranging from the Janata Dal to the Congress and the BJP, since 1989.As the news of the leader’s death percolated, tributes poured in for him. “In the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, the nation has lost a visionary leader. He was among the most active and longest-serving members of parliament. He was the voice of the oppressed, and championed the cause of the marginalized,” tweeted President Ram Nath Kovind.“A firebrand socialist in youth, mentored by the likes of Jayaprakash Narayan during anti-Emergency movement, Paswan ji had enviable rapport with masses and he ardently strove for their welfare. Condolences to his family and supporters,” read the President’s second tweet.In a series of tweets, Prime Minister Narendra Modi noted how ‘insightful’ Paswan’s interventions used to be during cabinet meetings. The PM called it a “personal loss” and hailed Paswan as an “outstanding Parliamentarian”. Shri Ram Vilas Paswan Ji rose in politics through hardwork and determination. As a young leader, he resisted tyranny and the assault on our democracy during the Emergency. He was an outstanding Parliamentarian and Minister, making lasting contributions in several policy areas. pic.twitter.com/naqx27xBoj I am saddened beyond words. There is a void in our nation that will perhaps never be filled. Shri Ram Vilas Paswan Ji’s demise is a personal loss. I have lost a friend, valued colleague and someone who was extremely passionate to ensure every poor person leads a life of dignity. pic.twitter.com/2UUuPBjBrj“Working together, shoulder to shoulder with Paswan Ji has been an incredible experience. His interventions during Cabinet Meetings were insightful. From political wisdom, statesmanship to governance issues, he was brilliant. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti,” said PM Modi in one of the three tweets.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the “poor-downtrodden lost a strong political voice today”, while Priyanka Gandhi reminisced the family association and how he was a neighbour of her mother Sonia Gandhi for years. रामविलास पासवान जी वर्षों से मेरी माँ के पड़ोसी रहे और उनके परिवार के साथ हमारा एक निजी रिश्ता था। उनके निधन की सूचना से बेहद दुःख हुआ है। चिराग जी और परिवार के समस्त सदस्यों को मेरी गहरी संवेदना। इस दुखद घड़ी में हम आपके साथ हैं।“Ram Vilas Paswan ji has been a neighbor of my mother for years and we had a personal relationship with his family. The news of his demise is deeply sad. My deepest condolences to Chirag ji and all the family members. We are with you in this sad hour,” tweeted Priyanka Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-ram-vilas-paswan-passes-away-son-chirag-tweets-he-was-74/story-OHvQhOGMS9IkpdAKVIxY4O.html
09-10-2020||India||Nidhi wants to do projects with strong female characters||Prayagraj actor Nidhi Singh, who won hearts with her very first digital series--‘Permanent Roommates’, says she took up acting after reading Shakespeare.“I was a science student and my parents used to encourage me to take up extra-curricular activities. But when I told them I want to try acting they were surprised and reluctant. But, after much persuasion I was allowed to complete my graduation in Mumbai with specialization in advertising,” she said. Talking about her acting debut UP girl Nidhi, who is also a trained dancer, said, “I tried my hand at ads and sketches before getting my first digital series, ‘Permanent Roommates.’ It was an instant hit and then I got plenty of projects including ‘Every Delhi Girl in the World,’ ‘Man’s World,’ ‘Apharan’ along with films like ‘Long Live Brig Mohan,’ ‘Dil Junglee’ and more. And when bigger OTT platforms started to come in, the content got upgraded and work doubled up for all digital actors.” Currently, Nidhi is seen essaying a role of a cop in her recently released digital film ‘Bahut Hua Samman’. “BHS...that is being streamed on Hotstar, was a fun project and playing a no-nonsense cop made it super fun for me to portray. Then shooting in Varanasi was a double fun as I was working near my hometown and was all glad being there. I’m also thrilled with the response my new web series is garnering.”For the road ahead, Nidhi wants to continue doing good projects with strong female characters she is known to play. “Offers are there but due to ongoing Covid-19 crisis things have slowed down thankfully my projects were all streamed on time and script reading for fresh ones is underway,” she shared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/nidhi-wants-to-do-projects-with-strong-female-characters/story-4vwT8skvo3pNkWzANnf03O.html
