10-10-2020||India||Kerala’s Covid-19 woes aggravate as viral caseload crosses 11,000-mark||With the countrywide viral caseload registering a downward trend, in Kerala however, the graph is increasing steadily, latest statistics show. With 11,775 Covid-19 cases the state clocked the highest single-day tally on Saturday and its daily test positivity rate is 17.74 against the national average of 8. “We expected a hike. Our effective intervention helped delay it and we managed to bring down the mortality rate drastically. We have got enough time to make preparations,” said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan adding the state’s records were still better than most others. He asked people not to panic but remain alert and meet the health ministry’s directives. In the last week, the state has reported more than 50,000 cases. “We have reinforced our health infrastructure to meet the eventuality. We want more people to join our volunteer force. It is time to move ahead united, we will overcome this threat also,” he said. But many experts have asked the CM not to parrot mere records but see the ground reality and act accordingly. They said the state was moving towards a peak and asked the government to hike tests drastically. “It is time to press the emergency button. The state will have to double its tests immediately. The government will have to rope in more experts,” said Dr SS Lal, who served the World Health Organisation for many years. Many experts have earlier criticised the government saying it was only heeding bureaucrats and experts were kept away. They also said the government was not sharing key information and data and private players were also kept away. They said the state’s test record was abysmal (35 lakh in six months). With 11,755 new Covid-19 cases, the total tally has gone up to 2,79,855. At least 1,83,055 people have recovered and there are 95,918 active cases. With 23 deaths, the toll has gone up to 980.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-covid-19-woes-aggravate-as-viral-caseload-crosses-11-000-mark/story-SMBaatjrfELuWGdlhQyi5M.html
10-10-2020||India||Mizoram govt seeks stoppage of all activities at disputed Tripura-Mizoram interstate border||The Mizoram government sought stoppage of construction of a temple and all sorts of activities within the disputed Tripura-Mizoram interstate border near Phuldungsei village where 130 people were identified in Mizoram’s voters’ list almost two months back.Traditionally, Phuldungsei village as a whole has been accepted as part of Tripura despite the eastern side of the village falling into Mizoram’s side.Mizoram home secretary Lalbiaksangi, in a letter to Tripura home secretary BK Sahu, said that any activities could deteriorate law and order at the interstate border.According to the letter, the Mizoram government got reports that Songrongma of Tripura, a local indigenous organisation, is attempting to construct a temple at the disputed interstate border village near Phuldungsei at Thaidawrtlang, Mamit district. There are reports of organising community work on October 19 and 20. Also read: Hathras gang rape case to be probed by CBI, Centre issues notification“Since any activities within the disputed interstate border can result in law and order problems, it is requested to kindly intervene and issue necessary instructions to the concerned district administration for the immediate and indefinite stoppage of the proposed construction,” the letter read.No comment from Tripura government is available on the issue.Located in Kanchanpur sub-division of North district of Tripura, Phuldungsei village has a population of over 600.Kanchanpur sub-divisional magistrate Chandni Chandran in August informed her higher officials that 130 people of the village, who have ration cards of Tripura, were included in Mizoram’s voters’ list. Chandran stressed on demarcating the exact boundary between the two neighbouring states incorporating the entire village in Tripura. Shortly after it, the state government ordered a probe into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-govt-seeks-stoppage-of-all-activities-at-disputed-tripura-mizoram-interstate-border/story-K8fEaFBkqrZftvrq4pNItL.html
10-10-2020||India||Chirag Paswan collapses after lighting father Ram Vilas Paswan’s pyre||The burden of grief, at a juncture that might be most critical in his political career, proved too much for Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan who fell unconscious after lighting the funeral pyre of his father Ram Vilas Paswan here on Saturday.The 37-year-old lawmaker has been a picture of bereavement ever since his father breathed last at a Delhi hospital on Thursday.Chirag, known to be a dutiful son who even played the barber for his father during the nationwide lockdown, raised a banner of revolt against Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumars JD(U), announcing the stunning decision to go solo in the assembly polls, while spending most of his time beside Paswan senior’s hospital bed.He wept when Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited their Delhi residence to pay his last respect.Chirag wailed inconsolably on Saturday morning when BJP MP and former minister Ram Kripal Yadav, who has known Chirag since he was a child, visited their Patna house.Yadav was also moved to tears and the two stood for some time, holding each other tightly.At the Digha ghat on the bank of the Ganges, Chirag fainted after lighting the funeral pyre, but was saved from crashing on to the ground by his cousins who had been beside him, helping him perform the rituals.“He is out of danger. The mental stress coupled with the dehydration brought about by standing for hours in a hot and humid weather may have taken a toll,” said a source close to the family.After the cremation, Union minister and senior BJP leader Giriraj Singh told reporters, “Paswans death marks the end of an era. He must have been the last surviving political leader with decades of parliamentary experience. His popularity can be gauged from the fact that all central ministers from Bihar are present here. I can also see representatives from various political parties.” “He is one of the few luminaries who stoutly defended the Mandal Commission when its recommendations were implemented by the VP Singh government, and rebuffed detractors when Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s well- intentioned quota for economically weaker sections was being opposed,” Singh said.“We are all with the bereaved family in this hour of grief,” he added.Onlookers remarked that it needs an “ajaat shatru” (one with no enemies) like Ram Vilas Paswan to evoke such tenderness from someone known for his acerbity, that too at a time when his party is not happy with the political line taken by the successor -- Chirag. PTI NAC SOM SOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chirag-paswan-collapses-after-lighting-father-ram-vilas-paswan-s-pyre/story-c7eSas3cJOIyemtMCiL7PJ.html
10-10-2020||India||Former Bihar CM Jitan Ram Manjhi seeks Bharat Ratna for Ram Vilas Paswan||Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) president and former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi on Saturday demanded that Bharat Ratna be conferred posthumously on Dalit leader Ram Vilas Paswan.In a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, Manjhi also made a plea to convert Paswan’s 12, Janpath bungalow in New Delhi, where the Lok Janshakti Party founder lived for the past 31 years since 1989, to a memorial.The demand for according the country’s highest civilian award to the former union minister, who died on Thursday, has also been separately made by his younger brother and LJP Lok Sabha member Pashupati Kumar Paras and Bihar minister and senior BJP leader Prem Kumar.Manjhi, himself a Dalit leader who suspended his all poll-related engagements in Gaya to pay tribute to Paswan in Patna, told reporters that he was demanding Bharat Ratna for Paswan so that future generations could be told about him and his services for the upliftment of the downtrodden.The HAM chief is contesting the Assembly election from Imamganj in Gaya where voting will be held in the first phase on October 28.He contested the views expressed by some people that Dalits lack administrative capability, and cited names of departed leaders such as Jagjivan Ram, who was deputy prime minister and defence minister in the 1970s, and Ramvilas Paswan in support of his argument.Manjhi hailed Paswan’s work in particular as a railway minister in 1998 in the United Front government. He was the consumer affairs, food and public distribution minister in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cabinet.Paras, an LJP MP, has also made a plea for bestowing Bharat Ratna on his elder brother.Bihar minister and senior BJP leader Prem Kumar also sought Bharat Ratna for Paswan.“I support the demand for conferring Bharat Ratna on Ramvilas Paswan for his works to bring Dalits and those hailing from the deprived sections of the society into the mainstream,” Prem Kumar tweeted.Ramvilas Paswan had shot to national fame after winning the 1977 Lok Sabha election from Hajipur seat with a record margin of votes on Janata Party ticket. Since then, he represented the seat for eight times.Born on July 5, 1946 in a poor Dalit family in Saharbanni village of Bihar’s Khagaria district, Paswan had started his political journey with a win in the state Assembly election from Alauli on Samyukta Socialist Party ticket in 1969.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bihar-cm-jitan-ram-manjhi-seeks-bharat-ratna-for-ram-vilas-paswan/story-IBusrnjWMdAJLq6p2vGCEI.html
10-10-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Customs invokes COFEPOSA on two prime accused||The Customs department on Saturday slapped the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act (COFEPOSA) on the main accused in Kerala gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Sandeep Nair. A senior official who is part of the multi-agency probe said Customs got the clearance and the warrant in this connection was handed over to jail authorities. In its application, Customs said the investigation was at a crucial stage and probe agencies needed their prolonged custody. An accused charged with COFEPOSA can be kept in preventive custody up to a year without trial. The Customs slapped the provision after Suresh obtained bail in two cases. But she remained in jail as the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had booked her under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Usually, COFEPOSA is invoked on habitual offenders who pose a threat to the country’s economy. At least 30 people were arrested in connection with the case which surfaced after the recovery of 30 kg gold from a consignment that came to the UAE consulate in the state capital in July camouflaged as diplomatic luggage. This is the first time UAPA was invoked in a smuggling case in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-customs-invokes-cofeposa-on-two-prime-accused/story-uGJTkUeop2P3JgSiwfV4tM.html
10-10-2020||India||Hathras gang rape case to be probed by CBI, Centre issues notification||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) will take over the investigation into the alleged gang rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, the crime which has sparked protests and outrage across the country, the Centre said in a notification on Saturday.Officials familiar with the development said the central agency is likely to register a first information report (FIR) by late on Saturday night or early on Sunday. CBI will re-register the FIR filed by the state police and then begin investigations according to procedure, they added. CBI will only investigate the case pertaining to alleged gang rape and death of the Hathras woman, the officials said.The agency won’t take over probe into UP government’s case registered to investigate alleged criminal conspiracy to spread caste conflict, instigating violence, incidents of vicious propaganda by sections of media and political interests, officials told HT.Also read | Centre nudges states on sexual assault crimes after ‘horrible’ Hathras caseThe Yogi Adityanath government, which has been criticised over the handling of the crime, had recommended a CBI probe last week even as the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) dismissed the protests by opposition as “political stunts”.The order came two days after a non-government organisation (NGO) moved the Supreme Court seeking to transfer the probe in the crime to CBI.The woman was allegedly raped by four upper caste men on September 14 and was referred to Safdarjung Hospital in an extremely critical condition. She died two weeks later on September 29.Meanwhile, the family members of the woman will appear before the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court amid tight security on Monday. “The district administration and police are drafting a plan for the journey of the victim’s family to Lucknow so that they may appear before the court on October 12. Finer details are being worked out and it is to be decided when to leave Hathras for Lucknow and how many security personnel would accompany the family members,” Hathras’ superintendent of police said. Also read | Hathras crime scene to be recreated to find ‘missing links’; victim’s kin to be presentShalabh Mathur, a senior police official, said elaborate security cover has been provided to the family in Hathras and a register is being maintained at the entrance of their house to keep a record of those visiting them. “Eight CCTV cameras have been installed and a small control room has been established to monitor the proceedings and movement of those reaching to house. A DFMD (Door Framed Metal Detector) has been installed and measures for fire fighting are also in place,” Mathur, a DIG sent to Hathras and camping there since Monday, said. The district and sessions judge of Hathras has been appointed as the nodal officer for the appearance of the Hathras victim’s family member before the high court, which is also to be apprised of the arrangements being made. Senior authorities from Hathras are also expected to attend the proceedings on October 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-notification-for-cbi-probe-in-hathras-gang-rape-case/story-KGQaC5bxX1gb9Do6z90LjK.html
10-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: BJP holds CEC meeting to decide candidates for Bihar polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi, Amit Shah at BJP CEC meet to decide candidates for Bihar pollsA meeting of Central Election Committee (CEC) of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is currently underway to decide the list of candidates for the upcoming Bihar assembly polls. Read moreAnita Hassanandani is expecting first child with husband Rohit Reddy, announces pregnancy with cute videoTelevision actor Anita Hassanandani and her husband, entrepreneur Rohit Reddy, are expecting their first child. She announced her pregnancy with a cute video, which showed the stages of their relationship. Read moreIPL 2020, KXIP vs KKR: Narine, Krishna win a thriller for KKR, beat KXIP by 2 runsAstonishingly pulling out a nail-biter by 2 runs, the late comeback from the bowlers of Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) shattered the hopes of Kings XI Punjab (KXIP) at Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi. Read moreRansomware alert: Microsoft has a warning for all Android phone usersAttention Android users, Microsoft has found a new ransomware that is targeting Android smartphones and has issued an alert about it. According to reports, this ransomware is called MalLocker.B and is spreading to Android phones via online forums and websites. Read moreHindu Rao Hospital: Delhi govt directs to move out Covid patients amid protestsThe Delhi government on Saturday ordered shifting of all COVID-19 patients from civic-run Hindu Rao Hospital to its own facilities, days after the resident doctors went on a “symbolic indefinite strike” over non-payment of their due salaries for the last three months. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, interacting with reporters, said, as of now 20 patients are at the Hindu Rao Hospital.”Today, we have ordered to shift all COVID-19 patients from Hindu Rao Hospital to our own facilities. They have the choice to be shifted to LNJP Hospital or any other government hospital nearby their homes,” he said.Hindu Rao Hospital is the largest municipal hospital in Delhi with 900 beds, and is currently a dedicated COVID-19 facility. Many of its healthcare workers had contracted the infection earlier. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-bjp-holds-cec-meeting-to-decide-candidates-for-bihar-polls-and-all-the-latest-news/story-mJ4ZADfYOeSsPJz1GAsKqJ.html
10-10-2020||India||No increase in death rate in Goa this year on account of Covid-19: Govt||The Covid-19 pandemic has not led to an increase in the death rate in Goa and on the contrary the state has registered fewer deaths between March and August this year than it did last year, information released by the Chief Minister’s Office has revealed. According to the data, 6,404 people died in Goa between March and August 2020 while 6,633 died between March and August 2019. On Friday, chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that an audit of deaths was being conducted and analysis of the death figures indicated that Goa was not registering higher than average deaths on account of the pandemic. Covid-19 has claimed nearly 500 lives in the state after the first local cases were detected in early June while nearly 40,000 have been infected so far. The data also revealed that on an average Goa registers around 1,000 deaths per month with more men dying than women. Between March and August this year, 3754 men died while 2,647 women died, while in the same period last year 3,950 men died while 2,679 women passed away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-increase-in-death-rate-in-goa-this-year-on-account-of-covid-19-govt/story-SQ1RvkDYwmrrpqety13WpK.html
10-10-2020||India||Sabarimala Temple to open for devotees on Oct 16 after lockdown to curb Covid-19||After lockdown, the Sabarimala Temple in Kerala is preparing to open for the first time on October 16 for a five-day monthly pooja, the Travancore Devasom Board (TDB) which runs the hill shrine said. There will be strict restrictions for pilgrims-- only registered devotees will be allowed and a maximum of 250 of them will be permitted in a single day. All pilgrims will have to carry Covid-19 negative certificates obtained 48 hours before reaching Pambha, the base camp, and those arriving without certificates will have to undergo a test and wait for its results, said the TDB adding virtual queue registration will begin from Saturday night. Bathing in Pamba River will not be allowed and nobody will be permitted to stay on the hilltop. The TDB has also set up a small hospital for those who test positive for the viral infection. Confusion still persists on masks with doctors having warned that a mask will cause trouble for devotees when they scale steep heights and it may disturb their breathing process. From base camp Pambha, devotees will have to trek five km to reach the hilltop and some of the stretches are really steep. Despite setting up oxygen parlours every year, many pilgrims die due to heart failure. Last year, 30 pilgrims died due to heart-related ailments. The TDB said the High Court-appointed body will be approached to get more clarity on masks. The temple was closed for devotees on March 18, a week before the first lockdown was put into place. In June there were plans to open the shrine but it was deferred after many organizations and the tantri (chief priest) of the temple opposed it. One of the richest temples in the country, Sabarimala revenue is usually used to fund smaller temples and for salaries of employees of the Travancore Devasom Board (TDB). The closure of the temple had invited enough trouble for TDB and its 3,500-odd employees. “We will closely monitor the situation. Based on the five-day opening we will take a decision on the annual pilgrimage season starting in November. We will raise the number of pilgrims based on the feedback we get now,” TDB chairman N Vasu said. During the last pilgrimage season-- October 2019 to January 2020-- the aggregate revenue of the temple was Rs 263. 57 crore. Aravana payasam-- a black kheer made of rice, jaggery, ghee and cardamom-- forms 60 per cent of the temple revenue. Pilgrims from five South Indian states throng the temple and it is often considered the largest seasonal pilgrimage after Mecca. At the peak of the season, at least 5 to 8 lakh people visit the shrine on a day. The temple had witnessed large-scale unrest in 2018 after the Supreme Court lifted the age-old tradition of barring women in the reproductive age. A larger bench of the court is hearing the issue now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-temple-to-open-for-devotees-on-oct-16-after-lockdown-to-curb-covid-19/story-2sCZZEJGUNCp3YjZPK7g9H.html
10-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape victim’s family to appear before Allahabad HC amid tight security on Monday||Family members of a 19-year-old Dalit woman who died after allegedly being raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district will appear before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court amid tight security on Monday. Hathras Superintendent of Police Vineet Jaiswal on Saturday told PTI that the district judge of Hathras has been appointed as the nodal officer for the appearance of the Hathras victim’s family member before the high court. The police and district administration are working on an elaborate plan in this regard as to how many family members will go and when they will depart from Hathras. “The Hathras Police will be responsible for their security and a detailed plan is being made,” Jaiswal said. Sixty security personnel have been deployed and eight close circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed at the house of the alleged gangrape victim in her village in Bulgarhi area here to ensure the safety of her family members, according to police. DIG Shalabh Mathur, who has been sent to Hathras from Lucknow as a nodal officer, had told PTI on Friday that if needed a control room would also be established there. With the help of CCTV cameras, the house of the victim was being monitored round-the-clock, police said. The Hathras SP said a register of visitors was being maintained by policemen at the entry of the house. “Shocked” by the alleged gang-rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit woman and her forcible cremation subsequently, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on October 1 had summoned top government officials to the court. A division bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh had ordered the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary, state police chief and an additional director general of police to appear before it on October 12 to explain the incident. Taking suo motu cognisance of the case, which has triggered widespread outrage, the bench also ordered Hathras district magistrate and superintendent of police to appear with to apprise the court of various aspects of the case, including the ongoing probe into it. “The incidents which took place after the death of the victim on September 29, 2020 leading up to her cremation, as alleged, have shocked our conscience. Therefore, we are taking suo moto cognizance of the same,” the bench had said in its order. The bench had also asked the late woman’s parents to come to the court to apprise it of their versions of the incident and ordered the Hathras district administration to arrange for their travel to the court and facilitate their appearance before it. PTI ZIR NAV SNE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-victim-s-family-to-appear-before-allahabad-hc-amid-tight-security-on-monday/story-QtUZVHZMXNr81SskJHFuVK.html
10-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 4 terrorists killed in two encounters in J-K’s Pulwama, Kulgam and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Four militants killed in two encounters in Kashmir’s Kulgam, PulwamaFour militants, including two belonging to the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), were killed in two separate encounters in south Kashmir on Saturday, police and army officials said. Read moreBhim Army boss denies inciting caste violence for money, throws Yogi a challengeBhim Army chief Chandrashekher Azad on Friday hit out at Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath over his allegation that some groups had received funds to trigger caste violence in the state in the backdrop of the Hathras incident. Read more here.IPL 2020, CSK vs RCB Preview: Chennai’s batting in focus as Virat Kohli’s men take on MS Dhoni’s armyChennai Super Kings will take on Royal Challengers Bangalore on Saturday and the focus will be on the former’s batting struggles. CSK, in their previous game, failed to chase down the modest target of 168, despite having 5 wickets in hand. The pressure is building on CSK captain MS Dhoni to sort out the batting order, especially with the middle-order struggling. Read more here.Ranvir Shorey wants marijuana to be made legal in India: ‘It is based on very archaic laws’Ranvir Shorey has witnessed multiple releases in times of coronavirus pandemic but says that it’s just a coincidence that his various projects shot over a period of two years got to release on OTT platforms around the same time. After the short web series Metro Park - Quarantine Edition and the Kunal Kemmu-starrer Lootcase, the latest release of the actor is the MX Player original series High which revolves around the theme of drug mafia. Read more here.After Baba Ka Dhaba, video of ‘kanji bade wale uncle’ in Agra goes viral. People pledge to helpBaba Ka Dhaba, an eatery in Delhi’s Malviya Nagar, received an outpouring of support after a video of the place went viral online. From politicians to film stars, people from different walks of life came together to help 80-year-old Kanta Prasad and his wife, Badaami Devi. Now, another video of an elderly man selling kanji bada in Agra has captured people’s attention. Read moreRajasthan priest’s family refuses to perform last rites, demands compensationFamily of the Rajasthan priest, who was allegedly burnt alive, refused to perform his last rites. The family members have sought compensation of RS 50 lakh and a government job. “We demand immediate arrest of all the accused. We want compensation of Rs 50 lakh and a job. We won’t perform last rites till our demands are fulfilled,” said a family member. Vaishnav’s hut in Bukna village was set on fire on Wednesday over a land dispute. He was reportedly trying to prevent encroachment on temple land. The accused reportedly set the fence on fire in which Vaishnav got burnt. The priest succumbed to his injuries after he was admitted to hospital. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-4-terrorists-killed-in-two-encounters-in-j-k-s-pulwama-kulgam-and-all-the-latest-news/story-GLVRrBfQUyySW5rbWTGGZJ.html
10-10-2020||India||India’s active cases of Covid-19 below 9-lakh mark for second consecutive day: Govt||India continued to report a decline in the active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with the number of infections staying below the 900,000-mark for the second day in a row, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Saturday.“For the second day after the active cases dropped below the 9L mark after a month, the progressive decline continues,” the ministry said in a statement.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here With the active caseload at 883,185, the ministry highlighted that as on Saturday the active cases in the country were only 12.65% of the total Covid-19 positive cases. These are nearly 1/8th of the total cases in the country, it added.India’s infection tally is inching closer towards the grim milestone of seven million, with the total number of confirmed cases at 6,979,423. Of them, 5,988,822 have recovered from the disease under home isolation or have been discharged from hospitals. The toll due to the respiratory disease has gone up to 107,416.The national recovery rate has progressed to 85.81%. While 76% of the new recovered cases are concentrated in 10 states and Union territories, 18 others are reporting recovery rates higher than the national average, the health ministry said. “This is the result of collaborative action by States/UTs under the Centre’s strategy of comprehensive testing, tracking, quick hospitalization and adherence to the Standard Treatment Protocol,” it added in the statement.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Maharashtra continues to record the maximum number of active cases of Covid-19 as well as recoveries at 236,947 and 1,229,339 respectively. “Maharashtra continues to contribute the maximum with more than 17,000 single day recovery,” the ministry said. After the western state, the southern states of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have the maximum number of active cases at 118,870; 47,665, and 44,197. The second highest recoveries were from Andhra Pradesh at 691,040, followed by Tamil Nadu at 591,811 and Karnataka at 561,610.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-active-cases-of-covid-19-below-9-lakh-mark-for-second-consecutive-day-govt/story-IPpGf3Ymmh1ZKycJ7xCAQI.html
10-10-2020||India||Mann Ki Baat gives ‘great opportunity’ to share inspiring journeys: PM Modi calls for ideas for next episode||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for ideas for the 70th edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, which will be aired on October 25. Modi’s Mann ki Baat is aired on All India Radio on the last Sunday of every month.“#MannKiBaat presents a great opportunity to share inspiring journeys of outstanding citizens and discuss themes that power societal change. This month’s programme will take place on the 25th. Share your ideas on the NaMo App, MyGov or record your message,” PM Modi tweeted.The Prime Minister had talked about the passage of farm bills, the importance of storytelling and the values of the Indian family system during the last edition of Mann Ki Baat. He had also hailed the courage, bravery and valour of soldiers, who carried out the surgical strikes in 2016.On the farm laws, which are being criticised by opposition parties, he had said that these bills will empower farmers and give them the freedom to sell their produce. PM Modi said farmers have benefitted by the policies of his government since 2014.Also read | Mann ki Baat: Farm sector playing key role in making India self-reliant, says PM ModiHe had also encouraged people to take up storytelling in his last Mann Ki Baat programme, saying “where there is a soul, there is a story”. “There has been a thriving tradition of storytelling in India. We are proud that we are citizens of the country where there has been a tradition of ‘Hitopdesh’ and ‘Panchatantra’. In the stories, an imaginary world of animals and birds was created so that words of wisdom and intellect be made easily understood,” the Prime Minister had said.Kathakalashebam, he said, was an ancient method of telling religious stories. “Different types of folklores are prevalent in our country. There is an interesting style of storytelling in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, which is called Villu Pattu. It has a very interesting harmony between music and the story. In India, there has been a tradition of puppetry,” he had pointed out.Also read | ‘Include inspirational stories from foreign rule, will inspire our young’, urges PM Modi on Mann Ki BaatPM Modi also talked about the efforts being made by individuals to promote the art of “Kissagoi” (story-telling) across the country. “I have been observing the initiative to promote the art of ‘Kissagoi’. I got information about gaathastory.in website run by Amar Vyas and others. Vyas after completing MBA from IIM-Ahmedabad went abroad and then came back. Now he stays in Bengaluru and takes out time to do such interesting work in the field,” Modi said.He also mentioned those who are popularising stories from rural India. Vaishali Vyavhare Deshpande from Maharashtra and Chennai’s Srividya Veeraraghavan were among them. He also mentioned Geeta Ramanujam’s kathalaya.org and another website called Indian Storytelling Network which are doing good work in the field.Bengaluru’s Vikram Sridhar who is working on stories related to Mahatma Gandhi was also mentioned by Prime Minister Modi in his address. He also urged the citizens to share information about others who are working in the field.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-gives-great-opportunity-to-share-inspiring-journeys-pm-modi-calls-for-ideas-for-next-episode/story-8c2AdNtFuZTbSCJkK2TnBP.html
10-10-2020||India||Govt could renew international driving licence for citizens abroad||The government on Saturday said it will initiate steps to facilitate renewal of International Driving Permit (IDP) for citizens whose IDP has expired while they are abroad. A draft notification has been issued by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) in this regard. “The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has issued a draft notification...seeking comments and suggestions for amendment to Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 for facilitating the issuance of International Driving Permit (IDP) for citizens whose IDP has expired while they are abroad,” MoRTH said in a statement.  It said that it has come to its notice that in certain cases for the citizens who are travelling abroad and in a foreign country, the IDP gets expired and there is no mechanism for its renewal while abroad. “The proposal is to amend the CMVR 1989 to facilitate such citizens. The citizens can apply through the Indian Embassy / Mission Abroad portals and the applications would then move to the VAHAN for being considered by the respective RTOs (regional transport offices),” the statement said. The proposal also includes removal of the conditions of a medical certificate and a valid visa at the time of making the request for the IDP in the country. “Further, there are certain countries where the visa is on arrival and in such cases the visa was not available when applying for the IDP in India before travel,” the statement said. It said that citizens and stakeholders can send their comments and suggestions to the joint secretary (MVL, IT & Toll), Ministry of Road Transport and Highways within 30 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-facilitate-renewal-of-international-driving-licence-for-citizens-who-are-abroad/story-q3ifyDEym1BlRocOjEtbwJ.html
10-10-2020||India||2 terrorists killed in J-K’s Pulwama hours after another gunbattle in Kulgam||Two terrorists were gunned down in an ongoing gunfight in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district, after another encounter in the Union territory’s Kulgam district earlier in the day, the police said on Saturday.The local police and security forces are on the job in the Dadoora area of the south Kashmir district, they added. More details are awaited.In Kulgam district, security forces had launched a search operation on Friday night following inputs about the presence of terrorists in the area. The operation turned into an encounter after the terrorists fired at the forces, a police official said. Two terrorists were killed in the ensuing gun battle. While the identity of the two dead terrorists remains unknown, the police had recovered one M4 rifle and one pistol from the encounter site.Meanwhile, the Indian Army foiled Pakistan’s attempt to infiltrate arms and ammunition along the Line of Control (LoC) in Keran sector of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district. Lieutenant General BS Raju, the General Officer Commanding of the army’s Chinar Corps, said Pakistan tried to send weapons including four AK-74 and a large quantity of ammunition using a tube across the Kishanganga River in Keran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hours-after-gunbattle-in-j-k-s-kulgam-2-terrorists-killed-in-pulwama/story-kH4BSF40dELTd4nOP4HXmM.html
10-10-2020||India||Last rites of Ram Vilas Paswan performed in Patna||The last rites of Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Ram Vilas Paswan was performed on Saturday by his son Chirag in Patna. The 74-year-old minister had passed away on Thursday in New Delhi.A large crowd, including several political leaders, gathered outside the residence of Paswan to pay last respect to the departed leader. The mortal remains of LJP’s founder were flown from Delhi to Patna on Friday for the last rites. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP president JP Nadda, and several other leaders paid their tributes to the late leader at his residence in the national capital.Paswan became an iconic leader in Indian politics as he won from Hajipur Lok Sabha constituency eight times between 1977 and 2014. In 1977 and 1980, Paswan had won on a Janata Party ticket. In 1977, he registered a Guinness World Record by winning the election from Hajipur with a margin of 4.24 lakh votes, the maximum margin by any politician in the world. It remained unchallenged for a long time.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-rites-of-ram-vilas-paswan-performed-in-patna/story-mDBzK1cL0IV1XIfbt4t8pO.html
10-10-2020||India||Loss of income, fear of spike in Covid-19 cases as India heads towards festive season||Idol makers across the country are concerned after several states, including Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Maharashtra, imposed restrictions on the height of idols and the size of the pandals ahead of Durga Puja and Navratri amid the coronavirus pandemic.At the same time, experts have said that the festive season could lead to a rise in the number of cases of the coronavirus disease across the country, which has seen more than 6.9 million infections and over 100,000 related deaths so far.The pandemic has impacted not only the worshippers but also those who depend upon festivities as a source of income. The festive season is also a time when people across socioeconomic sectors seek to earn and sometimes it is the only time, they are able to make money for the entire year.An idol maker in Maharashtra said sales have dropped by 50%, according to news agency ANI. “Restrictions placed on the height of the idols are leading to a lower generation of income. Customers are also less this year. Sales have gone down by almost 50%,” the idol maker said.Gujarat also has disallowed Garba during Navratri. The popular folk dance of Gujarat is performed with passion among the citizens during the festival. It has also imposed restrictions on the number of people visiting the pandal and has also introduced a time limit on the prayers. On October 25, chief minister Vijay Rupani released a statement saying, “The nine-day traditional state-level Navratri festival, organised by the state government every year will not be celebrated in the larger public interest due to the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic situation this year.”The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has warned the Delhi government and instructed them to speak to community leaders to ensure that during the Durga Puja, Dussehra and Chhath are celebrated in a low-key fashion. Several puja committees in New Delhi, which has garnered attention over the past few years for its Durga Puja marquees, have said they will hold low key celebrations this year.Tamal Rakshit, an executive committee member of the Durga Puja committee in Chittaranjan Park’s B-Block, pointed out that community celebrations are a huge risk and coronavirus disease cases may see a spike following the festivities. “Community celebrations involve immense risk for both the organisers and the devotees. No matter how much prepared the organisers are, the situation can get out of hand in multiple ways. We have to be scientific here. We have decided to keep the celebrations low-key with no idols and cultural programme,” Rakshit told HT.However, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that Covid-19 should not dampen the festival spirit and that the pandemic should be put in lockdown. The eastern state has issued guidelines for social distancing and has already cancelled the Vijaya Dashami carnival in order to stop the spread of Covid-19.Idol makers in Kolkata’s potter colony, Kumartuli, have taken precautions to ensure that the area which has been relatively free of coronavirus disease continues to remain so. But some of them pointed out to other issues.Sujit Paul, an office-bearer of Mritshilpo Sanskriti Samiti (KMSS), a body that represents the idol makers, while speaking to PTI pointed out to the lack of labourers this year. “Many labourers from districts, who had gone home during the lockdown, did not return amid safety concerns. The artisans, this time, have received 40% fewer orders when compared to the year before. But their hands are full owing to the dearth of labourers,” Paul said.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan after speaking with activists from the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) has also lifted restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loss-of-income-fear-of-spike-in-covid-19-cases-as-india-heads-towards-festive-season/story-ECRf8onBLq303NQkPabnGO.html
10-10-2020||India||Bhim Army boss denies inciting caste violence for money, throws Yogi a challenge||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekher Azad on Friday hit out at Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath over his allegation that some groups had received funds to trigger caste violence in the state in the backdrop of the Hathras incident.He challenged the chief minister to order an inquiry into the matter. He claimed he would leave politics even if Rs 1 lakh was recovered from him, otherwise, the chief minister should resign, he said.Chandrashekhar had posted this challenge through a tweet, in which he said he was dedicated to his community and the (community) bore his expenses.“ I challenge Yogi Adityanathji to institute any kind of probe. Forget Rs 100 crore, even if Rs one lakh is found in my possession, I will quit politics, otherwise you (Yogi) should quit your post. My life is dedicated to my dignity. My expenses are borne by my community,” he tweeted. Also Read: Centre nudges states on sexual assault crimes after ‘horrible’ Hathras caseHe also alleged that a call for justice is equated with ‘international conspiracy’ in Uttar Pradesh.Chandrashekhar and his Bhim Army came under fire after allegations that some groups received funds to the tune of Rs 100 crore to trigger caste violence.Also Read: Hathras crime scene to be recreated to find ‘missing links’; victim’s kin to be presentMeanwhile, the enforcement directorate has clarified about not finding any link between Bhim Army and Popular Front of India.Chandrashekhar and his Bhim Army have been raising the Hathras issue vocally. They have accused the Yogi government of trying to divert attention through allegations of an ‘international conspiracy’ to foment caste violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhim-army-boss-denies-inciting-caste-violence-for-money-throws-yogi-a-challenge/story-aGsOiotYJTKrorMW5xrgfN.html
10-10-2020||India||Bharat Biotech asked to submit complete phase 2 data of its Covid-19 vaccine||Bharat Biotech, which had sought DCGI’s nod for conducting phase-3 clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, has been asked to submit complete safety and immunogenicity data of the ongoing phase-2 trial, besides providing some clarifications, before proceeding for the next stage.The vaccine candidate -- ‘Covaxin’ -- is being indigenously developed by the Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). According to officials, the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on October 2, seeking its permission to conduct phase-3 randomised double-blind placebo-controlled multicentre trial of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The firm in its application said that the study would cover 28,500 subjects aged 18 years and above and would be conducted in 19 sites -- including Delhi, Mumbai, Patna and Lucknow -- across 10 states. According to sources, the phase-2 trial of the Covaxin is going on and the second dose is yet to be given to volunteers at some sites. “The company presented phase-3 clinical trial protocol along with interim data of phase 1 and 2 clinical trials,” an official said. The subject expert committee (SEC) at the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation(CDSCO) deliberated on the application on October 5.“After a detailed deliberation, the committee opined that the design of the phase-3 study is in principle satisfactory except for clarification on definition of asymptomatic, etc. “However, the study should be initiated with appropriate dose identified from the phase-2 safety and immunogenicity data. Accordingly, the firm should submit safety and immunogenicity data from phase-2 trial for consideration,” the panel said in its recommendations.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The SEC during its discussion also observed that the vaccine was well-tolerated in all dose groups and no serious adverse events have been reported so far, a source said.The most common adverse event was pain at the injection site, which resolved transiently, the source said.The phase-3 clinical trial application proposed a dose of 0.5 ml on day 0 and 28, sources said.Besides, Bharat Biotech, indigenously developed vaccine candidate by Zydus Cadila Ltd is in the phase 2 of the human clinical trials.The Pune-based Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate, is also conducting Phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the candidate in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-asked-to-submit-complete-phase-2-data-of-its-covid-19-vaccine/story-wz7FQRoAr9kCfcpE0fVSaN.html
10-10-2020||India||World Mental Health Day: Harsh Vardhan urges people in need to come forward, seek help||On the occasion of World Mental Health Day, Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Saturday said that the Centre has been facilitating the provision of mental health services up to district level and urged people in need to come forward and seek help.“On World Mental Health Day let’s promulgate the message of Mental Health Matters and help end stigma associated with mental illness. The Modi government has been facilitating provision of mental health services up to district level, I urge people in need to come forward and seek help,” Harsh Vardhan tweeted.World Mental Health Day observed globally on October 10 every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-mental-health-day-harsh-vardhan-urges-people-in-need-to-come-forward-seek-help/story-OJ0G5huMtGBGkFmMWhR9eK.html
10-10-2020||India||Army foils Pakistan’s attempt to push arms into Kashmir, recovers four AK 74 rifles||The Army has foiled an attempt to push in arms and ammunition by Pakistan from across the Line of Control (LoC) in Keran sector of Jammu and Kashmir and recovered a cache, including four AK74 rifles, officials said on Saturday. Alert troops foiled Pakistan’s attempt to push in arms across the LoC in Keran Sector of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district, an Army official said. He said the Army noticed two-three men transporting some items in a tube tied to a rope across Kishenganga river. The troops immediately reached the location and recovered four x AK 74 rifles, eight magazines and 240 rounds concealed in two bags. The area has been cordoned off and a search is under progress, the official said. He said it was another attempt by militants from Pakistan Occupied Kashmir to smuggle war-like stores, but it was successfully foiled by the quick action of alert troops. Corps Commander of the Srinagar-based Chinar Corps Lt Gen B S Raju said there has been no change in Pakistan’s intentions. “This morning, in the Keran sector, Pakistan tried to send across the Kishenganga river four AK74 rifles and a huge cache of ammunition in a tube, but our alert troops with the help of surveillance devices, recovered the cache. It signifies that there has been no change in Pakistan’s intentions. We will continue to foil their attempts in the future as well,” Lt Gen Raju told reporters on the sidelines of a function in Rangreth area in the outskirts of the city here. “There have been attempts in Keran, Tangdhar, in Jammu sector and Punjab as well. The main aim is to keep the people of Kashmir involved always in terrorism. But, our resolve is to stop weapons from coming in so that there is minimal loss to the people here. We need the cooperation of the people in this so that we can stop terrorism,” the Corps Commander said. PTI SSB SNE SNE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-foils-pakistan-s-attempt-to-push-arms-into-kashmir-recovers-four-ak-74-rifles/story-GEc0ELUVc5Mk73ENz2gsaK.html
10-10-2020||India||Peshawar high court halts auctioning of Gurdwara land||A high court in northwest Pakistan has stopped the auction of a portion of land belonging to an ancient gurdwara and directed the country’s anti corruption watchdog to probe the matter. The two member bench of the Peshawar High Court comprising Justice Roohul Amin and Justice Mian Attique Shah stopped the auction of the land on a writ petition filed by Sahib Singh through his lawyers. Singh had challenged the auction of the gurdwara land. The bench during the hearing of the petition directed the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) to probe the matter and take action against those involved in the auction process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peshawar-high-court-halts-auctioning-of-gurdwara-land/story-IojZL3sNDcoVMIyr4m5JFJ.html
10-10-2020||India||Over 1 lakh owners, 763 villages, 6 states: PM Modi to launch property cards under SVAMITVA scheme||Around 132,000 landowners in six states will be entitled to property cards that will enable them to use their lands as financial assets after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launches their physical distribution on Sunday under the SVAMITVA (Survey of Villages And Mapping With Improvised Technology In Village Areas) scheme.SVAMITVA project was launched by PM Modi on April 24 earlier this year that will map all urban or populated areas of 640,000 villages by 2024.Here’s everything you need to know about the property cards under the SVAMITVA scheme:1. The Prime Minister will roll out physical copies of Aadhaar-like cards that will be the property titles of the villagers’ homes and the surrounding areas they own as opposed to cultivated land.2. They will be able to use the cards as financial assets for loans and the move will also help keep a record of properties in villages. No such system currently exists.3. For now, the property cards will be distributed across 763 villages, including 346 from Uttar Pradesh, 221 from Haryana, 100 from Maharashtra, 44 from Madhya Pradesh, 50 from Uttarakhand and 2 from Karnataka, according to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).4. Following the virtual launch by PM Modi on October 11, where Union minister for panchayati raj Narendra Singh Tomar will also be present, state governments will physically handover the cards to the villagers.5. Beneficiaries from all the states, except Maharashtra, will receive the copies of the title deeds within a day but it will take a month’s time for the western state to distribute them. There will be a time lag in Maharashtra because has a system of recovering the nominal cost of these cards.6. Local representatives of the revenue department and representatives of other allied departments will prepare a record of ownership in the presence of the inhabitants. A detailed arrangement has also been set up for on the spot settlement of disputes, according to people familiar with the development.7. The objective of this scheme is to provide an integrated asset verification solution for rural India, they added on condition of anonymity. It is also likely to end property disputes that have gone on for years, even decades sometimes.8. The SVAMITVA scheme will cover 662,000 villages in a phased manner over a period of four years||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-lakh-owners-763-villages-6-states-pm-modi-to-launch-property-cards-under-svamitva-scheme/story-wnJzKN8G2DgbrETdBwoyyM.html
10-10-2020||India||Reforms alone can’t raise farm growth, Bihar example shows||Bihar’s agricultural reforms of 2006, which saw the state liberalise agricultural trade by abolishing state-regulated markets, resulted in better prices for produce such as rice, wheat and maize, but the changes also brought greater price volatility, ultimately hurting farm growth, a study has suggested. The reforms did not result in any significant private investment in new market infrastructure and a missing floor price due to the government’s withdrawal from the sector continued to put farmers at a disadvantage, the study by the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) said in their ongoing research project “Agricultural Diagnostic for Bihar State of India”. The findings of the study come in the wake of Parliament enacting three controversial farm reforms that aim to liberalise the agricultural sector, including ending local monopolies of state-run wholesale markets -- known as agriculture produce market committees or APMCs -- by opening them up to private competition. Also Read: BJP’s CEC to meet today to discuss candidate list for Bihar pollsThe National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government pushed the three bills -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 – in Parliament last month despite protests by farmers’ outfits and opposition leaders who demanded greater scrutiny of the laws. Big farmers’ groups, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, say the Centre’s farm reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system and that deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before. Bihar was one of the earliest states to scrap the APMC system. This changeover did not benefit the farm sector to the extent it should have, and it serves as a cautionary tale for the rest of the country in doing away with regulations without the right incentives for private investment in agriculture, economists have said. Also Read: The economic arguments in favour of the three farm bills: All you need to knowBihar is one of the fastest growing states in India, with its gross state domestic product, or GSDP, growing at a compound annual growth rate of 12.14% between 2011-12 and 2016-17. The share of agriculture in the state’s GSDP is about 23%, higher than the national average of 14%, which means that the farm sector generates more income as a proportion of the overall income in Bihar than it does in the country as a whole. The reforms don’t appear to have improved Bihar’s agricultural growth. Farm growth in the state averaged 2.04%, lower than the all-India average of 3.12% in the period between 2001-02 to 2016-17. “This happened despite a stable political environment, improvement in investment on rural infrastructure and reforms in agricultural marketing,” said Elumalai Kannan and Sanjib Pohit, authoris of the NCAER study.. The post-reforms period, when compared to the pre-reforms period, does show an increase in the average wholesale prices of major crops such as paddy, wheat, and maize. The average price of paddy increased by 126%, wheat by 66%, and maize by 81%, the authors said. However, analysis showed that a simultaneous increase in volatility of prices affected the “stability of farmers’ income”, ultimately affecting farmers’ ability to invest and diversify. This instability in prices of farm produce, the authors note, could be a reason for Bihar’s lower agricultural growth. Price volatility refers to price fluctuations of a commodity. Maize is a major crop in the state. In the pre-reform period (2002-06), the price volatility of maize (as calculated by a statistical measure known as ‘coefficient of variation’) stood at 11.2%. This went up to 24.9% in the post-reform period (2007-16). Similarly, price volatility had gone up significantly for also paddy and wheat. A knock-on effect of the lockdown has resulted in maize prices crashing to Rs 1,000-1,300 per quintal, against a minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,850, this year. An analysis by Jaipur-based Chaudhury Charan Singh National Institute of Agriculture Marketing (CCSNIAM) conducted in 2011-12, along with the NCAER study quoted above, unanimously state that after APMC market yards were abolished in the state, there has been scant private investment in new markets. This has led to “low market density”, meaning farmers often lack secure market channels within easy reach. The studies have called for a public-private partnership for developing wholesale markets. One reason why the reforms did not pay off for Bihar is the lack of enabling policies. The state needed to have incentive mechanisms, such as tax concessions, to attract private investment in the creation of agricultural markets, cold storage and warehousing facilities, economists said. The withdrawal of the government has meant that there is no assured floor price in the form of MSP. “Farmers are left to the mercy of traders who unscrupulously fix a lower price for agricultural produce that they buy. Inadequate market facilities and institutional arrangements are responsible for low price realisation and instability in prices,” the NCAER study has noted. The latest countrywide farm reforms, therefore, are no silver bullet. “The expectation with these reforms is, once you allow markets to determine both production and prices and what to produce, it will help farmers with better price discovery. That’s the assumption,” said NR Bhanumurthy, the vice-chancellor of the Bengaluru BR Ambedkar School of Economics. Bhanumurthy said the opening up of state-run APMC markets to private competition alone won’t work if it is not accompanied by other factors, such as an efficient crop insurance, expansion of food processing, storage infrastructure and better market information systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reforms-alone-can-t-raise-farm-growth-bihar-example-shows/story-MpXftOn8Jbq7mw7dkJyOrN.html
10-10-2020||India||Aatmanirbhar Bharat, a lollipop says Maoists in Jharkhand, triggers panic||Posters allegedly put up by Maoists, describing the Centre’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ programme as “lollipop”, in Jharkhand’s Chatra district triggered panic among the people, police said on Saturday.Through the posters, the Maoists appealed to the public not to fall for the government’s “daydream”, police said.The posters were put up in the Rajpur Bazar area on Friday, they said.Police reached the spot soon after the posters were found and removed them, an official said.The Rajpur police station area, located on the Jharkhand-Bihar border, is one of the worst-hit by Naxalite activities.More than a dozen people of the area have lost their lives in two Maoist attacks in the past, police said.Maoist posters were found in the area on Thursday as well, triggering panic among the people who fear the recurrence of violence in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aatmanirbhar-bharat-a-lollipop-says-maoists-in-jharkhand-triggers-panic/story-oCKCD1sRiMaiz0d5XKukPI.html
10-10-2020||India||WFP’s Nobel win reminder of everyone’s responsibility to narrow gap between rich and poor: Dalai Lama||Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama on Saturday congratulated the executive director of the UN World Food Programme, a day after the organisation won this year’s Nobel Peace Prize.The Dalai Lama in a letter to David Beasley said the award is recognition of the organisation’s vital role in reducing hunger in the world. The World Food Programme (WFP) was honoured for its efforts to combat hunger, for its contribution to bettering conditions for peace in conflict-affected areas and for acting as a driving force in efforts to prevent the use of hunger as a weapon of war and conflict. The Rome-based organisation has been feeding people in some of the world’s most dangerous and precarious places, with the coronavirus pandemic seen pushing millions more into hunger.“Through its actions to address poverty, hunger and malnutrition, whether they arise due to conflict or natural disasters, the WFP is bringing help to the most vulnerable and needy. It brings peace and comfort where often there is only desperation,” the Dalai Lama said.“The Nobel Committee’s honouring of WFP is also a reminder to all of us of our responsibility to do what we can to narrow the gap between rich and poor,” he said. He also expressed his gratitude to members of the WFP for their tremendous humanitarian work.“As the current global health crisis reminds us, threats to the whole human family have to be addressed by us all, since we all want to be happy and free from suffering. “Hunger and poverty can only be eliminated on the basis of international cooperation. As a firm believer in the oneness of humanity, it is my fervent hope that the award of this year’s Nobel Peace Prize to the World Food Programme will inspire an intensification of efforts to ensure that nobody is left to die of hunger anywhere,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wfp-s-nobel-win-reminder-of-everyone-s-responsibility-to-narrow-gap-between-rich-and-poor-dalai-lama/story-UsSpBggCBCNZHAatVa6qJO.html
10-10-2020||India||Sikkim to restart tourism: What you need to know||The Sikkim government has decided to reopen hotels, homestays and other tourism-related services from Saturday months after the coronavirus pandemic forced a lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, officials said. Foreign tourists were banned on March 5 and full restrictions were imposed on the tourism sector on March 17.On October 1, the Sikkim government decided to reopen its border with West Bengal for unrestricted vehicle movement and lifted the odd-even road rationing for public vehicles. Sikkim had also imposed odd-even road rationing to reduce vehicle movement during the lockdown. The odd-even traffic rationing will continue for private vehicles.The Himalayan state is ready to host tourists in the state after a seven-month halt due to the pandemic. The department of tourism and civil aviation has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) regarding the reopening of the tourism sector.If you are planning to visit the state, here are the guidelines you need to know:1. In the first phase of the unlock, only domestic tourists and foreign nationals residing in India will be allowed to visit the state.2. Tourists are advised to carry a valid Covid-19 negative certificate issued 72 hours prior to their arrival.3. Tourists are required to register on the Sikkim Tourism web portal detailing tour plans and possess a copy of the “travel card” issued by the state authority.4. Persons above 65 years of age, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years are advised to either avoid travelling or limit it.5. Social distancing will have to be followed strictly and tourists are required to wear necessary protective gears.As of now, Sikkim has recorded 3,279 cases of Covid-19 with 2,640 recoveries and 54 people have lost their lives due to the viral disease.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-to-restart-tourism-what-you-need-to-know/story-coYq7cpJqOfcZzPeFaXTPN.html
10-10-2020||India||Drones stand out among other threats in their destructive potential: Army vice chief||Drones or unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) stand out among other threats in their innovative employment and destructive potential, Vice Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen S K Saini said on Saturday. “Considering their (drones) low cost, multi-use and dense proliferation, the threat will no doubt increase manifold in the years to come,” he said during a webinar organised by the Centre for Joint Warfare Studies (CENJOWS). He said the “third dimension” threats like drones may take precedence in the near future and the Army needs to plan for them now. “Both hard kill and soft kill counter-drone solutions, including swarm technology, are the need of the hour,” Saini noted. He was addressing the webinar titled “Force Protection India 2020” during which various issues pertaining to requirements for armed forces’ protection were discussed. “Among other threats, drones and UAVs stand out in their innovative employment and destructive potential,” Saini mentioned. He said a large number of the Army’s troops are deployed in extremely high altitude areas where the temperature touches -50 degrees celsius but India is still importing cold-weather clothing and equipment for them due to “lack of viable indigenous solutions”. “A collaborative effort needs to be put in this field to fulfil our vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he added. Saini said the Indian Army has evolved considerably in terms of modern arms, ammunition, protection, kitting and clothing but there is still much scope for innovation. “There is a requirement to focus on night-vision goggles, combat helmets, bulletproof jackets, light portable communication sets and many more,” he added. The Army vice chief said the threat from improvised explosive devices (IEDs) is here to stay as it seems to be gaining traction as a favoured tool among terrorists and anti-national elements. “The threat (from the IEDs) is sophisticated and can be used while avoiding direct contact. It ends up causing both physical and psychological trauma and seriously impairs own readiness, by forcing us to commit scarce resources for our own protection,” he stated. Technological innovation is key to combating the threat from the IEDs, Saini said. “A combination of robotics, artificial intelligence and big data analysis could provide a possible answer,” he added. Security of defence establishments and vital installations across the country is another key area where the Army has focused its efforts in the past few years, as these present lucrative and high profile targets, he said. “Though the industry has stepped up to the challenge (of providing security to defence establishments), the solutions provided, however, lack innovation and integration,” Saini mentioned. He added that the effort in this field must be to ensure a reduction in manpower commitment by integrating physical and electronic surveillance and incorporating automation and innovation in perimeter fencing, intrusion detection systems, etc. Saini said the Army’s deployment footprint extends across the length and breadth of the country and across varying terrains and the sheer magnitude of its requirements presents a golden opportunity to the industry, scientists and entrepreneurs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-stand-out-among-other-threats-in-their-destructive-potential-army-vice-chief/story-Mcqm42NlTGvCc3wjQGOiWJ.html
10-10-2020||India||Steps should be taken to avert another pandemic: Dalai Lama||Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama on Saturday appreciated the efforts of ‘corona warriors’ in the fight against Covid-19 and said steps should be taken to avert another such pandemic in the future. “These days, we are faced with the coronavirus pandemic, which is very sad. Whatever has already happened due to our karma is in the past and can’t be changed. However, we should take steps to avert another such outbreak in the future,” he said in his message on World Mental Health Day. He said he appreciated the efforts and dedication shown by people working in the health care sector. “However, we should take steps to avert another such outbreak in the future,” the Dalai Lama said. “Every morning, I recite mantras and pray that this pandemic will come to an end as soon as possible. I dedicate these practices for the good of the world, especially India,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/steps-should-be-taken-to-avert-another-pandemic-dalai-lama/story-02bnNOnBosWYTUCs802OkJ.html
10-10-2020||India||Air Force creates record of highest skydive landing at Khardung La Pass in Leh||Two Indian Air Force (IAF) personnel created a record of the highest skydive landing as they performed the manoeuvre at Khardung La Pass in Leh. It is situated at an altitude of 17,982 feet.Wing Commander Gajanad Yadava and Warrant Officer AK Tiwari carried out the skydiving exercise to celebrate the 88th Air Force Day on October 8.“The landing at such an altitude is extremely challenging due to low oxygen levels combined with low air density and rough and inhospitable hilly terrain,” the IAF said in an official statement.“Both the air warriors have shown excellent professionalism, grit and determination in overcoming adverse conditions and achieving the grand success of setting a new IAF record”, the statement noted.Indian Air Force celebrated its 88th foundation day on October 8. During the grand flypast at Hindon Airbase in Ghaziabad, several aircraft including newly-inducted Rafales participated in the celebration.In his address on the occasion, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria said that the force stands ever ready to protect the nation’s sovereignty and interests “in all circumstances”.“I want to assure the nation the IAF will evolve and be ever ready to safeguard our nation’s sovereignty and interests,” said the Air chief.On the ongoing standoff with China in Ladakh, Bhadauria had said, “I commend all air warriors for a quick response in the recent standoff on the northern frontiers, when we deployed our combat assets at short notice to handle any eventuality and provided proactive support to all requirements of deployment and sustenance for Indian Army.”Indian and Chinese troops are engaged in a bitter border standoff in eastern Ladakh and the IAF has made significant deployment in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-force-creates-record-of-highest-skydive-landing-at-khardung-la-pass-in-leh/story-oDnwdjC1x2qjYIKQjjnNEK.html
10-10-2020||India||EPFO may credit interest by Diwali; send an SMS to know account balance||The first installment of the 8.5% interest that Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation’s (EPFO) was going to pay to its subscribers for the financial year 2019-20 is likely to be credited by Diwali, a member of EPF executive committee told Hindustan Times’ sister publication Live Hindustan.The EPFO central board in September decided to pay interest for 2019-20 in two installments and the second installment with 0.35% interest will be credited to the subscribers by December.How to check account balance through sending a message:• If the subscribers’ UAN number is registered with the EPFO, they would be able to check their PF balance through a text message. They would have to send ‘EPFOHO’ to the number 7738299899 to get their account details.• If the subscribers want their details to be sent in Hindi, they would have to write ‘EPFOHO UAN’ and send it to the same number. • Subscribers can get their details in any of the following languages-- English, Punjabi, Marathi, Hindi, Kannada, Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, Bengali.• The subscribers’ UAN number and bank account should be linked to their permanent account number (PAN) and Aadhaar card. • Subscribers can also check their account balance after accessing their passbook through the EPFO website. They need to have a UAN number to access their passbooks.• Subscribers can log on to the website (epfindia.gov.in) and click on the E-passbook option. • After filling in their username, password and captcha code they can select the member ID for which they want to see the balance. The EPF passbook will then reflect the balance and they can also download the passbook for future reference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/epfo-may-credit-interest-by-diwali-send-a-text-message-to-know-account-balance/story-wKePVxYexrBzLf4wQ6o63N.html
10-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Statewide bandh in Maharashtra over Maratha quota row today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Statewide bandh in Maharashtra over Maratha quota row todayA statewide bandh is being observed in Maharashtra on Saturday, over the quota row. The bandh call has been given by several Maratha outfits; they are demanding restoration of reservation for their community members in jobs and education. Read more here. Ranvir Shorey on people’s anger about Sushant Singh Rajput’s death: ‘People will rave and rant till they feel they have answers’Ranvir Shorey has opened up about the public’s anger surrounding the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, and said that people should wait until the investigating agencies come up with concrete answers. Read more here. IPL 2020: ‘As long as he has been playing, he has been inconsistent,’ Kevin Pietersen criticises India youngsterA day after Brian Lara spoke highly of Rishabh Pant for showing improvement in his batting, former England captain Kevin Pietersen has put forward a completely opposite thought regarding the wicketkeeper batsman. Read more here. Audi Q2 first drive review: When an SUV stands small but dreams bigAudi will officially launch Q2 in India on October 16 but I got a chance to spend an entire day with the baby SUV to find out if this spirited young addition to Audi’s SUV portfolio holds its ground - on its own merit as well as against its siblings. Read more here. Artist creates pencil sketch of Michael Jordan that looks like a photograph. WatchA video of an artist named Keegan Hall drawing a picture of the basketball legend Michael Jordan using nothing but pencils has now left people in awe. Read more here. Watch: IAF achieves new record of highest skydive landing at Khardungla Pass||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-statewide-bandh-in-maharashtra-over-maratha-quota-row-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-q1h3oU4y4B5VRelLG3WkWO.html
10-10-2020||India||Centre nudges states on sexual assault crimes after ‘horrible’ Hathras case||Days after the death of a 19-year-old gang-rape victim from Hathras, the Centre released advisory for states and union territories, directing them to ensure strict action by police in crimes against women.The advisory released by the Union home ministry has made it compulsory for police to register an FIR in such a case of “cognizable offence under sub-section (1) of section 154 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).”For crimes which are not under the jurisdiction of a police station, a Zero FIR should be registered, as per the home ministry’s advisory. Punishment will be given to officials who fail to file an FIR in relation to cognizable offences, it further said.Also Read: Hathras crime scene to be recreated to find ‘missing links’; victim’s kin to be presentIn case of statement, written or verbal, made by the person related to the person’s cause of death, the government ordered state authorities to take it as “relevant fact.”It further remineded Supreme Court’s January 7 verdict in Purshottam Chopra vs State case, in which the apex court had said that dying declaration that sastisfies all judicial scruitny cannot be discarded merely because it was not recorded by a Magistarte or it lacked police officer’s attastation.“However, even with stringent provisions in law and several capacity building measures undertaken, any failure of police to adhere to these mandatory requirements may not augur well for the delivery of criminal justice in the country, especially in the context of women safety,” it said.The advisory comes ahead of the Monday hearing of the lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on the 19-year-old’s alleged rape and her rushed cremation at night. The Supreme Court too is hearing a petition on the woman’s death. At a hearing last week, a bench led by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde described the alleged gang-rape and murder of the Dalit woman as a “horrible” and “extraordinary” incident. The top court had asked UP police to report back if it witness protection plan in place.A special investigation team, consitutued by the state chief minister Yogi Adityanath is investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heath-ministry-directs-states-to-take-mandatory-police-action-in-crime-against-women/story-cJTBGwGcfZq0G2SKL6LGLO.html
10-10-2020||India||3 dead, 5 injured as bus overturns in UP’s Aligarh||Three persons died and five others sustained injuries after the bus they were travelling in overturned in the Tappal area of Aligarh district, police said on Saturday. The bus, which was carrying 45 passengers, was on its way to Delhi from Kanpur. It met with an accident in the early hours of Saturday. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the loss of lives in the road accident.He has directed district administration officials to ensure proper medical treatment to those injured in the accident, the Chief Minister’s Office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-dead-5-injured-as-bus-overturns-in-up-s-aligarh/story-mECfyTaIzc0UOkvy25lzeJ.html
10-10-2020||India||Combination of antiviral drugs shows ‘no superior outcome’ for Covid treatment: Firm||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals on Friday announced that a combination of antiviral drugs Umifenovir and Favipiravir did not show any superior outcome in treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients hospitalised with moderate symptoms during clinical trials.“…this combination study was yet another effort on our part to examine new treatment options to combat the health crisis. These latest findings confirm that the addition of Umifenovir does not show any incremental benefit in clinical outcomes. Thus Favipiravir therapy along with supportive care remains a suitable and effective choice for mild to moderate Covid-19 infection,” said Monika Tandon, senior vice president and head, clinical development, global specialty, branded portfolio, Glenmark.Also Read: Top five countries with highest number of Covid-19 infectionsIn May, the company had received approval from India’s drug regulator, the drugs controller general of India (DCGI), to conduct phase 3 clinical trials in the country using a combination of antiviral drugs Favipiravir and Umifenovir as a potential Covid-19 treatment strategy. The successful Favipiravir monotherapy trial earlier this year had led the company to receive ‘Emergency Use Authorisation’ for Favipiravir to treat Covid-19 patients.The two antiviral drugs work differently. While Favipiravir is known to inhibit virus replication, thus killing the virus, Umifenovir does not allow the virus to enter the cell as it impedes the viral attachment to cells, therefore acting as a viral entry inhibitor, making it an ideal combination for effective tackling of high viral loads in patients during early stage of disease.“This second study, titled the FAITH trial, evaluated the possible superiority of the combination’s efficacy against Favipiravir monotherapy. As per the results that Glenmark today presented to the regulator, the study showed no superior clinical outcomes with the addition of Umifenovir,” said the company in a statement.Also Read: Active cases in India fall to nearly 13% of total Covid-19 caseload: How it happenedThe FAITH study enrolled a total of 158 hospitalised patients with moderate symptoms of Covid-19 in India.The study’s primary end point (clinical outcome measured) was the time taken from randomisation to clinical cure, defined as the resolution of baseline clinical signs and symptoms of Covid-19 infection and at least a 2-point improvement on the WHO Ordinal Scale for Clinical Improvement, within a time frame of 28 days.“Median time to clinical cure improved by only 1 day (7 as compared to 8) in patients who received the two antiviral combination, which was not statistically significant and did not justify adding two antiviral agents,” the statement further read.Favipiravir is an oral antiviral drug approved in Japan since 2014 for the treatment of novel or re-emerging influenza virus infections. Umifenovir is another oral antiviral drug licensed for the treatment and prophylaxis of influenza A and B infections in Russia and China. Additionally it exhibits modulatory effects on the immune system and induces interferon production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/combination-of-antiviral-drugs-shows-no-superior-outcome-for-covid-treatment-firm/story-CS4ySHTJj37EhPZoKKP7jJ.html
10-10-2020||India||With 73,272 fresh cases, India’s Covid-19 tally reaches 6.97 million||Continuing on a steady trend of decline, India registered 73,272 fresh cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. While the number of fresh fatalities was at 926, pushing the death tally to 107,416, as per figures published by the Union health ministry on Saturday.The number of active cases stood at 883,185. As many as 5,988,822 patients recovered or were discharged from the hospitals, health ministry data showed.As of October 9, the country has tested more than 8,57,98,600 samples for Covid-19. As many as 11,64,018 samples were tested on Friday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) informed on Twitter.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMeanwhile, Maharashtra remained the worst-affected state by the Covid-19, followed by Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.Maharashtra’s tally crossed the 15 lakh-mark as it added 12,134 fresh cases. The state is the worst-affected by the Covid-19 followed by Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.As of Friday evening, Karnataka has total 6,90,269, including 9,789 deaths and 5,61,610 discharges. Active cases stand at 1,18,851, said the department of health and family welfare, Government of Karnataka. While in Andhra Pradesh the number of total infections is at 7,44,864 including 47,665 active cases, 6,91,040 recoveries and 6,159 deaths so far.The national capital continued to add below 3,000 cases on a daily basis, the total tally has reached 3,03,693. Delhi has 21,955 active cases and 5,692 people have died as of Friday evening figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-73-272-fresh-cases-india-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-6-97-million/story-WOhM56SYu4N3X97q2mUZ1M.html
10-10-2020||India||DRDO’s Rustom-2 drone takes-off, India goes for armed Heron||Overcoming the initial program setbacks, the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) on Friday flight tested the Rustom-2 medium altitude long endurance indigenous prototype drone and achieved eight hours of flying at an altitude of 16000 feet at Chitradurga, Karnataka. The prototype is expected to achieve a height of 26000 feet and endurance of 18 hours by 2020 end.Rustom-2 is capable of carrying different combinations of payloads depending on the mission objectives including synthetic aperture radar, electronic intelligence systems and situational awareness systems. It has a satellite communication link to relay situation in the battle theatre on real time basis. “ The Rustom-2 had one hour of fuel left after eight hours of test flying at Challakere aeronautical test range in Chitradurga district of Karanataka and had achieved the test flight ceiling,” said a senior official.Also Read: India test-fires Rudram 1, its first anti-radiation missile to kill enemy radarsWhile the DRDO expects Rustom-2 surveillance drone to match the specifications of the Israeli Heron unmanned aerial vehicle used by the Indian Air Force and Navy, it has revitalized its drone program with a new mission head and objectives. The push to Rustom-2 program was given after the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) tried to occupy Indian territory in Ladakh on the basis of a 1959 cartographical claim on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The PLA has Wing Loong II armed drones in its arsenal and has even given four of them to Pakistan to protect the CPEC corridor and Gwadar port.Although the Rustom-2 will have to undergo test and user trials before inducted in the Indian military, the Ministry of Defence is currently negotiating with Israeli Aerospace Industry (IAI) to not only upgrade the existing fleet of Heron drone but also arm them with air to surface missile and laser guided bombs.According to South Block officials, the technical upgradation and arming of Heron drone is at contract negotiating committee level after being cleared by the Defence Acquisition Committee (DAC). The project will be cleared at the level of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS).Also Read: PLA at its doors, India looks at new security rule to punch Chinese firmsThe Heron upgrade involves installing a satellite communication link so that there is no time gap in relaying situation on ground as well as installing hard points on the wings for missiles and laser guided bombs. While the Israelis have kept their armed drone program under cover, the Heron has a proven weaponized version.Besides, India has also decided to go in for American MQ 9B armed drone instead of Sea Guardian surveillance drone with cost and numbers being worked out. Clearly, the future belongs to stand-off weapons and India this time will not miss the bus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-s-rustom-2-drone-flight-tested-india-goes-for-armed-heron-uavs/story-CZ5jd9tRo6Ph2jcq2HOpmM.html
10-10-2020||India||TRP manipulation case: What has happened so far||Several television news channels were accused of tampering with television rating points (TRPs) by the Mumbai Police on Thursday. The police claimed they busted a TRP manipulation racket following a probe initiated after a complaint by TV viewership measurement agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC).“Republic TV and two other local Mumbai channels have been found guilty of manipulating the crucial data,” said Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.TRP, a tool to judge which TV programmes are viewed the most, indicates the popularity of a particular channel.Here is a look at all that has happened in the case:• Rating agency Hansa Services Private Limited, a contractor of BARC, which functions under Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) and the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) filed a complaint with the Mumbai police, alleging that some TV channels were manipulating their TRPs.• The complainant firm said that the manipulated TRP ratings resulted in miscalculated targeted audience for the advertisers, which in turn resulted into losses of hundreds of crores of rupees because of the manipulated statistics of TRP.• Two TV channel owners were arrested by the Mumbai police and directors promoters of the third channel - Republic TV - were investigated. • Chief financial officer (CFO) of Republic TV, Shiva Sundaram, the founder, chairman and managing director of Madison World, Sam Balsara, and the CEO of IPG Mediabrands, Shashi Sinha were called by the police for questioning in the case on Friday. Sinha and Balsara, both top media planners and buyers, have likely been called as experts.• A former executive for Hansa Research, responsible for running BARC’s audience measurement service, was arrested on Thursday, police said. Rs 20 lakh were recovered from his residence. Three others, including two owners of small local channels, were also arrested.• Upon interrogation, the arrested revealed that they were paid by certain channels to distribute Rs 400 to Rs 500 for per month to households for keeping their channels on throughout the day.• “People not familiar with English were also found staring at the television sets with the English channels on,” the Mumbai police commissioner said.• Republic TV has, however, issued a statement saying, “Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh has made false allegations against Republic TV because we questioned him in the Sushant Singh Rajput case investigation.” Owner Arnab Goswami also said he will take legal action against Singh.• It also showed on its channel a copy of the FIR that names India Today TV and not Republic TV. According to the channel, it was being targeted for its pursuit of the Sushant Singh Rajput death case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-manipulation-case-what-has-happened-so-far/story-mHPvLCRd6SfAa38SuAc8KM.html
10-10-2020||India||‘Not possible to extend loan moratorium period, may vitiate overall credit discipline’: RBI to Supreme Court||The country’s banking regulator - Reserve Bank of India (RBI) - has filed fresh affidavit in the Supreme Court in the loan moratorium case.In the affidavit, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has said that it is not possible to give more relief to sector affected by the coronavirus pandemic. The banking regulator has also said that it is not possible to extend the moratorium period beyond six months.The RBI said that a long moratorium exceeding six months “may result in vitiating the overall credit discipline which will have a debilitating impact on the process of credit creation in the economy”. The RBI further said that the move can “increase the risks of delinquencies post resumption of scheduled payments” and “exacerbate the repayment pressures for the borrowers”.On Monday, the top court had told the government that its response did not contain “necessary details” and asked the Centre and the RBI to place on record the K V Kamath committee recommendations on debt restructuring in view of Covid-19 related stress on various sectors as well as the notifications and circulars issued so far on loan moratorium.The apex court’s direction came after the finance ministry filed an affidavit on October 2 saying that it has decided to waive compound interest (interest on interest) charged on loans of up to Rs two crore for a six-month moratorium period announced due to the pandemic from individual borrowers as well as medium and small industries.On a plea by various other sectors like real estate, the government told the Supreme Court that it is not possible to give additional relief apart from what has already been announced.On sector-specific reliefs, RBI said, real estate and power sectors were already stressed prior to the pandemic on account of various other factors. It said that “travails of real sector cannot be solved through banking regulations” as the banking regulations of RBI cannot substitute the redressal of structural problems of the real sector.Even on the demand by certain petitioners seeking resolution of their loans overdue beyond 30 days as on March 1, 2020, the RBI said, “An account which was impacted by pandemic as well as had a pre-existing 10 financial has a different risk profile as compared to an account without pre-existing stress and to treat both borrowers on equal footing would be gross suspension of economic sensibilities.”The other major issue raised by various petitioners against the moratorium circulars was that these are not automatically available to all borrowers but contingent on the discretion of the lenders. The RBI said, “In this context, it is submitted that the Reserve Bank has only provided an enabling mechanism for the lenders to permit the moratorium, without the same being treated as restructuring of the terms of the loan contract for regulatory purposes.”The RBI’s response came after the Supreme Court asked the government to consider giving relief to other classes of borrowers. The court is expected to deal with these issues next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-possible-to-extend-loan-moratorium-period-may-vitiate-overall-credit-discipline-rbi-to-supreme-court/story-odkisgZL95R5G4zrtG8NIM.html
10-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Congress’ Bihar manifesto likely to focus on migrants, job crisis and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress’ Bihar manifesto likely to focus on migrants, job crisisThe Congress is likely to promise a control room and facilitation centre in every state for migrant workers to avoid a lockdown-like crisis, the filling up of all government vacancies in 18 months, and the strict implementation of minimum support prices (MSP) in its manifesto for the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar, people familiar with the matter said. Read moreActive cases in India fall to nearly 13% of total Covid-19 caseload: How it happenedIndia may be heading towards the seven million mark in terms of the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, but the daily count has been slowly falling. Read more2 terrorists killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam districtTwo terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district, police said. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘I don’t understand why franchises run after him,’ Virender Sehwag slams star Kings XI Punjab batsmanKings XI Punjab batsman Glenn Maxwell has been in woeful form in the ongoing season of the Indian Premier League. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer vs AIIMS: Vikas Singh says Dr Sudhir Gupta’s ‘lies will be exposed’, regrets not recording crucial phone callVikas Singh, the lawyer representing Sushant Singh Rajput’s father, has said that he regrets not recording a phone conversation he had with Dr Sudhir Gupta, the head of the AIIMS panel that ruled out murder in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. Read moreNissan Magnite SUV, rival to Sonet and Venue, to be unveiled on October 21Nissan Magnite will be officially unveiled at the global stage ion October 21 and with India as its primary target market, hopes to create a buzz in the lucrative sub-compact SUV segment before its official launch early 2021. Read more‘Islam is not an aesthetic’: Bad Gal Rihanna faces fire from Muslim fans for using Islamic verses in Savage X Fenty lingerie show, issues apologyRihanna’s Savage X Fenty Show Vol. 2, the second edition of the Savage x Fenty performance-based lingerie show, was an extravaganza for the ages, with fashion lovers all around the world plastered to their screens (the show streamed exclusively on Amazon Prime) with bated breath to see what Rihanna would do this year that could top last year. Read moreHappy Birthday Rekha: Umrao Jaan to Madam Maya, throwback to Rekha’s most fashionable onscreen avatarsRekha is an evergreen beauty and the yesteryear actor from Bollywood’s golden era has earned a reputation for versatility and reinvention, doesn’t seem to be ageing at all. Read morePeople demand something else on Twitter’s ‘How it started vs how it’s going’ postIf you have been around the Internet, then you must have seen people sharing all sorts of posts under “How it started vs how it’s going” trend. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-congress-bihar-manifesto-likely-to-focus-on-migrants-job-crisis-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0ns5Qlmw40dV6Vqpq7iOEM.html
10-10-2020||India||The economic arguments in favour of the three farm bills: All you need to know||Last week, the President of India gave his ascent to the three farm bills, namely, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 (FPTC), the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 (FAPAFS), and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The opposition and farmers’ organisations continue to protest against these laws. While politics will take its own course, it is useful to examine the economic rationale of the arguments being given to justify these bills. The arguments, broadly speaking, are twofold. One, the bills give greater freedom to farmers to sell their produce. They will abolish intermediaries, or at least some levels of intermediaries between farmers and buyers. This will ensure that the farmer gets a bigger share of the price paid by the consumer and will, therefore, improve agricultural incomes. Two, the clamour for incorporating Minimum Support Prices (MSPs) into the law is a pursuit of vested interests as only a handful of farmers enjoy the benefits of MSP-based procurement in the country today. The agricultural practices in Green Revolution regions of Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh, where MSP was the cornerstone, have prevented reforms and these changes will lead to a creative destruction in agriculture.Unfair exchange is not the basic reason for predicament of Indian farmers The argument that these bills will remove intermediaries, and therefore make farmers well-off, assumes that an unfair exchange is the biggest problem facing India’s farmers. But Inflation data shows that retail and wholesale prices for important food items, cereals, pulses, vegetables and fruits, move in tandem. This means farmgate prices are not completely divorced from the prices prevailing in retail markets, and intermediaries do pass on profits or losses in food markets to farmers. What could be a bigger problem for farmers is the large volatility in prices of crops such as pulses and vegetables. Cereals, where the MSP regime is in place for rice and wheat (over one-third of the total rice and wheat production is procured by the government), face the lowest price volatility. This is exactly why farmers keep demanding MSP-based procurement for all crops. The main reason for the agrarian crisis is that agriculture employs far too many people to be remunerative. At least 40% of India’s workforce is employed in agriculture, even though it generates less than 15% of the country’s GDP. The current set of reforms does nothing to address this basic income-employment asymmetry in agriculture.  That Indian agriculture, including the green revolution states, have a lot of inefficiencies is well known. Some of these inefficiencies, such as overexploitation of groundwater, have emerged as a serious threat to sustainability of farming itself. MSP-based procurement of rice in states like Punjab has contributed to the sustainability crisis of agriculture. But there is more to this. Agriculture is essentially an unviable exercise in India Farming, even at MSP prices has not been always viable in India. The government claims that MSPs provide a guaranteed return of at least 50% over the cost of production for farmers. The cost measure used by the government to calculate this mark-up is A2+FL. It includes the cost incurred on hired labour, imputed family labour, seeds, fertilizers, insecticides, irrigation charges, interest on working capital, land revenue, depreciation on farm buildings and implements and rent paid for leased-in land. Farmers’ organisations have been demanding for a long time that MSPs should provide a 50% return over the C2 measure of cost, which includes rental value of own land and interest on fixed capital in addition. Logically speaking, C2 includes the opportunity cost of being in farming. A farmer could choose to rent his land and utilise his fixed capital for other income instead of using it for farming. A comparison of MSPs for rice and wheat with these two cost measures shows that they do not cover the entire C2. Since cost measures are released with a time lag, this comparison cannot be made for recent years. The natural question to ask his why do farmers still continue farming even if the best-case scenario—procurement over MSP—is not remunerative enough? This otherwise counter-intuitive question of why seemingly unviable economic activities continue is a recurring theme in political economy. It is not necessary that the cost heads for imputed family labour or rental value of land are actually paid out by the farmer during the production process. While such a squeeze might keep farming economically viable in terms of actual payables and receivables, it does entail the farmer embracing poverty of sorts. While most people associate poverty lines with predefined income levels, such as the popular $1/day poverty line of the World Bank, classical political economists have other views. A 2011 World Bank blog by Martin Ravallion quotes Adam Smith’s concept of relative poverty from the Wealth of Nations. “A linen shirt … is, strictly speaking, not a necessary of life. The Greeks and Romans lived, I suppose, very comfortably though they had no linen. But in the present times, through the greater part of Europe, a creditable day-labourer would be ashamed to appear in public without a linen shirt, the want of which would be supposed to denote that disgraceful degree of poverty which, it is presumed, nobody can well fall into without extreme bad conduct.”, Smith wrote. It is not very difficult to envisage farmers not being able to afford goods and services, which are seen essential for leading a dignified life in today’s age and age. Government policy has not helped There are two ways to improve farm incomes—either increase yields, or prices. Both of these face policy apathy. India lags behind countries such as the US and China in terms of yields even for cereals. This gap has been increasing overtime. Yet, India spends much less on agricultural research and development than China. According to data from the United Nation’s Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), spending on agricultural research in China was 0.62% of its value added in agriculture, while this number was just 0.3% for India. These numbers are for 2013, the latest period for which data is available in the FAO database. The numbers are unlikely to have changed for India. The total expenditure (revised estimates) of Department of Research and Education under Ministry of Agriculture was 0.24% of the value added in agriculture. Policy intervention on prices often takes the shape of depriving farmers of any windfall gains from higher prices, while no support is available when prices crash. Even MSPs for rice and wheat have been growing at a slower pace in the past few years. The way forward The future of Indian agriculture cannot be salvaged by simply allowing greater freedom to farmers. Agriculture can have a better future only when the excess workforce employed in farming moves to the non-farm sector and there is a greater demand for agricultural products as incomes increase. Because the majority of Indians cannot even afford a decent food basket, many commentators have reached a wrong conclusion that Indian agriculture is facing a problem of plenty. Also, India’s policymakers need to realise that agriculture is heavily supported by governments in most countries. As has been pointed out by Ashok Gulati in an Indian Express article published on September 28, producer support to farming in India as a share of total farm receipts is negative, something which goes against the stereotype of agriculture being heavily subsidised. Promises of future gains from deregulation can hardly be a substitute for budgetary support for Indian farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-economic-arguments-in-favour-of-the-three-farm-bills-all-you-need-to-know/story-o83I0wXRIqKATqspyQ9VqO.html
10-10-2020||India||2 terrorists killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district||Two terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district, police said.“Kulgam Encounter Update: 2 unidentified terrorists killed. Operation in progress,” Kashmir Zone Police tweeted. .Based on inputs about the presence of terrorists in the area, security forces launched a cordon and search operation on Friday night. The operation is now over, a police official said, adding that the search operation turned into an encounter after militants fired upon a security forces party, who retaliated. The identity and group affiliation of the terrorists is being ascertained, he added. One M4 Rifle and one Pistol were recovered.On October 7, three terrorists were killed by the security forces in an encounter in the Sugan Zainapora area of Shopian district.In a similar incident, two terrorists were killed in the Samboora area of Awantipora district on September 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-kashmir-s-kulgam-district/story-ks8mAw9gzZboTOmomCRUoI.html
10-10-2020||India||Active cases in India fall to nearly 13% of total Covid-19 caseload: How it happened||India may be heading towards the seven million mark in terms of the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, but the daily count has been slowly falling.And in some more good news, the number of active cases in the country has fallen below the nine lakh-mark for the first time in a month, according to the Union health ministry. It comprises merely 12.94 per cent of the total caseload, the ministry said on Friday.The declining trend of the percentage of active cases is commensurately supported by the rising percentage of recovered cases. Recoveries in India have exceeded new cases for three continuous weeks, it said.The country had 8.97 lakh active cases on September 9, the ministry said.A total of 59,06,069 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the country so far and recoveries exceed active cases of infection by 50,12,477, it further said.This is the result of collaborative action by states and union territories under the Centre’s strategy of comprehensive testing, tracking, quick hospitalisation and adherence to the standard treatment protocol which has ensured a standardised quality of medical care across public and private hospitals and for home isolation cases.The higher number of recoveries has aided the national recovery rate to further improve to 85.52 per cent, according to the health ministry.Meanwhile, with a spike of 70,496 new cases and 964 fatalities, India’s Covid-19 count reached 69,06,152 on Friday.Maharashtra continues to be the worst-affected state as it reported 12,134 new cases of the infection and 302 deaths. The total cases in the state rose to 15,06,018, according to health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-cases-in-india-fall-to-nearly-13-of-total-covid-19-caseload-how-it-happened/story-cttNgpqlft1LK3qKonpCrO.html
10-10-2020||India||He worked to pay off his debts, says kin of migrant worker who died due to Covid-19||A few hours before Prafulla Behera succumbed to Covid-19 infection in the quarantine centre of Ganjam’s Dhunkapada gram panchayat, he had spoken to his wife, Rita, complaining to her of sustained nausea and fever. The 39-year-old who hailed from Madhipali village had been employed in a spinning mill in the textile manufacturing hub of Surat, Gujarat since he was 14.Earlier this year, he was one among the thousands of migrant workers who returned to the home state of Odisha from Surat. On May 6, Behera was housed in a quarantine centre, as per the protocol that many states were following with respect to the returnees. If no symptoms appeared in 28 days, he would have been able to go home.“On May 8 afternoon, he was about to have his lunch at the quarantine centre when he spoke to me complaining of difficulties in breathing. He never had diabetes or any other health issues. He said he was not feeling well at all since the morning but would try to eat lunch. After a meal, he was going to be taken to the hospital in an ambulance for fever and breathlessness. But before he could eat his lunch, he died,” said Rita (30).Behera was the first migrant worker in Odisha to succumb to Covid-19. The officials at the quarantine centre refused to hand over his body to the family as he had yet to be tested for Covid-19. Two days later, his body was cremated by the local officials after his result was positive. His family could not attend the cremation.Rita and her three daughters — Sonali (12), Rupali (9), Asha(5) — are unable to come to terms with the loss of Behera. Her youngest daughter Payal turns one next month.“Though his factory had shut down in April, he used to tell me things would be back to normal and he would start working soon. He had last come home when Payal was born in November last year. He was planning to come home this November. Soon after he arrived, he was taken to the quarantine centre,” Rita said. She was not allowed to meet her husband after he had returned to Ganjam in a Shramik Special train.Rita is uneducated and has no income; the couple did not have much saved up. The administration provided ₹12000 cash assistance after Behera’s death.“He did not even have a bank account of his own. We had four daughters while trying to get a son. All the money he earned went into repaying the loans we took to build our house and for the marriage of his sisters. He became debt-free a month before his death. When he was working in Surat, he used to send to us money through people from our village. The only bank account we have in our home is in the name of my second daughter opened by the ASHA worker when she was born,” said Rita.“My only regret is that he could have been saved had they taken him to the hospital on time,” Behera’s older brother, Pravin, a migrant worker in Maharashtra, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-worked-to-pay-off-his-debts-says-kin-of-migrant-worker-who-died-due-to-covid-19/story-cFnmlBzJxGa2YwMW9u4FRP.html
10-10-2020||India||Booking, cancellation of rail tickets allowed till 5 minutes before departure from today||Indian Railways will now allow booking and cancellation of tickets till five minutes before the train leaves the station. The new rule, which will apply to all special trains being run, comes into effect from October 10.The pre-Covid system of preparing the second reservation chart 30 minutes before the departure of the train, which was not being followed for the last few months, has been restored by the railways. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, time of preparation of the second reservation chart was shifted to two hours before the scheduled time of train departure.The first chart is prepared at least four hours before the scheduled departure of the train. “As per request of Zonal Railways for ensuring convenience of rail passengers, the matter has been examined and it has been decided that the second reservation chart shall be prepared at least 30 minutes before scheduled/rescheduled time of departure of train,” a statement issued by the Indian Railways said.“Accordingly, ticket booking facility, both online and on PRS ticket counters, shall be available, before preparation of second chart. CRIS will make necessary modifications in the software accordingly so as to restore this provision with effect from October 10,” it added.All passenger trains services were suspended due to the imposition of the nationwide lockdown from March 25, but the railways has resumed services in a staggered manner from May 1.Recently, zones got approval for 39 new special trains. “These services will be introduced as special services from an early convenient date,” said the Ministry of Railways. This announcement was made a week after railway board chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav said that Indian Railways plans to run more than 200 trains during the festive season between October 15 and November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/booking-cancellation-of-rail-tickets-allowed-till-5-minutes-before-departure-from-today/story-mvDtEHViPVJkbrn4cFe7kN.html
10-10-2020||India||OFB workers’ bodies call off upcoming nationwide strike||The workers’ federations of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), the country’s main producer of military arsenal, have called off their proposed countrywide strike from October 12 after a reconciliation meeting held in New Delhi on Friday under the ministry of labour and employment, a government spokesperson said.The federations are protesting the Centre’s July decision to corporatise the board.Three federations of defence civilian employees had given a joint strike notice on August 4 against the government’s decision to corporatise the board. The defence ministry referred the matter in September 2020 to the chief labour commissioner, ministry of labour and employment to initiate conciliation in the matter.The decision of the federations to go on a strike was widely criticised as the Indian military is locked in a border dispute with China in the Ladakh. The OFB controls 41 ordnance factories engaged in the production of tanks, armoured personnel carriers, bombs, rockets, artillery guns, anti-aircraft guns, parachutes, small arms, clothing and leather equipment for soldiers.“It was agreed by the representatives of the federations and officials of the ministry of defence that, during the pendency of on-going conciliation proceedings, the ministry will abide by the provisions of Section 33(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 which stipulates that the employer cannot alter the conditions of service of the employees till the conclusion of conciliation proceedings. However, it will not affect government’s decision to corporatise OFB,” the spokesperson said.The government last month announced the setting up of an empowered group of ministers (EGoM) under defence minister Rajnath Singh to oversee the corporatisation of the OFB, which is expected to be completed in a one-year timeframe.The EGoM will oversee and guide the board’s corporatisation with the process covering transition support and the redeployment plan of workforce while safeguarding their wages and retirement benefits. The workforce of the factories controlled by the board stands at more than 80,000 people who are against the corporatisation move. The government has asked various unions and associations of the OFB to convey their suggestions and concerns about the move to the EGoM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ofb-workers-bodies-call-off-upcoming-nationwide-strike/story-8bOYZbfoJ6LV0W4zlUNdyL.html
10-10-2020||India||UP woman fights off nephew trying to rape her. He leaves her for dead on expressway||A 25-year-old woman was thrown out of a moving car and left for dead on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao district on Friday after she resisted a rape attempt by her nephew and his friend, police officials familiar with the matter said.According to the police, the woman woman was travelling in a car with the accused when they attempted to rape her. When the woman fought back, the accused hit her and one of them attempted to strangulate her using his belt. The woman lost consciousness, after which the accused threw her off the car thinking that she was dead, police officials said quoting the woman’s complaint.The employees of the UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority spotted her near Sabli Khera village. She has been admitted to a hospital and the accused have been arrested, Unnao Superintended of Police (SP) Anand Kulkarni said.5-yr-old raped in PilibhitA 5-year-old girl was allegedly raped in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit district, police said on Friday. The incident took place in the village under Diurea Kotwali police station area when the minor had gone out to relieve herself, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-thrown-out-of-car-left-for-dead-after-rape-attempt/story-8J75w5v0Qio0NGhWhzh8RP.html
10-10-2020||India||Sushant case: Don’t criticise, malign individuals, govt tells private channels||The Information and Broadcasting ministry on Friday asked all private television channels to adhere to the content norms and emphasised that no programme should criticise, malign or slander any individual or certain groups.The advisory comes in the wake of actor Rakul Preet Singh’s plea in the Delhi high court, alleging that defamatory programmes were being run against her in connection with the drugs probe related to the Sushant Singh Rajput case.In its advisory, the I&B ministry said, on various occasions, it has issued advisories to TV channels to broadcast content adhering to the Programme and Advertising Codes under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995.As per the Code, no programme should criticise, malign or slander any individual in person or certain groups, segments of social, public and moral life of the country, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-case-don-t-criticise-malign-individuals-govt-tells-private-channels/story-qo9Sp5crlh4UpMOqU5vPCM.html
10-10-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh man decapitates wife suspecting infidelity, walks 2km with her head||A 40-year-oldman decapitated his wife suspecting infidelity in Uttar Pradesh’s Banda district on Friday, and walked 2km with her severed head to the Baberu police station, where he surrendered.According to the police, the incident took place early on Friday, when Kinnar Yadav came back from his morning walk and found his wife, Vimla (35), talking to their neighbour Ravi Kant.A quarrel ensued and, in a fit of rage, Yadav picked up an axe lying nearby and severed her head, an official said. Yadav also attacked Ravi Kant, who is undergoing treatment, the official added.The couple has two sons, Bhagat and Prahlad, who were not in the house at the time of the incident.A video purportedly showing Yadav walking on the road with a woman’s severed head has gone viral.Additional superintendent of police, Banda, Mahendra P Chauhan confirmed the incident. “Yadav has been arrested under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code,” said Chauhan.According to the officials at the Baberu police station, Yadav stood inside the station with his wife’s severed head for more than 15 minutes before senior police officers were called in. He spoke with them and surrendered.In his confession, Yadav told the police that he suspected his wife of having a relationship with Kant, an electrician, as she was often seen talking to him, said the police.Yadav further alleged that Kant used to visit their house in his absence, officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-man-decapitates-wife-suspecting-infidelity-walks-2km-with-her-head/story-i2a6CmokYqY6mX5uNeWr8H.html
10-10-2020||India||Delhiwale: The mind of a rare book dealer||Scholars from around the world come to him. He is one of the country’s most well-known dealers of rare and out-of-print books on everything about India, though he manages his business from a part of the National Capital Region that isn’t really known for having very many bookstores. Vijay Kumar Jain, 80, lives in Gurugram’s Sector 14. Until a few years ago his address was in Sadar Bazaar, in the same city—the old family mansion was eventually sold away. Mr Jain started Prabhu Book Service in August 1962 with spare copies of difficult-to-find books his elder brother would pick up from footpaths of Delhi’s Sunday market. The shop truly arrived on getting its first major order two years later from the South Asia Institute in Germany’s Heidelberg University. Today there are about 8,000 books. Mr Jain keeps them in his home. “Indira Gandhi was one of my customers,” says the gentleman with the bushy white moustache, as he agrees to become a part of the Proust Questionnaire series, in which we nudge fellow citizens from diverse backgrounds to make “Parisian parlour confessions” so as to explore their lives, thoughts, values and experiences.Your favourite virtue or the principal aspect of your personalityI wish to look and behave as I am. Can’t pretend to show off what I am notYour favourite qualities in a manTo stand your ground if it is a matter of principlesYour favourite qualities in a womanTo teach her son(s) to respect womenYour chief characteristicTo share jokes in a gatheringWhat do you appreciate the most in your friendsLoyaltyYour favourite occupationBooks, Books, BooksYour idea of happinessTo help or make even one unfortunate one happy if I can. Happiness comes from within when you giveYour idea of misery or what would be your greatest misfortuneTo be gagged and not allowed to protestIf not yourself, what would you be?An astronautYour favourite prose authorsMunshi Premchand and similar othersYour favourite poetsRahat Indori who passed away recently. His Urdu couplet which touches my heart: “Do gaz hi sahi, meri milkiyat to hai; Aye maut tune mujhe zamindar kar diya.” Several other Urdu poets, too.Your favourite composersSeveral from the Hindi cinemaYour heroes/heroines in real lifeActor Sonu Sood, and others like himWhat characters in history do you dislikeDictators like Saddam Hussein and Muammar GaddafiYour favourite food and drinkMaa ke haath ki bani roti (mother’s roti) aur butter milkWhat do you hate the most?Dishonesty in personal relationshipsTalent you’d like to be gifted withBe a fine singerHow do you wish to die?Surrounded by my books||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-mind-of-a-rare-book-dealer/story-uKF63fJ5MS96HT2BinwfSM.html
10-10-2020||India||Total tests in Delhi at 31-day low for a weekday; RT-PCR up||The number RT-PCR tests to detect Covid-19 saw an increase on Friday, even as the number of overall tests dipped in the city to below 50,000 for the first time on a working weekday since September 8.As per the daily health bulletin of the government, 11,651 RT-PCR tests were conducted on Thursday, accounting for 23.7% of the total 49,135 tests in the city. This is the second-highest number of RT-PCR tests conducted in the city, after the 11,797 tests done on September 25.The Capital added 2,860 cases of Covid-19, and 39 deaths. This took the city’s total infection tally to 303,693 and overall death toll to 5,692.The positivity rate on Friday rose to 5.82% from 5.1% reported a day ago. On average, a positivity rate of 5.4% was reported over the week.Though cases have reduced over the last week to 10 days, the number of daily deaths has remained between 30 and 40 for almost a month now, the data shows.The seven-day average case fatality ratio has gone up from 0.66% on September 15 – when the number of deaths started rising – to 1.41% on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/total-tests-in-delhi-at-31-day-low-for-a-weekday-rt-pcr-up/story-6i4jV7C18X9kvvDAzvczpK.html
10-10-2020||India||‘Tejashwi stabbed me in the back, Shah offered me a balm’: VIP chief Mukesh Sahni||Mukesh Sahni of the Vikassheel Insaan Party, who hit the headlines with an exit from the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)-Congress Mahagathbandhan, spoke to Smriti Kak Ramachandran about the decision to walk out of the alliance and return to the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) fold. Edited excerpts:In March 2019, you made a strong speech against the BJP. You were also given three seats to contest the Lok Sabha polls by the Mahagathbandhan. What led to the change of heart? In 2014, when I returned to Bihar from Mumbai, where I had gone to work as an 18-year-old, I came back for [Narendra] Modi ji. I worked closely with Amit Shah, who was the party president and campaigned hard for the BJP because I had faith in Modi ji. Read HT’s full coverage on Bihar Assembly elections here. I ran a social organisation then, and campaigned for the NDA in the 2014 and 2015 Bihar polls. But then I had concerns that community, the Nishads, were not being given the benefit of reservation, so I quit. Also read | ‘From chappal to chapatti roller’: Bihar polls and surprising party symbolsIn 2018, I formed a political party and aligned with the NDA. But a political party’s work is to contest elections, and since I could not join the NDA, I went with the Mahagathbandhan. Even though I was not completely happy with the decision, I went with the flow. I was assured by Tejashwi Yadav that we will be given 25 seats to contest in the Bihar assembly polls, and the deputy chief minister’s post. At the last minute, he announced that the VIP party will get only two seats. It was then that I decided to walk out of the Mahagathbandhan. Tejashwi stabbed me in the back, and Amit Shah offered me a balm, so I went back to NDA. So the only reason you walked out was Tejashwi not keeping his word ? Tejashwi got the party as inheritance. His father Lalu Prasad is a big leader, but he lacks experience and he lacks discipline. And despite their Lok Sabha performance, we stayed with them and helped them, even when other old allies left. Our party has a vote bank of about 14% to 15% among the most backward communities. But he had different ideas; after reneging on his promise, he thought we will branch out on our own and benefit the RJD by cutting into the vote share of the NDA. Also read: Sharad Pawar’s NCP to go it alone in Bihar polls, contest over 150 seatsHas there been any discussion with the BJP on the possibility of a ministerial post?For the past seven decades, there has been no reservation for the Nishads; I still say whatever can be done within the ambit of the Constitution for the community should be done.There is no deal or preconditions with the BJP. I have worked closely with Amit Shah during the 2015 election, he supports me in my work. I am thankful to the PM, to party president JP Nadda, and to the home minister who took me back and offered me 11 seats as against the two that the Mahagathbandhan offered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejashwi-stabbed-me-in-the-back-shah-offered-me-a-balm-vip-chief-mukesh-sahni/story-SIv0fnwcWKUqYsKHiMrktN.html
10-10-2020||India||Priest dies after house set afire over land row in Rajasthan village||The house of a priest in Rajasthan’s Bukna village was set on fire, allegedly by people upset at his opposition to the encroachment of temple land, resulting in his death on Thursday, and sparking a huge political row in the state on Friday.Babu Lal Vaishnav, 50, died during treatment for burns at Jaipur’s SMS Hospital a day after Kailash Meena and others from his family allegedly set the priest’s hut in Bukna village under Sapotra police station on fire. A video of the incident went viral on social media. In his dying testimony, the priest named six people for setting him on fire, the police said. They added that three acres of land is under the temple’s ownership but Meena wanted to encroach some of it.“We registered a case for attempt to murder against five people; now the charge will be converted to that of murder,” Karauli superintendent of police Mridul Kachawa said.On Friday, the death of the priest escalated into a political row. State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Satish Poonia announced the formation of a three-member fact-finding committee. Jaipur MP Ramcharan Bohra, national secretary Alka Gurjar and former general secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha Jitendra Meena are part of the panel.Rajya Sabha MP Kirodi Lal Meena said in a tweet that the incident was an example of the poor law and order situation in the state.Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje said in a tweet that the killing could not be condemned enough. “We cannot express enough grief over it,” she said.Brahmin organisations gave a memorandum to chief minister Ashok Gehlot through the district administration to demand immediate arrest of the accused and a government job to one member of the family of the priest.Gehlot wrote on Twitter: “The murder of Babulal Vaishnav in Sapotara, Karauli, is extremely unfortunate and condemnable; civil society has no place for such acts. The state government is with the bereaved family in this sad time. The main accused has been arrested and action continues. The culprits shall not be spared.” The Congress party’s chief whip Mahesh Joshi said: “I have spoken to the DGP; family will be provided security and their demands will be discussed.” He said he would write a letter to the chief minister to demand strict action against land encroachers.Vaishnav’s family brought the body to the village for cremation on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priest-dies-after-house-set-afire-over-land-row/story-mShfSatwQPp28XIsGrm2kN.html
10-10-2020||India||Killed 25 ‘traitors’ in Bastar, Maoists claim in statement||Maoists have killed 25 tribal people in Chhattisgarh’s insurgency-hit Bijapur district for allegedly being part of a covert police operation and acting as police informers, a leader of the banned group said in a statement confirmed by police officials, who said some of the killings may have been carried out in the last week of September.Bastar police inspector general P Sundar Raj said on Friday the killings showed the frustration of the insurgents as anti-Maoist sentiment was building up in the tribal areas and their movement was nearing an end. “They have lost the public support due to their own misdeeds and their leadership is now totally clueless and directionless,” he said. In a statement sent to the media on Thursday and reviewed by HT, a spokesperson for the Maoists, identified only as Vikalp, called the 25 tribal people “traitors” and said that a “people’s court” punished them after obtaining “clear evidence” in Bijapur’s Gangaluru area. He added that those killed by the insurgents included 12 secret agents, five covert operatives and eight police informers.The statement did not specify exactly when or how the killings were carried out. However, police in Telangana’s Bhadradri Kothagudem district bordering Chhattisgarh said they received intelligence inputs that the Maoists killed 16 villagers in the last week of September. The Maoists also abducted a few other villagers and took them into the forests of Bijapur and may have killed them later, said a Telangana police official who did not wish to be identified.Vikalp said one of the secret agents working for the police turned out to be senior Maoist leader Vijja. “Our inquiries revealed that Vijja had been acting as a police agent for the last two years and was entrusted with the responsibility of harming the central committee of the Maoist party. He had provided crucial information about the party meetings to the police four times,” he said.Last week, Modium Vijja alias Bhadru, 39 — allegedly responsible for the killing of civilians in Bijapur — was shot dead by his own subordinates, police had said. Vijja was wanted by the police and carried a cash reward of ₹800,000 for his capture.The recent killings by Maoists have raised concerns among police officials in the region. “Maoists want to create an environment of fear among villagers which can help them increase recruitment,” an IPS officer posted in one of seven districts of Bastar region had told HT last month when reports of a spike in killings emerged. The Maoist statement also referred to the central government’s ‘Operation Samadhan’ that was launched in 2017 to completely eliminate insurgency in the region by 2022, and claimed that the police had opened bank accounts for the slain tribal people who were helping the Indian authorities.(With inputs from Ritesh Mishra in Raipur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/killed-25-traitors-in-bastar-maoists-claim-in-statement/story-8VN7Q2p6ihmgHdsseIvRiK.html
10-10-2020||India||NDA’s Cabinet has no non-BJP minister now||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is India’s largest political grouping on paper, but with the demise of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Thursday and the Shiromani Akali Dal’s exit from it last month, all berths in the Union Cabinet are occupied by the Bharatiya Janata Party. There is only one non-BJP minister in the entire 51-member strong union council of ministers: Republican Part of India (Athawale) chief Ramdas Athawle (the minister of state for social justice and empowerment).This is the first time since 1977 that a coalition government at the Centre has all Cabinet ministers from one party.The BJP-led pan-India alliance of 24 political parties gave three slots in the Cabinet to allies when it returned with a thumping majority in 2019. Anant Geete from Shiv Sena was named heavy industries minister, Akali Dal’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal was food processing minister, and Ramvilas Paswan had the consumer affairs, food and public distribution portfolio. Also read | Ram Vilas Paswan: A man who bridged political divisionsLast year, Geete resigned from the Cabinet after the Shiv Sena dumped the BJP to go with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party to form the Maharashtra government. Last month, an angry Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the NDA protesting the three new farm laws. And Lok Janshakti Party patriarch Ram Vilas Paswan died after prolonged illness on Thursday.Nitish Kumar’s JD (U), which returned to the NDA fold after a brief separation in 2014, and which, with 15 MPs, is the second biggest constituent of the alliance after the BJP, decided to stay out of the Cabinet or the council of ministers after it realised that it would not get the two Cabinet posts it wanted. The BJP won 303 seats of the NDA’s 343 in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. The BJP’s national spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said the party “has always respected its allies and their valuable contribution cannot be undermined”. “The NDA and the BJP are driven by national interest, which at times is in variance with local politics that drives the regional parties. Shiv Sena parted ways even though they contested elections with us in Maharashtra. In Bihar, we have sacrificed on many occasions and have given a lion’s share to our ally, the JD(U). We will always respect the views of our allies but not at the cost of compromising national interest,” he said.Also read | Bihar assembly election: With Ram Vilas no more, test for Chirag to consolidate LJPIn the first Narendra Modi government (2014-19), five of the BJP’s alliance partners were inducted in the council of ministers with Paswan, Geete and Badal in the Cabinet. The BJP won 282 seats of the NDA’s 336 in that election. The year 2014 was the first time a party had a majority of its own in the Lok Sabha since 1984. Rahul Verma, fellow at the Centre for Policy Research, said the composition of the Cabinet today reflects the changing nature of the NDA. “The BJP leadership believes that smaller allies have reaped the benefits of Modi’s popularity but haven’t been able to mobilise their own votes. So the BJP is sidelining them in ministerial appointments, decision-making, which then creates deeper insecurity among these smaller parties.” He also said that the Cabinet also only had a handful of mass leaders, who could be even considered pan-state or pan-community leaders. Modi’s predecessor, Dr Manmohan Singh, who was the first non-Nehru-Gandhi Prime Minister to complete two successive terms, also saw a similar loss of allies. After his first term (2004 to 2009) , Paswan and Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Yadav left the alliance due to disputes over seat distribution in Bihar for the national election. In the second term, Singh took more hits as the DMK and the Trinamool Congress quit the United Progressive Alliance. The Congress was left with Sharad Pawar’s NCP, its staunch ally, towards the end of its term. The vacancies in the Union council of ministers have triggered speculations about the first Cabinet reshuffle of second Modi government. The entry of JD(U) in the union council of ministers is overdue, and Chirag Paswan might be considered for a portfolio after his father’s demise, though there may be some hiccups because his party has not aligned with the NDA for the upcoming Bihar polls. Also read: Union minister Harsimrat Kaur resigns, BJP runs into trouble with old ally“The BJP has a transactional understanding of coalition politics; no programmatic agreement, no ideological basis, only whether the relationship is profitable or not. They think allies are needed, or join a coalition only if either has to gain something — if the BJP’s winnability is high, allies will come; and if low, they will not. Since 2014, the NDA has existed in name only,” said political commentator Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-s-cabinet-has-no-non-bjp-minister-now/story-wNmW7u8054JaMPt0yFVhzH.html
10-10-2020||India||Media ethics, web safety on parliamentary panel’s radar||A committee of Indian Parliament will, for the first time, debate on issues such as ethical standards in media coverage and preventing the misuse of social media platforms, both pertinent but controversial themes with the government and the Opposition believing that they are at the receiving end of lapses in the two areas.If nothing, the topics suggest that proceedings of the Standing Committee on Information Technology led by the Congress’s Shashi Tharoor will prove interesting and fractious.The panel has listed a total of 21 subjects for review in this financial year after its reconstitution last month: ethical standards in media coverage; safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space; review of the cybersecurity scenario in India; and a review of the functioning and outreach of Doordarshan channels, among other topics. Standing committees are multi-party panels of Parliament constituted every year to review functioning and issues related to various ministries. While their reports are not binding upon the government, they provide key inputs to policymakers and ensure parliamentary oversight of important areas.The topic on ethical standards in media coverage comes at a time when there has been some criticism of media coverage — particularly news channels, for its reporting of the Sushant Singh Rajput death case — and when a programme aired on Sudarshan TV was barred by the Supreme Court after it found its content objectionable to Muslims.On Thursday, while hearing a petition seeking action against TV channels for allegedly disseminating fake news about the Tablighi Jamaat, which became a Covid-19 hot spot in late March, Chief Justice of India SA Bobde remarked: “Freedom of speech is one of the most abused freedoms of recent times.”The topic also comes up at a time when government believes that there are false narratives against it and the Opposition believes that the government gets far more positive press than it deserves. Earlier this week, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has “captured” several institutions, including the media, and contended: “If the press and institutions are free, this government will not last for long.” Some of these issues, however, might trigger political divisions in the panel that is no stranger to furious disputes and partisan arguments. Last year, this panel even resorted to voting to decide if it could discuss the WhatsApp snooping case. This year, panel chairman Shashi Tharoor faced the BJP’s ire after he had announced that Facebook would be summoned to depose after The Wall Street Journal reported how Ankhi Das, Facebook’s top lobbyist in India, told colleagues that action against politicians from Modi’s party would damage the company’s business prospects. The BJP leaders took objection to Tharoor’s announcement and linked it to the Congress party’s stand on the issue. The rift widened to such an extent that BJP MP Nishikant Dubey, a member of the panel, wrote to Speaker Om Birla asking for Tharoor’s removal as chairman. That wasn’t to be, and when the panel was reconstituted, Tharoor was still its head.Most importantly, the panel will also seek to have oversight on issues related to citizens’ data security and privacy.Former parliamentary affairs secretary Afzal Amanullah said: “The Standing Committee on IT is an appropriate forum to discuss the ethical issues about media, and privacy issues especially in the context of women. People are extremely concerned about the way some media and social media have been used for vilification of women and propagation of a certain kind of news.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/media-ethics-web-safety-on-panel-s-radar/story-GmpATN9hW378UV5FHJZYmN.html
10-10-2020||India||NIA submits charge sheet against 8 in Bhima Koregaon case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a charge sheet against eight people including Hany Babu, Gautam Navlakha, and 83-year-old Stan Swamy, alleging that the Bhima Koregaon violence was a “well-chalked-out strategy” for which these people were in touch with Maoist leaders through “codes”.The charge sheet also alleged that Navlakha has links with Pakistan’s spy agency – Inter-Services Intelligence.The Pune Police, while conducting investigations in the case previously, contended that provocative speeches made at an Elgar Parishad event, which was allegedly funded by Maoists, triggered caste clashes near Bhima Koregaon village on January 1 in 2018, leading to the death of one person and sparking more unrest.While the agency says Milind Teltumde is absconding, the others named in the charge sheet are in judicial custody. Other than activist Navlakha, Delhi University professor Hany Babu and cleric Swamy, the others named in the charge sheet are Goa Institute of Management professor Anand Teltumbde and three members of the Kabir Kala Manch – Jyoti Jagtap, Sagar Gorkhe and Ramesh Gaichor.The activists have repeatedly denied all charges of the investigators and said that action against them was a way to muzzle the voice of dissent in the country. The probe by the agency has been criticised by multiple groups for targeting voices of dissent against the Union government.Swamy, arrested early on Friday, said he never visited Bhima Koregaon and had no role to play in any conspiracy. “We all are aware how prominent intellectuals, lawyers, writers, poets, activists, student leaders are all put in jail because they have expressed their dissent or raised questions about the ruling powers of India,” he said in a video.Navlakha’s lawyer Yug Chaudhry said: “I cannot comment anything before reading the charge sheet”.Asserting that the Bhima Koregaon incident was part of a larger international conspiracy, NIA spokesperson Sonia Narang said the investigators have reliable oral, documentary and material evidence that establishes the role of Navlakha, Teltumbde, Hany Babu and others based on meticulous, scientific and detailed analysis of more than 10,000 pages of their communications recovered during the probe. On the basis of this evidence, a detailed charge sheet running into 10,000 pages has been filed.Detailing alleged roles of the arrested activists, NIA said that Anand Teltumbde was one of the conveners of “Bhima Koregaon Shaurya Din Prerna Abhiyan” and was present at Shaniwar Wada, Pune on December 31, 2017 where the Elgar Parishad programme was organised.Navlakha, NIA said, was secretly communicating with CPI (Maoist) cadres. “He was assigned the task to unite intellectuals against the government. He was also part of some fact-finding committees and was assigned the task to recruit cadres for guerrilla activities of CPI (Maoist). His links with Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) also came to fore,” NIA said.About associate professor at Delhi University, Hany Babu, NIA said that he was instrumental in organising visits of foreign journalists to CPI (Maoist)-linked areas and was assigned present and future task of Revolutionary Democratic Front (RDF), a banned organisation in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.It added that Gorkhe, Gaichor and Jagtap are trained cadres of CPI (Maoist) and members of Kabir Kala Manch, which is a frontal organsiation of the banned outfit.The federal agency took over investigations from the Maharashtra Police in January this year. Navlakha and Teltumbde surrendered before NIA in April this year.“NIA’s investigation revealed that the tentacles of conspiracy were not only spread throughout the country but also extended beyond India,” Narang said in the statement.“It also included various documents regarding mobilisation against the constitutionally established government by the Maoist cadres, information about movement of the security forces with an intention to cause heavy damage to the state,” Narang said. “Discreet codes were used for secret communication amongst themselves to avoid detection by security forces regarding their conspiracy and planning,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-submits-charge-sheet-against-8-in-bhima-koregaon-case/story-CGoB0P9FwCZpZK3igsxc8O.html
10-10-2020||India||Resident doctors of Hindu Rao threaten indefinite strike over pending salaries||Around 250 resident doctors working at North Corporation-run Hindu Rao hospital have threatened to go on a complete strike from Sunday onwards after not receiving their salaries in over 110 days.The doctors, according to a letter submitted by the resident doctors’ association, said they will withdraw from all Covid-related services that they provide if their pending wage dues are not cleared in the next 48 hours. The nursing staff at the hospital too said they will join the doctors in their strike.Hindu Rao hospital is the biggest municipal hospital in Delhi and was designated as a dedicated Covid-19 treatment facility in mid-June during the first surge in cases in Delhi. The hospital has 343 beds and around 250 resident doctors and 350 nursing staff that cater to patients .The resident doctors of the hospital have been observing on a partial ‘pen-down’ strike for three hours daily since September 20 in order to draw attention to their plight.Earlier in June, the Delhi high court had d irected the North Delhi Municipal Corporation to pay the salaries of resident doctors (both juniors and seniors) in six hospitals of the civic body after taking note of newspaper reports about the doctors not having received their salaries since March. In Friday’s letter — addressed to the hospital’s medical superintendent — the resident doctors’ association equated non-payment of wage dues to “penal servitude” and “psychologically and physically distressing”. “Why should doctors and nurses, who are at the forefront of Covid-19 fight, have to go on a strike to ensure that their basic right of getting paid every month is protected. It cannot just be cause the MCD does not have any funds. The corporation generates hundred of crores in taxes every month; do you know how much they need to pay the doctors and nurses in all hospitals and dispensaries run by the north corporation? Just 13 crores,” said Dr Abhinav Sardana, president of the Hindu Rao resident doctors’ association. Although, Friday’s letter states that the doctors would go on a strike from Saturday onwards, the administration has requested them to wait till Sunday at least. “I received the letter of intimation on Friday at 9am and that gives us 48 hours, so the strike will be Sunday onwards. The issue is purely a matter for the headquarters to solve. You have to ask them what is being done,” said Dr Anu Kapoor, medical superintendent Hindu Rao hospital, when asked about the strike threat. The doctors said that they have been facing problems in even buying basic essentials like food items, paying rent, and have trouble getting or paying their EMIs for loans. “I know a person whose husband has been out of job since the lockdown started. She now doesn’t even have enough money to feed her children. Some others have even kicked out of their rented accommodations for defaulting on rent. It is anyway difficult for a doctor working in a Covid-19 hospital to get an accommodation. Even the banks have started refusing loans to us because they ask for payslips of the last few months, and we do not have that,” said Dr Sardana. Sardana added that at present the doctors did not have enough to pay for medicines if they contracted the virus. “If I get sick tomorrow, I will not even have enough to pay for the medicines. The government does not provide us any health cover. And, the schemes by the chief minister and the Prime Minister give compensation only after a healthcare worker has died from Covid-19,” said Dr Sardana. The consultants of the hospital, and others run by the corporation, claimed that they too had not been paid since June. “The last time doctors from Kasturba Hospital went on strike for 15 to 20 days, we were paid a month’s salary for June. We have not been paid since then. But the consultants will not be joining the strike for now,” said Dr Maruti Sinha, secretary of the MCD doctors’ association. “The Supreme Court had taken suo moto congnizance of the matter and the health ministry had said non-payment of salary is an offence under the IPC. But we still do not know who will enforce these directives and against whom action would be taken,” she said. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that he visited the hospital and met the doctors. “I had a discussion with the doctors and have assured them to find a solution at the earliest. I requested them to withdraw the strike, as it is a Covid-dedicated hospital and may have an adverse impact. We will be meeting again tomorrow on the issue.”AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said it was shameful that the BJP is not paying the salaries of doctors “The BJP-ruled MCDs are corrupt and incompetent. In the past five years, the AAP government’s revenue has doubled but in MCDs, only the incomes of councillors have increased,” he said.The BJP hit back, with Praveen Shankar Kapoor, spokesperson, Delhi BJP saying that it is the Arvind Kejriwal government’s denial of constitutional funds to municipal bodies which is responsible for this situation.“As for Bhardwaj saying municipal bodies in other states are doing better, yes that is true. Situation isn’t bad in other cities because there the state government gives constitutional funds to them,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resident-doctors-of-hindu-rao-threaten-indefinite-strike-over-pending-salaries/story-SsnFqlt6YfWemzbkfeaBYK.html
10-10-2020||India||Protests over Stan Swamy arrest in Bhima Koregaon case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested 83-year-old activist Father Stan Swamy from Ranchi in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence, officials said on Friday, a move that triggered protests days after Swamy said students and activist were being put “in jail because they have expressed their dissent”.Investigators said that speeches made at an Elgar Parishad event, which was allegedly funded by Maoists, aggravated caste clashes that broke out near Bhima Koregaon village on January 1, 2018. One person died in the clashes that also sparked widespread protests by Dalit groups.An NIA official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that Swamy was arrested in connection with the violence near Pune. A special NIA court in Mumbai remanded Swamy in judicial custody till October 23 as the probe agency did not seek his remand. He was questioned twice earlier by Pune Police and NIA and was detained from his residence on Thursday evening and placed under arrest later for alleged links with the banned CPI (Maoist), the official said.In a video, which was shot two days before his arrest, Swamy said that he has never been to Bhima Koregaon, “for which I am being made an accused”. “Now they want me to go to Mumbai, which I have said that I won’t go,” he said, referring to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. “The Jharkhand state government has given a directive that during the lockdown the elderly people above the age of 65 should not appear in public and if the investigating agency wants to interrogate me, it can do it through video-conferencing,” he said.“...what is happening to me is not something unique happening to me alone, it is a broader process taking place all over the country. We all are aware how prominent intellectuals, lawyers, writers, poets, activists, student leaders are all put in jail because they have expressed their dissent or raised questions about the ruling powers of India,” Swamy said in the video. He said he is part of “the process” and in a way happy to be so because he is not a silent spectator and is part of the game. “I am ready to pay the price whatever be it,” Swamy said.The NIA official said that literature, propaganda material of the CPI (Maoist) and documents related to communications for furthering the group’s programmes were seized from Swamy’s possession.The activist is the 16th person to be arrested in the case, in which people have been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The Bhima Koregaon case was taken over by the NIA on January 24 this year.In a statement, about 2,000 activists from across the country condemned the arrest of the 83-year-old and said the move was an attack on all those working for human and constitutional rights in Jharkhand.“We, the undersigned, strongly condemn the arrest of Jharkhand’s Stan Swamy by the NIA in the Bhima-Koregaon case on the evening of 8 October 2020. Stan Swamy, 84 years old, is a valued and public-spiritedness citizen who has worked for Adivasi rights since decades in Jharkhand,” the statement, released by the Jharkhand Janadhikar Manch, a body of civil society groups in the state, said.The statement, signed by economist Jean Drèze, Delhi University professor Nandini Sundar, lawyer Rebecca John and activist Aruna Roy among others termed the case as “baseless fabrication” by the government.“The central government, in the guise of the Bhima Koregaon case, is trying to build a false narrative of a national Maoist conspiracy against these activists. The main objective of the case is to target and harass activists who work for the rights of Adivasis, Dalits and the marginalised and raise questions against the anti-people policies of the government,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-over-stan-swamy-arrest-in-bhima-koregaon-case/story-SkhsKDYYuKDDedaWNBKfsJ.html
10-10-2020||India||Jyotiraditya Scindia hits out at Opposition over ‘baseless charges’||Senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia hit out at his political rivals on Friday, saying that a recent controversy over a piece of land in possession with the Scindia trust was ancestral property and that leaders from Congress should instead explain how “they have become new maharajas”.The MP made the remarks while interacting with journalists in Gwalior as political campaigning intensifies in the run-up to the November 3 bypolls to 28 assembly constituencies.  “The Congress leaders who have become new Maharajas (royals) are making allegations about land which is with my family for 300 years. If it is wrong to be born into such a family, then I admit my mistake,” Scindia said. Congress leaders have been levelling allegations against Scindia since he quit the party and joined the BJP, including allegations about land in possession of Scindia trust. Scindia said: “To me politics is a means to serve people... I have visited the constituencies in the past five months even after being affected with Covid-19 infection, to ensure development. The BJP’s 15-year rule was followed by Congress’s misrule in 15 months. Now, CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan and I are working together for progress and development of the state including Gwalior-Chambal region.” Of the 28 seats up for the bypolls, 16 fall in the Gwalior-Chambal region —Scindia’s home turf, which the Congress party swept in the assembly elections under his leadership. Scindia joined the BJP in March along with several loyalists, many of whom are up for election now as BJP candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scindia-hits-out-at-oppn-over-baseless-charges/story-UIm0VKVxpHyggpGIRcnvEK.html
10-10-2020||India||Karti Chidambaram asks House panel to probe TRP case||Congress MP Karti Chidambaram on Friday wrote to the chairperson of the parliamentary Standing Committee on information technology, Shashi Tharoor, urging him look into reports suggesting manipulation in TRP ratings of news channels. Karti requested Tharoor to take up the issue and call officials of the Union information and broadcasting ministry to seek clarification and suggest remedial measures. The panel may have a detailed discussion on the issue, people aware of the matter said. In his letter, Karti said the recent issue surrounding TRP of television channels has cast doubts on the legitimacy and reliability of the system. “TRPs produce essential data on television audiences in India and have become the primary basis for advertising decisions. Government advertising expenditure depends on this system, but public spending should not be based on flawed data,” he said. The letter came a day after Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh claimed that at least three channels, including Republic TV, had manipulated TRPs. “There is a need for further understanding this situation. In light of this, it is important that the standing committee take up this issue,” Karti said. “Therefore, I request you to call before the Committee concerned officials of the responsible ministry, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, to seek necessary clarification on the current situation and remedial measures,” he added. Karti’s party colleague and former Union I&B minister Manish Tewari echoed similar sentiments. He said the entire paradigm of TRP has vitiated the broadcasting industry, especially the news media, and it should be seriously taken up by Parliament and the government. Republic has denied the charges and said it will sue Mumbai Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karti-asks-house-panel-to-probe-trp-case/story-OZidlEzPP181H5HuVdw5YM.html
10-10-2020||India||Will you get refund if your flight ticket was booked by an agent? FAQ answered||The lockdown period between March and May saw a huge number of flight tickets getting cancelled. Even after domestic flights resumed operations on May 25, tickets got cancelled at the last minute owing to several reasons, including state-imposed restrictions. Passengers complained of arbitrary refund policies of the private airlines and after the issue reached the Supreme Court, a uniform refund policy has come into force, which all private airlines have to abide by.Here are some frequently asked questions about the new air ticket refund policy:1. I booked a ticket before lockdown. My airline offered me credit shell. Will I get cash refund now?No, if the airline has already offered credit shell, there will be no change now. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation has allowed airlines to offer credit shell against cancelled tickets. But the validity of the credit shell has to be till March 31, 2021. This is for those who booked tickets before lockdown but journey date was before May 24.2. Can I transfer my credit shell?Yes. The DGCA has allowed the transfer of credit shells to another individual and even agents. The airlines have been asked to come up with appropriate mechanism to facilitate the transfer.3. I booked my ticket through an agent. Will I get refund?Yes. If the tickets were booked by a travel agent, the airline should send them the money. These agents will have to refund the amount to the passengers immediately, DGCA has said.4. I booked a ticket between March 25 and May 24. How much refund am I eligible for?Full refund. There will be no cancellation charge applied, if both the booking date and the journey date fall in this period. If the journey date is after May 24, when domestic flights resumed services, the refund will be in accordance with the existing DGCA rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-you-get-refund-if-your-flight-ticket-was-booked-by-an-agent-faq-answered/story-6qCWPspUCPFkBXpkUCzSxI.html
