11-10-2020||India||11 arrested in Uttarakhand for online betting on Indian Premier League||The Uttarakhand police arrested 11 people in three separate incidents for alleged involvement in online betting during the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL). Four of them were arrested from Ambala while the remaining were held in the state, the police said. After arresting the accused, the police recovered a total of about Rs 6.20 lakh from them. Of the 11 people, four were arrested by Dehradun police from Ambala city in its ongoing probe. On Saturday, the Dehradun police had busted an inter-state online betting racket and recovered Rs 25 lakh. Shweta Chaubey, Superintendent of Police, Dehradun (city) said, “The four accused identified as Ankit Jaiswal and Ankush Jaiswal (both brothers), Gagan and Himamshu were arrested from Ambala city based on the information of one of the accused arrested on Saturday.” “The four had gone to Ambala to collect money from their clients in the inter-state online betting racket. They were arrested from a hotel after receiving a tip-off from informers,” Chaubey said. She informed that police also recovered cash worth Rs 5.48 lakh, 22 mobile phones, two cars and other items. “They were brought to Dehradun and presented before the local court which sent them to jail,” said Chaubey. Meanwhile, police also arrested seven others including four in US Nagar and three in Almora for betting on IPL. Daleep Singh Kunwar, senior superintendent of police, US Nagar said, “Police arrested the four accused on Saturday night from a hotel on the basis of a tip-off from informers where they were running online betting.” Kunwar added, “The police recovered cash worth Rs 42,000 and three mobile phones from them.” In the other incident, police arrested three others from a snooker club in Almora where they were carrying out online betting on IPL matches. The police recovered cash worth Rs 31,000 from them along with a few mobile phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-arrested-in-uttarakhand-for-online-betting-on-indian-premier-league/story-IpGibQmMT2XhaImltSg8KJ.html
11-10-2020||India||No fairs, rides during festivals till Oct 31: DDMA issues fresh SOP for festivals||Authorities said on Sunday fairs, food stalls, rides, rallies, exhibitions and processions will not be allowed during festivals in Delhi till October 31 as they issued detailed guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed amid the coronavirus pandemic.Delhi chief secretary and chairperson of Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA’s) state executive committee Vijay Dev said all event organisers will have to obtain requisite permission from concerned district magistrates for organising the events other than obtaining permission from other authorities.“In case of any violation of SOPs and guidelines, the permission granted for conducting such programme or event will be withdrawn immediately for subsequent days,” it said. “Each such permission (which is applied to District Magistrate) shall be jointly granted by District Magistrate and District DCP on the basis of the joint inspection report of area Executive Magistrate, area SHO and Licensing Inspector of Municipal Corporation which shall clearly certify that the festival/celebration site is suitable for the conduct of the event and meets all the stipulations laid down in this order and the standard operating procedure,” Dev said in his order.Also read | Delhi reports 29 new Covid-19 deaths, lowest in over 2 weeksRestriction on gatherings and large congregations imposed by DDMA on September 30 will now be withdrawn to the extent of allowing gatherings and congregations for the celebration of upcoming festivals till October 31 only, said the order.According to the order, concerned district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police (DCP) will appoint an officer of suitable seniority as nodal officer for each site and venue of Ramleela, Durga Puja pandal etc. These nodal officers will be responsible to ensure strict compliance of the order and the health ministry’s SOPs, as well as other guidelines, issued by the Centre, Delhi government and the DDMA.Also read | Covid-19 can assume dangerous shape if norms are flouted during festivals: Harsh VardhanIt said the capacity of each event site will be decided on the basis of the area and social distancing norms laid down in the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) order issued on September 30. A maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed in closed spaces, with a ceiling of 200 persons, it said. In open spaces, it will be done keeping the size of the ground or space in view and with the strict observance of social distancing norms.The seating capacity for each site must be determined strictly according to the norms mandated for ensuring social distancing and observance of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and this capacity shall be certified by the district magistrate and district DCP, said the order. It added that event organisers will ensure separate entry and exit at each event site, ground or venue which will be strictly regulated and only people with face mask will be allowed.Database of all event sites permitted in the district must be maintained by the district magistrate and a consolidated database of all such event sites will be maintained by the divisional commissioner of the Delhi government, said the order.Every organiser or organising committee will be responsible for conducting videography of the event or programme from start to end on a daily basis. A soft copy of the unedited video recording in pen-drive and a certificate, certifying that no violation of the SOPs, guidelines took place, will be submitted to nodal officers of respective event sites, within three hours of closing of the event or programme of each day, it said.District magistrates will also make arrangement for sample videography of the permitted event sites to ensure adherence to social distancing and other relevant norms. A certificate, jointly signed by the district magistrate and district DCP will be submitted to the chief secretary every day about the status of compliance of SOPs, guidelines by all the event organisers in the district.At the event sites, related to festivities, no person will be allowed in standing or squatting position. Only seating on chairs with social distancing norms will be allowed, it said. Suitable arrangements will be made for an adequate number of temporary toilets and other public facilities like electricity, water, sanitizers and thermal screeners at each site venue.If any violation of the DDMA order is noticed, event organisers and those responsible will be punished as per the provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005, and notification of Delhi government’s health department dated June 13, besides initiation of legal action under section 188 of IPC and other provisions of the relevant law, added the order.The chief secretary has directed all authorities, field functionaries to ensure strict compliance of the health ministry SOP, as well as additional measures, suggested on the basis of local assessment for effective management of COVID-19 in Delhi, till August 31.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-fairs-rides-during-till-oct-31-ddma-issues-fresh-sop-for-festivals/story-sn6ZvihTNBxj3JvgTDRhCJ.html
11-10-2020||India||Supreme Court to return to near full strength hearings from Monday||Twenty eight of the 30 judges of the Supreme Court will sit on Monday to hear cases through video conference, the highest since March 2020, when the court sat at its full strength through physical hearings. The top court has been functioning in a restricted manner since March 23, when it started hearing cases through video conference in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Eight benches sitting on Monday will comprise 3 judges while 2 benches will have 2 judges each. Two single-judge benches will also sit to hear transfer petitions. Those two single-judge benches will, however, have judges who are already part of the 3-judge benches.Two judges, Justices Vineet Saran and Mohan M Shantanagoudar will not be sitting.This trend will continue the entire week with most days having nearly 10 benches sitting each day.This will be the first time that nearly the entire strength of the apex court is sitting to hear cases simultaneously ever since video conference hearings started.Initially, the court used to hear 15 to 20 cases per day with only 1 or 2 benches sitting each day. The number was steadily increased and currently, 5 to 6 benches sit everyday and hear more than 200 cases per day.These numbers still don’t match up to normal times when at least 500 to 700 cases are heard by the apex court on a single day alone.The court issued a circular on March 23 suspending entry of lawyers and litigants to the court premises and directing that only extremely urgent cases would be taken up for hearing through video conferencing during the lockdown period.The summer vacation which is usually seven weeks long was cut short to two weeks this year so as to make up for the reduced number of cases which are being heard through video conference.The hearings in Supreme Court are conducted through the Vidyo app which can be downloaded on mobile phones and desktop. The platform is hosted on the servers of the National Data Centre of National Informatics Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-return-to-near-full-strength-hearings-from-monday/story-yI9JwtyzQruN7upycMVBJL.html
11-10-2020||India||Bengal CID trying to implicate BJP leaders in Shukla murder, party tells Governor||Leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged before West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday that the state police’s Criminal Investigation Department (CID) is trying to implicate leaders from the party in the Manish Shukla murder probe. A BJP team led by national vice-president Mukul Roy met Dhankhar in the afternoon at the Raj Bhawan and said the CID probe was not moving in the right direction. Manish Shukla, 39, an outgoing councillor of the Titagarh municipality in North 24 Parganas district was gunned down by motorcycle-borne hitmen on the night of October 4. Five people have been arrested till Saturday but the CID and state government have so far made no official statement on the investigation. Police have also seized some firearms and three motorcycles. “I have had personal experience with CID probes in Bengal. I have seen several cases in the past. CID investigations in Bengal never go in the right direction. We have reasons to believe that the CID is trying to implicate BJP leaders,” said Roy, who was a Trinamool Congress (TMC) Rajya Sabha member till 2017 when he left the ruling party and joined the BJP. “BJP delegation led by National Vice President Mukul Roy @MukulR_Official demanded CBI investigation in the politically targeted killing of Manish Shukla. The delegation alleged CID @MamataOfficial was misdirecting investigation to falsely implicate political opponents in BJP,” tweeted Dhankhar after he met the BJP leaders. Shukla, too, was a turncoat. He joined the BJP from the TMC after the saffron party won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. One of these seats is Barrackpore, of which Titagarh is a part. Barrackpore’s BJP MP Arjun Singh, who also switched camp from the TMC in 2018, has accused the chairpersons of two civic bodies in the district and TMC lawmaker from Panihati, Nirmal Das, of masterminding the murder with the help of some police officers.“I do not want to react to what a strongman like Singh says. The police will get to the truth,” said Das. The detective department of Barrackpore police is assisting the CID in the investigation. The police want to question a man lodged at Nalanda jail in Bihar, said an officer linked with the probe. In Shukla’s murder, nine people have been named in the First Information Report (FIR) on the basis of the complaint lodged by his father Chandramani Shukla. The outgoing chairman of Barrackpore municipality, Uttam Das and his counterpart in Titagarh municipality, Prashanta Choudhury, have been named in the complaint. The two TMC leaders have denied the allegation, saying Arjun Singh is blaming them because they built up movements to stop the BJP from making further inroads in the district before the 2019 assembly election. On Thursday, Priyanka Tibrewal, a lawyer, filed a petition at the Calcutta high court seeking CBI investigation into Shukla’s murder. The CBI probe should take place under the supervision of the high court, the petition said. It may come up for hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cid-trying-to-implicate-bjp-leaders-in-shukla-murder-party-tells-governor/story-w1qcCw03lhEqTX1G9dbjvO.html
11-10-2020||India||In minor rejig, Karnataka likely to get new health minister; B Sriramulu to be transferred||In a minor reshuffle in Karnataka, the health portfolio which was with B Sriramulu is likely to be transferred to Dr K Sudhakar the Medical Education minister, according to sources in the state government. The health ministry has increasingly become important because of the ongoing Covid-19 crisis with Karnataka registering the second highest number of cases in the country after Maharashtra.Sriramulu, an OBC leader who has been eyeing the Deputy CM’s post has been uncomfortable with the health portfolio and is believed to have been lobbying to be shifted out. Sudhkar a trained doctor by qualification, who currently holds the medical education portfolio, will get the health and family welfare ministry too. Sriramulu is likely to be given the social welfare department which is currently with PWD minister Govind Karajol as additional charge.Earlier there were murmurs of disagreement in terms of Covid-19 handling strategy between Sriramulu and Sudhakar. A miffed chief minister BS Yediyurappa had even named primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar as the chief government spokesperson for all matter related to the Covid-19 pandemic. Sudhakar had then denied any rift calling Sriramulu his ‘elder brother’.A minister in the Yediyurappa government confirming the imminent change of portfolio however said, “It is being done at the request of Sriramulu himself. The larger reshuffle and expansion of the cabinet may now take place only after results of the Sira and RR Nagar assembly bypolls are declared next month.”Karnataka on Sunday registered 9,523 coronavirus cases and till now cumulatively has recorded more than 7 lakh cases with nearly 10,000 deaths due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-minor-rejig-karnataka-likely-to-get-new-health-minister-b-sriramulu-to-be-transferred/story-yoh5dkbjkjLBDlAWCPemmI.html
11-10-2020||India||After alumni found in various terror groups, Shopian school comes under radar||A religious school in Shopian district of South Kashmir has come under the scanner of investigating agencies after 13 of its students were found to have joined terror groups, officials said here.The institution’s students include Sajjad Bhat, an accused in the February 2019 suicide attack on a CRPF convoy in Pulwama that left 40 personnel dead.The school’s students mainly hail from Kulgam, Pulwama and c districts of South Kashmir, considered by intelligence agencies to be the hotbeds of militancy and breeding grounds for recruitment of locals into various terror groups, officials said.It also had outstation students from Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Telangana, but their number dropped to almost nil after abrogation of Article 370 last year, the officials said.According to an official, since most students and faculty at the school hail from the terror-infected districts of Shopian and Pulwama, the ideology of terrorism may be flourishing there and in turn affecting the students belonging to other places too.He feels at the same time, the outside environment, local population, terror-related activities and regular encounters of militants also play an effective role in propagating the ideology of terrorism.During investigation of the ghastly attack of February 14 last year when a suicide bomber rammed an explosive-laden car into a CRPF convoy killing 40 personnel, the intelligence agencies found that Bhat, whose vehicle was used used in the attack, had done his schooling from this same religious institute in Shopian district.The list of the institute’s students involved in terrorism started expanding with the death of Zubair Nengroo, a so-called commander of the banned Al-Badr terror organisation, in August this year. Nengroo too was a student of the same religious school.According to an internal report, there are at least 13 listed terrorists and hundreds of over ground workers (OGWs) who are either students or alumni of this institute.Recently a youth from Baramulla went missing while returning to the school from his home after vacations. It was later found that he had joined the terrorist ranks. “Most of these 13 terrorists are natives of Shopian and Pulwama,” the report said. Besides Bhat and Nengroo, the list of 13 alumni also includes Hizbul Mujahideen militant Nazim Nazir Dar, and Aijaz Ahmad Paul who was gunned down by security forces in an encounter on August 4 in Shopian. The officials feel that institutions such as this school become breeding grounds for recruitment into terrorist outfits like Hizbul Mujahideen, Jaish-e-Mohammed, Al-Badr and Lashker-e-Taiba as stories of killed terrorists depicting them as heroes are spread around through various means.“These factors leave a strong print in the minds of the students and when influenced by the society and friends lead them to joining terrorist ranks. It has been found in certain cases that the education of these kinds of religious institutions is encouraging the students to join terrorist ranks,” said an official.The report pointed out that many day scholar students have been found to be involved in stone pelting, agitations and law and order situations against the security forces. “These students may spread the message of separatist ideology, hate against the government while glorifying the acts of terrorists,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-alumni-found-in-various-terror-groups-shopian-school-comes-under-radar/story-kNpurompdOCdt8MN6i8bFP.html
11-10-2020||India||UP DGP orders police officers to curb burning of stubble, garbage, fine offenders||Uttar Pradesh’s director general of police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy has ordered his officers to take steps to curb the burning of stubble in rural areas and garbage dumps in urban regions and fine those violating the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court in this connection.Awasthy issued a detailed circular to all district police chiefs, deputy inspectors general (DIGs), inspectors general (IGs) and additional directors general (ADG) in field postings amid reports of air pollution increasing to pre-lockdown levels in the state.“The circular read that all officers should ensure effective enforcement of the Supreme Court guidelines to curb air pollution and improve air quality,” a senior police official privy to the development said.He further explained the circular stated that the main problem in the rural areas was the burning of stubble, largely in western UP districts, while the burning of garbage in urban areas was a serious issue too. He said DGP asked the police officers to spread awareness among the public about the impact on air quality. The officials were also directed to engage people from other departments like the local administration, municipal corporations, its other bodies and village panchayats to sensitise people and ensure proper waste management.Also read: Punjab sees six-fold rise in incidents of stubble burning in first 20 days of harvestingThe police officers should ensure that combined harvesting machines should be allowed only along with straw reaper to ensure no stubble is left behind, which is later burnt by farmers to clear the fields.He said the DGP asked the officers to impose fines on farmers and people involved in burning stubble and garbage.Pollution in Uttar Pradesh increased to pre Covid-19 levels as major cities have recorded ‘poor to ‘very poor’ air quality, as per data released by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recently.Major cities of Uttar Pradesh, including Noida, Ghaziabad, Lucknow and Kanpur recorded AQI (Air Quality Index) between 201 and 310 for the first time since the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March. AQI between 201 and 300 is termed as poor while that between 301 and 499 is termed very poor. Poor or very poor air quality can mean breathing difficulties and can harm human health over a long period of time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-dgp-orders-police-officers-to-curb-burning-of-stubble-garbage-fine-offenders/story-Ib9TYyjTkqwITT28nre2GO.html
11-10-2020||India||Hathras rape victim is ‘no one’ for them: Rahul Gandhi’s latest jibe at Yogi govt, UP police||Pointing to the discrimination based on religion and caste people face in the country, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday took a swipe at the Yogi Adityanath government, Uttar Pradesh police and citizens for the whom the Hathras gang-rape victim, a 19-year-old Dalit woman, was “no one.”“The shameful truth is many Indians don’t consider Dalits, Muslims and Tribals to be human. The CM & his police say no one was raped because for them, and many other Indians, she was NO ONE,” Gandhi wrote on Twitter this morning and shared a news report about why the police were denying the rape when the woman repeatedly reported the assault.  The shameful truth is many Indians don’t consider Dalits, Muslims and Tribals to be human.The CM & his police say no one was raped because for them, and many other Indians, she was NO ONE.https://t.co/mrDkodbwNCThe woman from Hathras’ Bulgarhi village was allegedly raped by four “upper caste” men earlier in September. She died at a hospital in Delhi later and on the following day she was cremated by the UP police at 2:30am even as her family protested.The state police have denied that the woman was raped saying her postmortem report did not confirm rape and that it states that she died due to a neck injury. Hathras district magistrate (DM) Praveen Kumar also made similar claims.“Postmortem report says the victim died due to her neck injury. FSL report hasn’t found sperm in samples, making it clear that some ppl twisted the matter to stir caste-based tension. Such people will be identified & legal action will be taken,” ADG Prashant Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The report has been prepared by the Aligarh Muslim University Medical College, where the woman was being treated before she was shifted to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has now taken over the gang-rape case, which was being probed by Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by the UP government.Gandhi had earlier slammed the UP administration over the case and while visiting the victim’s family he assured them of support in seeking justice for their daughter. Earlier this week, Gandhi also hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “not saying a word” about the assault.“It is interesting that the woman was raped and murdered and the entire UP administration targeted her family but the Prime Minister hasn’t said a word on the issue,” he had said while speaking with reporters in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-rape-victim-is-no-one-for-them-rahul-gandhi-latest-jibe-at-yogi-govt-up-police/story-oMNJ3fXL47ObBS2QG9Pt7M.html
11-10-2020||India||India sends petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan to Kuwait to condole former amir’s death||Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday began a two-day visit to Kuwait to offer the government’s condolences to the West Asian nation on the death of its former amir, reflecting the importance India attaches to it ties with the oil-rich country. Pradhan carried letters from the President and Prime Minister for the leadership of Kuwait, condoling the death of Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah. He will also convey congratulations on behalf of India to Sheikh Nawaf Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, the new amir, and Sheikh Mishaal Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, who has taken over as crown prince. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the visit will provide an opportunity to review bilateral relations. “Look forward to meet the new leadership in Kuwait to further strengthen the multi-faceted India-Kuwait relationship and take forward our historic relationship in diverse areas,” Pradhan tweeted. Kuwait is sixth on the list of India’s energy sources. India has consistently been among the top ten trading partners of Kuwait, with bilateral trade worth $6.2 billion in 2015-16. Kuwait’s Sovereign Wealth Fund has invested $2 billion in India since 2017, taking total investments to $5 billion. The West Asian country is also home to more than one million Indians, the largest expatriate community, and their annual remittances are estimated at $4.8 billion. They include professionals such as engineers, doctors, nurses, software experts, management consultants, and a large number of unskilled and semi-skilled workers. Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah died at a US hospital on September 29 at the age of 91. External affairs minister S Jaishankar had visited the Kuwaiti embassy in New Delhi on October 1 to convey India’s condolences. India also observed a day of national mourning on October 4. India and Kuwait maintained close and friendly relations under the leadership of the late amir, the external affairs ministry said, describing him as a “true friend and well-wisher of India in guiding and strengthening bilateral engagements for the mutual benefit of the people of the two countries”. Both countries also cooperated closely during the Covid-19 crisis, and India had despatched a medical rapid response team to Kuwait in April to boost its fight against the pandemic by helping in the testing and treatment of infected people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sends-petroleum-minister-dharmendra-pradhan-to-kuwait-to-condole-former-amir-s-death/story-ayGoOwv9kNWZMLgSqReobJ.html
11-10-2020||India||SVAMITVA scheme to be milestone in direction of ‘rural Swaraj’, says Amit Shah||Hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the SVAMITVA (ownership) scheme, Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said it will provide an innovative attempt to give people in the country’s rural areas their rights and respect. Under the Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas (SVAMITVA) scheme, Prime Minister Modi on Sunday launched the physical distribution of the property cards. SVAMITVA, which was launched by the Prime Minister on April 24, 2020, is a central sector scheme of the ministry of panchayati raj. Shah, in a series of tweets in Hindi, praised the SVAMITVA scheme and said it will prove to be a milestone in the direction of ‘rural Swaraj’. “The launch of ‘Svamitva Yojana’ by the prime minister today will prove to be a milestone in the direction of ‘gramin Swaraj’. This scheme is a true tribute to Nanaji Deshmukh on his birth anniversary,” Shah tweeted.“The Prime Minister is working day and night to make rural India developed and prosperous. The launch of ‘Svamitva Yojana’ by the prime minister today will prove to be a milestone in the direction of ‘gramin (rural) swaraj’. This scheme is a true tribute to Nanaji Deshmukh on his birth anniversary,” Shah added.“I express my gratitude to the prime minister and Union agriculture minister Shri Narendra Singh Tomar for inaugurating this visionary and historic ‘self-ownership scheme’ that will make villagers in India self-reliant,” he added. “This scheme will give land property owners of rural India the right to ‘Record of Rights’.”The agenda of the scheme is to provide an integrated property validation solution for rural India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/svamitva-scheme-to-be-milestone-in-direction-of-rural-swaraj-says-amit-shah/story-uODkzOxGHxH3JWkzjbDTzM.html
11-10-2020||India||‘Pedal for Peace’: Kashmir witnesses cycle race after months of lockdown, hundreds participate||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha appeared all enthused when he witnessed hundreds of children and youth participate in a cycle race, ‘Pedal for Peace’, on the banks of Dal Lake in Kashmir on Sunday.Such a race, organised by Jammu and Kashmir Police, was the first in more than a year following months of restrictions after the revocation of Article 370 in August 2019 and then Covid-19 induced lockdown from March this year, in the valley. “‘Pedal for Peace’ is not only a cycle race, through this, we are attempting to lay the foundation of peace, brotherhood and happiness and also an attempt to spread the message of love among people,” said Sinha, who was the chief guest at the event and distributed prizes among winners at Police Golf Course, Srinagar.He felt that the event also gave a message. “When 400-500 people cycle together, the outcome is not just a race or a competition but it relays a sense of unity. The race generates a sort of energy and love which affects all the sectors and people,” he said. Also read: Half of India’s Covid-19 recoveries come from 5 worst-hit states - Govt*"Will do everything possible to boost Sports/skill and academic activities for the youth of JK, UT," Hon'ble LG while addressing the Presentation ceremony of Cycle Race-Pedal for Peace organized by Srinagar Police*Srinagar: 11 October 2020.https://t.co/IP0nnaueHX @JmuKmrPolice pic.twitter.com/istfOACuQZThe events included races for sub-junior boys/girls, junior boys/girls, senior men/women and veteran men.“I am committed to providing each and every citizen of Jammu and Kashmir with the best facilities. The overall welfare of police and civil personnel is also our priority. Necessary steps are underway for the welfare of their family members also,” he said.The enthusiasm of the participants also echoed what the L-G was saying.“I am extremely happy as I stood first. Not only that it was fun because we have been sitting at homes under lockdown for months now,” said Rubab, one of the participants in the junior category.“Even if anybody is able to do any activity these days, it is done in isolation. Today, we enjoyed ourselves as we met people, even though we followed all the SOPs… More of such events should be held,” she said.J&K Director-General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh was also happy over the participation of youth in various sporting activities in the past 10 days and called them ‘change-makers’ and the police as a ‘catalyst’.“Unfortunately we had Covid-19 situation going around and there was some break in physical activities. Some relaxation has now taken place and now we have resumed sporting activities. These kinds of activities take youth towards positivity,” he said.He hoped that the youth of Kashmir will utilise their energies in a positive direction. “We are sure that the youth will happily participate in such activities and no one wants violence. Our youth especially would shun violence and be on the path of peace,” he saidWhen specifically asked about militancy in south Kashmir, he said that “action and silences” go together there.“We would rather want to have longer spells of silence than exchange of fire but unfortunately we have a good number of active terrorists in that area,” he said.“So whenever they come with weapons or fire at the forces or when we get information, we try to see if they would surrender. But when there is no surrender, there is an exchange of fire...,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pedal-for-peace-kashmir-witnesses-cycle-race-after-months-of-lockdown-hundreds-participate/story-celjF3QneAssCwbwTiVYFK.html
11-10-2020||India||Delhi reports 29 new Covid-19 deaths, lowest in over 2 weeks||Delhi reported 29 deaths related to the coronavirus disease on Sunday, which is the lowest since September 25 when 24 people succumbed to Covid-19, taking the Capital’s toll to 5,769, according to government data.Data showed that Delhi’s death toll was 48 on Saturday, 39 on Friday, 37 on Thursday and 35 on Wednesday with the average fatality rate for the last 10 days at 1.38%.There were 2,780 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday as Delhi’s cumulative case count rose to 309,000. This is the tenth day in a row that the national capital has reported less than 3,000 new Covid-19 cases after 2,866 on Saturday, 2,860 on Friday, 2,726 on Thursday and 2,871 on Wednesday.Also read | Delhi gets its baseline for pollution due to impact of Covid-19 lockdownOf the total cases reported in Delhi so far, 281,869 coronavirus disease patients have either recovered, been discharged or migrated out, according to the government data.On Saturday, 48,753 tests conducted to detect Covid-19, of which 10,801 were RT-PCR tests and 37,952 rapid antigen tests. There have been 36,23,419 tests or 1,90,706 tests per million population that have been conducted in the national capital so far. The case positivity rate during the last 24 hours was 5.70% while the cumulative positivity rate was 8.54%, data showed.Also read | Covid-19 tests in Delhi gradually declining againThe number of active cases in Delhi, which has 2,710 containment zones, was 21,701 on Sunday, of which 12,470 are under home isolation. Of the 16,118 hospital beds in the city, 10,889 are unoccupied.India’s infection tally has mounter to 7,053,806 and the number of deaths due to Covid-19 reached 108,334. India is the second worst-hit nation in terms of Covid-19 cases after the United States and it is at the third spot in terms of fatalities after the US and Brazil, according to John Hopkins data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-reports-29-new-covid-19-deaths-lowest-in-over-2-weeks/story-6fS9zqldLGz3atYaZSqbyN.html
11-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Pakistani forces continue to violate LoC ceasefire and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pakistani forces continue to violate LoC ceasefire, pound Rajouri and PoonchPakistani troops on Sunday evening resorted to intense shelling along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch and Rajouri districts, escalating ceasefire violations and prompting India to retaliate in equal measure. Read more5 states with most Covid-19 cases contributed more than half of total recoveries: GovtThere were 89,154 people who were cured of Covid-19 between Saturday and Sunday morning taking the number of recovered to 6,077,976 across the country and the national recovery rate to 86.17%. Read morePak politicises FATF, hires top lobbying firm for a US bailout from grey listIn view of the upcoming October 21-23 plenary and sub-groups meeting of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), Pakistan is understood to have hired a top lobbyist firm on the Capitol Hill to push a narrative favouring Islamabad with Trump administration and get bailed out of the club of nations on the “grey list.” Read moreIPL 2020, SRH vs RR: Rahul Tewatia, Riyan Parag hand 5-wicket win to Rajasthan RoyalsIPL 2020: Riyan Parag and Rahul Tewatia stitched an 85-run stand for the fifth wicket which is also the joint second highest 6th wicket stand in successful run chases in Indian Premier League. Read moreNeha Kakkar teases ‘Nehu da vyah’ in new post, is it confirmation of her wedding with Rohanpreet Singh? See photosNeha Kakkar intensified rumours of her wedding with Rohanpreet Singh, as she used the hashtag #NehuDaVyah in her new Instagram post. She recently confirmed her relationship with him. Read moreApple iPhone 12 Max: Rumoured specs, features, features and moreAlso rumoured is that this new iPhone may have a starting price of $799, which is $100 more than iPhone 12 and matches the pricing pattern of Apple based on the history of products. Read moreWatch | 1.5 km queue for biryani: Bengaluru eatery sees rush despite Covid||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pakistani-forces-continue-to-violate-loc-ceasefire-pound-rajouri-and-poonch-and-all-the-latest-news/story-oR8FQzaW5uyuHTyAoZUA5L.html
11-10-2020||India||Congress demands resignation of Karnataka CM over reported graft allegations against kin||The Congress on Sunday attacked the BJP over reported allegations of corruption against some family members of Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa in connection with a housing project and demanded a time-bound judicial probe into the matter. When Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah had made the allegations against the chief minister in the Karnataka Assembly last month, Yediyurappa had dismissed them as “baseless” and challenged the Congress leader to prove the charges. Citing media reports, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi on Sunday alleged that the BJP government in Karnataka is “engulfed in the clutches of corruption with dented, tainted leaders ruling the roost”. “If the chief minister has the slightest sense of shame, he must resign or be sacked,” Singhvi said. He also questioned the “silence” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda over the reported allegations of corruption and kickbacks against the son, son-in-law, and grandson of Yediyurappa. The matter relates to a Rs 662-crore construction of an apartment project in Bengaluru, Singhvi said and claimed media reports have “disclosed direct involvement of close relatives like son, son-in-law and grandson in corruption and bribery in connection with the project”. “It has shocked the consciousness of the entire country, but it appears that the BJP has no conscience,” Singhvi said. The Congress leader cited a purported communication between a close relative of Yediyurappa and another person referring to a bribe paid by a contractor to a top Bengaluru Development Authority official. Singhvi claimed that an additional bribe was sought and paid through shell companies in Kolkata. He said the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act must be invoked and the allegations probed. “The most remarkable and virtually admitted allegations of unabashed corruption and we don’t even find a criminal investigation,” Singhvi said, adding that even an FIR was not filed over it. “We demand...appoint a sitting Supreme Court (judge) or a sitting Chief Justice of a High Court as an inquirer for two months,” he said. This is “fraud, fakeness and fiddling” which has made BJP a party of “jugglers” who are indulging in “jiggery-pokery”, he said in a swipe at the ruling party. The Congress has been accusing the Yediyurappa government of indulging in corruption, a charge it has categorically denied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-demands-resignation-of-karnataka-cm-over-reported-graft-allegations-against-kin/story-WTzoXhLJG6TViJ6poEXtoI.html
11-10-2020||India||UP govt ‘playing tricks’ to keep Hathras victim’s family away from fact-finding team: Left Parties||Left parties on Sunday accused the Uttar Pradesh authorities of “playing tricks” to keep the family of a Dalit woman, who allegedly died after being gang-raped in Hathras, away from its fact finding team, which had to call off its visit after being informed that the family was being shifted to Lucknow for a court appearance.In a joint statement, the CPI, CPIM and LJD alleged that the UP authorities were not in favour of their visit.The fact-finding team comprised of Elamaram Kareem (CPI(M)), Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya (CPI(M)), Binoy Viswam (CPI) and M V Shreyams Kumar (LJD).In the statement, the parties said the team had spoken to the victim’s family and the District authorities about their visit and fixed it for Sunday morning. The District Magistrate and District Police Superintendent had also agreed for a meeting with the team about the visit, it said. “But on Saturday late evening, we got an information from police sources that the family had to be taken to Lucknow for a hearing in the high court on Monday. It is to be noted that Lucknow is only 6-7 hours away from Hathras and they can reach there comfortably by Sunday evening even if the family leave from there at noon time. “We were looking forward to see the family on Sunday morning around 11 am. After repeated communication from our offices regarding the visit, it was quite clear from the attitude of the authorities that they were not in favour of our visit and wanted to avoid us meeting the family,” the statement said.The team, however, decided to still go ahead with their plans but on Sunday when they were to start for Hathras, the team was informed that the family will be taken to Lucknow in the morning itself. “When we checked up with the family, they said that they have no idea about it and the police have instructed them to be ready to leave Hathras before 10 am. So, in the air of uncertainty of meeting family, we had to drop the plan to visit Hathras. “We seriously doubt that the Police, who are just obeying the orders of the BJP government, did not want us to meet the family and understand the facts. They intentionally misguided us about the family’s Lucknow journey citing court engagement,” it said. It further added that “authorities in Hathras are still playing tricks to keep the family away from public glare.” The statement said the authorities feared that the team’s visit will be another occasion to highlight the incidents and the failure of this government in dealing with the case. The statement said now, it has been made known to the team that the family is scheduled to leave for Lucknow on Monday at 5.30 am.“So, it is undoubtedly clear that the authorities intentionally gave wrong information to us, the media as well as the victim’s family regarding their Lucknow journey. We strongly doubt that all these exercises were carried out only to avoid the fact-finding team meeting the victim’s family. “The ugly face of BJP regime in UP is being unveiled through this. We hereby urge the people of this country to unite and come forward against this anti-democratic government in UP. We will continue our fight against these forces and stand in solidarity with the victim’s family,” it said. The family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who died at a Delhi hospital after allegedly being raped by four men in Hathras will appear before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on Monday.“Shocked” by the murder and alleged gang-rape of the Dalit woman and the subsequent forcible cremation, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court had on October 1 summoned top government officials.Taking suo motu cognisance of the case, which has triggered widespread outrage, a division bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh had ordered the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary, state police chief and an additional director general of police to appear before it on October 12 to explain the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-playing-tricks-to-keep-hathras-victim-s-family-away-from-fact-finding-team-left-parties/story-Y0FPMk3jKqvRbOPUqIwLXL.html
11-10-2020||India||Pakistani forces continue to violate LoC ceasefire, pound Rajouri and Poonch||Pakistani troops on Sunday evening resorted to intense shelling along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch and Rajouri districts, escalating ceasefire violations and prompting India to retaliate in equal measure.Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand said Pakistan violated ceasefire in Degwar sector of Poonch at about 6.15 pm followed by similar shelling in Khari Karmarain the same district at around 6.40 pm.“They resorted to artillery shelling prompting Indian troops to retaliate in equal measure,” he added.Col Anand said that at about 6.45 pm Pakistani troops also opened heavy fire in Sunderbani sector of Rajouri district.“There also they resorted to small arms fire followed by artillery shelling. Indian army is responding befittingly in the three sectors,” he said. There were no injuries or deaths on the Indian side when reports last came in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-forces-continue-to-violate-loc-ceasefire-pound-rajouri-and-poonch/story-2KtJOEcYtuKQYsJCABrNsN.html
11-10-2020||India||Depression over Bay of Bengal delays withdrawal of monsoon: IMD||The southwest monsoon is unlikely to withdraw from the rest of the country until next week, further extending the rainfall season, the India Meteorological Department said on Sunday.The ongoing depression over the Bay of Bengal --- a cyclonic circulation --- is likely to intensify into a deep depression during the next 24 hours and cross north Andhra Pradesh coast between Narsapur and Vishakhapatnam during the night of October 12.Besides Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the system will also bring rains over Telangana, north interior Karnataka, central Maharashtra and Vidarbha, and south Odisha on October 13.“There are very little chances of further withdrawal of the southwest monsoon until next week due to the ongoing depression,” IMD director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra said.The first week of October also saw formation of one low pressure area.The official rainfall season in the country is from June 1 to September 30. This season, the country received above normal rainfall for the second consecutive year.The normal withdrawal date of monsoon from west Rajasthan is September 17. However, this year the monsoon retreated from parts of west Rajasthan and Punjab on September 28, 11 days after its normal withdrawal date.The monsoon usually withdraws from large parts of Karnataka and Telangana and parts of Andhra Pradesh by October 15. It also marks the commencement of northeast monsoon which brings rains over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, parts of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.By the first week of October, the monsoon had withdrawn from several parts of north India, parts of Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.“The withdrawal line of the southwest monsoon continues to pass through Faizabad, Fatehpur, Nowgong, Rajgarh, Ratlam, Vallabh Vidyanagar and Porbandar,” the IMD’s bulletin said on Sunday.The withdrawal of monsoon from the country was delayed even last year.“There has been a trend that the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon is getting delayed. Also, after the monsoon hits Kerala, it has been observed that its progress over north India has slowed,” M Rajeevan, secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences said.From this year, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has revised the onset date of monsoon over some parts of the country and also the withdrawal date from west Rajasthan.PTI PR SRY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/depression-over-bay-of-bengal-delays-withdrawal-of-monsoon-imd/story-YisvSTkneOlTxVhfgZAKSO.html
11-10-2020||India||Kerala’s Covid-19 cases are rising but they are not high: Health minister KK Shailaja||Kerala has been witnessing an increase in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) but it has managed to keep the mortality rate in check, its health minister KK Shailaja said as the infections mounted in the southern state, once praised for its handling of the pandemic.On Saturday, Kerala reported 11,755 cases, which the biggest ever single-day surge, which was more than the daily tally of Maharashtra and Karnataka, which are among the worst-hit states in the country. Maharashtra, which is has reported the maximum number of Covid-19 cases, on Saturday reported 11,416 new infections and Karnataka added 10,517 cases.Also read | 5 states with most Covid-19 cases contributed more than half of total recoveries: GovtKerala’s fresh infections crossed the 10,000 mark for the first time on October 7 and it reported 9,250 cases on Friday. Its infection tally climbed to 277,855 on Saturday and the reported 95,918 active cases of the viral disease. Data shows 978 people, 306 in the state capital of Thiruvananthapuram, have lost their lives to the deadly virus.Kerala had won global praise for its strategy in containing the spread of the pandemic in the initial months after reporting the country’s first Covid-19 case in January but the southern state has been witnessing a sharp spike in new infections since September.Also read | India records 74,300 Covid-19 cases, 918 deaths in a day; over 6 million people recover“It is incorrect to say that cases are very high in Kerala. The cases are definitely rising. But the mortality rate is not as high as other states. The ultimate aim is to reduce the mortality rate,” Shailaja was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“We could contain cases when there was lockdown. But now measures are eased. We can’t blame the government for easing restrictions because people need to work and earn or else they will starve to death. But people need to follow all precautions,” Shailaja added.Kerala reported the country’s first case of Covid-19 on January 30 after a medical student, who came back from China’s Wuhan, tested positive. The second and third cases were also people who retuned from Wuhan city, the epicentre of the pandemic.The state had 499 cases from January to March, out of which 33% was through local transmission and there were three deaths. Its case fatality rate was 0.5% at that time. The government got some time to improve its health system, when the lockdown was declared on March 24, and up to May 3, there were no other cases. “The whole world looked at us and asked us the method to flatten the graph,” Shailaja had said.Also read | Covid-19 cases spike again in Kerala, experts say infection may peak by October endHowever, the numbers of Covid-19 cases started to rise in Karala after May 4 as the lockdown was eased and people started coming home from abroad, especially from the Gulf, and other states. According to the government, 900,000 people have returned to the state since then. Kerala declared it had flattened the curve after reporting just one COvid-19 case and with just 16 people under treatment on May 8.India’s Covid-19 tally topped 7 million on Sunday as 74,383 new infections and 918 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, with a rise in infections in southern states offsetting a drop in western regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-covid-19-cases-are-rising-but-they-are-not-high-health-minister-kk-shailaja/story-QwTCk1lO2cyk28pw4a56LI.html
11-10-2020||India||Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Committee demands action against Bengal cops on turban issue||A delegation of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee on Sunday met West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and alleged that Balwinder Singh, whose turban fell off while he was arrested in Howrah for carrying a pistol at a Bharatiya Janata Party agitation on October 8, was assaulted without provocation and is being detained illegally. “A Sikh man’s turban was pulled off his head and he was pulled by his hair. The pagri (turban), kesh (unshorn hair) and kirpan (dagger) are an integral part of the Sikh faith and form the core of our brief. By defiling the turban and unshorn hair of a Sikh, these policemen have insulted the faith of the entire Sikh community,” S Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the committee, said after meeting the governor.“We demand legal action against these policemen under Section 295-A of the Indian Penal Code. If legal proceedings can be initiated against Sardar Balwinder Singh, who served in the army and was honourably discharged, why can’t there be proceedings against the policemen who insulted his faith. We request chief minister Mamata Banerjee to take action against them. She is not at fault here. Those policemen are,” said Manjinder Singh Sirsa. Section 295 A of the IPC deals with deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage reli¬gious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or reli-gious beliefs. The punishment is a jail term of up to four years or fine or both. “As Governor I asured the delegation that all steps would be taken for such outrage @MamataOfficial. In no civilised society such blatant abuse of police power @WBPolice in disregard of Supreme Court directives in the case of DK Basu can be countenanced or condoned,” Dhankhar tweeted shortly after meeting the delegation. Balwinder Singh, who was in police custody in an Indian Arms Act case, was produced before a Howrah court on Sunday and remanded in custody for eight more days. Manjinder Singh Sirsa dismissed the local authority’s claim that Singh’s firearms licence is valid only in Rajouri, Kashmir. “He has an ‘all-India’ licence and there was no ground for arresting him. He flew from Delhi to Kolkata with the firearm and details of the licence is recorded at both airports. And yet, the police have slapped charges that are brought against terrorists. This man fought for the country,” he said. Hours before the delegation met the governor, the West Bengal home department said that a certain political party was adding communal colour to the October 8 incident. “Our Sikh brothers and sisters live here in West Bengal in perfect peace and harmony, in happiness and tranquility, with respect from all of us for their faith and practices. A recent incident when one isolated individual got caught with one illegally carried firearm in an agitation that was not authorised and is now being twisted out of context, distorted and given communal colours in fractious and partisan interests,” tweeted the state home department. “One political party is giving communal colour to the subject in narrow partisan interests in a manner that Bengal does not believe in. Policing was done as per law, but highest respect for the Sikh panth and ways from the state government is affirmed,” the tweet added. On October 9, when videos of the incident triggered an uproar in Bengal and other parts of the country, the West Bengal Police tweeted, “The concerned person was carrying firearms in yesterday’s protest. The Pagri had fallen off automatically in the scuffle that ensued, without any attempt to do so by our officer (visible in the video attached). It is never our intention to hurt the sentiments of any community.” The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee reacted to this sharply. “The policemen who attacked and insulted a Sikh are junior functionaries. But the statement must have been written by senior IPS officers. How could they say the pagri fell off automatically when the videos clearly show how it was removed and how Balwinder Singh was dragged by his hair. Bengal and Pubjab have produced heroes who fought for the nation. How can this happen? We want justice,” said the committee president. Bengal BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “Tweets will not help. The nation has seen the videos. The police have hurt the sentiments of the Sikh community.” Earlier, Ghosh had said that Singh is the bodyguard of a BJP youth front leader and works for a private security agency. In its letter to Dhankhar, the gurdwara management committee said Singh was deployed to protect BJP leader Priyanshu Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-sikh-gurdwara-committee-demands-action-against-bengal-cops-on-turban-issue/story-6wzniBkum7KvO0u58GI8pI.html
11-10-2020||India||5 states with most Covid-19 cases contributed more than half of total recoveries: Govt||More than 6 million patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have recovered so far in India with five top states with maximum caseload contributing more than half of the total recoveries even as the country’s infection tally crossed the 7 million mark, the Union health ministry’s data showed on Sunday.There were 89,154 people who were cured of Covid-19 between Saturday and Sunday morning taking the number of recovered to 6,077,976 across the country and the national recovery rate to 86.17%, the ministry’s dashboard showed. The five top states with the maximum caseload, 61% of the active cases, have contributed more than half or 54.3% of the total recoveries, it said.And, 80% of the new recovered cases were reported from 10 states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Delhi and Chhattisgarh. Maharashtra leads the tally with more than 26,000 new cases of recovered patients of the respiratory disease. “With increasing recoveries, India has sustained its leading global position with the maximum recovered cases,” the statement said.Also read | India’s active caseload of Covid-19 decreases but fear of resurgence remains“With a very high number of COVID patients recovering every day, India’s steady trend of posting high level of daily recoveries continues. 89,154 recoveries have been registered in the last 24 hours in the country,” the health ministry said in a statement. “Enhanced countrywide medical infrastructure, implementation of the Centre’s Standard Treatment Protocol by the States/UTs, and total dedication & commitment of doctors, paramedics and frontline workers have led to a consistent slide in the number of daily fatalities and a persistent increase in the number of total recoveries,” it added.There were 74,383 new confirmed Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours in the country and 80% of the fresh infections are concentrated in 10 states and Union territories. Kerala has reported the maximum number of new cases and is followed by Maharashtra--both have contributed more than 11,000 to the tally of new cases.India reached the grim milestone of seven million cases from six million in 13 days. Most of these Covid-19 cases were reported from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. Barring Kerala and Karnataka, all the other states have seen their caseloads reaching their peaks.Also read | Will Covid-19 cases increase in India during winter? Likely, says Harsh VardhanAccording to the ministry, there are 867,496 active cases in India, which have been on the decrease and are less than 800,000 for the last three days.The number of deaths across the country in the last 24 hours stood at 918 and 84% of these are reported from 10 states and Union territories, the ministry said in the statement. For the last eight consecutive days, new deaths recorded are less than 1,000...With 308 deaths, Maharashtra accounts for 33% of deaths reported yesterday, followed by Karnataka with 102 deaths,” it added.There was a spike in the number of daily Covid-19 cases in September and there were more than 90,000 cases between September 6 and September 20. India has seen a decline in the number of daily cases since September 21 onwards as the number of fresh cases started dropping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-states-with-most-covid-19-cases-contributed-more-than-half-of-total-recoveries-govt/story-eFWwMBKJofKbj1bNDBMYWL.html
11-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand couple dies by suicide in Haldwani, say police||In a tragic incident, a 48-year-old man and his 42-year-old wife allegedly died by suicide in their house on Sunday in Haldwani town of Nainital district, police said. In the initial probe, no suicide note was found from the spot and reasons behind their drastic step are not known yet, Amit Srivastava, superintendent of police Haldwani said.“The deceased man and his wife were on the first floor of their house while his mother was on the ground floor on Sunday morning when the couple died by suicide,” Srivastava said.“The incident came to light after the man’s mother went to their room only to find them lying dead there. She soon called the relatives who reached the spot and informed local police,” the officer said.The police rushed to the spot and started an investigation into the deaths. “No suicide note was found from there and a probe is on to ascertain the reason behind the suicide,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-couple-dies-by-suicide-in-haldwani-say-police/story-uYYOGTwLpOGlOJkKznJFCN.html
11-10-2020||India||Haryana’s Baroda never elected a woman MLA in history||It may come as a surprise but the voters of Sonepat’s Baroda constituency have never elected a woman as their representative in the assembly elections since Haryana became a state. This rural constituency has elected 13 MLAs so far, all males and 9 out of 13 legislators were not permanent residents of this constituency.The seat fell vacant after the demise of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda on April 12, who won from the seat in 2009, 2014 and 2019 assembly polls. The voting for the Baroda byelection will be held on November 3 and results will be out on November 10. Hooda hailed from Khidwali village in Garhi-Sampla Kiloi constituency from where he was elected thrice before shifting to this rural seat in 2009. Baroda was a reserved seat till 2005 and had been wrenched by the candidates belonging to Devi Lal and OP Chautala’s party from 1977 to 2005. The saffron party’s nominee has never won from the Baroda constituency, which has 54 villages. Half the voters here belong to the Jat community. In the 2019 assembly elections, Congress nominee Sri Krishan Hooda defeated wrestler-turned-politician Yogeshwar Dutt by 4,840 votes. Haryana assembly has only nine women MLAs.Also read: Haryana BJP poll panel meets in Sonepat to discuss Baroda byelection candidateWomen empowerment remains a distant dream in Haryana which, for years, has known for the skewed sex ratio and high rates of crime against women. Haryana has only nine women legislators in the state assembly. Five of them are from Congress, three from BJP and Naina Chautala is the only woman MLA from the Jannayak Janata party. In 2014, the house had the highest, 13 women MLAs, 9 in 2009, 11 in 2005 and 4 in 2000.In the last year assembly polls, the ruling BJP had brought down women’s representation from 15 to 12, the main opposition party, Congress, pitted only 9 against 10 in 2014 assembly polls. Similarly, the INLD has pitched 15 women candidates against 16 that the party had fielded in the last assembly polls and its offshoot the JJP had given tickets to only 7 females.Neerja Ahlawat, retired deputy director, women’s studies and research centre, Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak, said all the political parties betrayed women in Haryana and across the country too by making tall false claims of giving women representation in the assembly and parliamentary polls.“The political parties are of the view that the chance of winning an election of a female candidate is less than that of a male candidate, which is not true. The women are getting late exposure than men in terms of education, political and social scenario. Women’s issues can be raised strongly only by them and most of the active women leaders are an example of dynasty politics. It is very hard to believe that any party will give a ticket to a woman in the Baroda bypoll, which is dominated by the male community in terms of representation. The political parties prefer to pitch a woman whose ancestors remained active in politics,” she added.She further said that all the political parties betrayed women voters by reducing the number of women candidates in the 2019 assembly polls. She advocated for women representation at all levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-s-baroda-never-elected-women-as-their-mla-in-history/story-2anC2Wf6kOlQu7204Rh8aI.html
11-10-2020||India||4 men arrested in Uttarakhand for smuggling organs of bear, musk deer and poaching turtles||Uttarakhand forest department officials and police have arrested four people for allegedly smuggling organs of bear, musk deer and poaching Indian flapshell turtles, in two different incidents in the Kumaon region over the weekend. In Bageshwar district, police officials on Sunday arrested one person on the charges of smuggling body parts of a bear. Manikant Mishra, superintendent of police Bageshwar said “We had received a tip-off that a man was planning to smuggle the bile duct of a black bear along with organs of other animals. As the smuggler was in the Kapkot area of the district, we arrested him during an operation and recovered two bile ducts of bears and one musk gland of a deer.” He said the bile ducts weighted 230 grams and the musk gland weighed 23 grams. He said the approximate market value of the seized material is Rs 15 lakh in international markets. Bear bile which sells for a high price in the international market is used to make traditional medicine giving rise to the poaching of the animal for smuggling the organs. In US Nagar district, three persons were arrested from Rudrapur area with shells and meat of flapshell turtles. Umesh Chandra Tiwari, sub-divisional forest officer of Terai central forest division said “We had received a tip-off that wildlife smugglers were planning to smuggle a flapshell turtle. When we learnt that the smugglers were in Rudrapur on Saturday evening, we formed a team to nab them. Three persons were arrested from Rudrapur area in US Nagar on Saturday evening.” The team was led by Pankaj Sharma, range officer Rudrapur forest range. Tiwari added that the forest department team seized 4.6 kg of turtle meat and eight shells of the Indian flapshell turtles. The accused have been booked under Section 9 (prohibition of hunting) of The Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972. The Indian flapshell turtle is found in freshwater ponds, rivers and drains and its meat is considered a delicacy, leading to an increase in incidents of turtle poaching in Terai region, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-men-arrested-in-uttarakhand-for-smuggling-organs-of-bear-musk-deer-and-poaching-turtles/story-CuuqE7OLWVn6S4SoqGN47K.html
11-10-2020||India||Holkar’s trust denies fraud in property sales, EOW of MP govt begins probe||A trust of the erstwhile royal family of Holkars managing properties in several states meant for charities has said the inquiry by the economic offence wing (EOW) of the Madhya Pradesh government is puzzling given the number of properties sold in the past 40 years and the transparent manner in which these were sold.The EOW which has initiated a probe in the wake of a high court directive has proceeded to collect documents from the trust as part of the inquiry.On October 5, a two-judge bench of the Indore bench of the Madhya Pradesh high court set aside an order by a single-judge bench of the same court in 2013 and said the sale of endowment properties by Khasgi (Devi Ahilyabai Holkar Charities) Trust, Indore was a fraud. The two-judge bench also declared the sale null and void and ordered an inquiry by the EOW. It also ruled that the properties managed by the Indore-based Trust will lie with the state government.On October 7, the state government issued an order for the EOW inquiry and constituted a 39-member team of police officials, including two superintendents of police to assist the investigation.The Khasgi Trust manages a total of 246 properties spread over 12,000 acre of land in various states including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu etc. The properties include 138 temples, 18 dharmshalas and 34 ghats among others.According to the Trust, the valuation of properties was never done as the religious structures like temples, ghats etc could not have been valued and that there was no occasion also for the same in the past six decades or so of its existence. The six trustees include Maharani Usha Devi (daughter of late Maharaja Yashwant Rao Holkar), her spouse Satish Malhotra, justice PD Mule (retd), two representatives of state government as ex-officio members revenue commissioner, Indore and superintending engineering, PWD, Indore and a representative of the central government BK Heerji. Satish Malhotra has refuted allegations of fraud and said all the money from the sales was deposited in the trust’s bank account.“The trust was created by Maharani in 1962. In all 7 properties were sold for Rs 6 to Rs 8 crore. Each and every rupee was deposited in the trust’s bank account, which remains intact in fixed deposits. The first property sold was about 40 years back and the last one about 10 years back. In fact, since the trust didn’t have money once for maintenance of its properties we invested Rs 5 to Rs 6 crore in the trust for the purpose.” He maintained that there was no illegality in the transactions and that the government had given its nod for the sales.“They can ask any question and take any document they want but ultimately they will find that no illegality has taken place. We decided to sell the properties, that too non-religious properties, only when the state government didn’t listen to our requests to increase the amount of financial assistance which is Rs 2.91 lakh per annum for maintenance of properties. The government had given its consent for the sale and then a supplementary trust was formed. Also, each and every sale had consent of all the trustees including the government representatives,” Malhotra said.EOW superintendent of police Dhananjay Shah said, “At this juncture, it is difficult to tell about the magnitude of the alleged fraud which we will be able to know only after gathering all the relevant documents from the trust and examining the same.” He said, “The SIT was constituted on October 7. Then, the trust was told to submit its documents. Once we have documents we will look into all the aspects.” A government official who didn’t want to be named said, “The then principal secretary to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Manoj Shrivastava had conducted a detailed inquiry in 2012 into the sale of properties and existence of all other properties. The revenue department too is gathering all the relevant documents to assist the EOW in its probe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/holkar-s-trust-denies-fraud-in-property-sales-eow-of-mp-govt-begins-probe/story-qQ5IqngcAHFlDcUMc6ml8M.html
11-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Railways to upgrade high speed trains with only special AC coaches and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Railways to upgrade high speed trains with only special AC coachesThe Indian railways is working on a plan to upgrade all its trains capable of running at a maximum speed of 130 kmph and beyond with special air-conditioned coaches in a bid to upgrade its high speed network, the railway ministry said on Sunday. Read more Bihar polls: Congress forms 6 panels, Surjewala to head election coordination committeeThe Congress has formed six poll committees for the Bihar assembly elections slated for October and November this year, news agency ANI reported on Sunday and added that the party’s election coordination committee will be headed by national spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala. Read more PM Modi chats with Uttarakhand villager, tells him why he’s luckyPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday asked the Uttarakhand government to promote homestays in a big way in the Himalayan state and sought development of a website with their photographs, phone numbers, booking details, information on food availability to make it easy for pilgrims and tourists to book a homestay, unleashing the sector’s full potential. Read more ‘Do not compare crimes committed in Hathras and Karauli’: Congress’ Singhvi targets BJPCongress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi on Sunday said that the cases in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras and Rajasthan’s Karauli cannot be compared because the government in Rajasthan did not prevent politicians and journalists from other parties were not prevented from meeting the family of the victim. Read more IPL 2020: Dejected KL Rahul has ‘no answers’ after KXIP’s 2-run loss to KKRKings XI Punjab went through yet another unfortunate loss in the 24th match of the Indian Premier League (IPL) against Kolkata Knight Riders at Abu Dhabi on Saturday. Chasing a 165-run target, skipper KL Rahul and Myanak Agarwal went off to an outstanding start. Read more Natasa Stankovic wishes Hardik Pandya a happy birthday with unseen romantic photos, video with son AgastyaActor and former Bigg Boss contestant Natasa Stankovic wished her fiance, cricketer Hardik Pandya, on his birthday with an adorable Instagram post. She also shared never-seen-before photos of them and a video of him with their son, Agastya. Read more Apple iPhone 12 or 12 Mini: Price, specs, design, features and other rumours till dateApple will probably launch it new iPhones on October 13 and this time there might be four models falling under the rumoured iPhone 12 series. While two of them could be under the iPhone 12 series, two others could be under iPhone 12 Pro series. Read more Artist shares pics of incredible pencil tip sculpture of Sonu Sood, actor retweetsSonu Sood has won netizens over for going above and beyond to help people who asked for it, especially during the lockdown. He still continues to assist many people who reach out to him. Read more Delhi govt exempts road tax on battery-operated vehicles under its EV policyThe Delhi government has exempted road tax on its battery-operated vehicles under its new Electric Vehicle Policy, Delhi Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Sunday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-railways-to-upgrade-high-speed-trains-with-only-special-ac-coaches-and-all-the-latest-news/story-kPK8uEfMXC9dLaQ0zhhrdP.html
11-10-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi always stood by Kashmiri Pandits, says Congress J&K in-charge||All India Congress Committee in-charge for Jammu and Kashmir Rajni Patil, J&K party president GA Mir and other senior leaders assured the agitating Kashmiri Pandits at Jagti migrants’ camp of their support and accused the present administration of not doing anything concrete for the community.The leaders of agitating Kashmiri migrants accused the present dispensation of neglect and urged the Congress delegation to take up their demands at the Centre. The group of displaced Kashmiri Pandits claimed that the then UPA government had provided them with financial support, relief packages and jobs but thereafter nothing major has been done in their interest.Patil told the agitating group that Congress president Sonia Gandhi has always been sensitive to the problems and sufferings of Kashmiri Pandits.Also Read: Modi govt must roll back farm laws, restore statehood to J&K: AICC in-charge Rajani Patil“Congress party understands the pain of being away from one’s home. We have full sympathies with the Kashmiri Pandits and the then UPA government under Manmohan Singh tried to do the best possible to help them,” she said. Patil also said that their desire to return to Kashmir with safety and security is a genuine demand which required a collective effort for its fulfilment. She said the community needed to be extended necessary help till this is achieved. Patil assured to take up their demands in the Parliament and elsewhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-always-stood-by-kashmiri-pandits-says-congress-j-k-in-charge/story-MUOao29b1OlupnDP2tMkEL.html
11-10-2020||India||‘Now, I can get a loan against the house’: Beneficiaries of SVAMTIVA scheme thank PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with beneficiaries of the Survey of Villages And Mapping With Improvised Technology In Village Areas (SVAMITVA) scheme on Sunday. PM Modi on Sunday launched the physical distribution of property cards which will act as physical copies of property titles of the villagers’ homes and the surrounding areas owned by them. Here are the excerpts from the prime minister’s interaction with the two beneficiaries from Barabanki in Uttar Pradesh.PM’s interaction with Ram Milan of Barabanki:PM Modi: I was told you lost a hand in an accident. How do you earn your livelihood? Your life had a big crisis. Losing a part of one’s body also causes a big disappointment. But you managed yourself and the family.Ram Milan: Yes, about 14-15 years ago my right hand got severed while I was working on a cattle-feed machine. I do manage with this hand. For my livelihood, I have a grocery shop in the village and I also do farming on lease.PM Modi: Now that you have got ‘gharoni’ (ownership right) of your house, how would it affect you and your family? What problems did you face earlier?Ram Milan: It is heartening to get the ownership. All those neighbourhood disputes are over. Now, I can get a loan against it. Through that loan, I can expand my business.PM Modi: When the drone was at work, I am sure the entire village must have gathered? It is a very happy thing that you got the ownership and documents. Now, do people believe that a good arrangement has been made? You have the papers, disputes won’t happen. Most of the disputes happen due to house, land. Now, you are mentally free to work and progress. Do spread the word among people about the system.Ram Milan: Yes, when the drone was at work, the entire village, including children, had gathered. There was a kind of celebration, everyone was eager to watch the drone. Earlier, I did not have any document, now I have documents that establish my ownership on the house. Yes, everyone believes what has happened. Thank you very much.Also Read: SVAMITVA scheme to end disputes in villages - PM ModiPM’s interaction with Ramrati of Barabanki‘I feel very secure now, no one can displace me’PM Modi: Ramratiji, who all do you have in your family?Ramrati: I have two sons, a daughter in the family. My husband died 20 years ago.PM Modi: Then the family’s entire responsibility came on you? How did you manage?Ramrati: Yes. I sold vegetables, made samosas and sold them.PM Modi: Earlier, you must have been facing problems with your house. People must have been objecting to your house (that did not have ownership rights). Why did you make the hut here? How is it now when you have got the gharoni (ownership rights)? Do your children know that you now have ownership of the house?Ramrati: Now, I feel very secure. I am happy that I have the ownership of the ancestral house now. I am illiterate, but now no one can displace me from the house.PM Modi: Did you get any loan? What will you do?Ramrati: Yes, I just got a loan of Rs 20,000. I will now expand my business.PM Modi: Ok. I am very happy that you have the ownership. My good wishes. Now, women like you, people of weaker sections in Uttar Pradesh, are getting a guarantee for the protection of your property. I trust that you will give a better future to your family and progress. More power to you.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-i-can-get-a-loan-against-the-house-beneficiaries-of-svamtiva-scheme-thank-pm-modi/story-2u92DruNwLgh7BOT6arEYI.html
11-10-2020||India||Svamitva launch: PM Modi chats with Uttarakhand villager, tells him why he’s lucky||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday asked the Uttarakhand government to promote homestays in a big way in the Himalayan state and sought development of a website with their photographs, phone numbers, booking details, information on food availability to make it easy for pilgrims and tourists to book a homestay, unleashing the sector’s full potential. Modi said this while launching the physical distribution of Aadhaar-like property cards under Svamitva (survey of villages and mapping with improvised technology in village areas) scheme on Sunday through videoconferencing, which was attended by Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. Modi spoke about homestays during an interaction with one of the beneficiaries- Suresh Chand- from Pauri Garhwal. Suresh Chandra apprised PM Modi that people in his village would like to develop their homes into homestays with the help of bank loans. During the interaction, Modi wanted to know from Suresh Chandra, if villagers faced any problems in getting property cards; what was the population of his village; whether he believes the new scheme will bring transparency; what he intends to do after getting loan from a bank? Suresh Chandra thanked the PM and said the process of demarcating properties was conducted transparently without any dispute. He said after getting property cards, it would be easy for him and others in his area to seek loans. Talking about his love and association with the Himalayas, Modi said he has lived and travelled a lot in the Himalayas. “Your village abounds in natural beauty. As you have put curtains in the background, I am not able to view your beautiful Himalayan village. You are lucky to view such magnificent sacred peaks from your area,” the PM said, adding that it would definitely become a popular tourist spot. Suresh told the PM that residents in his village can view several sacred Himalayan peaks like Kedarnath and Chaukhamba. He said villagers like him would like to renovate their houses and develop them as homestays using bank loans, which should be accessible after the creation of an official record of his property under the Svamitva scheme. Also Read: SVAMITVA scheme to end disputes in villages: PM ModiFurther exploring the potential of developing homestays in the state, PM Modi suggested creating a website with all necessary details.“I would like to tell the minister (in the state), to develop a website for homestays where all details like the type of food, number of rooms, photos of rooms, contact details like phone numbers and email, how long the pilgrims and tourists want to stay are mentioned. When this is done, homestays will run in a very good way,” Modi said. In Uttarakhand, 6,804 people from 50 villages will get Aadhaar-like property cards by Sunday evening. PM Modi, Nitish Kumar changed political course in Bihar: BJP chief JP Nadda at election rally in GayaHC Semwal, director, directorate of Panchayati Raj in Uttarakhand, said that in the first phase, 10 villages from Pauri Garhwal and 40 villages from US Nagar were selected for the distribution of property cards.“After PM launched the scheme, the cards will be distributed to 6,804 beneficiaries in all the 50 villages in these two districts by Sunday evening,” he said. Semwal said all villages will be soon covered under the scheme. “These cards will ensure clarity in ownership of land and houses in the villages and help the villagers to avail loans and benefits of other schemes in an efficient and transparent way, besides reducing property-related disputes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/svamitva-launch-pm-modi-chats-with-uttarakhand-villager-tells-him-why-he-s-lucky/story-AMBQOw2KOg7TlPsigjCobO.html
11-10-2020||India||Railways to upgrade high speed trains with only special AC coaches||The Indian railways is working on a plan to upgrade all its trains capable of running at a maximum speed of 130 kmph and beyond with special air-conditioned coaches in a bid to upgrade its high speed network, the railway ministry said on Sunday.There will be no sleeper coaches in these identified trains. The ministry clarified that the decision will only impact high speed trains and all existing mail and express trains with a maximum speed of up to 110 kmph will continue to ply with sleeper coaches.Also read: Railways to start 200 additional trains during holiday season“AC coaches become a technical necessity wherever the speed of the train is going to be above 130 kmph . Indian Railways is working on a massive plan to upgrade the railway network to high speed potential. Tracks on golden quadrilateral and diagonals are being upgraded to cater to speed of 130 km - 160 km / hour. Non-AC sleeper coaches would be replaced by AC coaches only for such trains which will be running at a maximum speed of 130/160 kmph. Speed potential of some of the corridors has already been upgraded to 130 kmph. Wind and weather factors demand that only certain type of coaches run on higher speed,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.At present, most mail and express trains have a maximum speed of 110 kmph. Premium trains like Rajdhanis, Shatabdis and Durontos are allowed to operate at 120 kmph on significant parts of the Golden Quadrilateral and Diagonals. The rakes for such trains are fit to operate at 130 kph or above.Officials added that these new AC coaches will be “economical coaches” similar to AC-3 chair car coaches in Humsafar Trains that have a rationalised fare structure. “It will be ensured that while the price of tickets of modified AC coaches remains very affordable for the passengers , the comfort and conveniences increase manifold and there is substantial reduction in travel time,” the spokesperson said.A prototype of the new AC coach is being made at railways’ production unit at Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, and should be ready in a few weeks. Compared to 72 berths in a sleeper coach, this new AC coach will have 83 berths, but the number of berths in a coupe will remain the same as there will be no middle berths between side-upper and side-lower berths. The coaches are being re-designed by moving the electrical units and removing the space reserved for storing blankets and bed sheets, since Railways will stop providing them due to coronavirus.“Presently, an 83-berth coach is being designed. Railways has planned 100 such coaches this year and 200 the next year. The coaches will be tested and evaluated,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-upgrade-high-speed-trains-with-only-special-ac-coaches/story-8bwzyJs7h3ODBTqS9BGTrO.html
11-10-2020||India||Centre awaits recommendation for 4 Supreme Court vacancies; 3 HCs without regular chief justices||There are four vacancies in the Supreme Court and three high courts are functioning without regular chief justices, sources in the government said, pointing out that the law ministry is yet to receive recommendations from the SC collegium to fill up the slots. The first vacancy in the Supreme Court arose following the retirement of Justice Ranjan Gogoi in November 2019 as the Chief Justice of India. Subsequently, three more vacancies arose in the top court following the retirements of justices Deepak Gupta, R Bhanumathi and Arun Mishra. With a sanctioned strength of 34, the apex court is functioning with 30 judges. The high courts of Gauhati, Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand are functioning with officiating chief justices. Officiating or acting chief justices are appointed in the absence of a chief justice to ensure that the day to day administration of the court is not affected. The government has so far not received any recommendation from the collegium to fill up these vacancies in the SC and the three high courts, a senior functionary said. Vacancies keep arising in courts due to retirement, resignation or elevation of judges.  The government has maintained that appointment of judges in the high courts is a “continuous collaborative process” between the Executive and the Judiciary, as it requires consultation and approval from various constitutional authorities.  As per the procedure for the appointment of judges to the Supreme Court and the 25 high courts, the apex court collegium recommends the names of candidates to the government which, in turn, either accepts the proposal or returns it for reconsideration. The collegium comprises the CJI and four senior-most judges of the apex court. The combined sanctioned strength of the 25 high courts is 1,079 judges. As on October 1, there were 404 vacancies, with the maximum of 60 in the Allahabad High Court. As on September 1, there were 398 vacancies in the high courts and as on September 1, 48 new judges in various HCs have been appointed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-awaits-recommendation-for-4-supreme-court-vacancies-3-hcs-without-regular-chief-justices/story-6i8BfFofTkxJEm3to0usAI.html
11-10-2020||India||‘Do not compare crimes committed in Hathras and Karauli’: Congress’ Singhvi targets BJP||Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi on Sunday said that the cases in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras and Rajasthan’s Karauli cannot be compared because the government in Rajasthan did not prevent politicians and journalists from other parties were not prevented from meeting the family of the victim.Addressing a press conference, Singhvi said, “It is strange that comparisons are being drawn between the Hathras and Karauli incidents. Both the crimes were heinous in nature but (in Karauli) it was a land dispute and the accused was nabbed within 36 hours. Injustice was meted out in Hathras.”He further said, “At least the cremation of the Karauli person was done rightfully while the victim’s family was put under house arrest in Hathras. In Hathras, politicians and journalists were prevented from meeting the family. Did it happen in Karauli?”Babulal Vaishnav, a priest, was set ablaze by five young men in Karauli after he stopped them from encroaching lands that belonged to a temple on Wednesday. Vaishnav succumbed to his injuries on Thursday at a hospital in Jaipur. Two people have been arrested so far in connection to this case.Singhvi also criticised the UP government over comments made by political leaders regarding the Hathras gang-rape and said, “Did you hear any minister or lawmaker saying things which were inappropriate after the Karauli incident?”Singhvi was addressing a press conference where he lashed out at the Karnataka government over an alleged scam of Rs 662 crore and demanded that the central leadership of the BJP ask chief minister BS Yediyurappa to take accountability for the incident.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) will probe the Hathras gangrape. The gangrape and murder of the Dalit girl in UP’s Hathras district has led to protests all over the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-not-compare-crimes-committed-in-hathras-and-karauli-congress-singhvi-targets-bjp/story-8ZnjmizVhViaTJSaDlsFSL.html
11-10-2020||India||Uptick in social media abuse following LAC standoff between India, China: Meity officials||The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (Meity) officials have said there has been an uptick in the number of social media abuse cases following the standoff between India and China along the Line of the Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.According to officials familiar with the matter, around 500 social media accounts, pages and websites were blocked in September, as compared to around 250 in the corresponding period last year. The government, in response to an unstarred question during the monsoon session of Parliament in September, had said that it had addressed 3,635 such cases last year. Also read: Facebook India exec files FIR over ‘violent threats’“We were blocking nearly 200-250 accounts, pages, websites on social media per month last year,” said an official on the condition of anonymity. “This year, the corresponding figure went up from around 250 in June, 300 in July, 400 in August and around 500 in September. These figures are indicative and dynamic, as they change daily,” he added. However, the official said that the exact number of social media accounts that were blocked was confidential. “We are certainly seeing an upward trend,” the official said. The ministry takes down information from the internet, when they are found them to be in violation of Section 69A of the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000.The Act empowers government to block any information generated, transmitted, received, stored or hosted in any computer resource in the interest of national sovereignty and integrity, defence, security of the state, friendly relations with foreign states or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognisable offence. The ministry has also taken down over 200 applications between July and September, mostly of Chinese origin, following the LAC standoff on June 15. Union Minister for Electronics and IT and Communications Ravi Shankar Prasad had called the decision to block the applications (app), including TikTok, a popular video-streaming app, and PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds (PBG), an online multiplayer battle royale game, as a “digital strike on China”. “These are regular clean-ups that the ministry does in cyberspace,” said a second official. On September 21, HT had reported that the ministry had told Parliament that it had taken down 3,635 websites/pages/accounts on social media last year for violating the IT Act, 2000. The answer was in response to an unstarred question about the ministry’s regulation of social media. The ministry had stated that 1,385 and 2,799 social media pages were blocked in 2017 and 2018, respectively. “With a borderless cyberspace coupled with the possibility of instant communication and anonymity, the potential for misuse of cyberspace and social media platforms for criminal activities is a global issue,” the ministry had said in its response. “In line with the increase of usage of internet as also the growth of social media platforms, there are an increasing number of incidents of reporting of such content having potential to incite violence and hatred. Government has a well-defined system of reporting and blocking for public access within the framework of section 69A of the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000,” it had added. Social media platforms are also expected to remove any unlawful content related to Article 19(2) of the Constitution as and when they are brought to their knowledge either through a court order or via a notice by government. On June 15, 20 Indian soldiers were killed by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, triggering a tense standoff along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uptick-in-social-media-abuse-following-lac-standoff-between-india-china-meity-officials/story-4rTkOUxqRgfIF8mgyHATGJ.html
11-10-2020||India||Covid-19 can assume dangerous shape if norms are flouted during festivals: Harsh Vardhan||Keeping the upcoming festival season in mind, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday advised people to follow Covid-19 guidelines strictly during the phase, failing which the pandemic could once again raise its head and pose increased threats to the society.Dr Harsh Vardhan said this in his ‘Sunday Samvaad’ programme as the country gears up to celebrate Navratri, Dussehra in October and Diwali, along with Chatthh puja in the month of November. It is important to note that the rise in the number of new Covid-19 cases has been on the decline in the country since the past few days.“If we falter in following COVID-19 guidelines during the festivals then corona can again assume a dangerous shape and become big trouble for us. This is the truth, in any religion, no dharmic leader will say that people’s lives should be put at risk to celebrate festivals. No God has said that one needs to go to puja pandals to worship,” the minister said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Anyone can remember their God with a pure heart from anywhere. I would want people to celebrate their festivals with their family. Earlier also this used to happen, people used to celebrate festivals in small groups. I do not think there is any need for going to pandals and melas,” he added.The Union minister, however, added that as per the people’s beliefs if people wanted to go to puja pandals, they should maintain ‘2 gaz ki doori’ (maintain social distancing), wear masks at all times and urge others to do the same.“I am saying all this because being the country’s Health Minister, it is my duty to protect people’s lives,” he said.With a spike of 74,383 new cases and 918 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 count crossed the 70-lakh mark on Sunday, as per the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW).Click here for complete coronavirus coverage According to the MoHFW, the Covid-19 count in the country is at 70,53,807, including 8,67,496 active cases.The number of cured and discharged or migrated patients has also crossed 60-lakhs and is at 60,77,977 in the country.With 918 deaths, the toll due to the disease now stands at 1,08,334 in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-can-assume-dangerous-shape-if-norms-are-flouted-during-festivals-harsh-vardhan/story-kRhBdFVUwIYqimLt1XvXnK.html
11-10-2020||India||‘Many of these Covid-19 cases are misclassified’: What Harsh Vardhan says on reinfections||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday reiterated that Covid-19 reinfection is still not a serious issue as most of these cases have been mislabelled as reinfections. “Even though there are various reports of re-emergence of Covid-19 cases, careful analysis of ICMR has revealed that many of these cases have actually been misclassified as reinfections,” the minister said.“The clinical diagnosis of Sarrs is mainly based on real-time RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) which also detects dead virus shed for long and varying periods of time. Dead virus is sometimes sequestered in various organs and intermittently shed for several weeks and months after recovery,” the minister said.“However, such a patient is considered recovered and non-infectious. Due to the inherent characteristic of the RT-PCR test to detect dead virus, intermittent period of positivity after a negative test report may be documented. Therefore, any lab-confirmed case, if tested over a duration of several weeks, may have intermittent positive, negative, and then again positive results,” the minister added.Recently, the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital in Pune has claimed a resident doctor has tested positive for Covid-19 “a second time” in a three-month period. The doctor’s samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) for a genome sequencing and antibodies test.The health minister said ICMR is investigating the cases of reported re-emergence of Covid-19 and the results will be shared in a few weeks.“A person during his path of recovery and having a low viral load may have a resurgence of ongoing infection due to immuno-compromised state or other secondary infections. It is necessary to differentiate between a mislabelled reinfection and an actual reinfection. An actual reinfection would mean a fully recovered person getting infected with a freshly introduced virus,” Harsh Vardhan said. Some hospitals in the national capital in August reported they were seeing recovered coronavirus patients returning to them with recurrence of the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-of-these-covid-19-cases-are-misclassified-what-harsh-vardhan-says-on-reinfections/story-CYfgwbiSMyVPAlGFrku3OP.html
11-10-2020||India||Harsh Vardhan dismisses rumors of working-class getting Covid-19 vaccine on priority||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday dismissed the rumours that the government will vaccinate the young and working-class against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on priority so that they can start contributing to the economy right away. “Prioritisation of groups to be vaccinated shall be based on key considerations, first is occupational hazard at the risk of exposure to the infection and second is the risk of developing severe disease and increased mortality,” the health minister said during his weekly Sunday Samvad. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Vardhan had earlier assured that the government is working towards ensuring the vaccine dose for all citizens as soon as it is out. “Our government is working round the clock to ensure that there is a fair and equitable distribution of vaccines, once they are ready. Our utmost priority is how to ensure vaccine for each and everybody in the country,” he had said.During his previous address, he had said that a list of citizen groups that would require vaccines immediately is being prepared by the health ministry in collaboration with the state governments and a high-level expert body is looking into ensuring equitable distribution. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage He had said that the states have been told to submit lists of priority population groups that need to receive vaccine first -- doctors, nurses, sanitation staff, ASHA workers, surveillance officers etc. of both private and government sector will be a part of the list.He advised the people to be cautious against fake news and social media. “Covid-19 fact check unit in the Press Information Bureau under the I&B ministry is regularly scanning social media platforms for Covid-19 related fake news,” he added, and urged people to report any fake news that they spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsh-vardhan-dismisses-rumors-of-working-class-getting-covid-19-vaccine-on-priority/story-IxeewMjpGuwpILfo2Xab9M.html
11-10-2020||India||Woman injured in alleged suicide bid at Kolkata metro station||A woman suffered serious injury when she jumped in front of a train in an alleged suicide id at Belgachhia metro station around noon on Sunday, metro officials said.She got caught between the platform and the train and it took a long time to rescue her.The incident happened at 11.36 am and metro services were disrupted till 12.20 pm. The train was headed for Noapara. The woman suffered severe injury on her left arm. She was taken to R G Kar hospital. Metro officials said the woman is in her mid-twenties. She bought an e-pass to enter the platform.This was the first suicide attempt in a Kolkata metro station since services resumed on September 14. The services were stopped on March 23 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-injured-in-alleged-suicide-bid-at-kolkata-metro-station/story-Ss1WdC4Qmk4Posc2Fv7vWI.html
11-10-2020||India||JMM senior leader, his wife brutally killed in Dhanbad||A senior Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) leader and his wife were murdered by unidentified assailants in their house in Dhanbad district’s Bhowra area, around 150-km from state capital Ranchi, late on Saturday night, police said. The bodies of 50-year-old Shankar Rawani and 45-year-old Balika Devi were found with bullets and stab injuries at their residence on Sunday morning. An empty cartridge of 9mm pistol and knife were recovered from the crime spot by the police. Rawani was JMM’s Dhanbad city vice president. Superintendent of police (City) R Ramkumar, deputy superintendent of police, Sindri, SK Sinha, and officer in-charge of Bhowra police station, Kalika Ram started investigation into the incident early in the morning. SP Ramkumar said, “We have recovered a knife and a cartridge of 9mm pistol, which might have been used in committing the crime, from the spot. The investigation is on and the people involved in the crime would be nabbed soon.” A sniffer dog was also deployed for finding clue of killers, police said. Prima facie, police are suspecting an old enmity between two families as the motive for the murder. Earlier, Rawani’s elder son Kunal, 25, who was an accused in murder case of Rainbow Group chairman Dhirendra Rawani, was murdered in 2017. Rawani’s second son Karan, 22, is studying outside Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jmm-senior-leader-his-wife-brutally-killed-in-dhanbad/story-QJmlgAPys7sJzhMMJ0rtYK.html
11-10-2020||India||Will Covid-19 cases increase in India during winter? Likely, says Harsh Vardhan||Amid several reports indicating that the number of Covid-19 cases will increase during winter, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday confirmed that the possibility of the same in Indian context can’t be dismissed at all.“SARS Cov 2 is a respiratory virus and the transmission of respiratory viruses is known to increase during the colder weather. Respiratory viruses thrive better in cold weather and low humidity conditions. There is another fact that needs to be kept in mind. During winter, there is a tendency of overcrowding in residential dwellings which may increase transmission... So in Indian context, it would not be wrong to assume that the winter season may see an increase in the number of cases,” the minister said, addressing his weekly social media interaction programme Sunday Samvaad.Also Read: ‘Ayurveda has holistic approach’: Harsh Vardhan on Ayush-based Covid-19 treatmentThe minister also cited the examples of the European countries, especially the United Kingdom, where the number of infections has gone up with the advent of winter.“Hence, we are emphasising on the precautionary measures which are easy to follow. No need to fear and shudder. Wear the mask and maintain social distancing. Prevention is better than cure,” the minister said, sounding a note of caution. Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageAccording to modelling done by the Academy of Medical Sciences, UK, the winter may be an extremely challenging. It has predicted a peak in hospital admissions and deaths in January/February 2021.The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has recently warned Delhi is likely to report around 15,000 Covid-19 cases daily in winter.“Winter months that make respiratory illnesses severer...Patients may come from outside Delhi in large numbers… Patients coming from distant areas are likely to be more serious. In addition, with festival-related gatherings, there could be a sudden rise in cases. Therefore, it is recommended that Delhi should prepare for a daily surge of approximately 15,000 positive cases and make arrangements for inpatient admissions of patients with moderate and severe disease roughly amounting to 20% of this surge,” the NCDC said in a document related to the revised Covid-19 strategy for Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-covid-19-cases-increase-in-india-during-winter-likely-says-harsh-vardhan/story-OqnXFg8gsZGx8LEgZXxHhI.html
11-10-2020||India||Congress calls for Karnataka CM’s resignation over corruption allegations, takes jibe at PM Modi||The Congress party on Sunday renewed calls for resignation of Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa over Rs 662 crore corruption allegations against his, his son, grandson and son-in-law. Launching a sharp attack at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Karnataka, Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi said that it is engulfed in a clutch of corruption with “dented and painted leaders ruling”.Singhvi was referring to the allegation levelled by a leader of opposition Siddaramaiah against Yediyurappa ‘s son BY Vijayendra took a bribe from a Bangalore development authority contractor.He also said that alleged audio and Whatsapp conversation involving Yediyurappa ’s son and grandson disclose the direct involvement in the corruption and asked why no criminal complaint has been filed so far. “You have a bribe giver and a taker in front of you”.“Why is he not subject to criminal proceedings?” he also asked. Is “Karanataka chief minister has special leverage?” Singhvi said while questioning government’s silence over the matter.“If BJP and the chief minister has a basic sense of shame then Yediyurappa should resign or be sacked,” Singhvi said at a press conference.He further took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying, “Why the watchman is sleeping in Yediyurappa’s case?”“It is unfortunate that you (PM Modi) are being watchmen for others’ homes but letting corruption take place in your own home, “ Singhvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-calls-for-karnataka-cm-s-resignation-over-corruption-allegations-takes-jibe-at-pm-modi/story-egq9HhRUVWIUpgOXg46NBM.html
11-10-2020||India||Sanjay Raut seeks curbs on fake social media, has an advice for Amit Shah||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said Union home minister Amit Shah should rein in fake social media accounts and warned that an “illegal use” of social media-army can backfire on the government. Raut, in his weekly column RokhThok in Sena mouthpiece Saamana, said that Shah should take the initiative to clean up social media bots and that should start with his own party, the Bharatiya Janata Party.Raut referred to the 80,000 social media accounts, allegedly created using false identities to discredit the Mumbai police and Maharashtra government’s investigation into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death to make his point. “Amit Shah is the home minister and he should acknowledge that the illegal use of cyber army can be destructive for the country and society. The use of this army for character assassination of opponents and to stifle dissent can backfire on the country,” Raut warned in the column. Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput case: Shiv Sena MP seeks probe into misuse of social media platformsHe alleged that the use of social media army and incessant attacks on its opponents have become a national policy for the BJP and a few others.“BJP won the last two general elections with the help of social media. Poisonous campaign that would put Goebbels to shame was implemented,” he said, adding that the campaign projected all other leaders including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and former prime minister Manmohan Singh as “useless” in front of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Also Read: On ex-CBI chief’s ‘suicide,’ Shiv Sena asks why no one interested in knowing exact reason behind his deathRaut further added, “Amit Shah at an event once said that ‘we can make news acceptable through our thousands of WhatsApp groups’. This confidence is good for a party chief but he should not forget that he holds the reins of the country today. The social media, that found Rahul Gandhi and Manmohan Singh to be useless, also made fun of our prime minister after a video of him seated in an army jeep waving his hands through an empty tunnel went viral.“This is not right...,” Raut went on, “In the Sushant case, 80,000 fake accounts were created to defame Mumbai police. 5 crore such fake accounts are active. Such illegal activities should be put to a stop by the help of law. Country’s home minister should take an initiative in this. And he should start with his party,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjay-raut-seeks-curbs-on-fake-social-media-has-an-advice-for-amit-shah/story-Uql3742dANHpIPmrZ2kL6O.html
11-10-2020||India||‘Ayurveda has holistic approach’: Harsh Vardhan on Ayush-based Covid-19 treatment||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday backed the role of Ayurvedic remedies in prevention and treatment of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and hailed their immunity boosting properties. Addressing the fifth episode of his weekly Sunday Samvaad, Vardhan was asked by a person why Ayurvedic treatment was being advertised with various claims when the efficacy of Ayurvedic immunity boosters isn’t fully established for Covid-19 treatment yet. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The health minister addressed the query by saying, “Ayurveda has a holistic approach towards disease management wherein salutogenesis is a major approach towards treatment of a disease condition and its prevention.” Therefore, for prophylactic care against Covid-19, Ayurveda interventions are prescribed after in-depth study of literature, scientific studies, including, in silico studies, experimental studies, and clinical studies, he said.He added that the ministry has conceptualised and promoted public advisories about the use of time-tested and evidence based natural Ayush remedies for health promotion and immunity modulation of the people during the Covid-19 pandemic. The interventions advocated for Covid-19 like guduchi, ashwagandha, Ayush 64 and a guduchi and peepli combination have a substantial number of studies which prove their immunomodulatory antiviral, antibiotic and anti-inflammatory properties, Vardhan explained.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage These interventions have also shown a good binding affinity with Covid-19 virus in in silico studies, he added. Furthermore, on the recommendations of the interdisciplinary task force set up by the government, scientific studies have also been initiated with the aforesaid remedies to assess their impact in the prophylaxis,secondary prevention and management of Covid-19 afflicted cases, Vardhan said. His remarks come in the backdrop of questions being raised against the release of Ayush-based National Clinical Management Protocol earlier this week for the prevention and treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 cases based on alternative therapies.The Indian Medical Association (IMA) had questioned the minister on whether the proponents of this claim and his ministry were prepared to subject themselves as volunteers to an independent prospective double-blind control study in prevention and treatment of Covid-19. The largest body of private practitioners in the field of allopathy had said that science demanded reproducibility of a claim elsewhere in non-conflict situations, and double blind control studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayurved-has-holistic-approach-harsh-vardhan-on-ayush-based-covid-19-treatment/story-6iQVCmLulUPibJHPaq7RBK.html
11-10-2020||India||Farm bills: Those opposing them want to stall progress, says PM Modi at SVAMITVA event||Lashing out at those opposing the farm legislations, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday said those who had ruled through a nexus of middle men were criticising the reforms as they were concerned about their own interests rather than those of the farmers or the poor.Speaking at the event where property cards were distributed under the government’s SVAMITVA (Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas) scheme, the prime minster hit out at the Congress, which has been spearheading the protests against the recent farm laws, calling them anti-farmer, and said these were the very people who neglected the country’s villages for six decades.Also read: PM Modi’s top quotes from SVAMITVA event“It is said that India’s aatma (soul) rests in its villages. But it is also correct that villages were neglected. The people who were in power for a long time, they talked big, but left villages and poor uncared for, amid difficulties. I will not do this. I will work for you. For the Dalit, poor, oppressed and deprived. Because we don’t want them to be dependent on anyone,” he said.The prime minister said that people in villages did not have banking accounts, electricity, toilets, piped water supply or gas connections. Many were homeless and now 2 crore people have got concrete houses. “Those remaining will also get it and I am working towards it,” he said.“To keep villages deprived has been the basis of politics of some. We have started the campaign to free the poor of deprivation. Some people feel that if the villages, poor, farmers, tribals develop, who will bow before them? Their shop will shut down,” Modi said.He alleged that these were the people who wanted the problems to continue. “These people now have a problem with the historic agricultural reforms. They are worried but their worries are centered on their interests. Generation after generation, with a huge system of dalals and bribe-seekers, they had created their own ‘maya-jaal’(web of illusions). People of the country have begun dismantling their maya-jaal,” said the prime minister.Modi said the country has begun recognising those who looted it and as a result these people were blindly opposing everything. He, however, added that the farmers were not following such people because they had understood their reality.Speaking about the SVAMITVA scheme, the prime minister said despite having land and house, many people did not have the papers. Now they will get papers and can get loans from banks because of the Svamitva Yojana, he said. With technologies like drones, every village can get an accurate land record. It will also end disputes and further development, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-those-opposing-them-want-to-stall-progress-says-pm/story-y2yChPLh3BWSwiKcEVHt5H.html
11-10-2020||India||Himachal Pradesh asks all teachers to report to duty from tomorrow. When are schools reopening in other states?||The Himachal Pradesh government has made it mandatory for all teachers and staff to be present from tomorrow, October 12 onwards, as the state government is gearing up to fully reopen schools. So far, only 50 per cent of the staff were required to be present since September 12. All schools in the state have been asked to organise parent-teacher meetings between October 15 and October 17 to discuss modalities of school reopening.Are all schools reopening on October 15?The Centre has given a go-ahead to the states to decide on whether to reopen schools from October 15. In September, the Centre allowed schools to partially reopen — from September 21. But only a few states went ahead and reopened school. This time too, state governments are buying time before reopening schools. As October 15 is not a binding date for all states to reopen schools, state governments are now consulting with the stakeholders about reopening schools at a later date — in early or mid-November.Which states are reopening schools from October 15?It may be noted that Assam, Mizoram, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh and Jammu & Kashmir partially reopened schools from September 21. Uttarakhand is likely to reopen schools from October 15.Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday announced reopening of schools from October 19.States that are not reopening schools nowGujarat: Schools are likely to reopen after Diwali.Goa: No decision has been taken yet. When all stakeholders are on board, schools will be reopened.Delhi: Schools to remain closed till October 31.Maharashtra: Schools are not to open before Diwali.Chhattisgarh: No decision taken yet.Andhra Pradesh: Schools won’t open before November 2.West Bengal: Decision will be taken only after mid-November.Karnataka: Schools are not opening now. In fact, the government has ordered a three-week mid-term holiday for all types of school activities from October 12 to 30 in the wake of many teachers having contracted coronavirus..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-reopening-himachal-asks-all-teachers-to-report-to-duty-from-tomorrow-when-are-schools-reopening-in-other-states/story-EfeqImwkNUlBxSkjOz4PVM.html
11-10-2020||India||Congress workers thrash woman leader for questioning decision to field ‘rapist’||Congress workers manhandled party leader Tara Yadav at an event in Uttar Pradesh for questioning the decision of the party to field Mukund Bhaskar Mani Tripathi from the Deoria Assembly seat for the upcoming bypolls. “On one hand, our party leaders are fighting for justice for #HathrasCase victim, and on the other hand, party ticket is being given to a rapist. It is a wrong decision. It will malign the image of our party,” Tara Yadav had said.As the nomination for the bypolls in seven Assembly seats of Uttar Pradesh began on Friday, the Congress declared the name of five candidates including Mukund Bhaskar Mani Tripathi, who is contesting from the Deoria Assembly seat. The voting will take place on November 3 and the counting of votes on November 10.In a video posted by news agency ANI, Congress workers are seen attacking the woman leader.  Congress' Tara Yadav manhandled by party workers at an event in Deoria.(10.10)She says,"I was thrashed by party workers when I questioned party's decision to give a ticket to a rapist, Mukund Bhaskar for upcoming by-polls. Now, I'm waiting for Priyanka Gandhi ji to take action" pic.twitter.com/MYYp8k1GLX“I was thrashed by party workers when I questioned party’s decision to give a ticket to a rapist, Mukund Bhaskar, for upcoming by-polls. Now, I’m waiting for Priyanka Gandhi ji to take action,” she said.Meanwhile, the National Commission for Women (NCW) took cognisance of the woman leader’s thrashing and asked authorities to arrest all culprits immediately. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma shared a video saying that the political leaders behaving like goons with the woman leader in a party meeting should be punished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-woman-leader-tara-yadav-assaulted-by-party-workers-for-questioning-decision-to-field-rapist/story-8DmI28QMusd753IHBbRRdL.html
11-10-2020||India||‘Pathway to self-reliant rural India’: PM Modi’s top quotes from SVAMITVA event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the SVAMITVA scheme shows that rural India has taken a huge leap towards self-reliance. PM Modi was joined by Union minister for agriculture and rural affairs Narendra Singh Tomar, chief minister of Haryana Manohar Lal Khattar and deputy CM Dushyant Singh Chautala, Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath and Madhya Pradesh Shivraj Singh Chouhan as he interacted with beneficiaries of SVAMITVA scheme.These are the highlights from his speech:• Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “SVAMITVA scheme will bring historic changes in rural areas. It is a privilege for me that several villagers have joined me for the scheme’s launch.”• He said that the SVAMITVA scheme will allow rural India to contribute to the nation’s drive for self-reliance.• Modi said that the SVAMITVA scheme was launched on Jayprakash Narayan and Nanaji Deshmukh’s birth anniversaries shows Centre’s commitment towards fulfilling their visions of building a self-reliant rural India.• Modi said, “It is necessary that people in rural India have access to papers which prove their ownership of land. All over India there have been reports of altercations between villagers about property ownership. SVAMITVA scheme will make sure that these altercations decrease.”• PM Modi also said that if villagers keep fighting about ownership of land they will lose out on the opportunity to do something better for themselves.• He also pointed out that usage of new technologies like drones for mapping will help build better rural infrastructure.• PM Modi said that over the last six years the NDA government has worked hard to empower rural communities but earlier governments did not do their best to remove middlemen and the corruption from rural administration. He said that if corruption for rural administration would be removed then it would affect votebanks.• PM Modi also criticised the opposition for their stance against farm laws. He said people who protected middlemen are having issues with the reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pathway-to-self-reliant-rural-india-pm-modi-s-top-quotes-from-swamitva-event/story-m0edC2mayjqTTPkxxg9amI.html
11-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India to be third-largest economy in world by 2050, says Lancet study and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India to be third-largest economy in world by 2050, says studyIndian economy will become the third-largest in the world by 2050 after the United States and China, a study published in the Lancet journal has said. Currently, India is at fifth spot followed by France and the United Kingdom. Read more.CBI registers case in alleged gang rape of Dalit woman in HathrasThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday took over the investigation in the alleged gang rape and murder of 19-year-old Dalit women in Hathras after registering a case against an accused, officials said. Read more.India’s active caseload of Covid-19 decreases but fears of resurgence remainIndia has seen a fall in the number of new daily cases of Covid-19 since October 7, indicating that the first wave of the coronavirus disease are showing signs of receding in the country. Read more.Aamir Khan’s daughter Ira Khan reveals she’s clinically depressed: ‘Who am I to be depressed, I have everything right?’Aamir Khan’s daughter, Ira Khan has said that she is clinically depressed, and has been for four years. Her revelation came on late Saturday, on World Mental Health Day. Read more.IPL 2020: ‘That really opened up my thinking,’ Virat Kohli explains what changed for him after not getting runs initiallyAlthough he scored a fifty against Rajasthan Royals last weekend, Saturday’s innings against Chennai Super Kings is when the real Virat Kohli showed up. The Royal Challengers Bangalore wasn’t tied down and played his shots, top-scoring with an unbeaten 90 that paved the way for RCB’s 37-run win against CSK. Read more.Geeta Phogat tweets pictures of her son Arjun, they will instantly make you smileCommonwealth Games gold medallist Geeta Phogat took to Twitter to share a set of pictures of her son Arjun. If you need an instant mood lifter, you should look no further than these heartwarming photos shared by the freestyle wrestler. Read more.Happy Birthday Amitabh Bachchan: From Shahenshah to Gulabo Sitabo, here are Big B’s most unrecognisable onscreen avatarsAmitabh Bachchan, also known as Big B and the ‘Shahenshah’ (1988) of Bollywood is turning 78 today, and has been a part of the film fraternity for over fifty years, having worked in more than 200 films. Amitabh was born Inquilaab Srivastava in Allahabad in 1942 to Teji Bachchan, a social activist and Harivansh Rai Bachchan, a poet. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-to-be-third-largest-economy-in-world-by-2050-says-lancet-study-and-all-the-latest-news/story-isL7j5g03O0SzdYinbddLJ.html
11-10-2020||India||Security beefed up for Hathras family ahead of their appearance in Allahabad High Court tomorrow||The Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court will hear the family members of the Hathras gang-rape victim as well as the top government and police officials on Monday. The case in which a 19-year-old dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper caste men on September 14, leading to her death later on September 29, has shaken the conscience of the nation. With a Special Investigation Team (SIT) set up by the government and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probing into the incident parallelly, the probe has picked up the pace. Security beefed up for family membersDistrict judge of Hathras has been appointed as the nodal officer for the appearance of the Hathras victim’s family member before the high court. The police and district administration are working on an elaborate plan in this regard as to how many family members will go and when they will depart from Hathras.The Hathras Police will be responsible for their security.DIG Shalabh Mathur has been sent to Hathras from Lucknow as a nodal officer. He has said that if needed a control room would also be established in Hathras.Sixty security personnel have been deployed and eight close circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed at the house.Allahabad High Court hearing: What to expectThe Allahabad High Court took a suo moto cognisance of the case and expressed its shock over the incident and what followed later — a hurried and forced cremation of the victim allegedly without the consent of her family members. The division bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh summoned Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary, state police chief and an additional director general of police, Hathras district magistrate and superintendent of police (SP). Vikrant Veer was the SP when the incident took place. He has now been suspended and Vineet Jaiswal has taken charge.The court will hear the officials and the family members.Status of the SIT probeFollowing the initial report of the Special Investigation Team, set up by the UP government, the state decided to suspend the police officers. The SIT is continuing its probe and has visited the village and met the family members. It is likely to submit its report next week after its deadline got extended by 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-beefed-up-for-hathras-family-ahead-of-their-appearance-in-allahabad-high-court-tomorrow/story-WiVnsUPubdQYDT7I3U0jbM.html
11-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape case: CBI registers case, begins investigation||A day after the Centre handed over the probe into the Hathras gang-rape case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the agency on Sunday registered a case and began investigation. “The Central Bureau of Investigation has today registered a case against an accused and taken over the investigation of the case, earlier registered vide CC no- 136/2020 at Police Station Chandpa, District- Hathras (Uttar Pradesh) on a complaint. The complainant had alleged that on 14.09.2020, the accused tried to strangulate his sister in the millet field. The case has been registered by CBI on the request of Uttar Pradesh Government and further Notification from Government of India,” the CBI said in a notification.“A team has been constituted. Investigation is continuing,” it said.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath recommended a CBI probe into the incident. In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court earlier this week, the UP government sought a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the case. “We have already requested the Centre to transfer investigation of the rape-murder case as well as the FIR registered for conspiracy to spread caste conflict,” the UP government had said in the Supreme Court.A Special Investigation Team, set up by the Uttar Pradesh government, is also looking into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-case-cbi-registers-case-begins-investigation/story-qkzUM57e225ZbshikYtn7K.html
11-10-2020||India||India’s active caseload of Covid-19 decreases but fear of resurgence remains||India has seen a fall in the number of new daily cases of Covid-19 since October 7, indicating that the first wave of the coronavirus disease are showing signs of receding in the country.The health ministry on Sunday said that five states which have contributed to the highest number of cases are also contributing to the maximum number of recoveries. More than 60 lakh people have recovered from coronavirus until Sunday, it said.India experienced a spike in cases in September and was recording more than 90,000 cases between September 6 and September 20. The number of fresh cases started dropping from September 21 onwards and India has seen a decline in the number of daily cases since.The country took 13 days to reach seven million cases from six million mark. Most of these cases were reported from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. Barring Kerala and Karnataka, all the other states have seen their caseloads reaching their peaks.However, experts say that the festival season which is a week away from now has the potential to elevate the number of cases ahead of the winter season. The health ministry has issued a set of standard operating procedures to ensure that social distancing is maintained during the festivities.Doctors fear that if the number of cases rise after the festive season, as seen in Kerala after Onam, the gains made in the weeks leading up to the festivities could be lost.“We have to work aggressively to make sure that during winter months and during the festive season coronavirus cases don’t rise dramatically,” AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria told the Associated Press. The health ministry has asked community leaders responsible for organising the festivities to adhere to the Standar Operating Procedures (SOPs) and make adequate arrangements for masks, hand sanitisers and infrared thermometres at festival venues during Navratri, Durga Puja and Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-active-caseload-of-covid-19-decreases-but-fears-of-resurgence-remains/story-OcMN756JPS06zBCihbfF2J.html
11-10-2020||India||‘Nobody can eye your land now’: PM Modi tells beneficiaries of SVAMITVA scheme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said nobody could eye the property of beneficiaries of Survey of Villages And Mapping With Improvised Technology In Village Areas (SVAMITVA) scheme after launching the physical distribution of property cards on Sunday.These cards are physical copies of property titles of the villagers’ homes and the surrounding areas they own (as opposed to the cultivated land). Under the scheme - HT first reported about it on October 8 - land parcels in rural areas were mapped using drones. This will help in revenue collection and ensure clarity on property rights in rural areas.“When one becomes the owner of their house, their self respect is restored. One feels secure and strong,” PM Modi said while interacting with beneficieries of the scheme.“The launch of physical distribution of property cards is another historic step towards a self-reliant India,” PM Modi said, adding that the day it is being launched on is also significant. “Today is the birth anniversary of Jayaprakash Narayan and social reformer Nanaji Deshmukh. These two leaders worked tirelessly for rural development,” PM said.SVAMITVA scheme is aimed at creating accurate land documentation, reducing property-related disputes and increasing liquidity of land parcels. “The scheme will also help villagers in taking loans. If they have proper documents of their land and properties, no bank can deny them loans,” PM Modi said.“Only one third of the world’s population has documents of their property... I cannot let the rural population be dependent on others, I have to work towards making them self-reliant,” he said, hailing the scheme for utilising modern means of technology to benefit millions of rural property owners. The scheme’s pilot project is being implemented in as many as 763 villages, including 346 from Uttar Pradesh, 221 from Haryana, 100 from Maharashtra, 44 from Madhya Pradesh, 50 from Uttarakhand and two from Karnataka.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat were also present at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-property-cards-under-svamitva-scheme/story-knEHM47d5uBehZavyHwJBN.html
11-10-2020||India||MGNREGS to expand further; for second time this year||Officials said that they aim to provide 320 crore man days of work—about 40 crore man days higher than the first estimate after the world’s largest job scheme saw an unprecedented demand – because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Eight big states, including the most populous Uttar Pradesh (UP), have requested for more work allocation from the Centre under the MGNREGA, 2005. The demand coincides with the economy’s sharp contraction by 23.9% in the first quarter of this financial year. Also read: Unused rural funds hint migrants may be back at work in citiesMany economists have argued that the country may see a demand shock in the coming months due to increased unemployment and wage cuts. The Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) had predicted on Friday that the country could see its worst-ever recession this financial year, as the economy is tipped to contract by 9.5%. In May, the Central government had pumped in an additional Rs 40,000 crore to beef up the MGNREGS funds to Rs 1 lakh crore, as a part of its stimulus package. It had also raised the job target from the first estimate of 281 man days of work to 300 man days. Officials said 221.9 crore man days of work has been completed as on October 7 and more than Rs. 65,000 crore have been released until September 5, signalling a requirement for additional funds for the demand-driven programme. Internal notes of the Union ministry of rural development (RD) showed that since May, the average number of workers in every month has been substantially higher than the corresponding month in the last financial year. “Average number of persons to whom work was offered in May has been 2.51 crore per day, which was 73% higher than the one had offered in May last year, which was 1.45 crore persons per day. Similarly, work was offered to an average of 3.35 crore people per day in June, which was 92% higher than the corresponding period last year,” said the note. “The average in July (114%), August (97%), September (86%) and October (109%) was higher than last year,” it added.Officials said that even after the target was enhanced to 300 crore man days for work for this financial year, eight states have demanded more allocation of work. “Big states such as UP, Rajasthan, Telangana. Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal have asked for an additional labour budget. We are looking at generating 320 man days of work now,” said an official. Jugal Kishore Mohapatra, a former secretary in the RD ministry, said: “The enhanced target of 320 crore man days of work is doable. But the need of the hour is to focus on areas, where poverty levels are high but demand is low due to various reasons. For instance, UP has a poverty share of 20% but its MGNREGS share is 10%. This is not a reflection of demand but capacity constraints. Effort should made to augment demand in such places for a more equitable distribution of MGNREGS benefits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mgnregs-to-expand-further-for-second-time-this-year/story-MnIYnHkmXzUMMxpUSSRofN.html
11-10-2020||India||‘Work to fulfil their vision’: PM Modi tweets on JP, Nanaji Deshmukh’s birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that India is proud of legends like Jayaprakash Narayan and social reformer Nanaji Deshmukh and tweeted his gratitude to the leaders on their birth anniversary. For Jayaprakash Narayan, nothing mattered more than people’s welfare and national interest as he fought valiantly for the country’s freedom, PM Modi said. India is proud that legends like Loknayak JP and Nanaji Deshmukh were born in this land. Today is a day to rededicate ourselves towards fulfilling their vision for our nation. pic.twitter.com/RAUapZmxar“I bow to Loknayak JP on his Jayanti. He valiantly fought for India’s freedom and when our democratic ethos was under attack, he led a strong mass movement to protect it. For him, there was nothing above national interest and people’s welfare,” the PM’s tweet read.Nanaji Deshmukh was a stalwart of Bharatiya Jana Sangh and a Padma Vibhushan awardee. He worked in the fields of education, health, and rural development and self-reliance.“The great Nanaji Deshmukh was one of Loknayak JP’s most devout followers. He worked tirelessly to popularise JP’s thoughts and ideals. His own work towards rural development motivates us. Remembering Bharat Ratna Nanaji Deshmukh on his Jayanti,” PM Modi said in another tweet.“India is proud that legends like Loknayak JP and Nanaji Deshmukh were born in this land. Today is a day to rededicate ourselves towards fulfilling their vision for our nation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/work-to-fulfil-their-vision-pm-modi-tweets-on-jp-nanaji-deshmukh-s-birth-anniversary/story-AnDAhfb0CpoAhZa8ivBmwK.html
11-10-2020||India||India records 74,300 Covid-19 cases, 918 deaths in a day; over 6 million people recover||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India increased to 7,053,806 after the country recorded 74,383 cases in the last 24 hours, as per the Union health ministry update on Sunday. The number of deaths due to Covid-19 reached 108,334 after 918 fresh fatalities in the said period.India is the second worst-hit nation in terms of Covid-19 cases after the US, and at the third spot in terms of fatalities globally after the US and Brazil, according to John Hopkins data.On Sunday morning, India crossed the landmark of over 60-lakh Covid-19 recoveries, as more and more people are getting cured of the virus, according to the health ministry.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe ministry also said that the five states have the maximum caseload in the country and also contributed to more than half of the total recoveries. The five states are - Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.Maharashtra, which is the worst-affected state in the country, has 12,29,339 recoveries. While in Karnataka, 5,61,610 people have recovered so far.Kerala has 1,75,304 recoveries and is followed by Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu with 6,91,040 and 5,91,811 recoveries respectively.In terms of daily testing, India tested 10,78,544 samples for Covid-19 on Saturday, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) informed on Twitter.So far the country has conducted more than 8.68 million tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-7-053-806-74-383-cases-918-deaths-in-a-day/story-eUeWvqJ5pVrh9Uj6OB30hK.html
11-10-2020||India||Monsoon withdrawal likely delayed; heavy rain warning for Odisha, Andhra Pradesh||There is a heavy rain warning Odisha, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, parts of madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada etc between October 10 and 13. A well-marked low-pressure area is lying over east central and adjoining south-east Bay of Bengal which is likely to concentrate into a depression in the next 12 hours.India Meteorological Department has warned that the depression is likely to further intensify into a deep depression in the subsequent 24 hours. The deep depression is likely to move west-northwest wards and cross north Andhra Pradesh coast during forenoon or noon of October 12.Because of the development of the low-pressure area, monsoon withdrawal has slowed. Monsoon normally withdraws completely from the country by October 15.As on Sunday, the withdrawal line of monsoon continues to pass through Faizabad, Fatehpur, Nowgong, Rajgarh, Ratlam, Vallabh Vidyanagar, Porbandar.Also read: Telangana records 50% excess rainfall this monsoon seasonUnder the influence of the low-pressure area, heavy rain is likely over Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Telangana, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, Konkan, Goa, Karnataka and Andaman Islands.Fishermen have been advised not to venture into Andaman Sea during October 10 to 14; Central and adjoining South Bay of Bengal on October 10; along and off Odisha- Andhra Pradesh during 10 to 12; Westcentral Bay of Bengal & adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal, Southwest Bay of Bengal and along and off Tamil Nadu & Puducherry coasts and over Gulf of Mannar during October 11 and 12. Fishermen out at sea over the Bay of Bengal are advised to return to the coasts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-withdrawal-likely-delayed-heavy-rain-warning-out-for-odisha-andhra-pradesh/story-wzhsE8wsGLYfmoKCE4smVM.html
11-10-2020||India||Jabalpur medical college doctor served notice for taking part in Hathras protest||A lady doctor posted at Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Government Medical College, Jabalpur was served a show cause notice on Saturday for allegedly attending a protest against the Hathras case, said dean of the medical college. Government medical college forensic department assistant professor Doctor Rajkumari Bansal had taken a leave of three days from October 4 to 6 and went to Hathras to meet the family of the 19-year-old Dalit victim, who died in a Delhi hospital on September 29 from injuries sustained when she was allegedly gang-raped. She denies having participated in any protest. The medical college dean PK Kasar said Rajkumari Bansal didn’t inform the medical college administration about the purpose of taking leave. “We came to know from media reports that Rajkumari Bansal participated in a protest in Hathras. According to service rules, she can’t take part in any protest as she is a government officer. The notice has been served to her and her reply has been sought within a week. Further action will be subject to her reply.” Talking to media persons Rajkumari Bansal said, “After the gang rape incident, I couldn’t sleep properly for two days. I decided to go to Hathras to console the family and to look into the medical reports of the victim. I stayed there for two days on the request of the family members.” “During my stay, Bhim Army president Chandrashekhar Ravan came to meet the family. Some people and media persons shot my videos, which are now going viral on social media and some people have even called me a Maoist. Scandalous and baseless allegations are being levelled against me,” she added. She further said, “I went there for the sake of humanity. I didn’t participate in any protest. I met Chandrashekhar for the first time and I am not a member of Bhim Army.”“I will reply to the notice. I am going to lodge a complaint to the cyber cell of police against those people who are circulating my videos with defamatory comments, said the doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jabalpur-medical-college-doctor-served-notice-for-taking-part-in-hathras-protest/story-Q0Fox8lZOnWCXeCWtXBhmI.html
11-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Written permission from parents mandatory as UP schools set to reopen from Oct 19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Schools to reopen in UP from October 19 for classes 9-12, written permission from parents mandatoryThe Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday announced reopening of schools from October 19. The schools of all boards and situated outside containment zones will reopen after remaining shut for over six months in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreMumbai Police summon Republic TV CEO, five others todayThe Mumbai Police on Saturday sent summons to six people — the CEO of Republic TV Vikas Khanchandani, COOs Hersh Bhandari and Priya Mukherjee, channel’s distribution head Ghanshyam Singh, CEO of Hansa Research Group Praveen Nijhara and another employee — in the alleged fake TRP fraud probe. Read moreIndia’s Covid-19 tally crosses 7 millionTotal cases of Covid-19 in India crossed seven million on Saturday and the total number of recovered patients surpassed six million, with an apparent slowdown visible in the rate of new infections across the country in recent weeks. Read moreIPL 2020: KKR’s Sunil Narine reported for suspected illegal bowling actionKolkata Knight Riders off-spinner Sunil Narine was reported for bowling with a Suspected Illegal Bowling Action during his side’s Indian Premier League (IPL) 2020 match against Kings XI Punjab at Abu Dhabi on Saturday, a BCCI press released stated. Read moreScam 1992 The Harshad Mehta Story review: Engrossing series brings back Amitabh Bachchan of Dalal StreetAt the height of Harshad Mehta’s run as the king of the Bombay Stock Exchange, a magazine had featured him on its cover with ‘The Raging Bull’ as its headline. Read moreMilind Soman-Ankita Konwar give fans a sneak peek of their mask-free New Jersey tripWhile we revisit old travel memories, Bollywood’s supermodel Milind Soman and wife Ankita Konwar are minting new ones in New Jersey. Keeping their travel bug alive amid Covid-19, the lovebirds were seen giving fans a sneak peek of their latest adventure and we cannot help but crave a similar getaway this weekend. Read moreWhat would it look like to ‘fly’ over Jupiter? Video created using pics showsAre you someone who loves gazing at the sky and wondering about outer space? Is it one of your hobbies to read about different celestial bodies? Read moreIPL 2020: Virat Kohli powers RCB to 37-run win against CSKRoyals Challengers Bangalore beat Chennai Super Kings by 37 runs in Dubai on Saturday. It was captain Kohli’s unbeaten 90 off 52 balls that powered RCB to a competitive 169 for 4 on a slowish track after opting to bat. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-written-permission-from-parents-mandatory-as-up-schools-set-to-reopen-from-oct-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-aw7jaYGbxVtJYk6T7uy0mO.html
11-10-2020||India||Hathras case exposes rift among local BJP leaders; its Rajvir vs Rajvir||The Hathras case has brought the differences among local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders out in the open in the western UP district, especially between two Rajvirs, both with divurgent views on the brutality the 19-year old Dalit woman was subjected to and whose death sparked a national outrage. Local MP Rajvir Singh Diler has courted criticism from some within the party for reaching out to the family of the Dalit woman. In fact, his daughter Manju Diler, too has been criticised for seeking justice for the victim. “My decision to reach out to the victim’s family is being seen by some narrow-minded people through the prism of caste. But I was guided by the simple principle that as a local MP, I will have to stand by the victim. Had the victim not been a Valmiki, I would have still gone out and raised my voice for them.As for the party, we have full faith in the government,” said the Hathras MP.Rajvir Diler belongs to the same Dalit sub caste (Valmiki) as the victim, a point that had been previously raised by the party’s former Hathras MLA Rajvir Singh Pehalwan, an upper caste Thakur, who accused the media of ‘sullying’ the image of Hathras and that of the government. Also Read: CBI handed Hathras case probePehalwan, who convened a mahapanchayat to defend the four accused, minced no words in denouncing the victim. “The victim had initially said that she was attacked by one person. Till that point even I felt, irrespective of his or her caste, it was not right to treat anyone this way. But, four days later, three more persons were added, then, a case of rape was added. How come the victim took four days to realise that?” Pehalwan asked. He also said, “I am following my ‘kshatriya dharam’ and standing on the side of truth, thus I have welcomed the recommendation for the CBI probe. The accused should be immediately released as it is a fabricated case.”About Rajvir Singh Diler and his daughter Manju, the former MLA said, “They were not aware of the facts in the beginning. Thus, they were swayed by emotions and took the side of the victim’s family, but are now silent after knowing the truth. In the initial week, everyone was in the dark, including the media.”“I blame the media, print and electronic, for sullying the image of Hathras and the government. The truth will come out and that’s when I expect the media to apologise. Everybody knows that the arrested accused are from a poor background and are innocent, thus deserving an immediate release,” he said without taking any further queries. Also Read: Centre asks states to act on rape lawThe MP’s daughter, Manju Diler, had written to the UP director general of police HC Awasthy on September 19, seeking action against the four ‘upper caste’ accused, Sandeep, Ravi, Ramu and Luv Kush, and accused them of gang rape and even sought suspension of the then station house officer of Chandapa police station in Hathras for not acting fairly in the case. She too has attracted criticism. While Manju couldn’t be reached, her father and local Hathras MP defended her. “Her only fault is that as a member of Safai Karmachari Ayog, she was approached by some people seeking justice and she forwarded their plea to the authorities. What’s wrong? I want to know whether helping the aggrieved is wrong in any way,” Diler asked. When asked who was behind this, Rajvir Diler said, “opposition parties.”However, aides of Rajvir Diler claim that Pehalwan has been attacking the MP and defending the accused to hog the limelight. Rajvir Diler hit out at Pehalwan for defaming the party. “Tell me when the chief minister promptly set up an SIT, recommended a CBI probe, where was the need for a mahapanchayat? Now, a narco test has been ordered too. We did what we could and now it’s the job of the agencies to inquire,” Rajvir Diler said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-exposes-rift-among-local-bjp-leaders-its-rajvir-vs-rajvir/story-gMJOrDz2ruhPNjHy9h3n7O.html
11-10-2020||India||Abdullah Abdullah concludes visit in India||Afghanistan leader and Chairman of High Council for National Reconciliation (HCNR), Abdullah Abdullah concluded his visit in India on Saturday, where he was invited by the Indian government to discuss peace efforts and support for the Afghan peace process.In a Twitter post, the Afghan peace negotiator thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, among others, for their hospitality.“l successfully concluded a four days official visit to India. I would like to thank excellencies the PM @narendramodi, @DrSJaishankar, the External Affairs Minister, Ajit Kumar Doval, the NSA, the @IDSAIndia, the Govt., & people of India for their warm welcome & hospitality,” tweeted Abdullah.Also Read | ‘Afghan leadership won’t have concerns if India engages with Taliban’: Abdullah AbdullahHe further thanked the neighbours of Afghanistan for their support to the peace process in the country.“I thank the neighbours of Afghanistan for expressing their full support for the Afghan Peace Process. Regional consensus, & cooperation is pivotal for peace in our country,” he said in a subsequent tweet.On Thursday, Abdullah met PM Modi and Doval, where he reaffirmed the long-term commitment to further deepen India-Afghan ties.A day later, Jaishankar met Abdullah and assured him of India’s commitment to peace, prosperity and stability in the neighbouring country.This was the first visit of Abdullah to India after the formation of a new government in Afghanistan.His visit came at a time when the Afghanistan government and Taliban are trying to negotiate a deal in order to restore peace in the country. Prior to the New Delhi trip, Abdullah had visited Pakistan and discussed the Afghan peace process with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, Foreign Minister, and other Pakistani officials.The peace talks between the Afghanistan government and the Taliban began on September 12 in Qatar’s capital Doha to end decades of war in which tens of thousands have been killed.The intra-Afghan talks was a key element in the peace deal signed between the United States and the Taliban in Doha on February 29 between the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation, Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad and the Taliban deputy leader, Mullah Abdul Ghani Barader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abdullah-abdullah-concludes-visit-in-india/story-26hBTGun8bi7fTFF8HLo5K.html
11-10-2020||India||Law and order collapsed in Bengal, Congress-Left will fight: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||West Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Saturday alleged that law and order has collapsed in the state and the Congress and the Left will fight together against both the BJP and the TMC.Assembly elections in the state are due in April-May next year.The Pradesh Congress Committee president led a two- km-long march from Bidhan Bhavan, the party’s state headquarters, to Y Channel in Esplanade against the “near- extinct” healthcare system in the state which “failed” to cope with the Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read: Video of Sikh man’s turban being pulled at BJP’s Kolkata march sparks outrageCongress workers also protested the rise in power tariff and increase in the prices of essential commodities.The Left and the Congress will fight together against the TMC and the BJP to “expose” their “fascist undemocratic nature and communal politics”, he said.“The state is passing through a critical juncture, and the ruling TMC government has failed on all fronts -- health, controlling prices of essential commodities and the law and order which has collapsed with the rise in murders and attacks on women.“The TMC has failed to protect the people of the state. There is no democracy in West Bengal,” the Congress leader in the Lok Sabha said during the march.The fight of the Congress is both against the TMC in the state and the BJP at the Centre, he said.Around 1,000 party activists participated in the march, holding placards criticising the TMC government in the state and shouting slogans.“We don’t want this government which only believes in the cut money culture,” Chowdhury added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-and-order-collapsed-in-bengal-congress-left-will-fight-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury/story-mQWu0iRmc6CaXztj9DVLEL.html
11-10-2020||India||Heavy rains likely in many parts of Odisha over next 4 days||With the fresh low pressure area over Bay of Bengal further intensifying on Saturday, many parts of Odisha are likely to be lashed by heavy rainfall over the next four days, the Meteorological Centre here said.This is the ninth instance of a low pressure system over Bay of Bengal since the beginning of August and another is likely to take shape around October 14, the weatherman said.The present low-pressure area, which was formed on Friday intensified further and became well marked on Saturday over east-central and adjoining south-east Bay of Bengal with associated cyclonic circulation extending up to mid- tropospheric levels.It is likely to concentrate into a depression over the central Bay of Bengal by Sunday, the met office said.There is also a possibility that the system may further intensify into a deep depression during the subsequent 24 hours, it said.It is very likely to move west-northwest ward and cross north Andhra Pradesh coast as a depression on Monday morning.Under its influence, rainfall of varying intensity will lash many parts of Odisha over the next few days, while heavy to very heavy downpour may take place in several areas for around four days from Sunday, it said.Strong surface wind with speed reaching 45-55 kmph and gusting to 65 kmph may prevail over central Bay of Bengal during October 10 to 11 and along and off Odisha Coast adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal from October 11 to 13, it said.Fishermen were advised not to venture into the sea during the period.Special Relief Commissioner P K Jena has asked the district officials to be in a state of readiness.As sea conditions are likely to be rough, the advice for fishermen must be strictly implemented, he said.The met department has forecast thunderstorm with lightning at some places of Malkangiri, Koraput, Rayagada, Gajapati, Ganjam, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Bargarh, Jharsuguda, Sundargarh and Keonjhar districts till Sunday and heavy rainfall in some areas of Ganjam and Puri during the period.Heavy rainfall is also likely to occur at one or two places over Gajapati, Ganjam, Puri, Rayagada, Jagatsinghpur, Malkangiri and Koraput districts on Sunday and Monday.Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur at one or two places in Gajapati, Ganjam, Rayagada, Puri, Malkangiri, Kandhamal, Nayagarh, Khurda, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara and Bhadrak districts on Monday and Tuesday.Some places of Malkangiri, Koraput, Nabarangpur, Gajapati and Rayagada districts are likely to receive heavy rainfall on Tuesday and Wednesday, it said. PTI SKN SBN KK KK KK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-likely-in-many-parts-of-odisha-over-next-4-days/story-YVGP6WOE5MsPumlnXgJxuO.html
11-10-2020||India||Schools to reopen in UP from October 19 for classes 9-12, written permission from parents mandatory||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday announced reopening of schools from October 19. The schools of all boards and situated outside containment zones will reopen after remaining shut for over six months in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Classes will be held in shifts and all necessary protocols including social distancing and proper sanitisation of premises will have to be followed by schools, the state government announced.“In the first phase, Classes 9 to 12 may start in these schools. The schools must run in two shifts of smaller durations, to ensure student safety,” deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said.In the first shift, students of Classes 9 and 10 may come to school, while in the second shift, students of Classes 11 and 12 may attend classes, he said. A maximum of 50 per cent students should be called in a day and remaining 50 per cent the following day.Students will only be allowed to attend classes after furnishing written permission from their parents or guardians, the government said.Additional chief secretary, Secondary Education, Aradhana Shukla, has issued an order in this connection and a standard operating procedure (SOP) on health, sanitation and necessary protocols has already been issued for the reopening of schools, a statement from the state government said.The order is available on the website of the department, it said.Before reopening, schools will have to undertake proper sanitisation and this exercise is mandatory before every shift on a regular basis, the government statement said.In case of symptoms of cold or fever in any student, teacher or other employees, they will be sent home after primary treatment, it added.All teachers, students and workers should compulsorily use masks and the school management should keep reserve masks, said the statement.Directives have also been issued to continue online teaching and encouraging it. Priority should be given to calling those students to school who do not have access to online teaching, Sharma said.Uttar Pradesh has reported 4,33,712 Covid-19 cases so far. A total of 6,353 people have succumbed to the disease in the state, according to news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-to-reopen-in-up-from-october-19-for-classes-9-12-written-permission-from-parents-mandatory/story-Ivh21nbeq5YzfGExm3q9LJ.html
11-10-2020||India||No communal angle in Adarsh Nagar violence, it was a dispute between families: Police||The Delhi Police on Saturday issued a clarification over the death of an 18-year-old man, who was beaten up by a group over his alleged relationship with a girl, and succumbed to his injuries.Delhi Police said this is not a communal matter but a dispute between families.“Certain sections of print media have tried to give communal overtones to the incident, which is factually incorrect. It is clarified that it’s a matter of dispute between the two families,” Delhi Police said.Earlier in the day, three juveniles were among five persons arrested on Saturday after an 18-year old man, who was beaten up by this group over his alleged relationship with a girl, succumbed to his injuries.“The 18-year-old victim, Rahul, was friendly with a girl from Jahangirpuri. Her family objected to their friendship and beat him up. He was admitted to the Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital in Delhi in an unconscious condition on Wednesday and later succumbed to his injuries,” Vijayanta Arya, District Commissioner of Police, North West Delhi had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-communal-angle-in-adarsh-nagar-violence-it-was-a-dispute-between-families-police/story-EjeZ4GZS2Ix93PoCkgp6aO.html
11-10-2020||India||PM Modi to launch property cards under SVAMITVA scheme soon||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch distribution of property cards under the Survey of Villages And Mapping With Improvised Technology In Village Areas (SVAMITVA) scheme at 11am on Sunday. These cards are physical copies of property titles of the villagers’ homes and the surrounding areas they own (as opposed to the cultivated land).The SVAMITVA scheme, which was launched by the PM in April, enables rural masses to use property as a financial asset, the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement on Friday.PM Modi will interact with some of the beneficiaries of the scheme as part of the event in which cards will be handed over to around 132,000 landowners. Union minister for panchayati raj Narendra Singh Tomar will be present in the programme. कल का दिन ग्रामीण भारत के लिए एक बड़ा सकारात्मक परिवर्तन लाने वाला है। सुबह 11 बजे स्वामित्व योजना के अंतर्गत संपत्ति कार्ड के वितरण का शुभारंभ किया जाएगा। यह योजना करोड़ों भारतीयों के जीवन में मील का पत्थर साबित होगी। #SampatiSeSampantahttps://t.co/OQUEPSGCjrAccording to the PMO, the beneficiaries are from 763 villages including 346 from Uttar Pradesh, 221 from Haryana, 100 from Maharashtra, 44 from Madhya Pradesh, 50 from Uttarakhand and two from Karnataka. Beneficiaries from all states except Maharashtra will receive physical copies of the property cards within one day but since the western state has a system of recovering the nominal cost of these cards, it will take a month’s time there, the PMO statement read.The scheme is being implemented across the country in a phased manner. It will cover 662,000 villages from 2020 to 2024 and pave the way for using property as a financial asset by villagers for taking loans and other financial benefits, the statement added.Millions of rural property owners will benefit from the first of its kind scheme that involves the most modern means of technology, the PMO claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-property-cards-under-svamitva-scheme-today/story-66gTsa9jzbZJfbPmlofk7I.html
11-10-2020||India||NIT-Hamirpur director sacked over complaints||The director of National Institute of Technology, Hamirpur has been terminated from service with immediate effect following several complaints against him. Professor Vinod Yadava had assumed the charge of the office on March 23, 2018, for five years. However, following several complaints against him, a committee was constituted on July 13 to inquire into the state of affairs at the NIT. The report of the committee, headed by the chairman of National Council for Teacher Education, found that a prima facie case was lodged against Yadava under the provisions of the National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and Research Act, 2007.President Ram Nath Kovind, who is also the visitor of the institute, has approved Yadav’s termination with immediate effect. The Human Resource Development ministry has decided that Prof Lalit Awasthi, Director, Dr B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT) in Jalandhar, will continue to hold the additional charge of the post of the Director, NIT with immediate effect. Yadava will be provided with a sum equivalent to the amount of his basic pay for three months.The latest order of the Ministry of Higher Education has been hailed by teaching and non-teaching members of the institution. On other hand, there are indications that the axe may also fall on all those who were appointed in this institution after Yadava’s recommendations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nit-hamirpur-director-sacked-over-complaints/story-6GUWcFbyDhFxbmvtYTB8qI.html
11-10-2020||India||LeT commander, 3 other terrorists killed in Kashmir||Four terrorists, including a top commander of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), were killed in two separate encounters in south Kashmir on Saturday, police said.The police said the two terrorists killed in Kulgam district have been identified as members of the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), while one of the two killed in Pulwama has been identified as LeT’s top commander Zahid Nazir Bhat. “LeT’s top commander Zahid Nazir Bhat (Zahid Tiger) killed in today’s encounter at Pulwama. A big success for Police & other security forces”, the Kashmir police tweeted.A police spokesperson said that the Kulgam joint operation by the Army, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the Jammu and Kashmir Police was launched on Friday night after a specific input regarding the presence of terrorists in Chinigam area of Pulwama. “During the search operation, as soon as the presence of terrorists was ascertained, they were given the opportunity to surrender. However, they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party, which was retaliated leading to an encounter,” he said.The suspected terrorists have been identified as Tariq Ahmad Mir, a resident of Divsar Kulgam, and Sameer Bhai Usman, a Pakistani national. Both are believed to be JeM operatives. “They were involved in many terror crimes and civilian atrocities including the killing of a policeman,” the spokesperson added. He further said that Inspector general of police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar lauded the role of the forces. “...Security Forces exercised strict restraint. Terrorists fired UBGL & AK during the night. Civilians evacuated at first light. One M4 rifle & one pistol recovered,” Army’s Chinar Corps said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-commander-3-other-terrorists-killed-in-kashmir/story-S0deqxqqkENQh8ePXLBUDL.html
11-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 7 million||Total cases of Covid-19 in India crossed seven million on Saturday and the total number of recovered patients surpassed six million, with an apparent slowdown visible in the rate of new infections across the country in recent weeks.The latest million infections have come in 13 days, compared to the previous million cases coming in 12 days – a statistic that highlights how new cases in the country are relenting. Over 107,000 people have lost their lives to the viral disease in the seven months since the outbreak started in India in early March.Click here for full covid-19 coverageAs of late on Saturday, there were 7,051,165 total cases of Covid-19, 108,374 deaths, while 6,074,507 people had recovered from the disease, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. The first wave of Covid-19, however, appears to be receding for the first time, with cases seeing a steady drop for three consecutive weeks now. Experts have, however, warned that with the festive season coming up, the curve may rise again if people let their guard down. The seven-day average of daily cases in India touched 93,617 on September 16, the highest till date. Since then, however, this number (also referred to as the daily case trajectory) has been dropping steadily and stands at 72,003 on Saturday — down around 23% from the peak.This drop in the rate of new cases is evident if the country’s seven million infections are broken into phases of million cases. While it took 137 days for the first million cases, the subsequent million new infections came in 21, 16 and 13 days. India touched five million cases on September 15, 11 days from the day it hit four million. From there, however, the duration has gradually increased – six million cases took 12 days, while the seven million mark was hit in 13 days. This reversal in trajectory has been led by the some of the states that have so far caused the national spike in cases — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi. Together, these four states have been responsible for 46% of all infections and new infections have dropped from peak levels in the first half of September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-7-million/story-sHeZ60Ydcql4eVxr94DKEN.html
11-10-2020||India||Covid detection with CRISPR, phones in offing||Researchers in the US led by the 2020 Nobel laureate for chemistry Jennifer Doudna have used a CRISPR gene-editing technology to develop a rapid, portable, accurate, and low-cost mobile-based test that can detect the pandemic coronavirus (Sars-CoV2) in five minutes. This new CRISPR diagnostic method doesn’t amplify coronavirus RNA but uses multiple guide RNAs that work in tandem to increase the sensitivity of the test, said the research team in the yet to be peer-reviewed study published in the pre-print server medRxiv. The test does not require expensive lab equipment, and can be deployed for rapid point-of-care testing at doctor’s offices, schools, and office buildings. The diagnostic gold standard for coronavirus disease diagnosis is the quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) test, which takes five to six hours to produce result. CRISPR-based diagnostics that utilises RNA and DNA-targeting enzymes can augment gold-standard PCR-based testing if they can be made rapid, portable and accurate, said Doudna’s team. “The assay achieved ~100 copies/μL sensitivity in under 30 minutes and accurately detected a set of positive clinical samples in under 5 minutes. We combined crRNAs targeting SARS-CoV-2 RNA to improve sensitivity and specificity, and we directly quantified viral load using enzyme kinetics. Combined with mobile phone-based quantification, this assay can provide rapid, low-cost, point-of-care screening to aid in the control of SARS-CoV-2,” write researchers. The test also quantifies the amount of virus in a sample, with the strength of the fluorescent signal proportional to the amount of virus in a sample. This cannot be done in standard Covid-19 tests that amplify the virus’ genetic material to detect it. Detecting a patient’s viral load can guide treatment decisions. The test needs validation before it is commercially available.CRISPR diagnosis work by identifying a sequence of RNA—about 20 RNA bases long—that is unique to SARS-CoV-2. They do so by creating a “guide RNA” that is complementary to the target RNA sequence so it binds to it in solution. The binding turns on the CRISPR tool’s Cas13 “scissors” enzyme that cuts single-stranded RNA to release a separately introduced fluorescent particle in the test solution. These fluorescent particles light up to when hit with laser light, signaling the presence of the virus. CRISPR diagnostics is already being used for Sars-CoV-2 detection, but the new test is the fastest CRISPR-based diagnostic yet. “I think this is an interesting new approach that is faster because it doesn’t have an amplification step. But, because it doesn’t have the amplification step, it cannot easily detect low viral loads unlike qRT-PCR or FELUDA. The five minutes result is only when starting from RNA with high amount of virus. For usual samples it will be more than 30 minutes. The device requirement is not zero but low - a constant temperature holder and a laser illumination optical box. I think CRISPR based tests will see a lot of innovation and it is a good sign for the fight against COVID-19,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Council of Scientific & Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB), New Delhi. Scientist from CSIR-IGIB have also developed a precise and cost-effective strip test named after a popular Satyajit Ray detective FELUDA to detect Covid-19 in one hour, starting from RNA to giving a visual readout on the strip. FELUDA, which is an acronym for FNCAS9 Editor-Linked Uniform Detection Assay, uses CRISPR gene-editing technology to identify and target the genetic material of Sars-CoV2, the virus that causes Covid-19. It has been developed by CSIR-IGIB senior scientists Dr Debojyoti Chakraborty and Dr Souvik Maiti. FELUDA tests work by combining CRISPR biology and paper strip chemistry. A Cas9 protein, a component of the CRISPR system, is barcoded to interact specifically with the Sars-CoV2 sequence in the patient’s genetic material. The complex of Cas9 with Sars-CoV2 is then applied to a paper strip, where using two lines (one control, one test) make it possible to determine if the test sample was infected with Covid-19. Going forward, CRISPR-based tests have the potential for modification to detect the next emerging virus and rapidly scale up testing, if needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-detection-with-crispr-phones-in-offing/story-AhGdupxyCIAQOfSiCnQ56O.html
11-10-2020||India||CBI handed Hathras case probe||The Centre on Saturday issued a notification handing over the probe into the gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras in September to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). An official familiar with the development said the agency will re-register the FIR filed by the UP police in the gang rape and murder case. The notification has been marked to a suitable branch of CBI and probe teams, along with forensic experts, will be dispatched to the crime scene after the registration of an FIR, the official added.However, a senior CBI official who didn’t wish to be named, said that federal agency will not be taking over probe into the case related to alleged criminal conspiracy to spread caste conflict, instigating violence, incidents of vicious propaganda by sections of media and political interests. In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court earlier this week, the UP government had said that a probe by central agency would obviate hindrance being created by certain vested interests in the fair and impartial investigation. It had added that a CBI probe will ensure that no vested interests will be able to create a fake and false narrative with oblique motives. In Hathras, elaborate security cover has been provided to the victim’s family members, who are slated to appear before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Monday.“The district administration and police are drafting a plan for the journey of the victim’s family to Lucknow so that they may appear before the court on October 12. Finer details are being worked out and it is to be decided when to leave Hathras for Lucknow and how many security personnel would accompany the family members,” said Hathras superintendent of police Vineet Jaiswal.Police officials said the victim’s family has been provided a layered security cover. “For the purpose of documentation of those coming to meet the family, a register is being maintained and names of those reaching the house are being noted,” said deputy inspector general (DIG) of police Shalabh Mathur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-handed-hathras-case-probe/story-4x6yUeZQWRSpvkn1zPVY4N.html
11-10-2020||India||Centre asks states to act on rape law||The Union home ministry has issued a fresh advisory to states and Union Territories to ensure that investigations into crimes against women are completed within two months, and dying declarations are not discarded just because they were not recorded by a magistrate, a move that came shortly before the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was handed the probe into the gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old woman in Hathras that has sparked national outrage.In the three-page advisory issued late on Friday evening, the Centre directed that there should be compulsory registration of an FIR in case of a cognisable offence under the CrPC (criminal procedure code), and any failure of the police to adhere to rules does not augur well for the delivery of justice. For crimes that are not under the jurisdiction of a police station, a “Zero FIR” should be registered as per the law, the advisory said. A “Zero FIR” can be filed at any police station irrespective of the place of incident or jurisdiction.The advisory said that officials who fail to file an FIR in relation with cognisable offences should be punished.According to the declaration of the Hathras victim, she was raped and badly beaten up by four men on September 14. She was moved to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital on September 28 in a serious condition and died early on September 29. At 2.30am the next day, the police cremated the body without the family’s consent in a field near the village.Opposition leaders and activists have held protests over the way the case was handled by the authorities, alleging negligence and delayed action in investigations. Five police officials have been suspended amid the outrage. On Saturday evening, the central government issued a notification for CBI to take over probe into the case, an official said. The home ministry told the states and UT administrations that the Section 173 of CrPC provides for completion of police investigation in relation to rape in two months and Section 164-A of CrPC provides that in rape or sexual assault investigation, the victim should be examined by a registered medical practitioner under consent within 24 hours from the time of receiving the information relating to the commission of such offence.“The statement, written or verbal by a person, who is dead, shall be treated as relevant fact in the investigation when the statement is made by a person as to the cause” of the death or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction that resulted in the death, the advisory added.The Centre referred to a Supreme Court verdict dated January 7 in which the apex court said that a dying declaration that satisfies all judicial scrutiny cannot be discarded merely because it is not recorded by a magistrate or because a police officer failed to obtain attestation by any person present at the time of making of the statement.The advisory comes ahead of Monday’s hearing of the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on the 19-year-old’s gang rape and her rushed cremation. The Supreme Court is also hearing a petition in the matter. At a hearing last week, an SC bench led by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde described the crime as a “horrible” and “extraordinary”one. A special investigation team constituted by the UP government has been investigating the matter. Asking states and UTs to ensure that strict probe is carried out in such cases, the home ministry also advised them to use the national database on sexual offenders for identifying and tracking repeat criminal. “The Government of India has taken steps to strengthen legislative provisions to deal with incidents of sexual offences against women and girls. It is requested that States and UTs, may suitably issue instructions to all concerned to ensure strict compliance with the provisions in the law,” it added. “even with stringent provisions in law and several capacity building measures undertaken, any failure of police to adhere to these mandatory requirements may not augur well for the delivery of criminal justice in the country...” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-act-on-rape-law/story-U3OATxieVPq80ZbnEDPE7L.html
11-10-2020||India||Delhi gets its baseline for pollution due to impact of Covid-19 lockdown||Delhi’s baseline pollution level --- the minimum pollution when major polluting sources are shut --- is about a tenth of the peak pollution the capital witnesses, especially during the October-January period, a new study based on real time pollution data during Covid-19 lockdown this April, has found.Air quality of a place depends on overall pollution load from sources such as industries and vehicles and the local weather conditions, which impact dispersion of pollutants. Scientists from the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) have published a paper in peer reviewed science journal, Current Science, providing baseline pollution level for six different pollutants for Delhi, after studying air quality levels at 34 locations in the capital, where real time pollution is monitored.“This is the first baseline pollution level data of Delhi. While background pollution is pollution which comes from outside or which would have been naturally present, baseline pollution is the minimum pollution level to which the population is chronically exposed and hence greatly relevant to epidemiological research. Such emission scenario was nearly impractical in a highly populated megacity like Delhi,” said MP George, a scientist with the Delhi Pollution Control Committee and one of the team members who did the research.The study is based on average pollution levels for the city before and during the Covid-19 lockdown that kicked in pan-India from March 25, halting factories, construction sites, almost all vehicular movement and some other local sources that pollute Delhi’s air.While emission sources dropped by 85% - 90% resulting in sharp decline in pollution levels, the weather also favoured Delhi and pushed down the city’s pollution to rock bottom. “The baseline levels of PM10 and PM2.5 were found to be 38μg/m3 (± 8) and 22μg/m3 (± 6) respectively. The baseline value of NO2 was found to be 8ppb (± 3), which is considered to be very high,” states the research paper, published on October 10. The research was led by Gufran Beig, a senior scientist with the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, in Pune. Eleven researchers from IITM, DPCC, Utkal University and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) analyzed data from 34 automatic air quality monitoring stations in Delhi from February 20 to April 14 and prepared base level of seven pollutants including PM10, PM2.5, NO2 and SO2 among others. The data were compared with pollution levels of 2019 during the same period for reference purpose. The level of PM10 was found to shoot up occasionally in May despite lockdown because of dust storms bringing in pollutants from the sandy western parts of India. The findings show that even though PM10 levels remained mostly above the permissible limit of 100μg/m3 during the pre-lockdown period occasionally touching and crossing the 200μg/m3 mark, in the post lockdown period it remained much below the 100 μg/m3 mark. On Saturday at 5 pm, it was 232μg/m3, almost six time the pollution level of the baseline. The level of PM2.5 remained mostly above the permissible limit of 60μg/m3 in the pre-lockdown period and on one occasion it shot up to nearly 140μg/m3. Compared to this in the lockdown period it remained below the 40μg/m3 mark on most days and even touched 20μg/m3. On Saturday at 5 pm it was 95μg/m3, almost five times of the baseline. In winter, PM2.5 and PM10 breach their respective severe+ marks of 300ug/m3 and 500ug/m3, primarily because of poor dispersion and higher pollution load because of stubble burning in the farm rich states of Punjab and Haryana. It starts coming down from February as weather starts becoming warmer and burning also reduces. “Pollution level dropped sharply immediately after the lockdown and concentration of pollutants touched the saturation level within a few days, beyond which further decline was not possible. In the present case, each pollutant of Delhi reached the saturation level within 4–6 days after lockdown, beyond which a steady level was maintained,” the authors said in the paper. Experts have welcomed the study saying that it is this baseline pollution which the population is chronically exposed and hence greatly relevant to epidemiological research. “This is the first baseline data. Some pollution will always be there because of kitchen pollution and pollution triggered to operate emergency services, say an ambulance on the road or a thermal power plant. Such baseline-pollution scenario is practically impossible to achieve in a megacity like Delhi but the lockdown helped us to prepare the first set of baseline pollution data. We should now utilize this to redefine our air quality standards and also plan our pollution mitigation strategies,” said D Saha, former chief of the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality laboratory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-gets-its-baseline-for-pollution-due-to-impact-of-covid-19-lockdown/story-WAEzEXq4cxC7AtlKIvLFbK.html
11-10-2020||India||Longer break may hit credit discipline: RBI to Supreme Court||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has told the Supreme Court that the moratorium on loan repayment cannot be extended beyond six months because that could affect “credit discipline”; requested the Court to lift the stay on classifying defaulting accounts as non-performing assets (NPA) because not doing so would affect the central bank’s regulatory powers; and pointed out that banking solutions cannot address the structural problems of the real estate sector. The banking regulator’s affidavit also highlighted the “proactive” steps taken by RBI in mitigating the economic impact of Covid-19 and the lockdown imposed to slow its spread. It was filed in response to the ongoing case in the Supreme Court that was originally filed by Agra-based Gajendra Sharma seeking a waiver of interest on instalments deferred under the RBI’s six-month moratorium and in which several industrial bodies and associations have joined. Several experts believe that financial and banking issues are best left to the sector regulator and are not for the courts to weigh in on, especially given their complexity. RBI didn’t take this approach in its affidavit, but pointed out that a waiver could have “significant economic costs which cannot be absorbed by banks without serious dent to their financials” . It further added that the primary plea of petitioners such as Sharma has been addressed by the government’s recent decision to take on the compound cost of all loans, including retail ones, up to ₹2 crore.  In its Friday affidavit, RBI said that a moratorium exceeding six months will impact credit behaviour of borrowers and “increase the risk of delinquencies (defaults) post resumption of scheduled payments”. Continuation of moratorium will also not be in the interest of borrowers as it will exacerbate “repayment pressures”. This will further upset the overall credit discipline and impact credit creation in the economy, RBI said .The affidavit filed ahead of the Tuesday hearing on the case also urged the court to lift the stay on declaring accounts as NPAs as this decision undermines the regulatory mandate of the RBI. “An across the board stay on classification of any account as NPA…if not lifted immediately, shall have huge implications for the banking system,” RBI said. The top court on September 3 said: “The accounts which were not declared NPA till August 31, 2020 shall not be declared NPA till further orders.”The central bank was also very clear that while it was willing to cut some slack for borrowers whose repayment abilities have been affected by the pandemic, it will do no such thing for others , and refused to offer relief to borrowers who have demanded extension of resolution plan for loans that were overdue beyond 30 days as on March 1, 2020. “An account which was impacted by pandemic as well as had a pre-existing financial has a different risk profile as compared to an account without pre-existing stress and to treat both borrowers on equal footing would be gross suspension of economic sensibilities,” it said. On October 2, the Finance Ministry informed the SC of its decision to waive off the compound interest accruing during the moratorium. This “interest on interest” waiver was applicable to loans of up to Rs 2 crore taken by individuals or micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). When the matter was last heard on Monday, a three judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said it could not find any notification by which this relief had been implemented. The bench, also comprising Justices RS Reddy and MR Shah asked the Union government and RBI to highlight this on affidavit and also desired to know what relief was in place to address sector-specific issues, for businesses such as real estate and power. RBI filed the KV Kamath Committee recommendations which lay down financial parameters for restructuring 26 industries. It stated that sectors such as power and real estate were already stressed even before the outbreak of the pandemic. “The travails of real sector cannot be solved through banking regulations,” RBI added, pointing to the burden of unsold inventories and stalled projects that is crushing the real estate industry.The central bank’s affidavit explained that by a September 7 notification, it had laid down the thresholds for the 26 sectors based on Kamath Committee recommendations. This specifically addressed the issues concerning power and real estate. The affidavit stated that even in respect of borrowers who were in financial difficulty when the pandemic broke out, there will be no bar on restructuring such accounts as the lending institutions will be free to make their own assessment. Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said the concern of RBI is genuine and well founded. “Further Extension of moratorium would have been catastrophic for the quality of banking portfolio and to the credit culture of the borrowers. Wish courts let regulators take decisions based on sound economic practices. We should also not forget that banks raise funds from small depositors and retail shareholders and any further extension would have put their stakes at risk,” Vijayasarathy added. Chartered accountant Vijay Kumar Gupta, former Central Council Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), said, “The banking regulator should be allowed to take prudent decisions so that the sector should not fall sick, which will have larger and adverse implications for the economy. Borrowers must, however, be protected through fiscal stimulus and budgetary measures.” Along with the RBI, the Centre too filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court in the loan moratorium case. The ministry of finance, in its affidavit filed on Friday, told the Court that the decision to waive off “interest on interest” will have to undergo appraisal by the Expenditure Finance Committee and thereafter would be placed for approval of the Union Cabinet. Only then the decision will mature into an Office Memorandum or circular or order. The reply came pursuant to a query put by the Court on Monday asking the Centre when the notification announcing waiver on compound interest on repayment of loans during moratorium will be issued. Its only after the notification will be issued, the lending institutions will be in a position to implement the Scheme. Further, the Centre urged the Court not to entertain further judicial review on the petitions pending before it as “fiscal policy is the remit of Government”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/longer-break-may-hit-credit-discipline-rbi-to-supreme-court/story-GEetGMjZjAcz362qH0XnoN.html
11-10-2020||India||Triple Talaq crusader Shayara Bano joins BJP in Dehradun||Triple talaq crusader Shayara Bano who was among the first petitioners in the Supreme Court against the practice of Triple Talaq or instant divorce in the Muslim community, joined the BJP at its state headquarters in Dehradun on Saturday. Bano, a resident of US Nagar district in the state joined the party in the presence of state president and MLA Bansidhar Bhagat and other senior leaders. Bano had shot into limelight in 2016 when she filed a petition in the Supreme Court on Triple Talaq, which the NDA government later made a punishable offence. Expressing her gratitude on joining BJP, Bano said she joined the national party as she was ‘influenced by its principles’.“Not only was I highly influenced with BJP’s principles, I also looked upon PM Modi as my ideal. These are the reasons that I decided to join BJP,” Bano said.She also said that she was impressed with the BJP-led NDA government’s fight against the Triple Talaq by bringing in a law against it. “What this party’s government did was for the welfare of crores of Muslim women in this country.”“In future I am ready to shoulder any responsibility given by the party leadership,” said Bano. BJP state unit president Bhagat who welcomed her into the party said, “The determination with which Bano fought the battle against Triple Talaq in Supreme Court, I am sure she will carry forward the principles of BJP with the same determination.”The Congress meanwhile called the development as BJP’s tactic to “divert the attention of the public from real issues”.“It is purely an attention diverting tactic by BJP. When they should talk about real issues like unemployment, price rise, falling GDP, they are busy raking up issues like Triple Talaq and enabling new joinees in the party like Shayara Bano,” said Suryakant Dhasmana, party state vice president. Calling Bano a mere ‘pawn’ in the hands of BJP he said, “BJP has been using such pawns to target minorities and appease the majority and harming the social fabric of the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/triple-talaq-crusader-shayara-bano-joins-bjp-in-dehradun/story-GiVpWQBh5KhqKxLNjfz5sM.html
11-10-2020||India||Verifying authenticity of video claiming jawans have non-bulletproof vehicles: CRPF||Hours after former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Saturday tweeted a video in which some troops allege that they were being made to travel in a non-bulletproof vehicle for operational duties, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) issued a statement saying it was ascertaining the authenticity of the video. “The authenticity of the video is being probed into by CRPF. CRPF has adequate protective vehicles to meet varied operational requirements,” said DIG Moses Dhinakaran, spokesperson for CRPF in a statement. Gandhi attacked the government over the provision of non-bullet proof vehicles for soldiers while spending Rs 8,400 crore to procure aircraft for Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Is this justice?” he asked on Twitter along with a video of a purported conversation among soldiers being transported in non-bullet proof vehicles.“Our jawans are being sent in non-bullet proof trucks to get martyred and Rs 8,400 crore aircraft is bought for the PM! Is this justice,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. The video shows a conversation between soldiers objecting to their transportation in a non-bullet proof vehicle, while their seniors were using bullet-proof vehicles.The jawans also complained that by doing so their lives were being compromised and the authorities were playing with their and their families’ lives.The government has recently brought two VVIP planes for travel of the President, Prime Minister and Vice President, even as it maintained that the process for procuring the two aircraft had begun under the UPA government, and the current dispensation has only brought it to a logical conclusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/verifying-authenticity-of-video-claiming-jawans-have-non-bulletproof-vehicles-crpf/story-AB6B39m8irFLVYCkrt2HjP.html
11-10-2020||India||YSRC accuses high court, top court judge of trying to topple its govt||The Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday accused Supreme Court judge N V Ramana and the state high court of attempting to destabilise and topple the YSR Congress government in the state led by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy under the directions of Telugu Desam Party president N Chandrababu Naidu. The allegations, which could not be verified by Hindustan Times, were made in a press conference in Hyderabad late on Saturday evening. The state government also issued a statement to this effect. A letter written by Reddy to Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, in which the chief minister detailed his allegations about the proximity of Justice Ramana to Naidu, and the adversarial stance taken by the high court against his government’s decisions as well as investigations into charges against judicial officers and their relatives, was also released at the conference. The letter had detailed annexures listing specific judgements, and naming judges of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. HT could not immediately reach Justice Ramana, the second senior most judge in the apex court after CJI Bobde. Neither he nor his assistant could be reached over phone; and the phone at his official residence was answered by a person who said the judge wasn’t at home. This is the first time that the Jagan government has made a direct attack on the higher judiciary, though his party leaders and ministers have been making statements against high court judges for stalling various decisions of the government, including the so-called three capitals plan. In his letter to CJI Bobde, Reddy accused the state judiciary of being biased in favour of the TDP and its interests in the nature of the orders passed staying investigation, staying enquiry, even in admitting cases for hearing. The press conference was addressed by the CM’s principal advisor Ajeya Kallam ; this is likely the first time a sitting chief minister has made an allegation of such a serious nature against one of the senior most judges in the Supreme Court. Also Read: Days after meeting Amit Shah, Jagan Reddy meets PM Modi; seeks Centre’s help for 3 capitalsThe government said in its statement that the state high court has entertained several writ petitions against the Reddy government’s decisions, including a bill on the creation of three capitals bills, in order to protect the vested interests in Amaravati, the new capital identified by the Naidu government that was previously in power in the state. The decision to shift the capital of Andhra Pradesh from Amaravati was taken by the Reddy government after it came to power. Nearly 30 public interest litigation petitions (PILs) were filed at various stages of legitimate government functioning, impleading the chief minister as a respondent, the statement pointed out. In his letter to CJI Bobde, Reddy referred to Justice Ramana’s proximity to Naidu. He also added that Justice Ramana as “influencing the sittings of the High Court including the roster .... and ... matters important to the TDP have been allocated to a few” judges. The annexures listed these cases and the orders issued by the judges.  Justice Ramana started influencing the judiciary in the state through chief justice Jitendra Kumar Maheswari, the statement by the state government claimed. “Justice Ramana influenced the roster of high court judges so that important matters of policy and protection for Naidu’s interests were posted before a few judges including Justice A V Sesha Sai, Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy, Justice D V S S Somayyajulu and Justice D Ramesh,” the statement added. Reddy ended his letter to CJI Bobde by seeking him to initiate steps to ensure the neutrality of the state judiciary, and offered to substantiate all the details provided in the annexure to his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysrc-accuses-high-court-top-court-judge-of-trying-to-topple-its-govt/story-gtoRFO8JMCWmgTYV3WCbcL.html
11-10-2020||India||Covid-19 tests in Delhi gradually declining again||Testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi appears to be slowly dropping from its peak levels again, even as new infections in the Capital continue to go down after a spike in cases a month ago forced the Delhi government to ramp up testing.The proportion of RT-PCR tests, considered the gold standard for Covid-19 diagnosis, however, has remained high despite the dip in overall tests.Delhi conducted 59,368 daily tests on average for the week ending September 20, what has been the city’s highest recorded rate of testing till date. Since then, this number dropped to 49,102 in the past week — down by around 17%. In the same period, the national average of daily tests increased from 1,021,881 tests a day to 1,135,471 — an increase of around 11%. To be sure, the national capital reported a near three-fold increase in testing in September from levels in July and August after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal held an emergency meeting in the final week of August to address the resurgence of cases in the city. The CM said then that the government would at least double daily tests to 40,000 a day, but the government ended up boosting testing to nearly 60,000 a day at its peak. However, since September 20, the testing numbers have seen a near-steady decline.Despite this decline, the proportion of RT-PCR tests has not dropped. On average, nearly 20% of tests conducted in the last week have been RT-PCR. This is the highest this proportion has been in nearly a month – 21% of tests were RT-PCR for the week ending September 12.On Saturday, Delhi added 2,866 cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of infections in the city to 306,559. Daily deaths, meanwhile, continued to rise with 48 new fatalities reported on Saturday taking the total deaths in the city to 5,740.Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said: “Delhi government has set up adequate number of test centres with all necessary facilities. We can assure you that no individual who wants to get tested for Covid-19 is sent back at any of these test centres. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has continuously been urging people to get tested. In the coming days, we are going to intensify the Covid-19 awareness campaign, aiming at encouraging more people to get themselves tested.”“As for the RT-PCR tests, we are following the ICMR guidelines. We are using the rapid antigen test in the containment zones, all the symptomatic patients who test negative are re-tested using RT PCR. Anyone who asks for it can also get it. The number of tests conducted will depend on the number of tests needed, no matter what our capacity is,” said Jain. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “Delhi has a population of 20 million and the number of people who have had the infection is still very small. High level of testing has to be sustained till there is a low pool of susceptible population or a vaccine is available,” he said. “The general rule of thumb to check whether testing is adequate is a sustained positivity rate of 5% or less. What are you testing with matters as well? The ICMR testing strategy has to be followed. Anyone outside the containment zones have to be tested using RT-PCR which is much more accurate. Another thing we need to see is that how many tests are needed for us to find one positive cases. If that number is coming down, then we aren’t testing enough. In Delhi, this number stands at just about 17 to 18 per cent, this should at least be 30. Some of the countries conduct about 200 tests to get one positive case,” said Dr Kant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tests-in-delhi-gradually-declining-again/story-iGo7BqXt4pBB8L5ydcKfGK.html
