12-10-2020||India||Overburdened with a loan, farmer dies by suicide in MP’s Bundelkhand||A 61-year-old farmer died by suicide in Sagar district of Bundelkhand region on Monday afternoon, the police said. The farmer’s son said, “My father had taken Rs 2 lakh as loan from a moneylender sometime back on account of the marriage of my younger brother by mortgaging our 2 acre land but the soybean crop in our field was damaged due to excessive rain. My father was shattered on seeing the crop and he was under stress as to how to repay the loan and get back the land. On Monday afternoon, we found his body hanging from the branch of a tree in our field.” Investigating officer, sub-inspector of police AL Khairwar said, “We have got to know that the farmer was suffering from a respiratory illness. There is no suicide note. However, prima facie it’s a case of suicide. The body was sent for post-mortem examination. The report is awaited.” He said, “Investigation is going on. The son of the deceased said the farmer was under stress due to a Rs 2 lakh loan. We will look into it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/overburdened-with-a-loan-farmer-dies-by-suicide-in-mp-s-bundelkhand/story-Joe8CfzjYsAra7mcBYXWGI.html
12-10-2020||India||‘Proof of failure in handling Covid-19,’ says Congress as Karnataka gets new health minister||In a minor reshuffle in Karnataka, the health portfolio which was with B Sriramulu has been transferred to Dr K Sudhakar the Medical Education minister, according to a notification issued by the Raj Bhavan. The changes were notified by Governor Vajubhai Vala on the recommendation of CM BS Yediyurappa. The health ministry has increasingly become important because of the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, with Karnataka registering the second highest number of cases in the country after Maharashtra.Sudhakar a trained doctor by qualification, who currently holds the medical education portfolio, will get the health and family welfare ministry too. Sriramulu has been given the social welfare department which was with PWD minister Govind Karajol as additional charge.Sriramulu a prominent OBC face of the party, however, rushed to meet CM Yediyurappa to express his unhappiness at being shunted out as ‘it would send wrong message to the people of the state about his ability to handle the responsibility,’ a source close to the minister told HT.The new social welfare minister himself, however, refused to talk to the media and Sudhakar the new health minister said that it was the prerogative of the CM to allocate portfolios and said he might have been given the responsibility as medical education, health and family welfare were closely related.Sudhakar also denied that the reallocation in portfolio had been done due to allegations by opposition Congress of massive corruption in procurement of equipment related to Covid-19 treatment or due to failure in controlling the spread of the pandemic.A senior minister in the Yediyurappa cabinet who is also a former president of the state BJP unit, KS Eshwarappa defended the re-allocation saying that social welfare department suited Sriramulu better. “It is upto the CM to decide who should be given what. Social welfare department is also a very big ministry. It is a good opportunity (for Sriramulu) to ensure social justice,” Eshwarappa added.Earlier for months there were murmurs of disagreement in terms of Covid-19 handling strategy between Sriramulu and Sudhakar. A miffed CM BS Yediyurappa had even named primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar as the chief government spokesperson for all matters related to the Covid-19 pandemic. Sudhakar had then denied any rift calling Sriramulu his ‘elder brother’.The main opposition party Congress immediately hit out at the government’s decision to change the health minister. KPCC President DK Shivakumar tweeted, “The Cabinet Reshuffle done by CM @BSYBJP is proof of this government’s miserable failure in handling the Covid-19 Pandemic. The fact that the Health Minister has been changed adds credence to our charge that this govt’s incompetency has led to massive loss of life and livelihood.”A senior cabinet minister said that the larger expansion and reshuffle planned by the Yediyurappa cabinet might now happen only next month after the results of the Sira and RR Nagar assembly by-polls are known. “We are still awaiting the green signal from the high command for it as there are a large number of aspirants for it. Otherwise this (the minor reshuffle) would not have been done now.”Karnataka over the last week has registered on an average around 10,000 new Covid-19 cases daily and till now cumulatively has recorded more than 7 lakh cases with nearly 10,000 deaths due to the viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proof-of-failure-in-handling-covid-19-says-congress-as-karnataka-gets-new-health-minister/story-VKs0Gn1R6l9DEFG0GdlQ7M.html
12-10-2020||India||The mystery of India’s low coronavirus death rate||India, with its population of 1.3 billion people, has the world’s second-highest number of coronavirus cases, now more than seven million, but far fewer reported deaths than other badly-hit countries.The figures have baffled experts, with explanations ranging from the young population to immunity given by other endemic viral diseases and under-reporting.Here are some of the questions and theories raised by India’s pandemic statistics:- What are the figures? -India said on Sunday there had been 108,334 fatalities from Covid-19 since the first death was reported in mid-March.The world’s second-most populous nation has the lowest number of deaths per 100 confirmed cases -- the observed case-fatality ratio -- among the top 20 worst-affected nations at 1.5 percent, according to a Johns Hopkins University tally.In comparison, the United States, the most infected country, has a death rate of 2.8 percent. India’s number of deaths per 100,000 population is 7.73, compared with 64.74 in the United States.- Younger population -Older people suffering from conditions such as diabetes and heart disease have become a particular target of the pandemic but India has a young population with a median age of 28.4, according to the UN World Population Prospects report.In comparison, France -- which has reported almost 700,000 cases and more than 32,000 deaths for a death rate of 4.7 percent -- has a median age of 42.3.- Late start, strict lockdown -The Indian government says the first infection was detected on January 30, with numbers passing 100 in mid-March.By that time, the epidemic was already raging across Europe. Italy had reported more than 24,000 infections and almost 2,000 deaths, while France recorded nearly 5,500 cases and around 150 deaths.Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered a nationwide lockdown from March 25 that severely limited movement. That gave India time to prepare for the pandemic, while experts say the strict lockdown may have helped doctors learn from the experiences of other countries.“Many of the treatment protocols were much better stabilised (by that time), whether it was oxygen use or ICU use,” Anand Krishnan, a community medicine professor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi, told AFP.- Possible immunity -Virologist T. Jacob John and other experts told AFP it is possible that other viral diseases such as dengue fever, which is endemic in India, may have given the population some antibody protection against the coronavirus.Others say it is also plausible that exposure to other milder coronaviruses could give some cross-immunity. But all experts say more research is needed into this line of defence.- Under-counting -India already does not count all deaths. The problem is more acute in rural areas where 70 percent of the population live. Many rural deaths are not recorded unless the person has been in a hospital.This has been accentuated during the coronavirus. In many cities, tallies given by city governments and at cemeteries and crematoria do not match. Activists accuse some states of deliberately blaming other conditions for Covid-19 deaths.“Our poor routine death surveillance system... misses many deaths in the first place,” Bangalore-based community medicine expert Hemant Shewade told AFP. He reckons that only one in five deaths is recorded with a cause.Shewade, who has been analysing India’s official toll data, said many suspected Covid-19 deaths were not being recorded.Government-conducted serological surveys -- which test blood for antibodies to estimate how many have fought off the virus -- indicate that 10 times the official number of people may have already been infected, meaning many deaths could have gone unreported, he added.Meanwhile in some cases, the coronavirus may not be listed as the cause of death for patients with other medical conditions.- How to boost accuracy -Experts say greater toll accuracy is possible if is there is more testing, better recording of deaths and post-mortem examinations are carried out on suspected victims.Monitoring excess mortality -- the number of deaths above the “normal” figure -- as well as deaths at home could also shed some light on the real toll, Shewade said.Mumbai, the country’s worst-hit city, found 13,000 excess deaths in March-July compared with the same period last year -- twice the number of reported virus deaths at that time, the Indian Express reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-mystery-of-india-s-low-coronavirus-death-rate/story-dbLMNha0GRG8jcErpj43GN.html
12-10-2020||India||GST Council meeting ends, no consensus on states’ compensation: Nirmala Sitharaman||A meeting of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council on Monday once again ended without any conclusion and the deadlock on compensation to states for the shortfall in their share of the indirect tax revenue continues, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said.Nirmala Sitharaman’s comments came after another marathon meeting of the GST Council as she said there is no dispute but “we may have difference over states’ compensation”. “We were not able to arrive at a consensus. I appealed to all the states... That is how the GST Council meeting ended today,” Sitharaman said during a press conference.Sitharaman, who heads the Council, said the Centre cannot borrow and pay states for the shortfall as it would lead to rise in bond yields, resulting in rise in borrowing costs for the government and the private sector. However, this would not be the case if states borrowed against future GST receipts, she said, adding 21 states had agreed to borrow as suggested by the Centre. However, other states insisted on a decision to be taken by consensus, she said.“The collection of cess is inadequate for paying compensation. This is absolutely apparent for everyone to see and because it is something which was never envisaged, the shortfall will be now be met by borrowing,” she said.Also read | Eight decisions of the GST Council to impact businesses: EY“The Centre has issued a borrowing calendar, if I go beyond that to borrow, the G-Sec deals which are used as benchmark for every other borrowing will go up, this will hence increase borrowing costs for states and private sector too,” she said.The finance minister said that 12 states had accepted the Centre’s repayment proposal to borrow from the markets on their own account and that nine others stood want the Centre to do the borrowing. Sitharaman said she has asked for time to consider the demands of these nine states.“We are open to anyone who wants us to facilitate any loan. A lot of people have chosen Option 1, and some will approach us tomorrow morning. We are ready to deal with it,” she said.This was the second time after October 5 that the GST Council failed to reach a consensus on the Centre’s proposal of states borrowing against future GST collections to make up for the shortfall. This was also the third straight meeting during which discussion over the issue of compensation shortfall was held and ended without a decision.In its last meeting on October 5, the GST Council had deferred a decision on the issue of compensating states for the shortfall after 10 states ruled by non-National Democratic Alliance (NDA) parties insisted that the Centre borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore and compensate them. As many as 21 states, which are mostly BJP-ruled or have supported it on various issues, have opted to borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore to meet the compensation shortfall. The Centre has released Rs 20,000 crore to the states towards the compensation shortfall so far in the current fiscal.The Centre had in August given two options to the states to borrow either Rs 97,000 crore from a special window facilitated by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) or Rs 2.35 lakh crore from the market. It had also proposed extending the compensation cess levied on luxury, demerit and sin goods beyond 2022 to repay the borrowing. Following demand by some states, the amount of Rs 97,000 crore was increased to Rs 1.10 lakh crore.Sitharaman had said 21 states have chosen borrowing option 1 for compensation of revenue shortfall due to GST implementation. She clarified that the Centre is not denying compensation to any state but those which have not chosen any borrowing option have to borrow from the market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-coucil-meeting-ends-no-consensus-on-states-s-compensation-nirmala-sitharaman/story-76pn3S5JiVtMq5WGnXb3eP.html
12-10-2020||India||AIADMK welcomes Khushbu Sundar joining BJP||The ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu on Monday welcomed actor-politician Kushboo Sundar joining its ally BJP, saying it is “a good and happy” move by her.Senior party leader and Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar extended the AIADMK’sbest wishesand greetings to her.“It is a good thing. Khushbu joining our ally, the BJP is a good and happy step,” the Minister told reporters here, reacting to the popular actor joining the BJP. Khushbu quit the Congress after a six-year long association with it and joined the BJP at the party headquarters in New Delhi in the presence of its leaders, including state unit chief L Murugan.On BJP leader Pon Radhakrishanan saying that his party welcomed AIADMK naming Chief Minister K Palaniswami as the Chief Ministerial candidate of the ruling combine for 2021 assembly elections, Jayakumar said: “They are part of the AIADMK-led alliance (in Tamli Nadu) and they should accept it.” The assembly elections are due during April-May next year in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-welcomes-khushbu-sundar-joining-bjp/story-hXgiMqoIql9tVZepumzBVN.html
12-10-2020||India||‘Timely moves’: PM Modi after Nirmala Sitharaman’s Rs 73,000 crore stimulus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday praised Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman after she annouced measures worth Rs 73,000 crore to stimulate consumer spending in the economy in an effort to fight the slowdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. “Today’s announcements by FM @nsitharaman Ji are timely moves which will boost consumer spending and sentiment as well as push capital expenditure. These steps will also boost demand in our economy,” PM Modi tweeted.Sitharaman’s Rs 73,000 crore package included advance payment of a part of wages to central government employees and cash in lieu of Leave Travel Concession (LTC). She said as much as Rs 11,575 crore would be paid as LTC allowance and advance to these employees on the condition that they spend the amount on non-essential goods before March 31 next year. She said the government will give its employees income tax-exempt cash vouchers in lieu of their entitled travel allowances this year. This cash will have to be spent on buying goods that attract 12% or more GST, in a condition which eliminates the possibility of the cash being spent on essential items. The government will also give as a one-time measure give Rs 10,000 salary loan to all its officers and employees as festival advance.Also read | LTC cash voucher scheme: All you need to know about it“All these measures are likely to create an additional demand of Rs 73,000 crore,” Sitharaman said, adding the proposals would stimulate demand in a “fiscally prudent way.” States would separately be eligible to get Rs 12,000 crore in 50-year interest-free loans for capital expenditure, while the Union government will spend an additional Rs 2,500 crore toward capital expenditure on roads, defence infrastructure, water supply and urban development.The government, which had in May announced a Rs 20 lakh crore ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ stimulus package, is pushing ahead with a full opening to try to boost the economy ahead of the usually high-spending festival season.A tough lockdown imposed to stem the spread of coronavirus had resulted in the GDP contracting by a record 23.9 per cent during April-June. Analysts have predicted that the economy may be headed for its worst contraction this fiscal.“Measures by the government to stimulate demand must not burden the common citizen with future inflation. We also kept it in mind that it must not put government debt on an unsustainable path. Today’s solution must not cause tomorrow’s problem,” she said at a news conference. The finance minister said that these two measures are “expected to create a consumer demand of about Rs 28,000 crore”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/timely-moves-pm-modi-after-nirmala-sitharaman-s-rs-73-000-crore-stimulus/story-tc7SU0TCdem68Tyd7ASa9K.html
12-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Pak PM Imran Khan’s close aide resigns after investigative report on wealth and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pak PM Imran Khan’s close aide resigns after investigative report on wealthLt Gen (retd) Asim Saleem Bajwa resigned as special assistant on information and broadcasting but will continue to be the chairperson of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor Authority. Read moreAndhra HC orders CBI to act against YSR leaders, others who attacked judges on social mediaAndhra Pradesh High Court on Monday ordered a probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the abusive posts on social media and alleged derogatory statements made by some YSR Congress party leaders against the state judiciary. Read moreKey FATF affiliate finds Pakistan has complied with only 2 of 40 steps to fight terror fundingA little more than a week ahead of a crucial meeting of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), a key regional affiliate of the multilateral watchdog has concluded that Pakistan has complied with only two out of 40 recommendations to counter terror financing and money laundering. Read moreIPL 2020 - ‘This came as a surprise’: KKR on Narine’s action being reportedKolkata Knight Riders on Monday issued an official statement regarding spinner Sunil Narine’s action being reported during the team’s last outing in the IPL against Kings XI Punjab. KKR, who take on RCB in a crucial encounter on Monday said that the development came as a surprise for the franchise. Read moreKangana Ranaut calls Bollywood a gutter as film producers file suit against news channels: ‘File a case on me also’Kangana Ranaut is fuming after 38 film bodies and producers filed a suit against a few media houses and journalists for defaming the film industry. Repeating her ‘gutter’ allegory for Bollywood, Kangana said that the producers should sue her too. Read moreApple iPhone 12 Pro Max launch: Rumoured price, specs, features and moreThe 6.7-inch model can come with a 3,687mAh battery capacity, which will around 1,000mAh more than what is rumoured for small-sized iPhone 12 Pro. Read moreVideo of British singer singing Dama Dam Mast Qalander on a street in Dubai goes viral againYou may have heard several renditions of the beautiful Sufi song Dama Dam Mast Qalander. Well, here’s another one that is bound to win you over. The video, which is going viral all over again, shows two women singing the song on the side of a street. Read moreWatch | BJP slams Farooq Abdullah’s Article 370 & China remark, says it’s ‘seditious’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pak-pm-imran-khan-s-close-aide-resigns-after-investigative-report-on-wealth-and-all-the-latest-news/story-naEooBi5vFazjZQYXK4cfI.html
12-10-2020||India||Indians abducted in Libya released, efforts on for their return home: MEA||The seven Indian nationals kidnapped in Libya last month have been released by their abductors and handed over to their employer, the external affairs ministry said on Monday. The seven men are in good health and formalities are being completed to facilitate their return to India, the ministry said in a statement. The ministry reiterated that a ban on the travel of Indians to Libya, irrespective of purpose, has been in place since May 2016 because of the security situation there. The circumstances of the release of the seven Indians, including whether any ransom was paid to their abductors, couldn’t immediately be ascertained. It also couldn’t be ascertained who had kidnapped the men. No group or individual has so far claimed responsibility. On October 8, the external affairs ministry confirmed the seven Indians had been abducted at Asshwerif in Libya on September 14, while they were travelling to Tripoli airport to catch a flight back to India. The men belong to Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, and were working for a construction and oilfield supplies company. The men were released on Sunday and India’s ambassador to Tunisia, Puneet Roy Kundal, spoke to them on phone after they were handed over by the abductors to the company that had employed them, Al Shola Al Mudia. “All of them are in good health and are currently staying in the company’s premises in Brega,” the ministry said. “We convey our sincere thanks to the Libyan authorities and the tribal elders from the region for their steadfast cooperation in securing the release of our nationals unharmed,” it added. The Indian embassy in Tunisia handles matters related to the welfare of Indian nationals in Libya. India’s relations with Libya were snapped after the fall of the Muammar Gaddafi regime in 2011, and both countries currently don’t have a representative in each other’s capitals. India made an attempt to re-establish diplomatic ties when Union minister Kiren Rijiju made an official visit to Tripoli in May 2018. It was reported then that there were some 1,500 Indians who had stayed on in Libya despite advisories issued by the external affairs ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-abducted-in-libya-released-efforts-on-for-their-return-home-mea/story-14HuKO2K9T9ez5mEcEQ2SP.html
12-10-2020||India||India generated over 18,000 tonnes Covid-19 waste since June; Maharashtra biggest contributor||India generated 18,006 tonnes of Covid-19 biomedical waste in the last four months, with Maharashtra contributing the maximum (3,587 tonnes) to it, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data.Around 5,500 tonnes of Covid-19 waste was generated across the country in September -- the maximum for a month so far.According to the data received from state pollution control boards, all states and Union Territories have since June generated 18,006 tonnes of Covid-19-related biomedical waste which is being collected, treated and disposed of by 198 common biomedical waste treatment facilities (CBWTFs).Covid-19 biomedical waste could include PPE kits, masks, shoe covers, gloves, human tissues, items contaminated with blood, body fluids like dressings, plaster casts, cotton swabs, beddings contaminated with blood or body fluid, blood bags, needles, syringes etc.According to the data, Maharashtra, which has reported over 15 lakh coronavirus cases so far, generated 3,587 tonnes of Covid-19 waste in four months -- 524 tonnes in June, 1,180 tonnes in July, 1,359 tonnes in August and 524 tonnes in September.Tamil Nadu generated 1,737 tonnes of Covid-19 waste, Gujarat (1,638 tonnes), Kerala (1,516 tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (1,432 tonnes), Delhi (1,400 tonnes), Karnataka (1,380 tonnes) and West Bengal (1,000 tonnes).The national capital generated 333 tonnes of such waste in June, 389 tonnes in July, 296 tonnes in August and 382 tonnes in September, according to the CPCB data.Around 5,490 tonnes of Covid-19 waste was generated in September, with Gujarat contributing the maximum 622 tonnes, followed by Tamil Nadu (543 tonnes), Maharashtra (524 tnnes), Uttar Pradesh (507 tonnes), Kerala (494 tonnes), and others.Around 5,240 tonnes of Covid-19 waste was generated in August, of which 1,359 tonnes was in Maharashtra, and 588 tonnes each in Kerala and Karnataka, followed by others. In July, the country generated 4,253 tonnes of Covid-19 waste, with Maharashtra (1,180), Karnataka (540) and Tamil Nadu (401) being the top three contributors. India generated 3,025 tonnes of Covid-19 waste in June, with Maharashtra alone accounting for 524 tonnes, followed by Gujarat (350 tonnes), Delhi (333 tonnes) and Tamil Nadu (312 tonnes). The CPCB had in March issued specific guidelines for handling, treatment and disposal of such waste at healthcare facilities, quarantine centres, homes, sample collection centers, laboratories, pollution control boards, urban local bodies and common biomedical waste treatment facilities (CBWTFs). The apex pollution body had in May developed the “Covid19BWM” mobile application to monitor coronavirus-related biomedical waste and to compile the data through electronic manifest system.This application tracks Covid-19 waste at the time of generation, collection and disposal.The Supreme Court has made it mandatory for all urban local bodies and state pollution control boards to use the mobile application for tracking biomedical waste daily in a bid to ensure that the waste is collected, transported and sent to the registered CBWTFs.The directions came on July 30 on recommendations made in a report by the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority.On Monday, India’s Covid-19 caseload stood at 71.2 lakhs while the death toll was 1.09 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-generated-over-18-000-tonnes-covid-19-waste-since-june-maharashtra-biggest-contributor/story-Zh9jj8O5HqGpyaNwHasWsN.html
12-10-2020||India||Goa govt’s flip-flop as it abruptly withdraws move to bring Covid-19 under its insurance scheme||The Goa government has withdrawn its decision to bring Covid-19 treatment under its universal mediclaim scheme, the Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana, allegedly under pressure from private hospitals who have said that the rates being offered by the scheme were ‘impractical’. “After deliberation with chief minister Pramod Sawant, we have decided to cancel the notification issued to cover Covid-19 treatment under DDSSY. A fresh notification will be issued in consultation with the CM,” state health minister Vishwajit Rane announced. The Goa government had notified rates for mild Covid-19 cases at Rs 4,600 per day with provision of Rs 64,400 for a 14-day package and critical ones at Rs 6,600 per day with Rs 92,400 set for a 14-day package.Private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients would be reimbursed as per the notified rates under the scheme, the notification stated. However, private hospitals - four private hospitals in the state are admitting Covid-19 patients - have said that they were not consulted over the decision to bring it under the ambit of the existing health insurance scheme and continue to be excluded from the government’s decision-making process. The rates, they said, were not sustainable. Also read: Andhra HC orders CBI to act against YSR leaders, others who attacked judges“We should have been consulted before any such decision was taken. They need to understand that with Covid-19 it is difficult to estimate what is the line of treatment that will be needed and with the rates that were notified, it was just not possible. We have to give the best treatment,” Dr Shekhar Salkar, head of clinical management at Manipal Hospitals, said.The rates notified by the government were also much lower than the cap set for private hospitals treating those affected by complications arising out of Covid-19. According to the rate, a private hospital can charge up to Rs 24,000 per day for an Intensive Care Unit bed while a bed in a Covid ward can be charged at Rs 10,000 per day down from Rs 12,000-13,000 per day with a twin sharing room. Charges for a bed in a single room are around Rs 15,000-16,000 per day, down from Rs 18,000.Rane said that an earlier notification was first drafted in February and the rates weren’t revised. However, the flip-flop by the government was latched on by the Opposition parties who accused the government of attempting to monetise the pandemic. “The decision to cancel the notification covering Covid treatment under Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana (DDSSY) in private hospitals by the BJP government is a clear reflection of its pro-rich and anti-poor agenda,” state Congress president Girish Chodankar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-s-flip-flop-as-it-abruptly-withdraws-move-to-bring-covid-19-under-its-insurance-scheme/story-9ePzE2IAzfdtaOXYVhujQP.html
12-10-2020||India||Key FATF affiliate finds Pakistan has complied with only 2 of 40 steps to fight terror funding||A little more than a week ahead of a crucial meeting of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), a key regional affiliate of the multilateral watchdog has concluded that Pakistan has complied with only two out of 40 recommendations to counter terror financing and money laundering. The Australia-based Asia-Pacific Group (APG) retained Pakistan in its “enhanced follow-up” category in a report adopted last month. Pakistan was fully compliant with only one of the 40 recommendations exactly a year ago, and the number was increased to two after an assessment by APG this year. FATF began holding a series of virtual meetings from Monday and they will continue till October 19 to discuss matters such as international cooperation, policy development, and risks and trends. FATF will hold its virtual plenary meeting during October 21-23, which will make an assessment of Pakistan’s steps to fight terror financing. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Pakistan is widely expected to be retained in FATF’s “grey list”, in which it was included in 2018, largely because of backing from China, Turkey and Malaysia. Opposition from only three FATF members is enough to stop a country being moved to the “black list”, which would entail harsher financial sanctions. The latest follow-up report by APG on Pakistan’s case showed the country was “non-compliant” on four of the 40 recommendations, “partially compliant” on 25 and “largely compliant” on nine. The findings were virtually similar to the conclusions drawn a year ago, except for Pakistan being found fully compliant with two recommendations. “In keeping with APG...procedures, Pakistan will remain in enhanced (expedited) follow-up, and will continue to report back to the APG on progress to strengthen its implementation of AML/CFT [anti-money laundering/counter financing of terrorism] measures,” the report said. Being included in the “enhanced follow-up” category means Pakistan has to submit quarterly progress reports, instead of biannual, to APG. The APG’s 40 recommendations are separate from the 27-point action set for Pakistan by FATF. Even in the case of that action plan, FATF concluded earlier this year that Pakistan had complied with only 14 of the 27 points. The recommendations cover issues such as freezing assets of UN-designated terrorists, use of non-profit organisations (NPOs) by terror groups to raise funds, and even state-run Pakistan Post not being subject to counter-terror financing requirements. The APG report said a risk assessment done in 2019 “confirmed that abuse of NPOs for TF [terror financing] purposes continues to pose a significant threat, both domestically and externally; that charities and fund raising is a source of funds for almost all EOCs [entities of concern]; and that terrorist organisations are known to use frontal NPOs, including registered charities (e.g. FIF [Falah-e-Insaniyat Foundation], which was a registered NPO established by associates of LeT [Lashkar-e-Taiba])”. Pakistan has identified a total of 1,307 NPOs “as high risk” and these “will be subject to enhanced inspection”, the report added. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said, “Because Pakistan has been adept at taking face-saving measures just before FATF meetings, it appears it is doing the same thing again. Such steps may go down positively with some FATF members, who will say, ‘Okay, it’s good you’ve done this, but now take some more steps.’” He added, “There has been a visible reduction in activities of terrorist groups, like public rallies, but their workers haven’t disappeared and their networks and infrastructure remain. Social and charity organisation such as FIF remain, and provide legitimacy to the terror groups in Pakistani society. The threat to India remains.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-fatf-affiliate-finds-pakistan-has-complied-with-only-2-of-40-steps-to-fight-terror-funding/story-XPWKrfj5xXBjUIbKtTbRgJ.html
12-10-2020||India||Hindu activists oppose serving beef to tigers in Guwahati zoo||Opposing the slaughter of cows, several Hindu activists on Monday protested against serving beef as part of diet to tigers and other big cats in the Assam state zoo located in Guwahati. The activists stopped vehicles carrying meat items meant for the big cats housed in the zoo. They blocked the roads leading to the zoo for several hours before allowing authorities to take the food items inside. “The vehicles carrying meat for the zoo inmates were stopped briefly by some miscreants. We had to call the police to disperse them. There’s no issue regarding supply of meat to the animals now,” said Tejas Mariswamy, divisional forest officer (DFO), Assam state zoo. Established in 1957 and spread over 175 hectares in the middle of Guwahati in the Hengrabari reserve forest, Assam state zoo, which has 1,040 wild animals and birds of 112 species, is the biggest zoo in the Northeast. At present, the zoo has 8 tigers, 3 lions, 26 leopards and other small cats like leopard cat, jungle cat etc. The zoo is a big attraction among people in Guwahati and others from across the region, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it has been closed for the public since March this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindu-activists-oppose-serving-beef-to-tigers-in-guwahati-zoo/story-XpD2DEdHhfXNB1d0BgKYyO.html
12-10-2020||India||Leh council polls: ‘People trust BJP, they support us,’ says Kiren Rijiju||Union minister Kiren Rijiju on Monday exuded confidence of BJP’s smooth sailing in the ensuing elections to the 30-member Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC) of Leh. The sixth council elections will be held on October 22. Rijiju reached Leh on Sunday to campaign for party candidates. “Elections are an indispensable part of democracy and Leh council is going to polls on October 22. People in Leh trust BJP and they want to support us because under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi various developmental works have been taken up. From making Ladakh a UT to speedy development of the region, these works should not stop,” he told media persons in Leh. Congress campaign is being led by its leader and former minister Nawang Rigzin Jora. A local said that nothing can be said as of now and both the arch-rivals appear neck to neck in the race. “There was resentment among the people of Leh against the BJP government for not providing us safeguards under the sixth schedule of the Constitution but then home minister Amit Sham promised a delegation of Apex Body of People’s Movement (ABPM), led by Thupstan Chhewang, that the same will be extended to us. So, how voters react to the verbal promise will be seen in the ensuing elections,” he said. Also read: Rhea Chakraborty asks CBI to act against neighbour for ‘false’ claim on TVOn October 7, Union minister Anurag Thakur had said that people of Leh will get much more than sixth schedule only because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Thakur had assured them that land, culture, ethnic values and everything shall be safeguarded. The Leh Council has 30 seats with a provision for nominating four members; 26 get elected via votes. On September 28, former BJP minister and ex-president of the Ladakh unit, Chering Dorjay, had cautioned the Centre of a sustained campaign in case the apex body was hoodwinked. Apex body of People’s Movement - an apolitical body comprising former BJP MP Thupstan Chhewang, Dorjay, Thiksay monastery head Rinpoche Nawang Chamba Stanzin and former minister Nawang Rigzin Jora - has been demanding constitutional safeguards under the sixth schedule of the Constitution to Ladakh on the lines of north-eastern states having constitutional safeguards under the sixth schedule. The umbrella group includes political parties and religious organizations and all-powerful Leh-based Ladakh Buddhist Association. The safeguards also guarantee more teeth to the two hill development councils of Leh and Kargil with legislative powers. Following Shah’s assurance, the delegation withdrew its call to boycott the ensuing polls. Thupstan Chhewang, former BJP MP, had resigned from his post and primary membership of the party in November 2018 for not conferring UT status to Ladakh region and other promises made by the BJP in 2014 general elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leh-council-polls-people-trust-bjp-they-support-us-says-kiren-rijiju/story-Bc0tEZWmnJMHH6X45TvsfN.html
12-10-2020||India||School closure over Covid-19 may cost over USD 400 billion to India: World Bank||The prolonged closure of schools due to the Covid-19 pandemic in India may cause a loss of over USD 400 billion in the country’s future earnings, besides substantial learning losses, according to a World Bank report.South Asia region stands to lose USD 622 billion from the school closures in the present scenario or up to USD 880 billion in a more pessimistic scenario, it said, adding while the regional loss is largely driven by India, all countries will lose substantial shares of their GDP. The report titled “Beaten or Broken? Informality and Covid-19 in South Asia” claims that South Asia is set to plunge into its worst-ever recession in 2020 as the devastating impacts of Covid-19 on the region’s economies linger.“Temporary school closures in all South Asian countries have had major implications for students. They have kept 391 million students out of school in primary and secondary education, further complicating efforts to resolve the learning crisis,” said the report.“While most governments have made enormous efforts to mitigate the impact of school closures, it has been difficult to engage children through remote learning initiatives,” it said. The report also noted that the pandemic may cause up to 5.5 million students to drop out from the education system and cause substantial learning losses, which will have a lifetime impact on the productivity of a generation of students.“Most school systems closed in March, and -- though there are important exceptions -- countries are starting to reopen or have already opened their schools. Children have been out of school for approximately 5 months. Being out of school for that long means that children not only stop learning new things, they also forget some of what they have learned. “The projected learning loss for the region is 0.5 years of learning-adjusted years of schooling (LAYS), falling from 6.5 LAYS to 6.0 LAYS, an enormous setback from recent advances in schooling,” it said. The ‘Learning Adjusted Year of Schooling’ (LAYS) concept, introduced by the World Bank, seeks to combine access and learning outcomes into a single measure. It combines quantity (years of schooling) and quality (how much kids know at a given grade level) into a single summary measure of human capital in a society. The report has projected that based on country data on household labor incomes, the average child in South Asia may lose USD 4,400 in lifetime earnings once having entered the labour market, equivalent to 5 percent of total earnings. “These projections are based on what we currently know about returns to schooling, using the reduced level of learning caused by the crisis. Summing these numbers for all children in South Asia, the region stands to lose USD 622 billion from the school closures in the present scenario, or up to USD 880 billion in a more pessimistic scenario. “While the regional loss is largely driven by India, all countries will lose substantial shares of their GDP. For reference, note that South Asian governments spend only USD 400 billion per year in total on primary and secondary education. The total loss in economic output from the current closures is hence substantially higher than what countries currently spend on education,” it said. The novel corona virus has infected over 3.7 crore people across the globe claiming over 10.5 lakh lives.India’s Covid-19 caseload stands at 71.2 lakhs while the death toll is 1.09 lakh as on Monday.Universities and schools across the country were ordered shut on March 16 to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. On March 25, the Centre announced a nationwide lockdown. While several restrictions have been eased gradually in different phases of the ‘unlock’ since June 8, educational institutions continue to remain closed.However, according to the latest unlock guidelines, schools, colleges and other educational institutions outside Covid-19 containment zones can reopen after October 15. The final decision on reopening the institutions has been left with the states and Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-closure-over-covid-19-may-cost-over-usd-400-billion-to-india-world-bank/story-hxzbNLnXV46hi0bPyOvfVJ.html
12-10-2020||India||Cinemas to open with new normal!||Camera-enabled thermal scanners, tickets on mobiles, staggered intervals, lesser shows and pack food will be the new normal when the movie theatres will open from October 15 after a long gap of over six months due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. Lucknow has 10 single-screens and 9 multiplexes out of which only a few are set to throw their gates open from Thursday. Most single screen theatres will open by the month-end or next month. In a meeting held between cinema owners and Lucknow Divisional Commissioner Ranjan Kumar on Monday, they have been asked to operate with camera-enabled thermal scanners which gives accurate temperature. “Since it is a costly device so some may delay opening by a few days. Cinema management has to provide a certificate to the district administration that the entire staff had been tested for Covid-19. Besides, it was clarified that even for families also one-seat gap has been made mandatory,” said Ashish Agarwal, president, UP Cinema Exhibitor Federation. The state has 300 single cinemas and 87 multiplexes. “Besides hand sanitiser and thermal checking, we will also provide face mask if someone turns-up without it and would make patron download Arogya Setu app as both are mandatory. During the staggered intervals, only packed food material will be sold in the lobby area,” he added. For now, the tickets pricings have been kept the same as pre-Covid days even though the theatres will operate with maximum 50% capacity. Halls will be sanitized after every show while ACs will be maintained at 24-27 degree C while staff will wear gloves and face shields, said Agarwal. The move has brought cheers on the face of exhibitors and theatre owners. Rajesh Tandon of Novelty said, “We will be procuring camera-enabled thermal scanners and hope to start both Lalbagh and Aliganj theatres from Friday. We have reduced a show so that we can follow the sanitasation guidelines.” Uday Vikram of Inox, Crown Mall said they were looking forward to start operations from Thursday. However, Pratibha Cinema’s Vikas Jain said they may open the cinema hall from next week as currently there was no new release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cinemas-to-open-with-new-normal/story-T1FnAvJpzbMhHmFf0yauzH.html
12-10-2020||India||Amaravati agitation completes 300 days; paid artists, says Andhra minister||The agitation by farmers of Amaravati, the capital region of Andhra Pradesh, against the YSR Congress Party government’s decision to form three capitals for the state entered its 300th day on Monday.The protesting farmers, women and youth from the capital region, under the banner of Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi (Amaravati protection committee) took out rallies and staged demonstrations in several villages in the capital region, demanding that Amaravati be retained as the only capital of the state.Hundreds of women from Rayapudi, Thulluru, Velagapudi, Mandadam, Venkatayapalem and Krishnayapalem, under the banner of Amaravati Women Joint Action Committee, took out a rally from Thullur holding green flags and raising slogans of ‘Jai Amaravati’. The women took strong exception to a remark made by state minister for municipal administration Botsa Satyanarayna that they were “paid protesters” propped up by the Telugu Desam Party.“Let chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy or his cabinet ministers come here and talk to us. They will know whether we are aggrieved farmers or paid artists,” said a protester.The minister told the reporters in Visakhapatnam on Sunday that the government would not acknowledge the so-called agitation by paid artists of Amaravati in the name of farmers. “They don’t have people’s support. It is ridiculous that they are planning to celebrate their 300 days of agitation. It is like conducting a 100-day function for a flop film,” he alleged.The JAC leaders, however, said the agitation would continue indefinitely, till the Jagan government withdrew its three-capital plan. “When he was in the opposition, Jagan had supported Amaravati and even demanded that 30,000 acres of land should be allocated for the capital. Now, he has betrayed the farmers after coming to power,” JAC leader S Padmasri noted.At Guntur, the farmers staged a dharna in protest against the capital shift. Several leaders from the TDP, the Congress and CPI took part in the dharna. TDP MP from Guntur Galla Jayadev said the AP Reorganisation Act was enacted by the Centre and everybody should honour this act.“It is not correct on the part of the Centre to say now that it has nothing to do with the capital location,” he said.At Vijayawada, the JAC leaders held a demonstration in front of the Block Revenue Office at Gandhinagar. The police took many of them into custody for violating the rules. “It is unfortunate that the state government was least bothered about the farmers who had been agitating for the last 300 days,” a JAC leader V Gopalakrishna said.TDP general secretary and MLC Nara Lokesh took part in the agitation at Penumaka village in Amaravati and extended his support to the one-state-one-capital demand of the farmers.He accused the chief minister of trying to kill the ‘baby capital’ of Amaravati, in utter disregard for the rights and sacrifices of farmers who gave away 34,000 acres in response to a call given by the then chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu.Lokesh also visited and addressed agitators at Yerrabalem, Krishnayapalem and other villages in Amaravati capital area.The TDP activists took up demonstrations in various other places including Tirupati, Anantapur, Rajahmundry, Kurnool, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amaravati-agitation-completes-300-days-paid-artists-says-andhra-minister/story-lurgRHSCzphfjsIK60SD8K.html
12-10-2020||India||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, Kolkata Police lowers guard against those without masks||At a time when Kolkata is witnessing a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases just ahead of the Durga Puja, the Kolkata Police seems to have relaxed its norms and lowered its vigil against people not wearing masks. The number of people arrested every day for not wearing masks in Kolkata has dropped to almost half during the festive season compared to the number of people arrested earlier in August and September. On an average 160 people were arrested everyday between October 5 and October 11, for not wearing masks in public places while more than 300 people were arrested every day for the same reason between September 5 and September 11, barring two lockdown dates when the number of arrests was even higher.The number of such arrests on September 7 and September 11, when lockdown was enforced, was 525 and 488. In August, during the same period, the number of arrests was higher, 410 every day barring lockdown days which were enforced on August 5 and August 8. On these two dates, the number of people arrested was 469 and 494. “We are looking into it,” said Subhankar Sinha Sarkar, joint commissioner of Kolkata Police (HQ). This comes at a time when Covid-19 cases in the city have almost doubled over the past one month and doctors have warned the Mamata Banerjee administration that relaxation of restrictions during the festive season could result in a three to four fold spike in Covid-19 cases. They have cited the example of Onam in Kerala. Kolkata on September 8 had recorded 380 new Covid-19 cases. On October 10, the city registered 783 new cases. The West Bengal government had made wearing of facemasks mandatory on April 12 to check the disease from spreading. Over the past few months, the Kolkata Police have been arresting people every day for not wearing masks. “Unlike other states where people are beaten up for violating Cobid-19 norms, the West Bengal government has decided to treat people in a more humane way particularly during the festive season. People are being requested to wear masks and maintain social distance. Hence the arrest figures may have gone down a bit during the festive season,” said a top official of the state government. On Monday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee urged people to wear masks and maintain distance in public places. She also urged the puja organisers to distribute masks and hand sanitizers to pandal hoppers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-kolkata-police-lowers-guard-against-those-without-masks/story-hSJUpKCINq7ee2gHPecvfP.html
12-10-2020||India||34 Bollywood producers ask court to stop 2 TV channels from calling them names||A host of leading Bollywood filmmakers on Monday filed a lawsuit in the Delhi High Court against “media trials of Bollywood personalities”, for calling them names and painting the entire “Bollywood as criminals” and sought action against them in the fresh fallout of the Sushant Singh Rajput death case investigation.Four Bollywood industry associations and 34 leading Bollywood producers sought directions against two TV channels — Republic TV and Times Now — along with their executive editors and other journalists to refrain from making or publishing irresponsible, derogatory and defamatory remarks against Bollywood as a whole and members of the industry.The plea filed through DSK Legal also sought directions to the various social media platforms to restrain them from publishing the remarks of these journalists which is ultimately leading to media trials of Bollywood personalities and interfering with the right to privacy of persons associated with Bollywood.Watch l SRK, Salman, Aamir, KJo & 34 others sue 2 news channels; Kangana issues dare The petition said that the plea was filed in wake of the channels using highly derogatory words and expressions for Bollywood such as “dirt”, “filth”, “scum”, “druggies” and expressions such as “it is Bollywood where the dirt needs to be cleaned”, “all the perfumes of Arabia cannot take away the stench and the stink of this filth and scum of the underbelly of Bollywood”, “this is the dirtiest industry in the country”, and “cocaine and LSD drenched Bollywood”.The name of the production houses are The Film & Television Producers Guild Of India (PGI), The Cine & TV Artistes’ Association (CINTAA), Indian Film and TV Producers Council (IFTPC), Screenwriters Association (SWA), Aamir Khan Productions, Ad-Labs Films, Ajay DevgnFflims, Andolan Films, Anil Kapoor Film and Communication Network, Arbaaz Khan Productions, Ashutosh Gowariker Productions, BSK Network and Entertainment, Cape of Good Films, Clean Slate Filmz, Dharma Productions, Emmay Entertainment & Motion Pictures, Excel Entertainment , Filmkraft Productions, Hope Production, Kabir Khan Films, Luv Films, Macguffin Pictures, Nadiadwala Grandson Entertainment, One India Stories, R.S. Entertainment (Ramesh Sippy Entertainment),Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra Pictures, Red Chillies Entertainment, Reel Life Productions, Reliance Big Entertainment, Rohit Shetty Picturez, Roy Kapur Films, Salman Khan Films, Sikhya Entertainment, Sohail Khan Productions, Tiger Baby Digital, Vinod Chopra Films, Vishal Bhardwaj Pictures and Yashraj Films. The plea said Bollywood is a distinct and well recognised class, comprising the Hindi film industry in Mumbai. It said that since several years Bollywood is a huge source of revenue for the public exchequer, earns significant foreign exchange for India by way of revenue from overseas releases of films, tourism etc, and is a big source of employment, with various other industries also being largely dependent on it.“Bollywood is unique and stands on a different footing from any other industry inasmuch as it is an industry that is dependent almost solely on goodwill, appreciation and acceptance of its audience. The livelihood of persons associated with Bollywood is being severely impacted by the smear campaign being run by the defendants.“This is in addition to the ongoing pandemic which has resulted in extreme revenues and work opportunity loss. The privacy of the members of Bollywood is being invaded, and their reputations are being irreparably damaged by painting the entire Bollywood as criminals, seeped in drug culture, and making being part of Bollywood as synonymous with criminal acts in the public imagination,” the plea read.The matter is likely to be heard this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-top-news-channels-face-lawsuit-for-calling-bollywood-dirt-druggies/story-PVOF5hu5KNnjnnQFFAp5eJ.html
12-10-2020||India||Even an ordinary BJP worker can defeat Hooda, says Haryana CM Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar on Monday said even an ordinary BJP worker is capable of defeating former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda form Baroda assembly seat in Sonipat.Khattar made the remarks days after Hooda dared him to contest the next month’s Baroda assembly bypoll against him.BJP and Congress are yet to declare their candidates for the Baroda assembly, where bypolls are to be held on November 3.Baroda assembly seat fell vacant in April following the death of sitting Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda. Hooda, who is the Leader of the Opposition in Haryana assembly, had said if the Khattar government is confident of its performance, the chief minister should contest the by-election.Khattar said the Congress party did an “experiment” earlier too in Jind bypolls in January last year, but they had to eat humble pie. “They experimented earlier when they had fielded a national level leader (Randeep Singh Surjewala). We are saying this time too they should do another experiment (in Baroda),” said Khattar when asked to comment on Hooda daring him to fight form Baroda.Khattar, however, dismissed the challenge, saying even an ordinary BJP worker is capable of defeating Hooda from Baroda.“If he decides to jump into fray, even an ordinary worker of our party is capable of defeating him,” Khattar told reporters here on the sidelines of an event.He said a new and ordinary worker of BJP Krishan Middha had inflicted defeat on Congress’ senior leader Randeep Singh Surjewala from Jind, a seat which the saffron party had won for the first time. Notably, the Jind bypoll in January last year was necessitated after the demise of Middha’s father Hari Chand Middha, who was an INLD leader.Shortly before the Jind bypoll, Krishan Middha had joined the BJP.“Like in Jind, our ordinary and new party worker defeated Surjewala, here too (in Baroda), an ordinary and local worker will defeat Hooda if he contests from there,” said Khattar.Hooda had recently said all sections of the society were fed up with the BJP-JJP dispensation. He had also said there was the anger of the farming community against the Centre’s three farm laws. “This government has failed on all fronts. During the past six years, they neglected the constituency (Baroda) and now they talk of development, but people have seen their true face and will teach them a lesson in the bypoll,” Hooda had said.Baroda assembly seat falling in Jat-dominated Deswali belt of Rohtak-Sonipat region is considered Hoodas’ stronghold and the Congress had reaped rich electoral gains in the 2019 assembly polls from there.“If the government is confident of its development work, CM Khattar should come in as the candidate in Baroda by-election. If Khattar contests the by-election, I am ready to contest against him.“Let the Baroda by-election decide if the people are satisfied with the development work and vote on the popularity of the government,” Hooda, a two-time chief minister had told reporters earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-an-ordinary-bjp-worker-can-defeat-hooda-khattar/story-vxU3WvM3OoNbvZcHtWmEeJ.html
12-10-2020||India||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu recovers from Covid-19||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu was examined by a medical team from All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) on Monday following which he has tested negative for Covid-19. “The Vice President, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu was examined by a medical team from AIIMS today and has tested negative for Covid-19. He has been under home quarantine after he was diagnosed with Covid-19 on September 29th,” the Vice President’s Secretariat said in a statement.“Naidu is in good health and is expected to resume normal activities soon as per medical advice,” he added. Vice President Naidu had tested positive for the coronavirus, the Vice President Secretariat informed last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-recovers-from-covid-19/story-NEAuNohSI4gGIEPDVcgL0J.html
12-10-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty asks CBI to act against neighbour for ‘false’ claim on TV||Actor Rhea Chakraborty, who walked out last week after spending a month in Byculla jail in connection with the drug probe in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, has written to the Central Bureau of Investigation, which is also probing the case of actor’s untimely death, to take action against her neighbour for giving misleading statement. The neighbour had claimed that Sushant had gone to drop Chakraborty at her home on June 13. Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai flat on June 14, which the cops had ruled as death by suicide. Earlier this month, even as the CBI maintaned that it is looking into all aspects of the case, the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) medical board set-up to look into the case “ruled out murder”.The case was first being investigated by the Mumbai Police. However, a month later, on the complaint of Rajput’s father, the Bihar police had registered a case of abetment of suicide, criminal conspiracy, cheating, theft, wrongful restraint and confinement and named Chakraborty and her family as accused. The case was later transferred to the CBI.During the probe, Rhea, 28, had claimed that she left Rajput’s house a week before the actor died. However, her neighbour Dimple Thawani in an interview had claimed that an eyewitness had seen Rajput dropping Chakraborty at her residence on June 13. Thawani had claimed that someone had informed her about this.Rhea, in her complaint against Thawani to the CBI, has claimed that Thawani “made patently false and bogus allegations against me knowing them to be false to mislead the investigation”.Further Rhea has claimed this amounts to an offence under section 203 (giving false information) and 211 (false charge of offence made with intent to injure) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“The offences are serious and the allegations were made on Republic TV channel without any basis,” Rhea said in her letter to the CBI, seeking action against her.The letter was sent a day after her lawyer Satish Maneshinde announced that they would make a list of people who gave misleading information about the incident.“We will be forwarding a list of people to the CBI who made fake and false claims on TV and electronic Media including carrying mobile recording and fake stories on the SSR [Sushant Singh Rajput] case with particular reference to Rhea Chakraborty to go after them and record their statements. We will request the CBI to take legal action against them for misleading the investigations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-asks-cbi-to-act-against-neighbour-for-false-claim-on-tv/story-lqPpIbvtfBDVqyINcA3BLK.html
12-10-2020||India||In Chhattisgarh’s Jashpur district, 19-year-old abducted and gang-raped; two held||A 19-year-old woman was allegedly abducted and gang-raped by three men at a village in Jashpur district, police said on Monday. Two of the accused have been arrested on Sunday while another is still at large, they said. According to a press release issued by Jashpur Superintendent of Police (SP) Balaji Rao, the incident took place on October 9, when the victim was returning from her relatives’ house. Police claimed that the accused identified as Arun Lakra (33), Sushil Chauhan (37) and Firoj Bek allegedly abducted and raped the victim. Subsequently, the girl went missing and on the following morning she was found unconscious outside her village. “The family admitted the victim to a hospital and when she gained consciousness she narrated the incident. Based on her statement, a case of kidnapping was registered against the three accused. However, when her medical examination revealed that she was sexually assaulted, Section 376D (gang-rape) of the IPC was also added in the case,” the district police statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-chhattisgarh-s-jashpur-district-19-year-old-abducted-and-gang-raped-two-held/story-pKp9QIqGNnNwyWMPp5T5EN.html
12-10-2020||India||Top Lashkar commander among two terrorists killed in encounter in Srinagar||A top commander of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) from Pakistan was among the two terrorists killed by security forces in an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s summer capital Srinagar on Monday.The two killings took the number of terrorists killed in Srinagar this year to 18. Since October 6, as many as 10 terrorists have been killed across Kashmir valley in four different operations and an attack.Officials said that a joint cordon and search operation was launched by Srinagar Police and CRPF in Rambagh area on specific information.“During the search operation, as the presence of terrorists was ascertained, they were given the opportunity to surrender after evacuating all the civilians. However they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party which was retaliated leading to an encounter in which two LeT terrorists were killed,” a police spokesperson said.Also read: 54 done, BRO rushes to build 48 bridges that can shoulder T-90 main battle tanksThe killed terrorists were identified as top LeT commander Saifullah (a Pakistani National) and Irshad Ahmed Dar alias Abu Usama, a resident of Pulwama who was active since May-2019 and involved in several civilian killings and attacks. “The important fact of today’s operation is that a top terrorist of Lashkar from Pakistan, Saifullah has been killed. He was involved in three major attacks in the past,” said Dilbag Singh, J&K Director General of Police (DGP) at a press conference. Saifullah infiltrated earlier this year and two months ago shifted his base from north to south Kashmir.The DGP said that he was involved in planning and executing terror attacks on security forces which includes the killing of a CRPF officer at Chadoora on September 24, two CRPF personnel at Kandizal area of Pampore on October 5. He was also part of the group involved in the killing of two police personnel at Nowgam Srinagar on August 14.Keeping in view the prevailing pandemic due to Covid-19, the dead bodies of the killed militants shall be sent to Baramulla for burial after completion of all medico-legal formalities. 18 terrorists killed in 8 encounters in SrinagarThe DGP said that there have been eight encounters in Srinagar this year.“This is for the first time in 2020 that Srinagar city has witnessed eight encounters so far in which we have been able to neutralize 18 terrorists,” he said.The DGP added that the security forces were not allowing the terrorists to have a foothold in the city despite their repeated attempts.“So Lashkar and all, they have been trying to make a foothold in the city but our intelligence network is quite good and whenever they try to find a foothold in the city we have been able to find out and take care,” he said.“There is one active terrorist of Srinagar and two others are involved in terrorist activities. The search is on and I am sure they will be brought to justice,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-lashkar-commander-among-two-terrorists-killed-in-encounter-in-srinagar/story-XrUanZoV7aRwuhWA5OKw4K.html
12-10-2020||India||Dal Lake in Srinagar undergoes cleaning ahead of winter tourism||Kashmir Lakes and Waterways Development Authority (LAWDA) has started a massive mission to clean Dal Lake ahead of winter tourism.LAWDA has put its latest machinery and men into forces for this cleaning drive. The manual cleaning of the lake also provides employment to hundreds of dwellers.The mission, therefore, aims to clear weeds like lily pads, creepers, algae, water plants, and other waste material present in the water body which hamper the movement of Shikara and affect the overall aesthetic beauty of the lake.“We have started a drive to clean the Dal Lake. We are trying to keep it clean as tourists are coming from other states. We have put machinery on work. I would like to urge people to come to Kashmir for witnessing the beauty of Dal Lake,” Syed Tariq, Works Supervisor, LAWDA told ANI.Meanwhile, Farooq Ahmad, a local resident said due to the COVID-19 lockdown there was no tourism in the Valley but now as the lockdown has been lifted; people from different states are visiting.“Dal Lake is being cleaned. This is a good step by the LAWDA. Earlier there was no tourist due to the COVID-19 lockdown but now as the government has lifted the lockdown, tourists have started to come here and everyone who visits here wants to see Dal Lake first and it has to be cleaned,” Farooq Ahmad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dal-lake-in-srinagar-undergoes-cleaning-ahead-of-winter-tourism/story-pEJg6SQAIyzapvaDaEt0QM.html
12-10-2020||India||Supreme Court notice to Centre on pleas against farm laws||The Supreme Court Monday sought response from the Centre on a batch of petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the newly enacted three contentious farm laws.A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde issued notice to the central government and sought its reply within four weeks.The three laws -- Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- took effect from September 27 after President Ram Nath Kovind’s assent.The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, was hearing pleas filed by Rashtriya Janta Dal lawmaker from Rajya Sabha, Manoj Jha; Congress Lok Sabha MP from Kerala, TN Prathapan and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) Rajya Sabha MP from Tamil Nadu, Tiruchi Siva, and a petition filed by Rakesh Vaishnav.The petitions alleged that the three farm laws passed by Parliament would dismantle the Agricultural Produce Market Committees system intended to ensure fair prices for farm products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-notice-to-centre-on-pleas-against-farm-laws/story-zsKObxc5ogZvqkVllLsCZP.html
12-10-2020||India||Overconfidence, low testing rate to blame for Covid-19 spike in Kerala, say experts||“Corona Slayer” and “Rock Star Health Minister” were just some of the epithets that the international media heaped on Kerala health minister K K Shailaja and her team a couple of months ago. They said the Communist-ruled state was a role model for many Western countries that were struggling with pandemic control measures in the initial stages. In tune with this, in May, the Kerala government had claimed it had flattened the coronavirus curve. But these records are history now-- statistics show things are not so rosy for God’s Own Country. The health ministry data shows it is fast becoming a Covid-19 hub. Other than the low mortality rate, all other indicators are heavily loaded against Kerala. The state’s test positivity rate (TPR) is almost double the national average (15.6% against the national average of 8.4%) and in the last one week it added more than 50,000 active cases to its tally, the fastest viral caseload. While the rest of India is adding fresh cases at a rate of one per cent the state’s growth rate is around 3 per cent. In tests per million, the state is on the 15th spot now, statistics show. With a high density of population (859 people per sq km) and a large number of elderly people (at least 20 per cent are above 65 years of age) the going is really tough for the state, medical experts have warned. The government’s over confidence, low testing rate and its public relation drive led to the sorry state, they said. But the Health Minister said things weren’t that bad and there was a concerted move to blame the government and portray it in bad light. “We admit Covid-19 cases are on the rise. We expected this. But the state has got the lowest mortality rate; it is less than 0.5 per cent. Our intervention delayed the outbreak and we got enough time to prepare ourselves,” she said. When lockdown was in force, the numbers were under control but when people started coming from abroad and other states, the situation really changed,” she said. She blamed relaxations during the Onam festivities (August) for the sudden spike. “We can’t remain in lockdown forever. People will have to go out and work, otherwise they will starve. But once rules were relaxed people took it for granted. You can’t blame the government for this,” she said adding opposition parties and others (a section of doctors and media) were on a race to find fault with the government. She said daily cases could go up by 15,000 by next week and the government has evolved enough measures to manage the surge capacity. As Covid-19 cases mount, the health department has given special directions to overcrowded hospitals to admit only serious patients. Signs of fatigue are visible in many hospitals. A series of agitations carried out by opposition parties last month also played a key role, the minister said. The state had witnessed protests and baton charges when the opposition activists took to streets seeking the resignation of higher education minister K T Jaleel who was interrogated in connection with the sensational gold smuggling case. But the opposition said it was a ploy to hide the government’s failure. “Five ministers in Pinarayi Vijayan’s cabinet tested positive. They never took part in any agitation. The government can’t blame the opposition for its failure,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala adding the state was after records and honours. “We warned the government that its public relations exercise won’t last for long. The first state to report a coronavirus case in the country, its test rate is abysmally poor,” he said. (Total tests are 35,94,320). However, CPI (M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said when the Pinarayi Vijayan government was all set for a second term, the opposition Congress and BJP have joined hands to topple the government. He said the state’s Covid-19 control measures were the best in the country that really helped it to cut down the death rate. “In neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka deaths are above 9,000-10,000 whereas in Kerala it is 1003,” he said. He said a section of the media also played a key role to “discredit the government”. As the blame game rages, experts want the government to take immediate steps to manage surge capacity and hike tests. Surge capacity refers to the ability of the health system to maintain sudden and unexpected increase in patient volume that would otherwise severely challenge the system. “The state is in a critical stage. It has to double its tests immediately. The government will have to rope in more experts at least for now,” said Dr SS Lal, a public health expert who served the World Health Organisation for many years. Many experts have criticised the government saying it was only heeding bureaucrats and experts were being kept away. They also said the government was not sharing vital information and data and private players were not taken into confidence. “Cases are multiplying fast and most hospitals are filled to the brim. Health authorities should re-draw their strategies to save maximum lives,” said Indian Medical Association Kerala chapter president Dr Abraham Varghese. The CM had criticised the IMA recently, when it pointed out pitfalls saying it had a “different agenda”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/overconfidence-low-testing-rate-to-blame-for-covid-19-spike-in-kerala-say-experts/story-DFKuqkF9lCgn3hEsXSwIrI.html
12-10-2020||India||BJP slams Farooq Abdullah for saying he hopes Art 370 is restored in J&K with China’s help||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has dubbed as “seditious” National Conference chief and MP Farooq Abdullah’s comment that he wished that with China’s support, Article 370 will be restored in Jammu and Kashmir. Abdullah, also a former chief minister of J&K, said in a television interview that China never accepted the reading down of Article 370 which gave special status to the erstwhile state. Lashing out at Abdullah, BJP’s Sambit Patra said, “It is saddening as well as worrying. A sitting MP is using such words for the country. He thinks that China’s aggression is because abrogation of Article 370 has happened. He categorically states that since Indian Parliament abrogated Article 370, China is disturbed and that is why China’s aggression is justified. He seems to justify the expansionist tendencies of China.” Terming the statement as “seditious” he said, “If you have reservations about the democratic process you’re allowed to talk about it but to say that you will join hands with another country to reinstall something is condemnable. This is also seditious.”Patra said this was not the first time that he has said spoken against national interest. “On September 24, he said if you ask people in J&K whether they are Indian, they will say, ‘No we don’t want to be in India and we don’t to be part of India’. In the same statement he also said it would be good if we merge with China. To raise questions about the independence and sovereignty of the country does not behove a Member of Parliament,” he said.Patra also attacked the Congress leadership for making statements against the sovereignty of the country. “If you look at the statements made by Rahul Gandhi, you will realise that Farooq Abdullah and Rahul Gandhi are the two sides of the same coin. Hatred for Prime Minister Narendra Modi has led them to the extent of hating the country. A few days ago, Gandhi had said that India’s prime minister has surrendered, is a coward and he’s hiding,” Patra said. The Congress leader had questioned the surgical strike and the air strikes become a hero in Pakistan, the BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-slams-farooq-abdullah-for-saying-he-hopes-art-370-is-restored-in-j-k-with-china-s-help/story-7FPTzxUz5EFiz6YY3OLbxK.html
12-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After massive outage, power restored in most parts of Mumbai and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After massive outage, power restored in most parts of MumbaiPower supply has been restored to several areas in Mumbai, Maharashtra’s energy minister Nitin Raut said on Monday after a grid failure caused a widespread outage in the state capital and its suburbs affecting train services, delaying exams and causing traffic jams. Read more here.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announces Rs 12,000-crore interest-free 50-year loan to statesFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday addressed the media about proposals to stimulate demand in the economy hit by the coronavirus pandemic. Read more here.KKR Predicted XI vs RCB: Question on Russell’s fitness may force KKR to make a couple of changesKolkata Knight Riders got out of jail on Saturday to register an improbable two-run win against Kings XI Punjab on Saturday. But they have a few concerns with Andre Russell’s injury and Sunil Narine’s suspect bowling action when they take on Royal Challengers Bangalore in their next IPL 2020 match in Sharjah on Monday. Read more here.Anushka Sharma is Afghan cricketer Rashid Khan’s wife: Here is why Google is making this goof-upActor Anushka Sharma’s fans are left scratching their heads over a weird new development. Apparently, Afghansitan cricket star Rashid Khan and Anushka are married! Read more here.NEET UG Result 2020 to be declared on October 16: Ramesh PokhriyalThe National Testing Agency (NTA) will declare the NEET Result 2020 on Friday, October 16, 2020, on its official website, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal informed on Monday. The result will be declared on the official website of NTA or NEET at ntaneet.nic.in or nta.ac.in. Read more.Amazon Great Indian Festival Sale: Xiaomi, Redmi phones, iPhone 11 discount, Samsung Galaxy M offers and moreThe arrival of festive season means a war between e-commerce firms in giving the best offers on latest and popular smartphones or other gadgets out there. We have already talked about some of the best offers you will get with Flipkart in the coming days. In this one we have listed some top discounts and offers that you can get during Amazon Great Indian Festival sale starting October 17. Read more here.Watch: Elderly woman climbs steep Harihar Fort in Maharashtra, tweeple can’t stop showering her with praise.“Age is just a number,” it’s said. This women’s actions prove the statement and how. This video, going crazy viral on social media, shows a nearly 70-year-old woman climbing the steep steps to Harihar Fort in Nashik. The video is not only winning her a tremendous outpouring of appreciation, but has also left many inspired through her wonderful achievement. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-massive-outage-power-restored-in-most-parts-of-mumbai-and-all-the-latest-news/story-hOuVBilykKrl5TOnHCWMzM.html
12-10-2020||India||15 years of RTI: One-third of information commissions headless; misuse an obstacle||Around one-third of information commissions in India are headless, one-fourth of information commission posts are vacant and the Jharkhand and Tripura information commissions are defunct, two reports on 15 years of the Right To Information (RTI) law stated Monday.The transparency law came into force on October 10, 2005, giving the citizens a statutory right to seek a response from the government, which in a way became the biggest tool for grievance redressal. However, with the passage of time, the burden of replying to RTI applications increased, which increased response time, leading to a higher pendency of cases. And its misuse became more rampant. In 15 years, around 33 million RTI applications were filed with various government departments across the country, said Transparency International India (TII), based on annual reports of information commissions across India.Also Read: NMSEZ damaged Uran mangroves, wetlands, reveals RTIOnly about 9% of these RTI applications resulted in a second appeal, meaning that over 90% of the applicants were satisfied with the government response, which transparency law activists said is RTI’s biggest achievement.The first appeal against a dissatisfactory RTI reply is filed with the department from where the reply is sought. And the second appeal is filed with the information commission, an independent body that can direct departments to provide information and impose penalty for a delay in providing information.However, one of the reports also stated that Jharkhand information commission is without any commissioner since May 8, 2020, when the incumbent acting chief information commissioner Himanshu Chaudhary retired.“We invited applications in January but the appointment is pending in the absence of clear directives from the assembly secretariat,” said Sudhir Kumar Ranjan, joint secretary in Jharkhand’s personnel department. The appointment is stuck as the Jharkhand assembly is yet to appoint leader of opposition, who is a member of the appointment committee headed by the chief minister.Tripura information commission also does not have a single commissioner April, 2020, after G Kameswara Rao, former chief secretary, retired. State government officials said on condition of anonymity that they were in the process of making the appointment.Also Read: Consider starting e-hearings for RTI in all departments: Bombay HC to Maharashtra govtA report by Satark Nagarik Sangathan (SNS) released Monday, said nine states including Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Rajasthan did not have a chief information commissioner, whose appointment under the RTI law is a statutory requirement.“The absence of a chief information commissioner has serious ramifications for the effective functioning of the information commissions since the RTI Act envisages a critical role for the chief, including, superintendence, management and direction of the affairs of the information commission,” the SNS report said. The central information commission (CICI), which hears second appeals against all Central government departments and union territories, has also been without a chief since August 17, 2020. “This is the fifth time in six years that the CIC has been rendered headless due to the delay in appointing a new chief upon the incumbent demitting office,” the SNS report stated. The Department of Personnel and Training has said the process for chief’s appointment has started. Anjali Bhardwaj of SNS said showing complete lack of political will, governments are not making appointments of commissioners in a timely manner leading to backlog of 2.2 lakh cases till July 31, 2020. “Today, one of the most significant challenges the transparency regime faces is the attack on the transparency watchdogs,” she said. The TII report said 24% of the information commissioner posts in 29 states were lying vacant despite Supreme Court order on February 15, 2019, directing all states and the Centre to fill all the vacant posts within six months, saying seeking information was a “fundamental right”. The court had also lamented that most of the information commissioners appointed under the public service category were retired bureaucrats while asking states to include people from diverse background in the commissions.During the Covid-19 pandemic, only 10 of the 29 information commissions worked, and in these commissions also very less appeals were heard citing technological glitches. “Instead of providing respite during the pandemic, the transparency watchdogs in most states stopped functioning. The pandemic has further undermined one of the most important governance legislations,” said SR Wadwa, chairman, TII.The SNS report said that despite 15 years of the law, many information commissions are not very transparent about their functioning. “Many information commissions still provide very less information about their orders and appeals, making analysis of their work difficult,” said Anjali Bhardwaj of SNS, adding that the Bihar information commission does not even have a website.Several studies on RTI done in the past decade shows that the transparency law has improved governance and checked petty corruption but its misuse has also increased manifold. Now, most public information officers are reluctant to give information to serial RTI applicants and publicists. On this aspect, Padma awardee RTI activist Subhash Aggarwal said that in 15 years, RTI proved to be “curative” and “preventive” for corruption and improved governance but its misuse emerged as a major obstacle in its efficacy. “There is a need to increase RTI fees and seek identity documents, as some states such as Punjab and Odisha have done, to prevent the misuse. The government is willing to provide information to genuine RTI applicants,” he said.The importance of RTI law for India could be gauged from the Supreme Court 2019 judgement, which stated that the RTI has the potential to bring about good governance, which is an integral part of a vibrant democracy. “Attaining good governance is also one of the visions of the Constitution. It also has vital connection with the development,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-years-of-rti-one-third-of-information-commissions-headless-misuse-an-obstacle/story-LHcDDpQTm3z4Om7rQazKcP.html
12-10-2020||India||Three leopard foetuses found in Uttarakhand’s Almora||In a rare occurrence three leopard foetuses were found in Uttarakhand’s Almora district on Sunday, forest officials said Monday. Mahatim Yadav, divisional forest officer of Almora forest division said that the forest officials were initially informed on Sunday evening that three leopard cubs were found dead but after reaching the spot they realised that those were foetuses. “The leopard foetuses were found in a village in Someshwar forest range of the division. They were found near two houses in the range. At present, we have recovered the leopard foetuses and are examining them to learn more. One foetus was approximately 18 cm long and they are likely to be two months old. It could be due to premature delivery or some health issue, but not much is known as of now,” said Yadav. Leopards have a gestation period of around 90-105 days (a little over three months) after which cubs are usually born. Leopards usually give birth to two to three cubs at once. Leopards cubs are dependent on their mother for food till the age of three months after being born and usually do not leave the den during this period. Yadav further said that a team has been formed and patrolling has been increased in the area where the foetuses were found to see if the mother leopard returns.Wildlife experts here said that such an event has not been reported before.Parag Nigam, a senior scientist from Wildlife Health Management department of Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun said, “Such a thing has not been reported much, so a lot is not known. If tests are done on the foetuses then more can be known, but something like this does not happen often.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-leopard-foetuses-found-in-uttarakhand-s-almora-for-the-first-time/story-JCBDuMgytS8xUWWgXMMJ5O.html
12-10-2020||India||Teen raped on campus while UP civil services exam was underway; 8 arrested||A 17-year-old girl was raped on Sunday allegedly by a student of a Jhansi college inside the campus while Uttar Pradesh provincial civil services (PCS) preliminary exam 2020 was underway, police said. The girl, a class 10 student, alleged in her complaint that around a dozen students of the college forcibly took her inside the campus where one of them outraged her modesty while others made an objectionable video and robbed her of Rs 2,000. She further alleged that they even thrashed the boy she had gone to meet. She also alleged that the students also threatened her that they will make the video viral if she revealed the incident to anyone.Dinesh Kumar P, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Jhansi, said eight students, including two main accused Rohit Saini and Bharat Kushwaha, were arrested in connection with the incident. Further investigations were on and if names of any other students surfaced in the crime, action will be taken against them too, the SSP added. The victim’s presence inside the exam centre is still being investigated. She alleges she was forced in from a gate that was unguarded. The center had just one guard and he was involved with the exam process. “Some police personnel heard the cries of the girl and took her to the Sipri Bazaar police station where she narrated her ordeal to the police. She identified one of the accused as Bharat,” the SSP said.“The police have registered an FIR under various Sections 376D [charge convict with gang rape], 395 [dacoity], 386 [extortion], 323 [causing hurt] and 120B [criminal conspiracy] of Indian Penal Code and section 66D of the IT Act and section 3/4 of POCSO Act in which Rohit Saini and Bharat Kushwaha were named. Apart from the named accused, the police have also arrested Shailendra Nath Pathak, Mayank Shivhare, Vipin Tiwari, Monu Parya, Dharmendra Sen and Sanjay Kushwaha,” the SSP added.Meanwhile, the girl was sent for a medical examination, he said. District magistrate, Jhansi, Andhra Vamsi said directions had been issued to Sipri Bazaar police to file charge sheet at the earliest and that the case be tried in a fast-track court. He also said psychological help had been arranged for the victim to help her overcome the trauma.The principal of the college said the accused were second year students and that the institute was cooperating with the police in establishing the identity of other students involved in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teen-raped-on-campus-while-up-civil-services-exam-was-underway-8-arrested/story-HZ2NgnY4iA20FQL7JCKEnJ.html
12-10-2020||India||Rajnath Singh virtually inaugurates 8 bridges in Uttarakhand, says will benefit remote areas||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday inaugurated 44 newly built bridges including eight in Uttarakhand, by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in a virtual programme attended by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and other officials. In Uttarakhand, all the eight bridges inaugurated are located in the hill district of Pithoragarh which shares the border with Nepal and China. Hailing the development, Singh said that the bridges are of strategic importance and would help in improving connectivity to remote areas. The eight bridges in Pithoragarh district have been built in Kulanagad, Tullagad, Dongatoll, Dobat-1, Elagad, Sirall, Sayaldhar and Charigad areas. The eight bridges range from 30m to 85m with Dongatoll being the shortest one--30m while Charigad is the longest one--85m. CM Rawat appreciating the work of BRO said, “The bridges will be beneficial especially for the pilgrims of the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra. They will also help in the development of the remote areas of the district by improving connectivity.” He said that the people of the remote areas up in the hills of Pithoragarh were demanding the bridges for a long time. “Their demands have now finally been met, thus opening new avenues of development there.” Rawat also hailed the BRO saying, “It built these bridges in considerable time which shows its efficiency and the determination of the government to improve the infrastructure of the strategically important areas in the hills.” Earlier after inaugurating the 44 bridges built by BRO in seven states and Union Territories, defence minister Rajnath Singh said, “The bridges will play a very vital role in supplying essentials to the armed forces in the areas near the border with China.” “These will fulfill the strategic requirement of connectivity to the border areas considering the fact that we have ongoing border issues with both China and Pakistan,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-virtually-inaugurates-8-bridges-in-uttarakhand-says-will-benefit-remote-areas/story-DhOXhOAE7djYqGaKGVnG6O.html
12-10-2020||India||Pakistan, China ‘creating border dispute under a mission’: Rajnath Singh||India’s northern and eastern frontiers remain tense, with Pakistan and China creating conditions that seem to suggest that “a border dispute is being created under a mission”, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday while drawing attention to the collusive threat posed by the two adversaries. “You are well aware of the conditions created on our northern and eastern borders. First, it was Pakistan, and now also by China, as if a border dispute is being created under a mission. We have a border of about 7,000 kilometres (km) with these countries, where tension prevails on a daily basis,” Singh said, while virtually inaugurating a raft of Border Roads Organisation (BRO) projects to provide connectivity to forward areas. The minister’s comments come at a time when tensions are simmering along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan and the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China, where Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have been locked in a border row for over five months and efforts to reduce friction have made no headway. Also Read: A reminder for China: India is free | HT EditorialThe Indian armed forces are keeping a strict vigil on the western front to deter Pakistan from fishing in troubled waters and prevent what could turn out to be a two-front conflict. “Given the symbiotic relationship between China and Pakistan, a collusive threat to India cannot be ruled out. The question is when it is viable for them to initiate a conflict against India,” said Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retired), a former Northern Army commander. As India remains focused on scaling up its border infrastructure despite the ongoing border tensions, Singh dedicated 44 bridges in forward areas to the country, including 10 in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K), eight each in Ladakh, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh, two in Himachal Pradesh and four in Sikkim, whose spans range between 30 and 484 metres. The bridges inaugurated by Singh included one on the strategic Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie (DS-DBO) road that provides connectivity to the country’s northern-most outpost, DBO. The bridge can support the movement of vehicles weighing up to 70 tonnes, including tanks. Also Read: LAC talks: India to push for restoration of status quo anteThe minister also laid the foundation stone for the Nechiphu tunnel in Arunachal Pradesh and said the border infrastructure projects were of strategic importance and would provide connectivity to remote areas of the north-eastern state. The 450-metre two-lane tunnel on the road to Tawang will ensure all-weather connectivity across Nechiphu pass besides providing a safe and secure passage through accident-prone areas, officials said. Singh said the country had not only resolutely faced the challenges posed by coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the border tensions and disputes caused by Pakistan and China but it was also bringing about “historical changes” in all sectors of development. Singh said the new bridges --- spread across seven states and two union territories (UTs) --- would improve connectivity in the far-flung areas of western, northern and north-eastern sectors and fulfill the aspirations of local people. “They would also meet the transport and logistics requirements for the armed forces throughout the year,” the minister said. Congratulating the BRO for its efforts, Singh said the dedication of 44 bridges to the country at one go in itself was a record. He said that the annual budget of BRO, which varied from Rs 3,300 crore to Rs 4,600 crore between 2008 and 2016, is at Rs 11,000 crore, with no cuts, despite the prevailing pandemic. He said the government has sanctioned high-altitude clothing to BRO engineers and workers. BRO chief Lieutenant-General Harpal Singh said that besides expediting road construction, the organisation has laid an emphasis on construction of bridges by completing 28 major bridges in 2019. Another 102 major bridges would be completed this year, he added. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-china-creating-border-dispute-under-a-mission-rajnath-singh/story-3RM6ZlUep0mppLKEeDakdP.html
12-10-2020||India||‘Being a drama queen comes naturally to me…’||Actor Shamin Mannan enjoys playing emotional characters big-time. “I love playing typical, emotional characters and being a drama queen comes naturally to me. Comedy is certainly a tough job but if it works and an actor strikes that instant connect with the audience then it’s a win-win situation for both,” said the ‘Sanskar: Dharohar Apno Ki’ actor. Hailing from Dibrugarh (Assam), Shamin always had acting on her career list. “Becoming an actor was always on my mind. Even during my second-year of engineering in Bangalore, I wanted to give acting a chance! I missed those college plays and being on stage. Soon I relocated to Mumbai and did an acting crash course to start looking for projects. Then shows like ‘Yeh Hai Aashiqui’, ‘Pyaar Tune Kya’, ‘Kasam Tere Pyaar Ki’ and more gave me a foothold in the industry. Thankfully, all shows gave me a chance to play lead or pivotal characters.” Talking about her film debut during a webinar, Shamin said, “I did romantic comedy ‘Love Shagun’ in 2016 and enjoyed being on 70mm. It was then I had an urge to do more films but understood that it was time to unlearn and start afresh. So, I took a break and started doing theatre under well-known actor Neeraj Kabi. That really helped me to sharpen my skills and learn the nuances of acting.” Currently, Shamin is busy playing a pivotal part in a light comedy series ‘Ram Pyare Sirf Hamare.’ “It’s a fun role and it gave me enough scope to play an emotional character with a splash of comedy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/being-a-drama-queen-comes-naturally-to-me/story-YPtAo4Ga492RrMdgqVXqiN.html
12-10-2020||India||Foundation stone of Nechiphu Tunnel on road to China border in Arunachal laid by Rajnath Singh||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday laid the foundation stone of the Nechiphu Tunnel on the Balipara-Charduar-Tawang (BCT) road in West Kameng district of Arunachal Pradesh. The 450m-long tunnel, which will bypass the existing road, will be D-shaped and comprise two lanes of 3.5m width each. Another 1.8 km-long tunnel is also being constructed on the BCT road and both will reduce distance to the area bordering China by 10km. Singh also inaugurated eight bridges built by Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in Arunachal Pradesh. Thirty-six other bridges built by BRO in Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Sikkim and Jammu & Kashmir were also inaugurated by the defence minister. Also Read: 54 done, BRO rushes to build 48 bridges that can shoulder T-90 main battle tanks“(I am) extremely happy to dedicate 44 major permanent bridges to the nation today. The foundation of Nechiphu Tunnel was also laid on this occasion in Arunachal Pradesh. These border infrastructure projects are of strategic importance and provide connectivity to remote areas,” Singh tweeted. Following the foundation stone laying ceremony via video conference, the first blast to start work on the stretch was carried out by BRO. “These eight bridges in Arunachal Pradesh have augmented road connectivity in remote border districts that will immensely benefit the locals as well as personnel of defence posted in far-off border outposts,” Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu said in a statement. Congratulating BRO for successful completion of the Atal Tunnel, which was inaugurated earlier this month by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Khandu hoped the Nechiphu Tunnel would also be constructed on schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foundation-stone-of-nechiphu-tunnel-on-road-to-china-border-in-arunachal-laid-by-rajnath-singh/story-NWlSkilcvJaJch7eiXPk7H.html
12-10-2020||India||In Tripura’s revised Durga puja guidelines, Covid-19 tests mandatory for organizers, priests||The Tripura government revised guidelines for Durga Puja celebration on Sunday to include mandatory Covid-19 tests of the puja organizers, priests and volunteers in order to contain spread of the pandemic.More than a month ago on September 4, the state government issued first Durga puja guidelines which directed the puja organizers to collect subscriptions online, reducing number of puja pandals through mutual consultation, avoiding narrow entrance and exit systems in the pandals, allowing 5-10 people to visit the idols at a time and others. According to the revised guidelines, all the priests along with puja organizers and volunteers will need to undergo Covid-19 tests before Panchami which falls on October 21. Besides, there might be Covid-19 testing teams at the vicinity of some puja pandals to conduct random tests on the devotees visiting the pandals during the puja.In order to avoid crowds in the pandals, the government ordered that the pandals should be kept open from all sides. If the roof of the pandal is required to be sealed, then all other sides of the pandal need to be kept open and vice versa. The government prohibited any kind of fair in front of the puja pandals barring few stalls could be set up at some distance from the puja pandal to avoid crowds.The priests have been asked to direct the pushpanjali ritual during puja through microphones and the devotees need to bring flowers from their homes and 10-15 devotees could take part in the pushpanjali at a time.On Dussehra, the puja clubs would organize ‘sindoor khela’ where 10-15 women could take part at a time in different intervals. Sindoor Khela is a traditional ritual where married women bid adieu to Goddess Durga by applying vermillion on her face.The puja organizers were also asked to bring idols to the pandals without any procession.The puja organizers need to identify a place, almost two meters distance from the entry point of the pandal for the visitors and they should engage volunteers to see that the people visiting the pandals are maintaining Covid-19 norms including social distancing, wearing masks etc. The revised guidelines also mandated the puja organizers to install CCTVs in their pandals to monitor the crowds and later handed over these footage to the police.Pregnant women, senior citizens and children below 10 years old have been advised to stay home during the puja. Though there would be no public Durga puja celebration in the containment zones, the people residing within the zones can celebrate in their respective homes.Tripura has so far recorded a total of 28,352 Covid-19 cases of whom 313 have died. Two others died by suicide.Dipak Majumder, secretary of Sanghati Club said, “We will organize the puja maintaining the guidelines of the state government. We have decided to curtail our budget almost by 50 per cent compared to the last year. Besides organizing puja, our main aim is to avoid crowds to contain the spread of the disease. We appeal to the devotees to follow the similar guidelines.”Sarmistha Das, a housewife, said, “It seems there will be less crowd for pushpanjali this year as many mothers cannot take part in the ritual by leaving their children alone at home. And also, safety is more important than visiting puja pandals this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-tripura-s-revised-durga-puja-guidelines-covid-19-tests-mandatory-for-organizers-priests/story-1MUvPeCUgRU94THatxiIwI.html
12-10-2020||India||Farm bills: Farmers set preconditions after government outreach for talks||The Union government has invited at least 31 farmers’ organisations and their leaders from Punjab for talks in the national capital on October 14, the second attempt in a month to reach out to farmers protesting a set of laws enacted by Parliament to liberalise agricultural markets. The government has proposed talks by a team, led by agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal, who signed off on the letter of invitation to the farm leaders on October 10. The top bureaucrat had written to farmers’ organisations in Punjab earlier on October 8 for a meeting, which had been rejected. Farmers’ groups said they did not participate in the meeting because in its October 8 letter, the government had said that “farmers had misunderstood the laws”. “Farmers very well understand the laws and the intention behind them, which is why we rejected the meeting,” said Avik Saha, the coordinator of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), an umbrella platform of protesting farmers’ groups in Punjab and Haryana. Saha said farm organisations then received a redrafted, two-line letter from the agriculture secretary on October 10. Also Read: Farm bills 2020: CM Kejriwal joins AAP protest at Jantar Mantar“In Punjab, farmers have been agitating over issues related to agriculture over several days. The government of India has always been serious about agriculture and farmers. This is why the government is interested in holding talks with you,” the letter from the farm secretary, which HT has reviewed, states. The AIKSCC, the farmers’ platform coordinating the protests, said it would not participate in talks unless key demands are met. “We are preparing our charter of demands which we will release soon,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal faction). Saha said “there can be no talks on the merit of these laws”. He said the pre-conditions farmers will set are (a) repeal of the laws, (b) legal backing for MSPs and (c) any talks will have to be with a committee authorised by the Cabinet. Farmers have blocked roads and railway tracks since September 24 in a protest against legislations they fear could pave the way for the government to stop buying cereals at guaranteed prices (minimum support prices or MSP), leaving them vulnerable to exploitation by private players. Also Read: ‘Save India’s farmers from such black laws’: Cong-ruled states to intensify farm law stirPrime Minister Narendra Modi, defending the laws, has called the new measures “historic”. He has publicly said that while the laws give farmers options to sell their produce to private buyers, the government would continue to purchase staples such as rice and wheat at MSPs. The laws seek to end local monopolies of regulated markets known as agricultural produce marketing committees or APMCs by opening the sector to private competition. These assurances have done little to satisfy millions of farmers in Punjab, Haryana and western parts of Uttar Pradesh. Big farmer groups, who usually produce substantial surpluses, fear deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before. The reforms are a crucial test for the Narendra Modi government’s ability to push through structural reforms in the country’s antiquated agriculture sector, which supports nearly half of all Indians, while mollifying especially large farmers in the food bowl states, who are an influential voting bloc. At the talks, the agriculture ministry team comprising senior officials as well as government economists intend to clarify the government’s intention and make presentation on the economic benefits of opening up agriculture trade, an official said requesting anonymity. Influential farm leaders from Punjab invited to the talks include Balbir Singh Rajewal, head of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), Ruldu Singh Mansa, president of Punjab Kisan Union, Major Singh Punnawal of the Kulhind Kisan Sabha, Indrajit Singh Kot Buddha of Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Harjinder Singh Tanda of the Azad Kisan Singarh Committee, Gurbaksh Singh Barnala of the Jai Kisan Andolan, Satnam Singh Pannu of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Joginder Singh Ugraha of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugraha) and Surjit Singh Phool of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Krantikari), among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-farmers-set-preconditions-after-government-outreach-for-talks/story-dWV2FMhnYCFaAQ9T170jKL.html
12-10-2020||India||CM Uddhav Thackeray calls meeting after Mumbai hit by massive power outage||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday called an urgent meeting to take stock of the situation after a major grid failure caused a widespread power outage in Mumbai and surrounding areas. State energy minister Nitin Raut and senior government officials will attend the meeting even as power supply to all essential services in Mumbai and its suburbs was restored.“Power supply to all essential services in Mumbai,Mumbai Suburbs, Kalyan, Thane,Palghar & New Mumbai have been restored. Non essential services will also be restored shortly,” Raut tweeted. He had said earlier in the day that the failure was caused by “technical problems” during maintenance work.Thackeray had earlier spoken to Raut and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner IS Chahal over the grid failure in Mumbai and gave directions for its restoration as soon as possible, according to the Maharashtra CM’s Office. “The chief minister has given instructions for the restoration of power supply as soon as possible. He has also instructed departments like fire brigade, etc. to remain vigilant during this time of need. The chief minister has also instructed the local authorities to make proper arrangements for the standard passengers of Mumbai local trains,” an official statement said.Also read | Mumbai power outage: Civic-run hospitals affected, minor surgeries cancLocal trains, considered the city’s lifeline, were hit for nearly two-and-a-half hours, causing hardships to commuters, railway officials said. All the suburban and long distance trains here were held up on tracks from 10.05am after the power grid failure in the financial capital on Monday morning, officials said. Many passengers deboarded and walked on tracks to reach the nearest station or road. Railway officials said this was a rare occurrence in the recent past when the suburban services on both the Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) routes came to a halt due to power grid failure. In September, both the CR and WR services, which are currently being run only for essential services staff amid the Covid-19 outbreak, were suspended due to water-logging on tracks after heavy rains.Also read | Mumbai power outage: Work from home shudders to a haltThe Central Railway’s services on the harbour line, which connects the city to neighbouring Navi Mumbai, resumed first at 10.55am, CR said in a release. Its main line network from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus to Kasara in neighbouring Thane and Khopoli in Raigad resumed at 12.26pm, the release added.According to the Western Railway, which operates local trains between Churchgate and Dahanu (in Palghar) stations, its services were restored at 12.20pm. “As power supply was restored on the Western Railway’s Mumbai suburban section, all overhead equipment charged at 12.20 pm and the suburban train services were restored,” a WR spokesperson said, according to news agency PTI.Also read | Varsity online exams, classes affected; papers postponedSeveral special outstation train services were also hit, forcing the railway authorities to reschedule their departure.The Central Railway in its release said it has rescheduled the Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Gorakhpur, LTT-Gorakhpur, LTT-Thiruvananthapuram, LTT-Darbhanga and LTT-Varanasi special trains.Officials of WR said its Bandra Terminus-Amritsar clone special train, Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Pashchim Express, Ahmedabad-Mumbai Central Karnavati Express,Sayaji Nagri Express and Bandra Terminus-Jodhpur Surya Nagri Express were affected due to the power disruption.Commuters faced a hard time as the 700 traffic signals across the city stopped functioning due to a power outage. And, examinations at several colleges affiliated with the University of Mumbai (MU) were rescheduled due to the Mumbai power outrage. In some cases, exams had to be called off after they had begun while in others, colleges postponed exams scheduled to take place at 11am or later.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-uddhav-thackeray-calls-meeting-after-mumbai-hit-by-massive-power-outage/story-TsC693fMv5L6NQPau7jIvL.html
12-10-2020||India||SC adjourns PIL seeking court-monitored probe in death of Sushant Singh Rajput’s ex-manager Disha Salian||The Supreme Court Monday adjourned hearing for a week on a PIL seeking court-monitored CBI enquiry into the death of Disha Salian, former manager of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput.A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde deferred the matter as no advocate appeared for the petitioner in the case.“Nobody appearing in this matter? Last time also no one appeared. What should we do? We said last time that you should consider going to the Bombay HC,” the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, observed and adjourned the matter for a week.The plea filed by advocate Puneet Dhanda claimed that both the deaths are interconnected as they occurred under suspicious circumstances.“It is after the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, various rumours and conspiracy theories have been linked between the deaths of Disha and Sushant, because both died in suspicious circumstances and at the peak of their successful professional career,” the plea said.Disha, 28, died on June 8 after falling off the 14th floor of a residential building in Malad (west) Mumbai.Rajput, aged 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 and since then the Mumbai police has been probing the case keeping in mind various angles.The PIL said that if the top court, after perusal of the investigation report by the Mumbai police, finds it unsatisfactorily then the matter be referred to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for further investigation.The plea also sought directions to Maharashtra police to cooperate in the investigation being carried out by Bihar police in Sushant’s death case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-adjourns-pil-seeking-court-monitored-probe-in-death-of-sushant-singh-rajput-s-ex-manager-disha-salian/story-tQFkHxG8KMFGvtJPLaejUK.html
12-10-2020||India||Himachal Pradesh CM Jairam Thakur tests positive for Covid-19, goes into self-isolation||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur on Monday said that he has tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) and has gone into self-isolation. The minister had come in contact with a Covid positive person and was in quarantine for last one week at his residence. After showing symptoms of coronavirus, Thakur got tested for the disease on Monday for which the results have come positive. As per doctor’s advice, the chief minister has self-isolated himself at his residence. “For last one week I was in quarantine at my residence after coming in contact with a coronavirus positive person. But for last two days, I had some symptoms of corona so got a test done today, which has come positive. I am in isolation in my official residence as per the advice given by doctors’ advice,” CM Jairam Thakur wrote in Hindi on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-cm-jairam-thakur-tests-positive-for-covid-19-goes-into-self-isolation/story-PQT1RKVKMRq0jjr7zCzG2I.html
12-10-2020||India||54 done, BRO rushes to build 48 bridges that can shoulder T-90 main battle tanks||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday formally opened 44 bridges built by the army’s Border Roads Organisation, or BRO, delivering what the government described as a record-breaking performance. The 44 are among the 102 bridges that are being built by the BRO. These bridges are designed to withstand movement of India’s heaviest battle tanks.An official said 30 of the 44 bridges commissioned on Monday fall on the route to the Line of Actual Control from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh.These are class 70 bridges; technicalese for bridges that can bear the weight of 70 tonne vehicles. Also Watch | ‘First Pakistan & now China’: Rajnath Singh speaks on border disputesIndia’s heaviest battle tank Arjun is about 60 tonnes. The T-90 Bhishma tanks that were moved to locations in the East Ladakh sector after China’s People’s Liberation Army signalled its reluctance to step back from the Line of Actual Control weigh about 45 tonnes.Also Read: Atal Tunnel done, now PM Modi pushes Border Roads chief for all-weather axis to LadakhThese bridges would improve connectivity and permit faster development of troops and support elements that would vastly improve the capability of the armed forces to respond to any situation along the LAC.The government had earlier doubled the BRO’s annual targets to build 102 bridges this year against an annual average of 50 bridges.India needs to catch up with China which has invested heavily in ramping up border infrastructure for decades. “We had already lost too much time and could not allow a business-as-usual approach,” said a BRO official, a reference to the decision taken by previous governments not to upgrade border infrastructure.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had alluded to this decision when he opened the Atal tunnel earlier this month, blaming previous governments for their misplaced priorities and lack of political will to focus on border roads along the border with China.Also Read: PM Modi rues lack of strategic vision of past regimes for poor border infrastructure PM Modi had, since taking charge after a landslide win in 2014, focused on strengthening infrastructure along the India-China border.It is a reflection of the government’s hard push in this context that the BRO’s annual budget, which ranged between Rs 3,300 crore and Rs 46,00 crore crore in 2008-2016, saw a substantial rise and is pegged at over Rs 11,000 crore in 2020-21, an official statement said.At Monday’s event to formally open the 44 bridges, defence minister Rajnath Singh showered praises on the BRO and its chief Lt Gen Harpal Singh for delivering on its targets in the most hostile terrain and weather conditions.Lt Gen Harpal Singh said the BRO the 44 bridges commissioned on Monday are in addition to the 10 bridges completed earlier in the year. Lt Gen Singh said the fresh round of 44 bridges are located in Jammu and Kashmir (10), Ladakh (8), Himachal Pradesh (2), Punjab (4), Uttarakhand (8), Arunachal Pradesh (8) and Sikkim (4).“These bridges of various spans, constructed by BRO, range from 30 metres to 484 metres are of strategic importance and have been designed to facilitate movement of heavy civil and military traffic in border areas,” he said, underscoring that some of these bridges were in locations that made building a 30-metre long bridge far more difficult than to make even a 1,000-metre long bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-s-bro-building-100-bridges-by-march-most-of-them-near-china-border/story-56XIHQA8yE05IHLDEptZqM.html
12-10-2020||India||Hours after quitting Congress, actor-turned-politician Khushbu Sundar joins BJP||Actor-turned-politician Khushbu Sundar on Monday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hours after quitting the Congress. Madan Ravichandran, a political journalist, and former Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer Saravana Kumar also joined the party along with Sundar. In her resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Sundar said, “Few elements seated at higher level within the party, people who’ve no connectivity with ground reality or public recognition, are dictating terms.” People like her who wanted to work for wanted to work for the party sincerely were being pushed and suppressed by such forces, she added. The grand old party’s former spokesperson from Tamil Nadu had on Saturday tweeted about an “inevitable change” that was going to occur in the coming days, a possible reference to her joining the BJP. “Many see a change in me. Well as you age, you evolve n grow, learn n unlearn, perceptions change, likes n dislikes too, thoughts n ideas take a new shape, dreams are new, you understand the difference between like n love, between right n wrong. Change is inevitable. Happy eve,” she wrote on Twitter.Her views were seen conflicting from the Congress’ soon after she took a divergent stand on the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) National Education Policy (NEP), 2020 and welcomed it. Leaders from Tamil Nadu had attacked her over her stance. She had later apologised to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, but had insisted she would “rather speak the fact than be a robot or a puppet”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-turned-politician-khushbu-sundar-joins-bjp/story-Dz9k4VnClyUuZEEIGuruSN.html
12-10-2020||India||KCR’s daughter K Kavitha elected to Telangana legislative council||Telangana Rashtra Samithi president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s daughter Kalvakuntla Kavitha on Monday returned to active politics by winning the by-elections to the state legislative council with a thumping majority. She had been in political hibernation after losing the parliamentary elections from Nizamabad in May 2019.Kavitha is now being tipped to be inducted into the cabinet of her father.“There is every possibility that she will become a minister in the KCR cabinet. We all wish to see her as a minister soon,” senior TRS leader and lawmaker from Bodhan Mohd Shakeel said.The former MP swept the bypolls to the MLC seat from Nizamabad local authorities constituency with a margin of 672 votes by securing over 88 percent votes polled. The polling was held on December 9 and the counting took place on Monday.Out of 823 votes polled in the constituency, Kavitha got 728 votes. In the first round, she secured 531 out of 600 votes and polled another 197 votes in the second round. Her nearest candidate Lakshmi Narayana of Bharatiya Janata Party polled only 56 votes, while Subhash Reddy of the Congress could get only 29 polls and another 10 votes were declared invalid. Both the Congress and the BJP candidates lost their deposits.The bye-elections of the MLC seat from Nizamabad local bodies’ constituency were necessitated following disqualification of sitting MLC R Bhoopathi Reddy from the TRS to the Congress in December last.The election that was to be held on April 7 this year was postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The polling was recently cleared by the Election Commission of India.Kavitha thanked local body representatives for her landslide victory. She also expressed her gratitude towards minister V Prashant Reddy, MLAs, MPs and MLCs who had worked tirelessly for her grand victory.The Telangana chief minister’s daughter, who played a major role in the Telangana movement through her cultural wing Telangana Jagruti, had won the first electoral battle in 2014 when she got elected to the Lok Sabha from Nizamabad parliamentary constituency.However, Kavitha lost the parliament elections in 2019 to Bharatiya Janata Party candidate Dharmapuri Arvind with a margin of over 70,000 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-s-daughter-k-kavitha-elected-to-telangana-legislative-council/story-vd4GiBtp8FZSZ9o7umnoUK.html
12-10-2020||India||Rajmata proved that for people’s representatives not ‘Raj Satta’ but ‘Jan Seva’ is important: a look at PM Modi’s top quotes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday released a commemorative coin of Rs 100 as a part of Rajmata Vijaya Raje Scindia’s birth centenary celebrations. During the virtual ceremony, the Prime Minister also spoke about her legacy and highlighted some crucial instances from her life.Modi on Sunday had tweeted, “Tomorrow, 12th October is the Jayanti of Rajmata Vijaya Raje Scindia. On this special day, commemorative coin of Rs 100 would be released at 11 AM. This is a part of her birth centenary celebrations and is yet another occasion to pay tributes to her great personality.”Born on born on October 12, 1919, Scindia was a prominent political figure and was one of the founding members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). She was one of the major faces of the party. Her daughter Vasundhara Raje and grandson Jyotiraditya Scindia are currently serving as senior BJP leaders. At the virtual ceremony, Modi began his address by saying that Rajmata Scindia dedicated her life to poor people. adding that she proved that for people’s representatives not ‘Raj Satta’ but ‘Jan Seva’ is important. Family members of Scindia along with other dignitaries were also a part of the event. Here are the top quotes from the Prime Minister’s address: 1. Rajmata Vijaya Raje Scindiaji was a witness to every important phase of Indian politics from the independence movement to the decades after independence. Prior to independence, Rajmata’s experiences have expanded widely, from burning Holi of foreign clothes, to the Emergency and the Ram Temple movement, PM Modi said. 2. The Prime Minister highlighted how Vijaya Raje Scindia turned down several posts with humility. “Once Atalji and Advaniji had urged her to become the president of the Jana Sangh. But she accepted to serve the Jana Sangh as an activist,” he said. 3. Modi said that by making a law against triple talaq, India has taken forward Scindia’s vision of women empowerment. “About women power, Rajmata Scindia used to say specifically that those hands which can rock a cradle, they can also rule the world. Today, India’s women power is advancing in every field, advancing the country. By making a law against triple talaq, the country has taken forward Rajmata Scindia’s vision of women empowerment,” he added. 4. Rajamata dedicated her present for the future of the nation, Modi said adding that she gave up all her happiness and did not live for position and prestige. 5. The Prime Minister further pointed out that the country is moving forward with her blessings with village, poor, dalits, marginalised sections and women being the first priority. 6. Modi also said that Scindia’s dreams like revocation of Article 370 and building a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya have been fulfilled. (With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajmata-proved-that-for-people-s-representatives-not-raj-satta-but-jan-seva-is-important-a-look-at-pm-modi-s-top-quotes/story-laMOCk40IR6V8owXQgMzGM.html
12-10-2020||India||Supreme Court dismisses petition seeking ban on Halal slaughter||Supreme Court on Monday rejected a plea seeking ban on Halal form of slaughtering of animals which is adhered to by the Muslim community. A bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul questioned the intention of the petitioner and also said that court cannot interfere with the food habits of people.“Court cannot determine who can be a vegetarian or non-vegetarian. Those who want to eat Halal meat can eat Halal meat. Those who want to eat Jhatka meat can eat Jhatka meat,” the bench which also comprised justice Dinesh Maheshwari said. The court was hearing a petition filed by an organisation, Akhand Bharat Morcha, challenging Section 28 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act.The said section provides that killing of animal in a manner required by the religion of any community will not be an offence under the act. Various forms of killing of animals, like Halal in which jugular vein of the animal is severed leading to blood of animal draining out leading to death of animal and Jhatka where animal is killed instantaneously by a single strike of sword to sever the head, are protected by Section 28. While Halal is practiced by Muslims, Jhatka meat is consumed by Hindus. The petitioner argued that killing of animals by Halal method is extremely painful for the animal and such exemptions under Section 28 in a secular country should not be allowed.“Halal is extremely painful. Inhuman slaughter of animals in the name of Halal should not be permitted,” it was submitted. It was also pointed out that Jhatka does not cause suffering for animals since it dies instantaneously in such method of slaughter while in Halal, the animal dies a painful death. The bench, however, declined to entertain the plea. “Your petition is mischievous in character,” the top court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-petition-seeking-ban-on-halal-slaughter/story-5QfegKlWlZlHQfPF3nIToL.html
12-10-2020||India||Telangana man who built Donald Trump’s statue and worshipped him dies of heart attack||Bussa Krishna, a 33-year old man from Telangana, who hit the headlines by turning his puja room into a temple for US President Donald Trump and later made a statue of him, died of heart attack at his parents’ home at Toopran in Medak district on Sunday afternoon, family members said. According to his family members, Krishna collapsed while having a cup of tea. He was rushed to a local hospital at Toopran, where doctors declared him dead on arrival. “He was feeling depressed for the last couple of weeks after coming to know that Trump and Melania had tested positive for Covid-19. But he was healthy and had no prior medical complications,” his cousin Vivek told reporters. Krishna, hit the headlines for the first time in 2018 by installing a photograph of Trump in his puja room and worshipping it every day along with other Hindu gods at his house in Konne village of Bachannapet block in Jangaon district. Last year, he had built a six-foot statue of Trump in front of his house and had been conducting regular pujas and bathed it with milk. He pasted posters and stickers of the US President all over his house and had written graffiti praising Trump on the walls. He used to wear T-shirts with Trump’s name on it. For his craze for the US president, he had earned the nickname as Trump Krishna in his village. It was only last week Krishna had released a one-minute video in which he was seen crying for Trump and praying for his speedy recovery from illness. Earlier, Krishna said he strongly wished that Trump returned to power in the presidential election. A school dropout, Krishna had been taking care of agriculture in his two-acre land in the village, while his parents had moved to Toopran a couple of years ago. His wife died last year while delivering a baby boy. Krishna started worshipping the US president after Srinivas Kuchibhotla, a software engineer from the state, was killed by a US navy veteran in an alleged act of hate crime in February 2017. “I was very much pained at the incident. I thought the only way the US president and his people could understand the greatness of Indians is to display our love and affection towards them. That is why I started worshipping Trump with a hope that the prayers would reach him one day,” Krishna had then said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-man-who-built-donald-trump-s-statue-and-worshipped-him-dies-of-heart-attack/story-PRqiSQ9bqbk6RdFkqgjNyN.html
12-10-2020||India||‘Issue bound to arise somewhere’: Supreme Court notice to Centre on petition challenging farm laws||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to Centre, seeking response on a petition challenging the farm bills passed by Parliament last month. These bills received President’s Ram Nath Kovind’s assent and became law.The notice was issued on a petition filed by Rakesh Vaishnav, who represents Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress. The three-judge bench of chief justice of India SA Bobde, AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice and asked Attorney General (AG) KK Venugopal to file the response.The court noted that no cause of action has so far arisen but Vaishnav’s lawyer P Parmeswaran argued that his client had earlier approached the Chhattisgarh high court challenging the ordinance. He requested the Supreme Court to strike down the new farm laws claiming that they surreptitiously repealed local laws in Chhattisgarh.The bench said, “We will issue notice as this issue is bound to arise somewhere or other.” Four petitions were listed before the court on this issue. For this case, along with AG, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and ASG KM Natraj appeared.The three laws passed by Parliament are: Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Agriculture and Promotion) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bound-to-arise-somewhere-supreme-court-notice-to-centre-on-petition-challenging-farm-laws/story-huQOj5UdWu0JJTH24vZTBI.html
12-10-2020||India||LTC cash voucher scheme: All you need to know about it||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday addressed a press conference ahead of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting she is scheduled to chair at 4pm.Sitharaman announced proposals regarding consumer spending and capital expenditure. Under consumer spending, she announced proposals within two components--LTC cash voucher scheme and special festival advance scheme.Here’s all you need to know about the leave travel concession (LTC) cash voucher scheme:(1.) Central government employees get leave travel concession in a block of four years--one each to a destination of choice and home town or two for home town.(2.) Under this, the air or rail fare is reimbursed as per pay scale/entitlement. Also, a leave encashment of ten days (pay+dearness allownace) is paid.(3.) However, employees will not be able to avail the LTC in the 2018-21 year block due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. This is where the LTC will benefit government employees.(4.) In lieu of one LTC during 2018-21, employees will receive cash payment. There will be full payment on leave encashment and fare will be paid as per three slabs depending upon the class of entitlement. Further, there will be no tax on fare payment.(5.) An employee opting for this scheme will have to buy goods and services worth three times the fare and one time leave encashment, and do so before March 31, 2021.(6.) The money is to be spent on goods attracting GST of 12% or more and only digital payments will be allowed. Also, employees will have to provide GST invoice.(7.) The finance minister said the scheme would cost Rs 5,675 crore if central government employees opt for it. However, for PSB and PSU employees, its cost would be Rs 1,900 crore.(8.) Sitharaman further projected that with even 50% states opting for this scheme, the government expects to infuse Rs 9,000 crore into the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ltc-cash-voucher-scheme-all-you-need-to-know-about-it/story-BKUZxTaHcAeeBpKR80Sv4H.html
12-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: White House urges presidential debate commission to reverse decision on second debate and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US Election 2020: Nice if decision to scrap presidential debate reversed, says White HouseWith the second presidential debate between US president Donald Trump and his Democratic Party opponent Joe Biden on October 15 cancelled, the White House spokesman on Sunday said it would be ‘nice’ if the US Commission on Presidential Debates (CPD) reverses its decision to scrap the debate. Read moreAhead of MP by-poll, BJP leader terms Congress party of ‘Shaitaan’‘Shaitaan’ and ‘Sadhu’ have made entry to the by-poll elections for the Sanwer seat in Indore district said Govind Malu, senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and added that his party is the party of Sadhus while opposition Congress party is the party of Shaitaan.Read moreIPL 2020, DC vs MI: Delhi Capitals skipper Shreyas Iyer provides important update on Rishabh Pant injuryIt wasn’t just the loss against the Mumbai Indians that was disappointing for the Delhi franchise as there was another bad news for them. Rishabh Pant had to miss the game against MI due to an injury and was replaced by Alex Carey. And he might miss more games in IPL 2020 as he has been advised a week’s rest by the doctor. Read moreSalman Khan takes ‘indirect’ dig amid fake TRP case: ‘One should not say nonsense, lie and shout, they will shut down channel’Actor Salman Khan took a dig at channels who are allegedly manipulating TRPs during Bigg Boss 14, saying that if people continue to do what they are doing, the channels will be shut down. Earlier, Republic TV had taken a swipe at the actor for not speaking up on the drug allegations and Sushant Singh Rajput death case. Read moreHina Khan stuns in double-winged eyeliner as she unleashes her ‘toofani’ side in latest Bigg Boss lookNation’s sweetheart and Bigg Boss contestant in 2017, Hina Khan has left fans and fashionistas smitten with her sartorial choices, DIY beauty regime and experiments with tricky eye makeups. As she returns to the Bigg Boss sets this season, the diva is leaving no stone unturned to unleash her “toofani” elegance and her latest flood of pictures on the Internet are no different. Read moreApple iPhone 12 Pro: Expected specs, price, features and moreApple is hosting a special event on October 13 wherein it is expected to launch its next-generation iPhone 12 series smartphones. The iPhone 12 series, as reports have suggested so far, will comprise of four iPhone 12 models, which includes the budget iPhone 12 Mini, the iPhone 12, and the premium-budget iPhone 12 Pro and the iPhone 12 Pro Max. Read moreRoad journey between Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to become quicker. Here’s howUnion Minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday said highway works worth ₹11,000 crore were underway for Tamil Nadu-Puducherry connectivity. Dedicating to the nation ₹35 crore road-over-bridge on NH 45-A at Puducherry, the minister said this will ease traffic congestion. Read moreWatch: Ladakh kid’s video saluting ITBP soldiers goes viralA video of a kid saluting ITBP forces has gone viral on the internet. The kid, Namgyal, from Chushul in Ladakh is seen saluting jawans animatedly. The video was first posted on Twitter from the ITBP’s official account. The kid can be seen standing on the roadside saluting ITBP jawans who are passing by the area. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-white-house-urges-presidential-debate-commission-to-reverse-decision-on-second-debate-and-all-the-latest-news/story-J2k1Q9zHTszkM6jo2b61yO.html
12-10-2020||India||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announces Rs 12,000-crore interest-free 50-year loan to states||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday addressed the media about proposals to stimulate demand in the economy hit by the coronavirus pandemic.On indications are that the savings of government and organised sector employees have increased, the government wants to incentivise such people to boost demand for the benefit of the less fortunate, the finance minister told reporters. Sitharaman introduced a proposal related to boost consumer spending. The plan is divided in two components: Leave Travel Concession (LTC) voucher and special festival advance scheme.The LTC allows central government employees to travel in a block of four years - one to anywhere in India and one hometown or two hometown. The air or rail fare, as per pay scale, is be reimbursed and in addition the employees will get a leave encashment of 10 days (pay+DA) is paid. Sitharaman said the new part of this scheme is that the employees can now encash their LTCs in the form of vouchers.“Since the employees are not able to travel anywhere due to Covid-19, they can spend the money in buying something of their choice. But the money has to be spent on items which attract 12% or more GST,” said the finance minister. “The spend should only be done through digital mode. And GST invoice will be required, so that the amount spent can be reimbursed to the employees,” she added.Sitharaman said that the scheme is valid till March 31, 2021. She said that the government will incur Rs 5,675 crore on this. The finance minister added that employees of Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) and public sector banks (PSBs) ca also avail the scheme.On a conservative basis, we expect the LTC Cash Voucher Scheme to generate additional consumer demand in the range of Rs 28,000 crore, she said. Elaborating on the special festival advance scheme, the finance minister said that the government will give Rs 10,000 special festival advance as prepaid RuPay cards to all its employees as one-time measure to stimulate demand. The RuPay card too will be valid till March 31, 2021.In the second part of her address, Sitharaman said capital expenditure has multiplier effect on the economy and so the government wants to give a new thrust to the capital expenditure of both states and Centre. The government has decided to issue a special interest-free 50-year loan to states for Rs 12,000 crore capital expenditure in three parts. In Part 1, the eight North East states will get loans worth Rs 200 crore each, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh will get Rs 450 crore each. In the second part, Rs 7,500 crore will go to the rest of the states as per the 15th Finance Commission. Half of the sum will be will be given initially while the remaining upon utilization of first 50%. In Part 3, Rs 2,000 crore for the state which meets at least 3 out of 4 reforms given in Aatma Nirbhar fiscal deficit package, Sitharaman added.The government has estimated that the measures announced today, for boosting consumer spending and capital expenditure, are likely to boost demand by Rs 73,000 crore, to be spent by March 31, 2021.If demand goes up based on the stimulus measures announced today, it will have an impact on those people who have been affected by Covid-19 and are desperately looking for demand to keep their business going, the finance minister said. Sitharaman’s address comes hours before the third round of Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting over the issue of compensating states for the Rs2.35 lakh crore shortfall in their share of revenue from the indirect tax this fiscal year. On October 5, the council had deferred a decision on the issue after 10 states ruled by non-National Democratic Alliance (NDA) parties insisted that the central government borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore and compensate the states.The states were also given the option of borrowing the entire Rs2.35 lakh crore (including the shortfall caused by the Covid-19 pandemic) at a significant cost. Apart from the 10 dissenting states, 21 state governments have opted to borrow Rs1.10 lakh crore. Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal are among the states that have demurred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-addresses-media-on-economic-issues/story-hSluh5NucJJYTDfiCHS7KK.html
12-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand BJP councillor shot dead in front of his house in Kumaon||A BJP councillor of Rudrapur municipal corporation was shot dead in front of his house on Monday morning by some unidentified men in Udham Singh Nagar district, police said. According to the police, the unidentified assailants came in a car and the murder was due to old enmityDaleep Singh Kunwar, senior superintendent of police (SSP), US Nagar, said, “Some car-borne miscreants arrived at the councillor’s house and called him out, As he reached near the car, the miscreant opened fire on him and fled from the spot.” Prakash Dhami 40, a resident of Agrasen Nagar, Bhadaipura was councillor in Rudrapur municipal corporation. The killers arrived at his residence around 8 am. “Dhami tried to run for his safety but the miscreants chased him and fired at him again”, the SSP said. Dhami was rushed to a private hospital and later to a district hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. He was elected as councillor unopposed in 2018 from ward 13. Later he joined BJP. Kunwar said, “It is a matter of old enmity and we have formed police teams to solve the case. All the accused will be arrested soon”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-bjp-councillor-shot-dead-in-front-of-his-house-in-kumaon/story-9Wvt0IsFfXxR48qpvjhmzK.html
12-10-2020||India||DRDO fires Nirbhay cruise missile into sea, hits abort after 8 minutes||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Monday launched the 800-km range Nirbhay cruise missile from Odisha’s test facility into the Bay of Bengal but decided to abort the trial a few minutes later.“The missile was fired at 10.30 am from the testing facility,” a government official told Hindustan Times. “But the missile developed a snag and the trial was aborted 8 minutes later,” the official said.Nirbhay was the 10th missile to be fired by the DRDO during the last 35 days, an average of a missile every four days. India’s emphasis on fast-tracking development and deployment of the new-age stand-off weapons is a response to China’s mobilisation of troops and support elements in the East Ladakh sector.People familiar with the matter said the DRDO would conduct another trial in a few months that would pave the way for the missile’s full-fledged induction into Indian military and deployment on the borders.A limited number of Nirbhay missiles had been moved earlier to the border with China before Monday’s eighth round of test firing.Nirbhay is a subsonic missile, flying at a speed of 0.7 Mach, with sea-skimming and terrain-hugging capability that helps the missile stay under enemy radar to avoid detection. The missile has a loitering capability that allows the delivery platform to manoeuvre mid-flight and at the end to hit the target. The missile’s launch is powered by a solid rocket booster developed by DRDO’s Advanced Systems Laboratory, which unlike liquid propellant, are easier to handle.The conventional warhead missiles, capable of deep penetration to strike high-value targets with precision, are launched from mobile platforms.Mondy’s tests were conducted as part of an effort by the DRDO to expedite development of missiles along the LAC amid the stand-off with China’s People’s Liberation Army at multiple points in East Ladakh.Officials said scientists needed to analyse the data generated during the tests to figure the tweaks that may be needed to be carried out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-fires-nirbhay-cruise-missile-into-sea-hits-abort-after-8-minutes/story-pwMlu7YRVvgiHuhA0P2rfI.html
12-10-2020||India||Ahead of MP by-poll, BJP leader terms Congress party of ‘Shaitaan’||‘Shaitaan’ and ‘Sadhu’ have made entry to the by-poll elections for the Sanwer seat in Indore district said Govind Malu, senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and added that his party is the party of Sadhus while opposition Congress party is the party of Shaitaan.While talking to ANI, BJP leader Malu alleged that the Congress party follows the ideology of the devil.“Through our party and its ideology, we are trying to tell that we do politics of welfare of people and the country. We do not work for ourselves. We do not put culture, the tradition of the country at stake. It is the difference between Sadhus and Shaitaan,” he said.“Congress can be equated with Satan. They have the ideology of the devil. Congress is promoting hypocrisy, casteism and class struggle for power. We believe in clean politics. We do not do casteist politics. BJP is a party of Sadhus,” he added.Commenting upon the Congress party candidate Premchand Guddu who is contesting for Sanwer constituency in the by-election, the BJP leader said, “Whosoever wants to leave the party give their arguments.”Guddu switched to BJP ahead of the 2018 Assembly polls. However, he later returned to the Congress fold.Former Lok Sabha Speaker and BJP leader Sumitra Mahajan said that people should refrain from using such words.“I have not used such words. If I have ever uttered such words, I apologise immediately. A Sadhu is hidden in everyone’s mind and Shaitaan inside us sometimes comes out... it should not happen...I do not give importance to such words,” Mahajan said while addressing a press conference here after inaugurating BJP’s war room in a hotel at Indore on Sunday.The war room has been created for the seven seats of the Indore-Ujjain division which will go into by-polls. Leaders of BJP will be in touch with the party through this war and will issue guidelines. The activities and strategy for the polls will be devised here.“The way of fighting elections has changed over the years. We have to keep track of opponents’ activities and we have to ensure that our message that reached voters. This war room is dedicated to helping our workers to advise them on how to strategise. The by-elections on 28 seats are important. We are a party which works for the people. We have the opportunity. I will campaign for the party if needed,” she said.Voting for 28 Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh by-polls will take place on November 3 and the results are scheduled to be declared on November 10.Indore’s Sanwer seat will also go for polling.In March this year, 22 Congress MLAs resigned from the State Assembly, paving way for BJP’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan to take over as Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister for the fourth time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-mp-by-poll-bjp-leader-terms-congress-party-of-shaitaan/story-Nyfg8MFr4NRLttv6eSJYqK.html
12-10-2020||India||One in every 130 females globally is living in modern slavery: UN report||Even as it remains true that modern slavery has an effect on everyone, females across the world account for about 71% of all victims, according to a report by the United Nations. Pointing towards the modern slavery being largely a gender issue, the report titled ‘Stacked Odds’ states that modern slavery is enabled by power imbalances and for women and girls, this imbalance is exacerbated by gender inequality and discrimination. According to the report, one in every 130 females globally is living in modern slavery. Females account for a staggering 99% of all victims of forced sexual exploitation, 84% of all victims of forced marriage, and 58% of all victims of forced labour, it added. The report highlighted that in most countries girl children continue to have relatively less access to school and medical care, which in turn makes women more vulnerable to end up in poverty. “...women are more likely to end up in poverty, to work in the riskiest sectors of the informal economy – and ultimately, in modern slavery – than men,” it explained. Females outnumber males as victims of modern slavery in four of the five world regions. They account for 73% of victims in the Asia and Pacific, 71% in Africa, 67% in Europe and Central Asia, and 63 % in the Americas, the UN report states. Even in the Arab States, where estimates are significantly impeded by a lack of data on forced marriages and the forced labour of domestic workers, nearly 40% of all people living in modern slavery are women. Saying that the need to address the disproportionate risk of modern slavery among women and girls has never been more urgent, the report reinforces the need to involve survivors in decisionmaking to ensure their voices are heard and the insights of their lived experience translates into effective solutions.The reports says, “At its core, the fight against modern slavery is about ensuring people have the most basic of human rights – freedom.”It aims to urge governments, faith leaders, and the business sector to work with the international and non-government organisations to bring about the required changed to achieve the goal of equality. The report has suggested six points that it says must be included in the action plan. According to the report the plan must include criminalising all forms of modern slavery, reform in all countries where laws still enable children to be married, valuing and prioritising education for girls as a critical circuit breaker to a lifetime of vulnerability, and challenging cultural norms, such as male preference, restrictions on freedom of movement outside the home, and lack of control over finances and assets, which allow harmful and exploitative practices to continue. It must also ensure overturning laws and policies that strip women of their rights and agency or exacerbate their vulnerability to sexual violence and exploitation; for example, inheritance rights, land ownership laws, and the kafala system, and prioritising supply chain transparency to ensure workers are protected, taking specific action to understand and address the vulnerabilities experienced by women, including protection mechanisms in crisis situations. The governments must acknowledge the clear link between gender and risk of modern slavery in their gender and development programming and budgets, the report said, adding that it is only by protecting this freedom that we will achieve true gender equality, and in doing so, unlock the untapped potential of half the world’s population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-in-every-130-females-globally-is-living-in-modern-slavery-un-report/story-VAVHGWAg8EMmCszl0YZZgO.html
12-10-2020||India||Large parts of Mumbai hit by power outage, trading unaffected||Large parts of India’s financial capital Mumbai experienced power failure Monday, disrupting normal life.The city is home to about 20 million people as also the nation’s biggest stock exchanges, the central bank and financial regulators.Stock exchanges BSE Ltd. and National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. continued to function normally. BSE also carried out the listing ceremony for Mazagon Shipbuilders in the morning, the exchange spokesperson said. Some rail services were halted due to the power outage, according to a tweet by the Central Railway.Many traders said the activity wasn’t much affected but if the outage is prolonged then it could impact trading volumes.“Some traders are facing issues” as they have limited battery backup, said Deepak Jasani, head of retail research at HDFC Securities Ltd. The power outage has also affected broadband connections for some and they’re not being able to trade, he added.Bond traders said the outage is having an impact with trading volumes narrowing with the10-year volumes at 34 billion rupees compared to around 50 to 60 billion rupees early morning.The yield on benchmark 10-year bonds fell two basis points to 5.91% while the S&P BSE Sensex was up 0.5% as of 10:45 a.m. in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/large-parts-of-mumbai-hit-by-power-outage-trading-unaffected/story-v7d9euQVkMN66T5Wb7pBXJ.html
12-10-2020||India||Former Cong chief in Bihar who joined JD(U) last year quits over ‘neglect’||Former president of the Congress unit in Bihar, Prof Ram Jatan Sinha, who had joined the JD(U) in February last year, has quit the party ahead of the assembly election, citing neglect by the party and chief minister Nitish Kumar.His induction a year ago was seen as a boost to the JD(U). Nitish Kumar had also attended his induction function. After his entry into JD(U), he was seen as a strong contender for the Jehanabad seat, but that has gone to Bihar education minister Krishna Nandan Verma.“I quit on October 8 itself and my resignation was accepted at the party office. There is no point staying with a party where I have no respect. I will hold a press conference today to make public my resignation letter and share my role in the coming days,” he said on Monday morning.Sinha represented Makhdumpur assembly seat (now a reserved constituency) thrice is said to have good influence in the dominant Bhumihar community, especially in the Jehanabad and its adjoining areas. He had also contested election from Patna once and lost. Sinha was the Bihar Congress president from 2003-05.Known as a firebrand leader in his younger days, Sinha became president of Patna University Students’ Union (PUSU) in 1971 defeating Lalu Prasad and handed over the baton to Prasad in 1973.Click here for full coverage of Bihar Assembly Election 2020.“I have been with the party since February last year, but the party has not done anything for me. At this stage of life, I cannot waste more time. I will pay back Nitish Kumar the same way I have been treated. I was neither given a Lok Sabha ticket, nor Rajya Sabha seat. Now I have not even been given a ticket for the assembly election. That leaves me with no choice but to move on,” he said.Sinha said that he would not contest election, as he knew his limitation without a ticket from any mainstream political party. “This time, I have not been left with time, either. But my supporters want me to move in Vikram, Pali, Jehanabad, Masaurhi and other places to work against the party that has cheated me and encourage voters not to vote for JD(U),” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-cong-chief-in-bihar-who-joined-jd-u-last-year-quits-over-neglect/story-zTo1akbChTP62RkKc8nXOO.html
12-10-2020||India||Actor-turned-politician Khusbhu quits Congress; likely to join BJP||Actor-turned-politician Khushbu Sundar on Monday resigned from the Congress, which promptly removed her as a party spokesperson, amid reports suggesting that she is likely to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) later in the day. “Khushbu Sundar is dropped as the AICC (All India Congress Committee) spokesperson with immediate effect,” said Pranav Jha, secretary, in-charge of communications department, AICC, in a statement. “Few elements seated at higher levels within the party, people who have no connect with ground reality or public recognition are dictating terms. People like me, who wanted to work for the party sincerely, are being pushed and suppressed,” she wrote in her resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. “I have decided to end my association with the party. I tender my resignation from the primary membership of the Indian National Congress (INC),” she added. Congress leaders from Tamil Nadu had attacked her after she took a divergent stand on the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) National Education Policy (NEP), 2020. While the Congress had strongly opposed the policy, she welcomed it. Later, she had apologised to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, but had insisted she would “rather speak the fact than be a robot or a puppet”. “My stand on NEP, 2020 differs from my party and I apologised to Rahul Gandhiji for that. But I would rather speak the fact than act like a robot or a puppet. Everything is and cannot be about agreeing to your leader, but about being courageous to voice your opinion bravely as a citizen,” she had tweeted. The tweet had led to intense speculation that she would join the BJP, but she had vehemently denied it. “Sanghis can relax, please do not rejoice. I am not moving to the BJP. My opinion might be different from my party, but I am an individual with a thinking mind of my own. Yes, #NEP2020 is flawed and flawed at some places, but I still feel we can look at the change with positivity,” she tweeted on Saturday. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) marked her initiation into politics in 2010. She had left the DMK in 2014 and joined the Congress the same year. “I came into the fold of INC at the time when it was at its lowest, being defeated in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. I did not walk into the party for any monetary gains, name or fame,” she wrote in her resignation letter. But on Saturday her tweet intensified the speculation that she is quitting the Congress. “Many see a change in me. Well as you age, you evolve and grow, learn and unlearn, perceptions change, likes and dislikes too, thoughts and ideas take a new shape, dreams are new, you understand the difference between likes and love, between right and wrong. Change is inevitable,” she tweeted. “I wish to take this opportunity to thank you, Rahul Gandhiji and everyone in the party personally. My respect towards you will remain the same,” her resignation letter added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-turned-politician-khusbhu-quits-congress-likely-to-join-bjp/story-VQYi43XCmso5ChEz1GuG5H.html
12-10-2020||India||Adityanath extends 9-day women’s safety drive to 6 months in Uttar Pradesh||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath on Sunday ordered the extension of the nine-day special awareness drive for strengthening women and children’s security to around six months, spanning the period from Shardiya Navratri to Vasantik Navratri, according to a statement from his office.Adityanath took the decision after witnessing a presentation on the campaign, the statement said. The home department had earlier decided to hold the special awareness and empowerment drive for women and children between October 17 and 25, coinciding with Shardiya Navratri.Shardiya Navratri is a nine-day festival dedicated to Goddess Durga in September-October while the same deity is worshipped again for nine days during Vasantik Navratri in March-April.The special drive was announced in the backdrop of the Hathras incident where a 19-year old Dalit woman was allegedly gang raped and brutalised and whose subsequent death on September 29 led to national outrage.Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said the special awareness drive would aim to boost the morale of women and children and empower them by making them aware of their rights.Earlier, the additional chief secretary said that along with the director general of police Hitesh Chandra Awasthy, he held a meeting to prepare an outline for the campaign. He said additional director general (Women Power Line-1090) Neera Rawat made a presentation on carrying out the drive successfully.“For wider reach of this special awareness drive, 11 other departments like medical education, technical education, vocational education, higher education, basic education, secondary education, labour, employment exchange, Panchayati Raj, rural development and information and public relations department have also been roped in,” Awasthi said.“Other than publicising rights and laws related to women and children through police stations and offices, posters will also be put up at schools, colleges, universities, training centres and panchayats where women’s involvement is in large numbers in the urban as well as the rural areas,” he explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adityanath-extends-9-day-women-s-safety-drive-to-6-months-in-uttar-pradesh/story-Jo9tCykhnaDPXbcZ0rSz0L.html
12-10-2020||India||‘UP govt needs to take immediate action’: Rajasthan CM’s advice to Yogi Adityanath over attack on Gonda priest||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday advised his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath to assure prompt action in the shooting of a priest in Gonda district.Thirty five-year-old Samrat Das was allegedly shot at in Uttar Pradesh’s Gonda on Saturday (October 10) while he was sleeping. The police said that Das was referred to the trauma centre of Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University after he was provided primary at the Gonda district Hospital.News agency ANI quoted Gonda Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Shailesh Kumar Pandey as saying that a case had been registered against four people in connection with the incident, adding that Das was shot at due to a land dispute.Also Read| UP: Temple priest shot at in Gonda; admitted to hospitalGehlot’s tweet translated from Hindi read, “An incident happened in Rajasthan in which police showed promptness and immediately arrested the main accused, the UP government also needs to immediately take action in the incident in which a priest was shot at in Gonda.”The Rajasthan chief minister’s remarks come after he faced flak from the BJP and other opposition parties over the death of priest Babulal Vaishnav in Bukna village of Rajasthan’s Karauli district.The 50-year-old was allegedly set on fire by people also over a land dispute on October 8. Vaishnav’s family members, who were protesting for three days, finally ended their protest on Saturday after they had a talk with government representatives and were assured of Rs 10 lakh compensation and other assistance.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-needs-to-take-immediate-action-rajasthan-cm-s-advice-to-yogi-adityanath-over-attack-on-gonda-priest/story-vd9fq0Uftewm2U6oFTWwVO.html
12-10-2020||India||Congress drops actor-turned-politician Khushbu Sundar as party spokesperson, she is likely to join BJP today||The Congress on Monday dropped actor-turned-politician Khushbu Sundar as the party spokesperson. Sundar is likely to join BJP later in the day.Sundar, meanwhile, sent her resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi in which she said, “Few elements seated at higher level within the party, people who’ve no connectivity with ground reality or public recognition, are dictating terms.” She added that due to such forces people like her who wanted to work for the party sincerely were being pushed and suppressed. She also thanked the party chief, former president Rahul Gandhi and all other Congress leaders. On Saturday, Sundar had pointed towards an “inevitable” change. “Many see a change in me. Well as you age, you evolve n grow, learn n unlearn, perceptions change, likes n dislikes too, thoughts n ideas take a new shape, dreams are new, you understand the difference between like n love, between right n wrong. Change is inevitable. Happy eve,” she wrote on Twitter.  Many see a change in me. Well as you age, you evolve n grow, learn n unlearn, perceptions change, likes n dislikes too, thoughts n ideas take a new shape, dreams are new, you understand the difference between like n love, between right n wrong. Change is inevitable. Happy eve ❤️ pic.twitter.com/on1B4bHx30The Tamil Nadu leader’s jump to the BJP may play a significant role in the state assembly elections slated for next year. Sundar has reportedly left for New Delhi; however, she did not make any statements before the media present at the Chennai airport.She has been associated with the Congress since 2014. Sundar was among the star campaigners who led the grand old party’s rallies during the Telangana assembly elections in 2018. She had then said that her party was the first to introduce the Women’s Reservation Bill in the Parliament and the ruling NDA government has no will to get it cleared from Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-drops-actor-turned-politician-khushbu-sundar-as-party-spokesperson-she-is-likely-to-join-bjp-today/story-dkHwmSlOri2UHAtzSiOScM.html
12-10-2020||India||India records less than 1,000 Covid-19 deaths for nine consecutive days||India has recorded less than 1,000 deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for nine consecutive days.The total number of people who have succumbed to the viral infection so far is 109,190, with 816 new deaths reported on Sunday. Nearly 84% of the new deaths in a single day were reported from 10 States, with the maximum number (308) of deaths recorded in Maharashtra.The number of reported new deaths had dropped below 900 once before in the past nine days—on October 6 884 new deaths were reported from across the country in a single day.Also Read: Kerala’s Covid-19 graph rises, experts say next few weeks criticalThe Union health ministry attributed the lesser number of Covid-19 deaths to enhanced medical infrastructure, standardised treatment protocol in hospitals across the country and increased testing to identify infected persons early, and isolate them.“Enhanced countrywide medical infrastructure, implementation of the Centre’s Standard Treatment Protocol by the States and Union Territories, and the total dedication and commitment of doctors, paramedics and frontline workers have led to a consistent slide in the number of daily fatalities and a persistent increase in the number of total recoveries,” the health ministry said in a statement.The number of active cases in India is 867,496. The number of active cases has been under 900,000 for almost a month, government data shows, suggesting that the disease spread might be finally stabilising in the country.Also Read: India considers using more than one Covid-19 vaccineThe five states with the maximum caseload (61% of the active cases) are also recording at least half (54.3%) of the total recoveries.“The national recovery rate has further increased to 86.17%. With increasing recoveries, India has sustained its leading global position with the maximum recovered cases. Eighty per cent of the new recovered cases are being reported from ten states, viz. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Delhi and Chhattisgarh. Maharashtra leads the tally with more than 26,000 new cases of recovered patients,” the health ministry statement further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-less-than-1-000-covid-19-deaths-for-nine-consecutive-days/story-NeDzsXuvhUW7YDNPmcPzRK.html
12-10-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 count falls to 66,732, tally crosses 7.1 million||The daily count of new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India continues to fall. On Monday, the country recorded 66,732 new cases which took the tally to 7,120,538, according to Union health ministry.The number of new fatalities also saw a drop for the ninth consecutive day. As per health ministry update at 8 am, India recorded 816 deaths due to the infection in the last 24 hours.Nearly 84 per cent of these fatlities are reported from 10 states, with Maharashtra having reported maximum number (308) of these deaths. The fatality count now stands at 1,09,150.The number of active cases fell further to 8,61,853, while 61,49,535 patients have cured of the disease, according to health ministry.India’s coronavirus cases jumped from 10 lakh to 20 lakh in 21 days. Then it took 16 more days to race past 30 lakh, 13 days more to cross the 40-lakh mark and 11 days to go past 50 lakh. The cases rose from 50 lakh to 60 lakh in 12 days.It took 110 days for the Covid-19 cases in the country to reach one lakh while it had taken 59 days more to go past the 10-lakh mark.The Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 1.54 per cent, the health ministry had said on Sunday.According to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 8,68,77,242 samples have been tested till October 10 with 10,78,544 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-count-falls-to-66-732-tally-crosses-7-1-million/story-pOojDpcVrr0ve1kOablKlJ.html
12-10-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh: Woman dies after giving birth to 16th child, newborn dead too||A 45-year-old woman gave birth to her 16th child in Madhya Pradesh’s Damoh district, but both of them died soon afterwards, a local health worker said on Sunday.The woman, Sukhrani Ahirwar from Padajhir village in the district, delivered a baby boy at home on Saturday, Kallo Bai Vishwakarma, an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) under the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM), said.“However, the condition of the woman and her newborn turned critical and they were rushed to a primary health centre, where both of them were pronounced dead,” she added.According to her, Ahirwar had given birth to 15 children earlier, however, the family had lost seven of them.District Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr Sangeeta Trivedi confirmed the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-woman-dies-after-giving-birth-to-16th-child-newborn-dead-too/story-TMKECY4joLMUfOkedsNmeM.html
12-10-2020||India||Two terrorists killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar||Two terrorists were gunned down in an encounter that broke out between the security forces and terrorists in Rambagh area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar on Monday, police said. The soldiers of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were involved in the joint operation, they added.“#SrinagarEncounterUpdate: 02 #terrorists killed. Search going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice” the Kashmir Zone police said in a tweet.The gunfight comes two days after four terrorists, including two from the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), were gunned down in separate encounters in south Kashmir. Two JeM terrorists, including a Pakistani national, were killed in Kulgam district on Saturday morning while another two were killed in the afternoon in Pulwama district.Also, three terrorists were killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on October 7, according to police, and a suspected Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist was killed when he attacked a BJP activist in Ganderbal district of the Valley on the previous day.As many as 189 terrorists have been killed in Jammu and Kashmir this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-underway-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-srinagar/story-pu33G0yEhkVaFsaYQKZDyI.html
12-10-2020||India||16-year-old Gujarat boy held for issuing threats against MS Dhoni’s daughter||A 16-year-old boy was nabbed on Sunday from Mundra in Gujarat for allegedly issuing threats against cricketer Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s minor daughter, police said.“The class 12 student from Namna Kapaya village was detained for questioning in connection with a disgusting threat message that was posted on the Instagram account of Dhoni’s wife Sakshi Dhoni a few days back,” Kutch (West) superintendent of police Saurabh Singh told reporters.The teenager “confessed” to have posted the threatening message on the Instagram account after the IPL 2020 match between KKR and CSK cricket teams, police said. Also Watch | MS Dhoni hits massive six during CSK’s training session in DubaiRanchi police had shared information regarding the boy with Kutch (West) police and asked them to confirm if he was the one who had posted the threat message, Singh said.“We detained him for questioning after Ranchi police informed us that the accused hails from Mundra in Kutch district.“We have confirmed that the boy is the same who had posted the message. He will be handed over to Ranchi police as the FIR was lodged in that city,” the SP said, adding that a team of Ranchi Police is likely to reach Kutch tomorrow to take custody of the teenager.Dhoni is captaining the Chennai Super Kings (CSK) cricket team in the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) 2020 season.The nature of the threat had caused a huge outrage on social media, with several cricketers, politicians and celebrities expressing disgust and demanding action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-year-old-gujarat-boy-held-for-issuing-threats-against-ms-dhoni-s-daughter/story-nrKxcrL1Ley24M0nBMeMyH.html
12-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Centre preparing to raise targets under MGNREGS and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre plans to increase MGNREGS targets againAs India stares at its worst recession ever in the current financial year, the Centre is preparing to raise the targets under its flagship rural jobs programme, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), which has enrolled one in every five Indians. Read moreTMC legislator’s ‘nepotism’ comment puts party in BJP’s line of fireThe ruling Trinamool Congress in Bengal found itself in the BJP’s crosshairs on Sunday after a video clip of part of a speech by one of its legislators in north Bengal asking the party’s panchayat leaders to stay away from nepotism till the assembly polls in 2021 went viral. Read moreQIA in advanced talks to invest in Mumbai airportAdani Airport Holdings Ltd is in advanced talks with Qatar Investment Authority (QIA) to sell a minority stake in Mumbai International Airport Ltd that it acquired last month, two people aware of the matter said. Adani Airport, a unit of Adani Enterprises Ltd, is looking to raise $750 million from the stake sale, the first of the two people said. Read moreDomestic workers face Covid test, interviews as they return to workSampati Bala was a bundle of nerves when she recently appeared for a Zoom interview before her prospective employers in Gurugram. She was looking to work as a live-in nanny; most questions she faced were about her medical history: did she or anyone in her family have fever recently? Read moreFormer Pakistan president Asif Ali Zardari hospitalised after feeling unwell, says partyFormer Pakistan president and Pakistan Peoples’ Party (PPP) co-chairperson Asif Ali Zardari was shifted to a hospital, after he felt unwell on Sunday, according to a statement by the party. “Doctors are conducting his medical check-up and necessary medical tests,” PPP said in its statement that was tweeted. Read more20 hospitalised as Azerbaijan accuses Armenia of rocket attack in its second-largest cityAn emergency hospital of Azerbaijan’s second-largest city of Ganja has admitted 20 people with injuries from a Sunday rocket attack, chief physician Gafar Ibragimov told Sputnik. In the early hours of Sunday, the Azerbaijani Defense Ministry claimed that an Armenian rocket had hit a residential area in Ganja. Read moreInside Amitabh Bachchan’s 78th birthday party: Aishwarya Rai decks up in white, Aaradhya gives dearest dadaji a hugAmitabh Bachchan turned 78 on Sunday and daughter-in-law and actor Aishwarya Rai has now shared adorable pictures from the celebrations. It seems the entire Bachchan family dressed in white for the at-home celebrations. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Virat Kohli is a genius,’ Chris Morris hails RCB captainRoyal Challengers Bangalore all-rounder Chris Morris heaped praise on RCB captain Virat Kohli and termed him a ‘genius’ after his unbeaten 90-run innings- the highest score by any captain against CSK - led RCB to a 37-run win over CSK in an IPL 2020 match. Read moreWoman tweets her wish to open a bookstore in 2016, fulfils it in 2020If you have been around the Internet recently, then chances are you’ve seen the ‘How it started vs how it’s going’ trend. This is a trend where people compare a particular incident in their life to show how it all began and how things are currently. Read moreWatch| IPL 2020: Mumbai Indians beat Delhi Capitals by 5 wickets to take top spotQuinton de Kock and Suryakumar Yadav scored their respective half-century to help Mumbai Indians secure a five-wicket win over Delhi Capitals in the Indian Premier League (IPL) in Abu Dhabi on Sunday. Watch Here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-preparing-to-raise-targets-under-mgnregs-and-all-the-latest-news/story-tjd9jyScZCqcsEA037xl8K.html
12-10-2020||India||Congress leader says widespread anger against Centre in J-K for downgrading it to UT||Senior Congress leader and in-charge Jammu and Kashmir affairs Rajni Patil on Sunday said that there is widespread anger and resentment amongst the people over the arbitrary decision of the BJP government to disband and downgrade the state of J&K into a union territory.She also said that the people are annoyed over the delay in restoration of statehood besides the present policies towards people especially jobs for the youth and students.“The decision of the BJP government to disband and downgrade the state into UT was arbitrary, unilateral and unjust and against the wishes of the people,” Patil said at a press conference.She said the feedback she received Jammu during and her interactions with different sections of society especially the farmers, showed great anger over the “arbitrary and unjust decisions of downgrading of the historically important and socio-culturally rich Dogra State into UT, apart from depriving the people, especially youth of safeguarding their jobs and lands”.Patil is on a maiden five-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir to participate in the mass movement against new farm laws and to review the overall political, organizational affairs.She said that Narendra Modi during the 2014 electiong campaign hoodwinked the farmers with the promise of doubling their incomes and that the new farm laws would weaken farmers economically.“The three laws enacted by the Narendra Modi government have deprived the famers of their due income and protection from exploitation at the hands of capitalists,” she said. The Congress would continue to strive for the rights of the farmers and protect their interests, she asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-says-widespread-anger-against-centre-in-j-k-for-downgrading-it-to-ut/story-NIyCTOYFDcoooUZcPdpwEI.html
12-10-2020||India||Kin of Hathras rape victim, UP govt officials to appear before HC today||Family members of the Hathras rape victim and senior officials of the Uttar Pradesh government, including additional chief secretary (Home) and Director General of Police (DGP) will appear before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Monday. After five family members of the alleged rape victim refused to travel on Sunday night, officials of the Hathras administration will leave for Lucknow on Monday morning by road to ensure that the family appears in the court during first half of the proceedings.According to government sources, family members might also meet chief minister Adityanath. Every family member of the deceased kin has been provided two police guards.Additional advocate general Vinod Shahi will represent the Uttar Pradesh government in court. The Hathras case will also come up for hearing in the Supreme Court on Monday. Advocate general, Uttar Pradesh government, Raghvendra Singh, will represent the state government in the top court. On October 1, a two-judge bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh of the high court took suo-motu cognizance of the incident based on newspaper reports.A 19-year old Dalit girl was brutally raped in Hatras on September 14 last allegedly by four local youths. She later succumbed to her injuries while undergoing treatment in a New Delhi hospital on September 29. The court had ordered additional chief secretary (Home), Awanish Awasthi, DGP HC Awasthi, additional director general of police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar, district magistrate of Hathras, Praveen Kumar Laxkar and superintendent of police, Hathras, Vineet Jaiswal, to appear before it on Monday (October 12). The court had also ordered the authorities concerned to present family members of the deceased before it so that it could ascertain the facts and their version of the incidents, which took place at the time of cremation of the victim’s body. The court also directed the state authorities to ensure that no coercion, influence or pressure is exerted upon the family members of the deceased in any manner, by anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kin-of-hathras-rape-victim-up-govt-officials-to-appear-before-hc-today/story-DT6Y6ega3CJT4O36Eiac7H.html
12-10-2020||India||PLA rotating troops on north Pangong Tso, signals disengagement is far off||The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China has started rotating troops on the north banks of Pangong Tso with the intent that it has no immediate plans of either disengagement of de-escalation in Ladakh. The seventh round of India-China military-diplomatic talks will take place in Chushul today with XIV Corps Commander meeting the South Xinjiang military district commander to discuss comprehensive disengagement.According to military commanders, the PLA has moved an additional brigade north of Pangong Tso for rotating troops from finger four mountainous spur to keep up the morale of the deployed force. “Given that both sides are deployed at nearly 18,000 feet on finger 4 and the weather is deteriorating, the PLA is rotating 200 troops at a time so that front-line troops are fresh and motivated. This clearly means that PLA has no plans to disengagement at least this winter,” said a senior official.The assessment of the Indian side is that comprehensive disengagement will be a long-drawn process despite the inherent risk of a flare-up as the PLA will occupy positions south of Pangong Tso the moment they are vacated by the Indian Army. While PLA has come up to its perception of the LAC on the north banks, the Indian Army troops have come up to its perception of the LAC on the south banks by pre-empting the Red army all along the Rezang La Rechin La ridgeline.Even though winter is expected to set in by end of this month and take a turn for the worse, Indian Army is prepared to stay on the heights all along the 1,597 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. Army commanders take lessons from the fact that Sumdorong Chu stand-off in Arunachal Pradesh that started in 1986 was fully resolved through comprehensive disengagement by November 1995 - after nine years of continuous deployment. While Sumdorong Chu stand-off was resolved, the army is sitting on the Saltoro Ridge since Operation Meghdoot was launched in Siachen Glacier in April, 1984 - 36 years and counting.While the PLA aggression in Galwan valley and north of Pangong Tso was pre-planned with military objectives in mind, the Chinese were not prepared for either the June 15 flare-up or the August 29-30 pre-emption. It is quite evident that PLA commanders thought that the Indian Army would accept the aggression as fait accompli and move on. However, with both sides deployed in full at the LAC in Ladakh, the chances of an accident are high and thus distance is being kept between the front-line troops.Even though the PLA Western Theatre Command is deployed all along the Ladakh LAC and in depth, the Chinese problems have been complicated by the stand-off with the US over Taiwan. The PLA is currently stretched with South and Northern Theatre Commands also deployed to pressurize Taiwan with US Navy active in South China Sea. What happens next in Taiwan largely depends on the US posture after the November Presidential election results but either way American policy towards China has taken a turn for the worse. One must remember that the incumbent president has three more months in power before he completes his term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-rotating-troops-on-north-pangong-tso-signals-disengagement-is-far-off/story-ZOYHEkj3fGMjTk27k3vsoK.html
12-10-2020||India||Missing teenage girl found dead in village in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri||A teenage girl who went missing on Friday was found dead Sunday evening in a waterlogged sugarcane field in a village in Pasagawan in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, police said.Injury marks around her neck indicated that she was murdered, said police. The body was sent for a post-mortem examination.Police had lodged a case following a complaint by her parents after she went missing on Friday. The girl’s parents denied any enmity in the village.Additional superintendent of police AK Singh rushed to the spot for further inquiry and forensic experts were pressed into service to collect evidence from the scene of crime. Superintendent of police (Kheri) Vijay Dhull also deployed the crime branch and surveillance teams apart from Pasagawan police to work out the case. Police said further action would be taken after the post-mortem report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-teenage-girl-found-dead-in-village-in-up-s-lakhimpur-kheri/story-NGZgm9ce0zojul3Up3E7tN.html
12-10-2020||India||Hathras rape victim’s family leaves for Lucknow, will appear before Allahabad high court today||The family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who was allegedly raped by four men earlier in September in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district have left for Lucknow amid high security as it scheduled to before the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court on Monday. Early morning pictures released by news agency ANI showed the kin of the woman, who died at a hospital in Delhi following the assault, accompanied by a number of policemen. “I am going with them. Proper security arrangements have been made. District Magistrate (DM) and Superintendent of Police (SP) is also accompanying us,” sub-divisional magistrate Anjali Gangwar told ANI. Also Read: Hathras rape victim’s kin to appear in Allahabad high court todayThe victim’s brother had earlier refused travel in the night. “We have made it clear that we will not travel during the night. We have been asked by police to be ready to leave for Lucknow by 5.30 am tomorrow,” he had told ANI on Sunday.  Family members of #Hathras alleged gang-rape victim leave for Lucknow.They will appear before Lucknow Bench of Allahabad High Court later in the day. pic.twitter.com/Slu1k5GUmWTo ensure safety of victim’s relatives, district inspector general (DIG) of police Shalabh Mathur said that eight CCTV cameras have been installed and a small control room has been established to monitor the movement of those visiting the victim’s house. “A door framed metal detector (DFMD) has also been installed and measures for fire-fighting, too, are present,” he said. Taking suo motu cognizance of the incident, the court had on October 1 asked the woman’s family to apprise it of their version of the assault. The court had also sought responses from secretary/principal Secretary (Home), director general of police, additional director general, law and order and district magistrate and superintendent of police of Hathras by October 12, according to ANI. Following the request of the Yogi Adityanath led- state government and notification from the Centre, the rape case is now being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The agency’s spokesperson RK Gaur said that a case has been registered against the prime accused Sandip Singh.Singh - along with three other accused, all from upper caste - are in jail. They were named by the victim before she died on September 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-rape-victim-s-family-leaves-for-lucknow-will-appear-before-allahabad-high-court-today/story-9CIFyqB0M7Kp7Cbu8rGr7N.html
12-10-2020||India||TMC legislator’s ‘nepotism’ comment puts party in BJP’s line of fire||The ruling Trinamool Congress in Bengal found itself in the BJP’s crosshairs on Sunday after a video clip of part of a speech by one of its legislators in north Bengal asking the party’s panchayat leaders to stay away from nepotism till the assembly polls in 2021 went viral.The crux of what Udayan Guha, the TMC lawmaker from Dinhata constituency in Cooch Behar district, could be heard saying in the short clip is that party leaders had been involved in nepotism in the past and many were still into the practice but it should stop till the elections are over. Instead of directly saying that the leaders misused power to make money or property Guha could be heard saying in Bangla, “you have eaten a lot.” Guha made the speech on Friday afternoon but the video clip surfaced 48 hours later. Guha, the son of late Kamal Guha, a veteran Forward Bloc leader and erstwhile minister in the Jyoti Basu government, won the Dinhata assembly seat for the Bloc in 2011 and joined the TMC in 2015. He won the seat again in 2016. His father had won the Dinhata seat eight times; in 1962 and 1967 and six times in a row from 1977 to 2001.“Udayan Guha’s direction to the panchayat leaders have only reaffirmed that the cut-money culture is very much prevalent in the TMC. This is an admission in public,” said BJP’s Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh. In political parlance, cut-money refers to bribe or commission taken from beneficiaries of welfare projects. For the TMC, which is carrying out a rectification exercise on the recommendations of election strategist Prashant Kishor, who was roped in by chief minister Mamata Banerjee after her party’s poor show in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the video caused a major embarrassment. TMC leaders did not comment on the incident but Guha told HT that sentences that can be heard in the video were being wrongly interpreted as the context was quite different. “I said a lot of things before and after those sentences but the video was edited to play mischief. I told party workers and leaders that the BJP could win seven (out of eight) Lok Sabha seats in north Bengal districts in 2019 because voters were displeased with us. People know that Lok Sabha polls do not change state governments and yet they voted for the BJP. I said this was an expression of their anger,” said Guha. “I told the party leaders to take a lesson from the 2019 verdict and refrain from nepotism. I said they should concentrate on the welfare of the people, something the chief minister is repeatedly asking us to do. Those portions of the speech were edited,” he added. The cut-money controversy raised a storm in state politics in 2019. While the BJP called it an exposure of the corruption TMC leaders were involved in, the ruling party used it as a churning process to initiate rectification in the ranks. On June 18 last year, while addressing Kolkata’s civic body leaders, Banerjee said those who took ‘cut money’ or commissions from common people must return it. She alleged that some TMC leaders don’t even spare the dead and charge Rs 200 for releasing the sum of Rs 2,000 the state government gives to poor people to cremate family members. This opened Pandora’s box. Echoing allegations made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the then BJP president Amit Shah during the Lok Sabha poll campaign, hundreds of people, ranging from landless farmers to businessmen, started publicly naming TMC leaders who took money from them. The TMC launched the ‘Didi ke Balo’ (Tell Didi or the chief minister) helpline where people could register their grievance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-legislator-s-nepotism-comment-puts-party-in-bjp-s-line-of-fire/story-HZ06ZC7Z8Za4AJL07teygL.html
12-10-2020||India||QIA in advanced talks to invest in Mumbai airport||Adani Airport Holdings Ltd is in advanced talks with Qatar Investment Authority (QIA) to sell a minority stake in Mumbai International Airport Ltd that it acquired last month, two people aware of the matter said. Adani Airport, a unit of Adani Enterprises Ltd, is looking to raise $750 million from the stake sale, the first of the two people said. The Qatar fund prefers to invest directly in the Mumbai airport operator, but alternatively, it may buy a stake in parent Adani Airport, the person said on condition of anonymity.Emails sent to the Adani group and Qatar Investment remained unanswered.The sovereign wealth fund of Qatar is already an investor in Adani Mumbai Electricity Ltd, a division of Adani Transmission that distributes power to 3 million customers in Mumbai. The sovereign fund invested ₹3,220 crore (approximately $452 million) in the utility for a 25.1% stake in February 2020, including equity of ₹1,210 crore and subordinated debt of ₹2,010 crore. Last month, the Adani group said it would take control of India’s second-busiest airport of Mumbai, in its biggest move yet to become a top airports operator. Adani Airport agreed to buy the debt of GVK Airport Developers Ltd, against which a 50.5% stake in MIAL was pledged. The Adani group will also buy the combined 23.5% stake held by Airport Company of South Africa (Acsa) and South Africa’s Bidvest Group in MIAL, for which it has obtained the approval of the Competition Commission of India. This would give the group a 74% stake in Mumbai airport. The remaining 26% stake remains with state-run Airports Authority of India. The deal also gives Adani Airport a controlling stake in the Navi Mumbai International Airport being developed by GVK Group. Also, with one of India’s two most profitable international airports in its kitty and having won the development and operation rights over a 50-year lease for the Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Mangaluru, Jaipur, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati airports, Adani will be the biggest private sector airport operator in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/qia-in-advanced-talks-to-invest-in-mumbai-airport/story-DPxtPRe7G3FSGuFXPxLLjP.html
12-10-2020||India||Startups plan to approach CCI against Google’s rules||A group of 15 startup founders held a virtual meeting with the Competition Commission of India (CCI) on Saturday to apprise the regulator about Google’s anti-competitive policies in India, two founders aware of the meeting said. The discussion involved Google’s recent imposition of its Play Store billing system on Indian developers, as well as the 30% commission the company charges for selling digital goods and services through the system, they said on the condition of anonymity.The founders said that phones with Google’s Android operating system (OS) are preloaded with the Play Store app distribution platform, giving it an inherent advantage over rivals. Because of its dominance in app discovery and distribution, Google forces Indian developers to build and change apps based on its OS and app store, they alleged, adding that the company’s “arbitrary policies” illustrate this behaviour.“With more than 95% of India’s digital population accessing the Internet through Google, this strategy of having an OS and Play Store, together gives Google an advantage over other app stores and operating systems. Hence, we have requested them to look into this matter,” said one of the founders present at the meeting.The founders are now planning to send a written communication to both the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) as well as the CCI, this week after collating views from the industry. The startup ecosystem will send a single letter to both the government and CCI, the founder said.Last week, Mint reported that 120 Indian startup founders were looking to form an independent non-profit lobby to take on Google in India. In an interview on Friday, Murugavel Janakiraman, founder of Matrimony.com, said the companies are looking at “all possibilities”, including approaching the CCI and the government. He could not be reached for comment after the Saturday meeting.An email sent to Google did not elicit a response.If the startups file a case against Google with the CCI, it will be the fifth such case Google faces in India. Two independent lawyers filed an antitrust case against Google last week for abusing its dominance in AndroidTV, while the regulator is also looking into two other antitrust suits against the company. In 2018, it had fined Google ₹136 crore for abusing its dominance in search.Google has faced a strong backlash from Indian startups over the past two weeks after it issued a clarification for the already existing Play Billing policy in India. While the company hasn’t rolled back the 30% commission it charges for sales through the Play Store, it has given Indian startups six more months than global to comply with this policy. Additionally, Google has also been arranging meetings with developers and startup founders to listen to their concerns and has said that it will do policy workshops with companies as well.Some startups are already looking at alternative listing for their apps through Android Application Package (APK) downloads on their websites. There are instances such as fantasy sports platform Dream11 getting 100 million users without listing on Google Play Store.The central government, which has been in listening mode so far, had asked startups last week to send a letter apprising it of the challenges. The founders plan to send this application by this week. A view will be firmed up after deliberations at various levels, a government official had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/startups-plan-to-approach-cci-against-google-s-rules/story-FgzkmW9pP0K7RwxUJpRI8M.html
12-10-2020||India||Domestic workers face Covid test, interviews as they return to work||Sampati Bala was a bundle of nerves when she recently appeared for a Zoom interview before her prospective employers in Gurugram. She was looking to work as a live-in nanny; most questions she faced were about her medical history: did she or anyone in her family have fever recently? Did she live in a containment zone? Will she be okay with a coronavirus test? Will she be able to work without leaves for a few months? Eventually, she did undergo a coronavirus test through the domestic help placement company, which organised the interview. Though she tested negative, the outcome of the interview was not positive. “I do not know why I did not land the job. Maybe I failed to convince them about my abilities as a nanny, or maybe despite the negative test they were afraid of hiring me,” says Bala. “It has never been so difficult to find a job as a maid or a nanny.” Vinod Yadav, founder and CEO, Hire Help in India, who organised the interview, says that very few interviews are being translated into jobs. “I had to start Zoom interviews as prospective employers do not want to meet household help in person. First, they want an interview over the phone, and if satisfied they ask for a Zoom interview. And more often than not, most maids do not make the cut. It is more about the employers’s fear of Covid-19 than anything else,” says Yadav. “Out of the 100 zoom interviews I organised in the past few months, only 20 got hired. Ironically, while those wanting to hire a maid asked me to get the maid tested for coronavirus disease, which I do, but they do not want to undergo the test themselves as if only the maid is susceptible to the virus, and they are not, ” says Yadav, who started the company in 2012. Even five months after the easing of Covid-19 lockdown restrictions began, thousands of domestic workers — maids, cooks, nannies — have not been able to return to work since employers continue to see them as potential carriers of the coronavirus. Most companies and agencies that provide domestic help services say that hiring of domestic workers----their number in the country vary from official estimates of 4.2 million to unofficial estimates of more than 50 million--- has dropped by as much as 70 per cent. Mamuni Haldar , who lives in Savda Ghevra, a resettlement colony in northwest Delhi, used to work in Laxmi Nagar, almost 42 km away in east Delhi. She lost her job in March as the lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus began but is yet to be called back to work. “I had been working in three houses for the past 12 years. They had said they would hire me back after the lockdown, but this has not happened. One of my employers says she cannot afford to pay me as she lost her job,” says Halder, who used to travel by a DTC bus at 7.30 in the morning and reached her employers’s homes by 9.30am. The return journey, she says, often took around three hours because of the traffic rush-hour. Not far away from her lives Nisha Halder, 55, who, like dozens of women in Savda Ghevra lost her job as maid which fetched her Rs 6,500 a month. She has given up all hopes of getting it back. “At this age, it is next to impossible to find any work,” she says. Savda Ghevra, which has a population of about 50,000, has over the years, come to acquire the sobriquet of a ‘planned slum’. The reason why a lot of women used to undertake such a long journey to Laxmi Nagar, is that many of the residents were resettled here from places such as Laxmi Nagar, Lodhi Colony, Pragati Maidan before the 2010 Commonwealth Games. And these women could not find work nearby. Sunil Kumar, who runs Prema Manpower Service in Tughlaqabad village, says even those who are lucky enough to get a placement are getting unfair deals in terms of salary. “ A maid who earned Rs 16,000 before the pandemic is now getting only Rs 10,000 a month. The placements at my agency are down from 55 a month to about five a month. So far, I have got about 40 domestic helps tested for Covid-19, of which only one tested positive,” says Sunil Yadav, who has clients in many posh south Delhi colonies such as South Extension, Green Park and Vasant Kunj. Having failed to get back their jobs they lost during the lockdown, many domestic workers are now trying to change their line of work. While Sudha Rani, 45, who lives in Tigri village in Noida, has turned to selling vegetables; many of her neighbours, who used to work in an apartment building in Noida, are trying to find work in garment units in Noida and Sahibabad. “My employer in a housing society in Noida did not take my call, so once I tried visiting her, but the guard at the gate called her on the phone and conveyed to me that she did not need me as of now. What really hurt was the fact that I worked for her for five years, but she preferred to convey her decision through the guard,” she says. “Feeling humiliated, I decided never to work as help.” Rajiv Pandey, founder, Helpers Near Me — an online platform that enables the domestic workers to find work locally — says that the fear of the disease exists on both sides, “But the problem is concerns of the domestic workers have been overlooked.” Many non-government organisations working with domestic workers have long been demanding bringing domestic workers under the ambit of labour laws and employment regulations, and treating them as unorganised workers with all attendant benefits. Smita Khanijow, who heads Informal Work and Women Workers programme at Action Aid India, a non- government organisation, says that almost 70% of the domestic workers remain unemployed today and need immediate help. “The government should register them, provide them immediate cash and ration support at least till the time the pandemic is over,” she says. What is making matters worse, she adds, are the continuing restrictions by RWAs on domestic workers. “A lot of them still impose entry time instructions and allow them to work in one house only.” But RWAs denies the charge. “I think there is still a lot of fear of the disease in many households, and some individuals are not comfortable employing their helps at the moment. Our only advisory to RWAs right now is to ensure safety protocols while engaging domestic workers such as maintaining social distancing, wearing masks, regularly sanitising hands, ” says Atul Goyal, President, URJA (United Residents Joint Action), a collective of RWAs in Delhi. Meanwhile, it is Friday afternoon and Vinod Yadav is busy setting up another Zoom interview for a domestic worker. “Now, I have also started providing them a crash course in expressing themselves better during Zoom interview to increase their chance of success. But people need to understand that domestic workers are only as much carriers of the Covid-19 as anyone else. Not more, not less.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-workers-face-covid-test-interviews-as-they-return-to-work/story-nR5pD2kLDol8NBoIiIEZkO.html
12-10-2020||India||Congress worker accuses colleagues of attack||Congress workers allegedly manhandled party leader Tara Yadav at an event in Uttar Pradesh for questioning the decision of the party to field Mukund Bhaskar Mani Tripathi from the Deoria Assembly seat for the upcoming bypolls.“On one hand, our party leaders are fighting for justice for the Hathras victim (19-year-old Dalit girl who died days after being gang-raped by four men), and on the other hand, party ticket is being given to a rapist. It is a wrong decision. It will malign the image of our party,” Tara Yadav had said.As the nomination for the bypolls in seven Assembly seats of Uttar Pradesh began on Friday, the Congress declared the name of five candidates including Mukund Bhaskar Mani Tripathi, who is contesting from the Deoria Assembly seat. The voting will take place on November 3 and the counting of votes on November 10.In a video posted by news agency ANI, Congress workers are seen attacking the woman leader. “I was thrashed by party workers when I questioned party’s decision to give a ticket to a rapist, Mukund Bhaskar, for upcoming bypolls. Now, I’m waiting for ( Congress leader) Priyanka Gandhi ji to take action,” she said.Meanwhile, the National Commission for Women (NCW) took cognisance of the assault on the leader and asked authorities to arrest all culprits immediately. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma shared a video saying that the political leaders behaving like goons with the woman leader in a party meeting should be punished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-worker-accuses-colleagues-of-attack/story-FIbIL2tROAkuIoMnHxaSaI.html
12-10-2020||India||Nadda hails PM, Nitish in Gaya||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) put up a united show in its first major election rally in Bihar on Sunday with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda crediting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Nitish Kumar for changing the state’s political culture and propelling development. Speaking at the Gandhi Maidan in Gaya on the birth anniversary of socialist icon Jay Prakash Narayan, Nadda attacked the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Congress but did not take the name of estranged ally Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) once. “Leadership of India is secure in the hands of PM Modi and what is needed is to bring Nitish Kumar back to carry forward development work,” he said, coining a new slogan: “Modi hai toh mumkeen hai, Nitish hai toh pradesh aage badhega.” Nadda attacked former CM Lalu Prasad and his alliance with the Congress. “The leader who became a politician and CM with the blessings of Jayaprakash Narayan— the man who formed Janata Party by sidelining the Congress – is now hugging the very party,” he said.Nadda was sharing the stage with BJP and Janata Dal (United) leaders, along with former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi. Social distancing norms were enforced at the rally with attendees being made to sit apart and undergo thermal screening and spraying of sanitisers at entry points. This was the first big physical rally addressed by a top leader in the run up to the three-phase state polls that begin on October 28. The BJP released a list of 46 candidates for the second phase of the polls on November 3. Sitting minister Nand Kishore Yadav and Nitish Mishra, son of former chief minister Jagannath Mishra, were among the prominent names. The BJP is contesting on 110 seats in the 243-member asse mbly. The party has given 11 seats from its quota to the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP). The JD(U) will contest on 115 seats, leaving its remaining share of seven seats for the Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM). The results of the elections – where the NDA is facing the RJD-Congress-Left grand alliance, and a smaller third front—will be declared in November 10.In his speech, Nadda hailed Modi and Kumar. “Nitish ji, along with (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi ji, has changed the political culture and narratives of Bihar. Earlier, the Congress used to do politics on caste. Now Narendra Modi has started a culture of going to people with a report card of the government’s work,” he said. Nadda also hailed Bihar’s CM for his Covid-19 control strategy.Reminding people of ₹1.2 lakh crore package announced by PM Modi during the 2015 assembly polls, Nadda said ₹394 crore was already spent for farmers’ welfare, ₹10,000 crore for education and ₹1,550 crore for skill development.Congress MLC Premchandra Mishra said that instead of attacking other parties, the BJP leaders should explain to the public how they came to power in Bihar and what they do in three years of their rule with the JD(U). “People would like to know what they did during the Covid,-19 pandemic for migrants, and how many industries did they establish in Bihar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-hails-pm-nitish-in-gaya/story-nTW5IeFVaIDGPW5gFx26eL.html
12-10-2020||India||SVAMITVA scheme an effective step towards economic empowerment in rural India: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that the SVAMITVA scheme launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday is an effective step in the direction of economic empowerment in rural India.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has done historical work by launching the distribution of property cards under SVAMITVA scheme on Sunday to more than six lakh villages over a period of next four years. This scheme is an effective step in the direction of economic empowerment in rural India,” Rajnath Singh said in a tweet, roughly translated from Hindi.Modi on Sunday launched the physical distribution of property cards under the ‘Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas’ (SVAMITVA) scheme through video conferencing.The launch will enable around one lakh property holders to download their property cards through the SMS link delivered on their mobile phones, according to a statement by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).Along with Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Prime Minister is interacting with some of the beneficiaries during the event.SVAMITVA is a Central Sector Scheme of the Ministry of Panchayati Raj, which was launched by the Prime Minister on National Panchayati Raj Day, April 24, 2020.The beneficiaries of the scheme are from 763 villages across six states including 346 from Uttar Pradesh, 221 from Haryana, 100 from Maharashtra, 44 from Madhya Pradesh, 50 from Uttarakhand and two from Karnataka.“Beneficiaries from all these states except Maharashtra will receive the physical copies of the Property Cards within one day - Maharashtra has a system of recovering the nominal cost of Property Card, so it will take a month’s time,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said.The move will pave the way for using the property as a financial asset by villagers for taking loans and other financial benefits.The scheme aims to provide the ‘record of rights’ to village household owners in rural areas and issue Property Cards.The scheme is being implemented across the country in a phased manner over a period of four years (2020-2024) and would eventually cover around 6.62 lakh villages of the country.According to the PMO release, about 1 lakh villages in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Karnataka and few border villages of Punjab and Rajasthan, along with the establishment of Continuous Operating System (CORS) stations’ network across Punjab and Rajasthan, are being covered in the Pilot phase (2020-21).“All these six states have signed MoU with Survey of India for drone survey of rural areas and implementation of the scheme. These states have finalised the digital property card format and the villages to be covered for drone-based survey. States of Punjab and Rajasthan have signed MoU with Survey of India for establishment of CORS network to assist in future drone flying activities,” read the release.“Different states have different nomenclature for the Property Cards viz. ‘Title deed’ in Haryana, ‘Rural Property Ownership Records (RPOR)’ in Karnataka, ‘Adhikar Abhilekh’ in Madhya Pradesh, ‘Sannad’ in Maharashtra, ‘Svamitva Abhilekh’ in Uttarakhand, ‘Gharauni’ in Uttar Pradesh,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/svamitva-scheme-an-effective-step-towards-economic-empowerment-in-rural-india-rajnath-singh/story-TpC9z4AzKunZochzIs3J2O.html
12-10-2020||India||Four nabbed for stabbing home guard to death on GB Road, injuring 1 more||The police have arrested four men who allegedly stabbed a home guard to death at GB Road in central Delhi last week. The victim, Aman, was with a friend when one of the four suspects allegedly tried to snatch his phone. When the man caught the snatcher, he was stabbed to death while his friend, who tried to save him, was injured, the police have said.The arrested men have been identified as 19-year-old Mohammad Shoyeb, Salman (22), Rahat Ali (19) and Fardeen Ahmed (21).“When Aman was standing on the road and his friend, Anirudh Kumar Yadav, had gone to a washroom, a man tried to snatch Aman’s phone and he started chasing him. Yadav heard this and rushed for help. Both of them caught the snatcher and started beating him. Meanwhile, another man came from behind and attacked Aman and Yadav with a knife. Aman was stabbed in his back and Yadav who tried to save him was also attacked,” Bhatia said.As both men collapsed, the snatchers fled the spot with the mobile phone. Yadav then took Aman to a hospital where he was pronounced dead.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said all local vendors, parking attendants, rickshaw pullers and locals were questioned during the investigation. “Our teams raided the area on Saturday. While Salman and the other main accused Shoyeb were on the run, two of their associates — Fardeen and Rahat, who were also accompanying them on the night of incident and had helped the duo flee the spot, were arrested. The knife used in the murder and the scooter on which they had fled the spot were recovered from them,” Bhatia said.The DCP said that during interrogations, Fardeen and Rahat disclosed that on October 5 all four were searching for a target to rob. While Salman and Fardeen were roaming in the area looking for targets, Rahat and Shoyeb were ready with a scooter to flee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-nabbed-for-stabbing-home-guard-to-death-on-gb-road-injuring-1-more/story-bZWiQ9c0mmqtCFSgZTepgM.html
12-10-2020||India||Nine BJP MLAs in Capital to complain against Tripura CM||Barely halfway into its term in power, differences in the Tripura unit of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have reached Delhi, with some party legislators camping in the national capital to meet the central leadership and complain against chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s performance.A delegation of nine legislators, including Sudip Roy Barman, Asish Saha, Sushanta Choudhury, Ramprasad Pal and Diba Chandra Hrankhawl are currently in New Delhi.Choudhury said that the delegation is hopeful of meeting BJP national president JP Nadda and other organizational leaders to discuss the current situation in Tripura; the legislators also plan to seek an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah.“Neither the government nor the party is moving in the right format, as it should be. All the pre-poll promises, mentioned in the party’s Vision Document, are made to be fulfilled. These should be reflected in action, but we are far away from reality. We want to highlight to the top leaders about all that is happening in the state,” said Choudhury. He didn’t mention specifics.Choudhury didn’t say whether the lawmakers want Deb to be removed from the chief minister’s post.“We will highlight the developments in Tripura. The rest will be decided by the top leaders if they want to intervene in this issue,” he said. He said the chief minister should be friendlier with party legislators.“Our fight is not against BJP ideology. We have full faith in the dynamic leadership of the Prime Minister and the home minister,” said Choudhury.Choudhury was elected a member of the Tripura assembly for the first time as a BJP candidate in 2018. He and Roy Barman were among the Congress leaders who joined the party in 2017. After the BJP and the Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT) came to power in the state, Roy Barman was entrusted with the health portfolio. But he was removed from his ministerial position in June last year. The health portfolio is currently with the CM. In August, Roy Barman was booked and a first information report lodged against him for paying an unauthorized visit to a Covid-19 care centre in Agartala although he entered the facility wearing personal protective equipment (PPE). BJP’s Tripura president Dr Manik Saha could not be reached over the phone and party spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharjee declined to comment on the issue.Communist Party of India (Marxist) veteran leader Bijan Dhar said: “This is BJP’s internal matter. We will not comment on this issue.” Congress’ Tripura vice president Tapas Dey said, “This is BJP’s internal matter. But the fact is that the state didn’t see any implementation of BJP’s pre-poll promises in the past two years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-bjp-mlas-in-capital-to-complain-against-tripura-cm/story-HF18whbwXLiekL9X6HOUPL.html
12-10-2020||India||Delhiwale: The museum of tea kettles||So many tea kettles in such a tiny shack. One is stuck between a mug and a jar. Another one perched by the gas range. And then there is this tea kettle hanging in the far corner, that looks like it hasn’t been touched for ages, trapped in the silken cobweb that has formed about it. This is a most fragile sight.The place, indeed, is like a museum of chai kettles.Simply called Chai ki Dukaan, Muhammed Waseem’s tea shack in Old Delhi’s Mohalla Qabristan neighbourhood exists like an unconscious work of art. Usually, tea stalls look ordinary in the first impression, revealing their beauty gradually on a more attentive examination. But this place snatches all the attention at first glance, and the more time you spend gazing upon it, the more bewitching it gets.The stall is located in a narrow alley. One of its two doors is made of disjointed wooden bars, and is painted with a shade of light-green so delicate that you fear the sun’s first touch might be too much for it to survive. This morning, a curtain-like plastic canvas is hanging from it, which is of a green shade too. It is covered with dust, and somehow these folds and shabbiness give a texture of agedness to the establishment, which was founded about 20 years ago. The customers often sit on the upholstered bench planked outside on the lane. Its leather cover is torn, revealing the foam underneath. The bench’s overused status evokes all the unseen patrons who must have sat upon it over the course of years. Mr Waseem likes to sit on the bench too, during his idle moments, quietly watching the street bustle. Though visitors are not expected to step inside, as there is only enough room for the owner to make tea, you ought to ask permission to enter. Not only you’ll see all the tea kettles, including the one with the cobweb, but there’s also a wiry basket to keep eggs, and a large wall clock, its hands frozen at 2.43. The daylight shoots in through a narrow opening, which turns the whole setting into one of those renaissance-era, lightly-glowing paintings.The shop opens daily from 7am to 10pm, and the chai is delicious. But that’s beside the point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-museum-of-tea-kettles/story-TZkcA0SOfNWoMlE01Ql3vM.html
12-10-2020||India||Monsoon withdrawal delayed till October 20: IMD||New Delhi: The withdrawal of the monsoon this year is likely to be considerably delayed because of the development of consecutive weather systems that will bring widespread and heavy rain to parts of peninsular and western India. This could also have an adverse impact on the harvest of crops in parts of the country, experts said.The normal date for the complete withdrawal of the monsoon from the northern parts of the country is October 15, but this time withdrawal will resume again from parts of northwest India after October 20. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the withdrawal line of the monsoon continues to pass along Faizabad, Fatehpur, Nowgong, Rajgarh, Ratlam, Vallabh, Vidyanagar and Porbandar. The winds continue to be predominantly south-westerly, indicating the monsoon is active.A depression over west-central Bay of Bengal has moved west-northwestwards with a speed of 12 kmph during the past six hours and was centered around 370 km south-southeast of Vishakhapatnam, 410 km southeast of Kakinada (Andhra Pradesh) and 450 km east-southeast of Narsapur (Andhra Pradesh).It is very likely to intensify further into a deep depression during the next 24 hours and move west-northwestwards and cross the north Andhra Pradesh coast between Narsapur and Vishakhapatnam on Monday night. The system is likely to bring widespread and heavy rain to Andhra Pradesh, Telanagana, Rayalseema, Maharashtra, Marathwada, Vidarbha, Kerala and Karnataka until October 14.Sea conditions will be rough to very rough over west-central and adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal, southwest Bay of Bengal and along and off the Odisha- Andhra Pradesh-Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts and over the Gulf of Mannar from October 11 and 12 and over the Gulf of Mannar on October 13. Another low-pressure area is likely to develop over northeast Bay of Bengal around October 14, but IMD hasn’t issued any official warnings on that because there is no consensus yet on forecasts based on various models of weather prediction.“When the deep depression moves inland, rainfall will be enhanced on October 12. Not just in Andhra Pradesh and Rayalseema, we are expecting rains across the western coast. Monsoon has not withdrawn so the deep depression that has formed has mixed characteristics. The south-westerly winds are still strong. For monsoon to withdraw the wind direction needs to change completely to north-easterly but monsoon hasn’t managed to withdraw due to consecutive weather systems forming in October,” explained Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclone prediction at IMD.Remnants of another weather system are likely to approach the Bay of Bengal from the South China Sea around October 14 which could also develop into a depression.“In fact, the second system could also intensify into a deep depression and is likely to bring widespread rains. Due to these weather systems, the wind regime in northwest India is likely to shift to easterly from north-westerly leading to above normal night temperatures again for about five to six days,” explained Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, at Skymet Weather, a private weather forecaster.He added that the delay in monsoon’s withdrawal will not just delay the winter’s onset but may cause damage to crops in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-withdrawal-delayed-till-october-20-imd/story-ZMMAMZQYdcl2x1rHC9TQvM.html
12-10-2020||India||Hathras case: Victim’s kin to appear in Allahabad high court today||The family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died after allegedly being raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district, will appear before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court amid tight security on Monday.The court had on October 1 asked the woman’s family to apprise it of their version of the incident. The hearing is likely to be held in-person. The court had ordered the Hathras district administration to arrange for the family’s travel.The case is listed for hearing before a division bench of Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Rajan Roy.Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar and superintendent of police (SP) Vineet Jaiswal will also travel to Lucknow to attend the hearing. “We plan to leave the village in Hathras early Monday morning and adequate security arrangements have been planned out for the family of the victim during the travel,” said the SP on Sunday. “The district judge, who has been appointed as the nodal officer for the appearance of the Hathras victim’s family members before the high court, is in touch with it as to when the case is listed. The family will move accordingly,” PTI quoted the SP as saying.According to people familiar with the matter, the family is not inclined to travel to Lucknow during the night.Police did not divulge the details of their security plan on the movement of the woman’s family members.The state government has asked additional advocate general VK Sahi to represent it before the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-victim-s-kin-to-appear-in-allahabad-high-court-today/story-9QtAeVFtEaheJGclQTAi4O.html
12-10-2020||India||35-yr-old priest shot at in UP’s Gonda over land dispute critical: Police||A 35-year-old priest in Uttar Pradesh’s Gonda district was allegedly shot at while sleeping in the Ram Janki temple early on Sunday morning, police officials said. The priest, identified as Samrat Das, has been referred to the trauma centre of King George’s Medical University in Lucknow after being given primary treatment at the Gonda district hospital. His condition is said to be critical, the officials said. According to police, the attack was the fall out of a land dispute.The head priest of the temple, Baba Sitaram Das, has alleged in his statement to the police that a local muscleman, Amar Singh, was trying to grab over 150 bigha land of the temple trust. Singh, the priest alleged, had planned an attack on him in the past and was also responsible for Sunday morning’s attack on Samrat Das. He said a similar attack was carried out against him last year, and a police investigation in the case was still ongoing. Das said that the police had even deployed two constables for his security post the attack but the security cover was removed under Singh’s influence, he alleged. Later two home guards were posted at the temple entrance, he said. The miscreants shot Samrat Das while he was sleeping at around 2.30 am and fled the scene, the head priest told the police. The incident occurred when two home guards were deployed for the security of the head priest at the temple’s entrance , said the head priest. Gonda superintendent of police (SP) Shailesh Kumar Pandey said an FIR under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) has been registered against four people in the matter at Etiathok police station and two suspects have been taken into custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/35-yr-old-priest-shot-at-in-up-s-gonda-over-land-dispute-critical-police/story-dsR9p5XtA2oEtO3GAHSeON.html
12-10-2020||India||Centre plans to increase MGNREGS targets again||As India stares at its worst recession ever in the current financial year, the Centre is preparing to raise the targets under its flagship rural jobs programme, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), which has enrolled one in every five Indians. The aim is to provide 320 crore days of work—about 40 crore days higher than the first estimate -- after the world’s largest employment scheme attracted unprecedented demand for work in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, top officials said on condition of anonymity. Eight big states including the most populous, Uttar Pradesh, have requested the Centre for more MGNREGS work allocation. The demand coincides with Indian economy’s sharp contraction by 23.9% in the first quarter. Many economists have argued that the country may suffer a demand shock in the coming months because of increased unemployment and wage cuts. The Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) predicted on Friday that India’s economy may shrink by 9.5% this fiscal year, its worst recession ever.In May, the government pumped in an additional ₹40,000 crore to raise the MGNREGS budget for the year to staggering ₹1 lakh crore as a part of its stimulus package. It also raised the employment target from the first estimate of 281 crore days of work to 300 crore days of work. Officials said 221.9 crore days of work had already been completed as of October 7 and more than ₹65,000 crore been released till September 5, signalling the requirement of additional funds for the demand-driven programme. Internal notes of the union rural development ministry show that since May, the average number of workers in every month has been substantially higher than the corresponding month in FY 2019-20. “Average number of persons to whom work offered in May has been 2.51 crore per day, which is 73% higher than the one offered in May last year, which was 1.45 crore persons per day. Similarly, work was offered to an average of 3.35 crore people per day in June, which is 92% higher than the corresponding period last year,” said one note. “The July average was 114% higher, August (97%), September (86%) and October average was 109% higher than the last year,” said the note, which was reviewed by HT. Top officials also said that even after the target was enhanced to 300 crore days for work for the fiscal year, eight states demanded more allocation of work. “Big states such as UP, Rajasthan, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha. Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal have now asked for additional labour budget. We are looking at generating 320 crore days of work now,” said a top official, requesting anonymity. Former union rural development secretary Jugal Kishore Mohapatra said: “The enhanced target of 320 crore days of work is doable. But the need of the hour is to focus on areas where poverty levels are high but demand is low due to various reasons. Like, Uttar Pradesh has a poverty share of 20% but its share in MGNREGS is 10%. This is not a reflection of demand but capacity constraints. Effort should be to augment demand in such places for a more equitable distribution of MGNREGS benefits.” MGNREGS guarantees 100 days of work a year to at least one member of every rural household.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-plans-to-increase-mgnregs-targets-again/story-l0TbCyhHPnuu6E9uNxPhWM.html
12-10-2020||India||Doctors at Hindu Rao hospital stop work||The Resident Doctors Association (RDA) of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital on Sunday withdrew from work after the administration failed to meet the deadline for releasing their salaries.The RDA had on Friday threatened to withdraw the services if the administration did not pay their salaries within 48 hours. The deadline expired on Sunday morning. “More than 200 resident doctors and over 300 nursing staff are on an indefinite strike since October 5. The administration has not paid our salaries for three months. It is difficult to continue working like this,” RDA president Abhimanyu Sardana said.Authorities on Saturday shifted 20 Covid-19 patients from the hospital to the Delhi government-run facilities, with health Minister Satyendar Jain saying the civic body should “hand over” municipal hospitals to the AAP government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-at-hindu-rao-hospital-stop-work/story-ucIZMLstCyU75c9gK47a1O.html
12-10-2020||India||Spike in cases of social media ‘abuse’: Officials||In the wake of the India-China military standoff at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the ministry of electronics and information technology has seen a sharp rise in the number of cases of “abuse of social media”.According to officials familiar with the matter, the number of social media accounts, pages and websites that have been blocked have gone up from 200-250 per month last year to nearly 500 cases in September this year. The government, in response to an unstarred question in Parliament last month, had said that it addressed 3,635 such cases in 2019. “We were blocking nearly 200-250 accounts, pages, websites on social media per month last year,” an official said on the condition of anonymity. “This year the number went up from approximately 250 in June, to 300 in July, 400 in August and say nearly 500 in September. These figures are indicative and dynamic, they change every day.” The official, however, added that the exact number of cases the ministry had tackled was confidential and could not be disclosed. “The trend has definitely been that the number of cases we are tackling has increased,” the official said. Also Read: The growing threat of cyberwarfareThe ministry takes down such information from the internet when it is in violation of Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, which empowers the government to block any information generated, transmitted, received, stored or hosted in any computer resource in the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the state, friendly relations with other countries or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence relating to such matters. The ministry has also taken down over 200 mobile applications, mostly of Chinese origin, in the wake of the tensions between the two countries between July and September. Electronics and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had called the decision to block the applications, including popular video-streaming app TikTok and game PUB-G, a “digital strike”.Friction has increased between India and China amid the military standoff in the Ladakh sector of the LAC, which led to a skirmish on June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers dead besides an unspecified number of Chinese casualties. There have been multiple rounds of talks between high-ranking officials from India and China to resolve the standoff. The next round of military talks is scheduled for Monday. “These are regular cleanups the ministry does to ensure sanitation of cyber space,” said a second official. Hindustan Times on September 21 reported that the ministry had told Parliament that it had taken down 3,635 websites/pages/accounts on social media in 2019 for violating the Information Technology Act. Also Read: PUBG loses battle for India, among 118 Chinese mobile apps banned by CentreThe answer was given in response to an unstarred question about the ministry’s regulation of social media tabled in Parliament, in which the ministry added that 1,385 pages were blocked in 2017 and 2,799 were blocked in 2018. “With a borderless cyberspace coupled with the possibility of instant communication and anonymity, the potential for misuse of cyberspace and social media platforms for criminal activities is a global issue,” the ministry had said in its response. “In line with increase of usage of Internet as also the growth of social media platforms, there are increasing number of incidents of reporting of such content having potential to incite violence and hatred. Government has a well-defined system of reporting and blocking for public access within the framework of section 69A of the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000 and the Rules thereunder,” it added. Social media platforms are also expected to remove any unlawful content relatable to Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India as and when brought to their knowledge either through a court order or through a notice by appropriate government or its agency.“The rise in the number of blocked websites as per data side trends has been on the rise year on year. This is problematic and troubling as the legal process for it is secretive and results in an injury to peoples right to access public information,” said Apar Gupta, trustee of the Internet Freedom Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spike-in-cases-of-social-media-abuse-officials/story-GKtdpblx9L6Cjb5Tav1n7L.html
12-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||So, after eight months of the pandemic’s run in India, it is now down to good sense.Amid a lot of spin about what has worked for India and what hasn’t, and whether or not the government has done a good job in tackling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), two things stand out.One, we now know how to keep the viral disease at bay. I don’t mean that in jest. We really do. I remember telling a very senior functionary in the government this in mid-August — that if everyone in India wore masks when they were out and about (not just when they thought someone was watching, but even otherwise), the number of cases would fall to a tenth in about four weeks. I meant it directionally, of course — the four could have become five and the tenth could have become an eighth — but I still believe this.Also Read: Donald Trump says ‘seems like I’m immune’ from Covid-19Two, we now know how to save the lives of those infected by the disease. Every passing day increases our knowledge about what works and what doesn’t, and our ability to cure even people with severe infection.Both are universal truths. They apply to every country on the planet — from China, whose numbers remain a mystery , to New Zealand, which has successfully crushed the virus for the second time (a feat that is expected to play no small part in what political analysts in that country see as a landslide win for Jacinda Ardern in the coming national election), to the US, which now has as many alternate facts about Covid-19 as it does about anything else, and whose President Donald Trump, facing an election in November, is the most prominent world leader to have contracted the disease.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThese things matter because India is really opening up.Even the health minister of Maharashtra, the state worst affected by the pandemic — 40,040 deaths and 1.5 million cases out of India’s total of 108,374 deaths and 7.05 million cases till Saturday night — believes that everything in the state, including schools, will be open in some form by the end of November. “Schools are expected to open after Deepavali; railway services are being allowed this month; religious places and gymnasiums too, will be allowed to open in a phased manner. Some activities will be allowed by October-end and the remaining by November-end,” Rajesh Tope said on Saturday. “I think, by November-end, everything will be open,” he added, for good measure.The pan-India easing of restrictions on movement and activities comes ahead of the festive season, and with the beginning of the next cycle of elections in India — the Bihar assembly elections and by-elections in 11 states will be held shortly. In the first half of next year, Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal will all go to the polls.And in the first half of 2022, Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab, and Uttar Pradesh will go to the polls. A Covid-19 vaccine will definitely be available by then, although it is unlikely that everyone in India would have got a shot.Put otherwise, it’s going to be business as usual — except, it won’t be. And things can’t be left to chance, or the belief (which has usually proved erroneous) that people will always end up doing what is best for them.Which is why it’s important that the Union health ministry and state (and Union Territory) health departments, and the Indian Council of Medical Research do what needs to be done.Also Read: India considers using more than one Covid-19 vaccineOn the testing front, they need to mandate the use of accurate rapid tests, even pushing for their use by occasion — ahead of events, for instance, or maybe even ahead of flights — or time (a weekly testing regimen for teachers and students once schools open physically).On the tracking front, they need to keep a close eye on numbers — at the neighbourhood level in cities, and at the village level elsewhere — and define containment zones at the first hint of trouble.And on the treatment front, especially with the onset of winter and other strains of flu (especially in central India and the northern plains), they need to ensure that hospitals are geared for an increase in the number of patients (perhaps even an increase in the number of those requiring critical care).It’s not over so there is simply nothing to be gained by pretending it is.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-W2ViSX2eViuql2TGka4ylK.html
12-10-2020||India||GST Council to discuss revenue issue for third time today||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council is expected to try and find common ground at a meeting on Monday on the vexed issue of compensating states for the Rs2.35 lakh crore shortfall in their share of revenue from the indirect tax this fiscal year, but the 10 dissenting states cannot indefinitely hold back 21 others that are ready to borrow a part of the amount from the market, two persons familiar with the situation said.There is a consensus on two basic issues – all states will be compensated for their entire revenue shortfall irrespective of the Covid-19 pandemic, through the cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles and coal; and the levy will be extended beyond June 2022, when it was due to lapse, the two said, requesting anonymity.“The Council, which is meeting on Monday evening, could also see some last-minute informal parleys [in the forenoon] among members as everybody wants a solution so that they could quickly get the money to meet their crucial expenditures,” one person with direct knowledge of the matter said.The council on October 5 deferred a decision on the thorny issue of compensating states for the shortfall after 10 states ruled by non-National Democratic Alliance (NDA) parties insisted that the central government borrow the entire Rs2.35 lakh crore and compensate the states.The states were also given the option of borrowing the entire Rs2.35 lakh crore (including the shortfall caused by the Covid-19 pandemic) at a significant cost. As many as 21 state governments have opted to borrow Rs1.10 lakh crore to repay which funds would be managed by the cess levied on sin goods and luxury products. Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal are among the states that have demurred. “A majority [21 states] have already accepted to borrow Rs1.10 lakh crore, hence it is certain that they would be permitted to initiate the borrowing process with the help of RBI [Reserve Bank of India] and DoE [Department of Expenditure]. But, the Council would like to take all members on board, and, therefore, the chairperson {Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman} called this meeting. Some common ground is expected,” the second person said. Both persons said neither a division of vote nor the constitution of a group of ministers (GoM) on this matter could make any material difference after the 21 states signalled their willingness to borrow. The GST Council may, however, address concerns of the 10 members and also try to find a solution that would be acceptable to all, they said.“Even in the last meeting [October 5], the council accepted suggestions of some members and raised the borrowing limit under the first option from Rs97,000 crore to ₹1.10 lakh crore. Similarly, some flexibility could be worked out to make the borrowing option more inclusive,” the second person said. Government officials and independent experts said on condition of anonymity that in unprecedented circumstances such as the present, when the economy has been battered by the Covid-19 pandemic, the council should not be seen to be divided on the political lines.“The situation emerged largely because of Covid-19 pandemic, which is unexpected and unprecedented in scale. In this hour of crisis, I hope and expect that both the Centre and the states will sit together and find a solution so that the economy as a whole gets a boost,” Pratik Jain, partner and leader of the indirect tax practice at PwC India, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-council-to-discuss-revenue-issue-for-third-time-today/story-81rsjxXyp6qJ5ITSzcTIeN.html
12-10-2020||India||UP govt wants courts to expedite hearing of POCSO Act, crime against women cases||The Uttar Pradesh government has requested the registrar general of the Allahabad high court to issue directives to all courts to expedite the hearing of cases related to the POCSO Act (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act) and also cases of crimes against women. Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi has written a letter to the registrar general in this connection.In the letter, Awasthi has informed the high court that the state government will launch a special campaign for the safety and security of women from October 17.He also informed the high court that despite the working of courts getting adversely affected due to Covid-19, a total of 1,835 cases of crimes against women were disposed of in courts between January 1 and September 30. During this period, 151 accused were convicted under the POCSO Act, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-wants-courts-to-expedite-hearing-of-pocso-act-crime-against-women-cases/story-icBq7PZbSwHIcnOxtrdq0O.html
12-10-2020||India||Bihar Panchayati Raj minister’s condition worsens; state adds 1,302 fresh Covid-19 cases||The condition of Bihar panchayati raj minister, Kapil Deo Kamath, who tested Covid-19 positive and is admitted in AIIMS-Patna, deteriorated slightly on Sunday and that of Bodh Gaya MLA Kumar Sarvjeet improved, nodal officer of AIIMS-Patna, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said. On Sunday, nearly 1,302 fresh Covid-19 cases were detected pushing the count of positive cases to 1,96,268, while the recovery rate shot up to 93.86% in Bihar. The bulletin released by the health department said that in the past 24 hours two patients—one each from Jehanabad and Vaishali—died taking the death toll to 946. Besides this, three positive patients died at AIIMS-Patna, said its nodal officer. He said, “Inotropic drugs had to be started on Kamath to maintain his blood pressure, besides he was on haemo dialysis every alternate day.” The health bulletin said in the past 24 hours 96,745 tests were conducted out of which 1,302 were found positive, while in the same period 1,217 patients recovered. So far, 1,84,224 patients have successfully fought the disease in Bihar taking the recovery rate to 93.86%. Now there are 11,097 active Covid-19 patients, added the health bulletin. The nodal officer of AIIMS-Patna, said a 46-year-old positive patient of Supaul, besides another 68-year-old of Muzaffarpur and another 62-year-old of Patna died in the last 24 hours. He said a total of 200 Covid-19 patients, including 72 in ICU, were now admitted in the hospital. No death was reported from NMCH. “While two patients were admitted, an equal number was discharged on Sunday. There are 87 beds available for Covid-19 patients,” said its nodal officer, Dr Mukul Kumar Singh. Of the 1,302 cases, 290 were reported from Patna, Araria 114, Nawada 63, Purnia 59, Madhepura 57, East Champaran 49, Gaya 44, Nalanda 40, and Muzaffarpur 39 besides others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-panchayati-raj-minister-s-condition-worsens-state-adds-1-302-fresh-covid-19-cases/story-eUeMu2ypse4J5RQG6EJjNL.html
12-10-2020||India||Demanding a section of teachers be included into mainstream, Naga students to ban govt vehicles||Student organizations in Nagaland will impose an indefinite ban on movement of government vehicles across the state from Monday demanding that a section of teachers be brought into the mainstream.The ban sought by Naga Students Federation (NSF) and Eastern Naga Students Federation (ENSF), two influential student organizations, has been supported by student bodies of most tribes in the state.The student organizations have called the strike due to alleged inaction on the part of the state government for mainstream teachers belonging to the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) and Rashtriya Madhyamika Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA) of batches 2010 and 2013 into the state education cadre.According to statements issued by various organizations, from Monday movement of vehicles bearing registration numbers beginning with NL-10 and NL-11, used by government vehicles, will be restricted.However, there will be exemption for vehicles belonging to district administrations, para-military, police, medical and emergency services, municipal bodies and those involved in Covid-19 activities.“The joint office urges the general public to extend its fullest cooperation for the plight of the teachers who are the backbone of the students’ welfare in particular and society at large,” said a statement issued by Dimapur Naga Students Union (DNSU) on Sunday.“Any untoward situation arising due to non-cooperation or defying the proposed ‘bandh’, the government official concerned and the state government shall be held solely responsible,” it added.However, some organizations have opposed the ban and urged the student organizations to call it off.In a letter addressed to NSF on Friday, Angami Public Organisation (APO), the apex body of the Angami tribe which is mainly active in Dimapur and Kohima, said any agitation/strike cannot be allowed at present due to the Covid-19 threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demanding-a-section-of-teachers-be-included-into-mainstream-naga-students-to-ban-govt-vehicles/story-Ixm0fZa2os4zLNQ9Jo8fPN.html
12-10-2020||India||Kerala’s Covid-19 graph rises, experts say next few weeks critical||Kerala’s Covid-19 graph took another leap on Sunday registering 9,347 new cases while the test positivity rate remained 15.17 per cent against the national average of 8.5 per cent, according to state health ministry data. With 25 new fatalities, the death toll went up to 1,003. Despite the high number of actives cases (93,316) and steep hike in test positivity rate (TPR), the death rate is low in the state being less than one per cent. Out of 61, 629 samples tested, 9347 people have tested positive. The high TPR is a worrying point to the state, according to the World Health Organization, the TPR should be below 5%. On Saturday, the state had reported the highest cases in the country, 11,755 surpassing Maharashtra 11,416 and Karnataka 10,517 cases while the TPR was 17.74 per cent.“Hike was on expected lines. By this month-end it is likely to touch 15,000 to 20,000. After Onam festivities, the laxity was quite visible. We are paying the price for it. We will redraw our strategies and increase tests,” Rajiv Sadanandan, health advisor to the government said. Many experts said the next few weeks will be critical for the state. In the last week of September, Kerala had reported more than 50,000 cases. Experts warned that high TPR coupled with high density of population and large number of elderly population mortality rate can go up. On May 8, after reporting a single case and 16 people in hospitals, the state had announced that it had flattened the coronavirus curve. But the situation aggravated when people started coming from abroad and other states. The Indian Medical Association Kerala chapter has reiterated its demand for a medical emergency. It said people should be made aware of the gravity of the situation and restrictions should be tightened. “Cases are multiplying fast and most hospitals are full now. The government will have to take drastic measures to contain the spread,” said IMA president Dr Abraham Varghese. He asked the government to increase daily tests to more than one lakh. Despite mounting Covid-19 cases the government has decided to open up the ailing tourism sector from Monday. Other than beaches, all tour destinations will be opened with restrictions. Tour mandarins have been knocking at the doors of the government for some time saying they will face permanent closure if they were not allowed to operate. The state is eying domestic tourists in a big way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-covid-19-graph-rises-experts-say-next-few-weeks-critical/story-6q6yPkcqt7lBM60DBehr9L.html
12-10-2020||India||India considers using more than one Covid-19 vaccine||India may have to tie up with more than one vaccine manufacturer to ensure that every one in the country receives protection against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) when a vaccine becomes available, Union heath minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday, and stressed the need for making sure that the most vulnerable groups get it first. “Considering the large population size of India, one vaccine or vaccine manufacturer will not be able to fulfil the requirements of vaccinating the whole country. Therefore, we are open to assessing the feasibility of introducing several Covid-19 vaccines in the country as per their availability for the Indian population,” the minister said.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“All Covid-19 vaccines currently in India are in the phases 1, 2 or 3 of trials with results awaited. Adequate safety and efficacy data is required for emergency use authorization vaccine approval for ensuring patient safety. Further course of action will be based on data generated,” he added, responding to people’s queries on his social media accounts as part of the fifth episode of his Sunday Samvaad (dialogue).Dr. Harsh Vardhan clarified that since it is anticipated that supplies of a Covid-19 vaccine would be available only in limited quantities in the beginning, its administration will have to be prioritised. Of several different types of vaccines being tested, some may be suitable for a particular age group and may not be for others.“Prioritization of groups for vaccination will be based on two key considerations, first is occupational hazard and the risk of exposure to infection; second is the risk of developing severe disease and risk of increased mortality,” the health minister said. “The Covid vaccines currently under trial in India are two-dose and three-dose vaccines. While Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidates are two-dose vaccines, Cadila’s is a three-dose vaccine candidate. For other vaccines in preclinical stages the dosing is being tested,” he said.Also Read| 5 states with most Covid-19 cases contributed more than half of total recoveries: GovtAccording to the website of the World Health Organisation (WHO), there are currently more than 100 Covid-19 vaccine candidates under development, with scientists, businesses and global healthcare providers racing to find a safe and effective vaccine.In India, Bharat Biotech International Limited has developed an inactivated whole virion candidate vaccine (BBV152) for Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Cadila Healthcare Limited has developed a DNA vaccine for which pre-clinical toxicity studies were conducted in small animals: mice, rats, rabbits and guinea pigs.Serum Institute of India has entered a manufacturing partnership with AstraZeneca to produce the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine candidate in India, for which it is conducting Phase 2/3 trials.The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has granted test license permission for manufacture of Covid-19 vaccine for preclinical test, examination and analysis to the seven manufacturers in India.These are Serum Institute of India in Pune, Cadila Healthcare in Ahmedabad, Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad, Biological E Ltd. in Hyderabad, Reliance Life Sciences Private Limited in Mumbai, Aurobindo Pharma Limited in Hyderabad, and Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Limited, PuneExperts say that more than a vaccine, it is Covid-19 appropriate behaviour that will help prevent the transmission of the respiratory disease.“The vaccine is far from being available right now, as we really do not know when will it be available and more importantly, how effective it will be. If you look at the influenza vaccines, the efficacy that we get is about 50%. Even after 21 years the vaccine against Hepatitis C, which is an RNA-based virus like Covid-19, is not very effective. So, it is too early to predict about the Covid-19 vaccine at this stage,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of pulmonology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.“Developing antibodies is one thing, more important is to know whether those antibodies can actually protect against the infection, which gets known after phase 3 trial data is generated. Phase-3 trial will be crucial but it takes longer for phase 3 trial results to be out; it cannot be expedited. Changing behaviour to make it Covid-19 appropriate is the key, especially with winters coming,” he added.Currently, the key component of the planning for Covid vaccine procurement is the cold chain and other logistics that need to be planned to ensure that no glitches take place in vaccine delivery even at the last mile, the health minister added.In another development, Dr Harsh Vardhan disclosed that Feluda,a low-cost indigenously developed test that can detect the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) within an hour, is expected to be available for use in the next few weeks. Feluda is said to be nearly as accurate as the gold standard reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.Also Read: Harsh Vardhan dismisses rumors of working-class getting Covid-19 vaccine on priority“While I cannot put an exact date on the availability, we should expect this test within the next few weeks,” the minister said on Sunday Samvaad.The paper strip test has been developed by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research- Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) and has been approved by the Drug Controller General of India for commercial launch. The kit has already been validated by the Department of Atomic Energy’s National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru.The test is named after a fictional detective created by the late Satyajit Ray, although it is also an acronym for FNCAS9 Editor-Linked Uniform Detection Assay. It has been developed by senior scientists Dr Debojyoti Chakraborty and Dr Souvik Maiti at CSIR-IGIB.Based on tests performed on over 2,000 patients during the trials at IGIB and on testing in private labs, the test showed 96% sensitivity and 98% specificity. This compares favourably to ICMR’s current acceptation criteria of RT-PCR kit of at least 95% sensitivity and at least 99% specificity. Sensitivity is the ability of a test to correctly identify those with the disease (true positive rate) whereas specificity is the ability of the test to correctly identify those without the disease (true negative rate).“It has similar accuracy as RT-PCR because it is based on the same PCR concept except it is done on simple machines, not expensive real time PCR ones. The detection system is CRISPR based,” said Anurag Agrawal, director, CSIR-IGIB, Delhi.Feluda uses CRISPR gene-editing technology to identify and target the genetic material of Sars-CoV2. CRISPR, which is short for Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats, is a gene-editing technology that can be used to detect a specific snippet of DNA from a sequence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-considers-using-more-than-one-vaccine/story-qpPrDd5ADHGLEjpb86pexH.html
12-10-2020||India||Will work for villages ignored by previous govts, says Modi||In a sharp rebuke to political parties that are resisting the three farm laws enacted by his government last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that those who had ruled the country through a nexus of middlemen in the past were opposing the reforms because they were worried that the legislation would hurt their interests.Hitting out at the Congress, which has been spearheading the protests against the farm laws, Modi said it was a party of people who for six decades had ignored the country’s villages. He said those who had benefitted from a system that was dominated by brokers and middlemen were trying to obstruct development of the countryside.“It is said that India’s aatma (soul) rests in its villages. But it is also correct that villages were left ignored. The people who were in power for a long time, they talked big, but left villages and poor uncared for amid difficulties. I will not do this. I will work for you. For the poor, oppressed and deprived. Because we don’t want them to be dependent on anyone,” Modi said.To promote efficient farm markets, the government last month enacted three laws, allowing farmers to bypass state-controlled market yards run by agricultural produce market committees (APMCs) and enter into five-year farming contracts with agribusinesses. The government also freed up several commonly consumed food items from strict stocking limits that discouraged private investment in cold storages.Political parties and farmers’ groups are protesting against the reforms, including the move to end the monopoly of APMCs, because they fear deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before. They also fear the reforms may weaken the minimum support price mechanismThe prime minister said the government had raised the Minimum Support Price (MSP) to one and a half times its previous level. These people could not do it, he said hitting at political opponents.The PM spoke at an event where property ownership cards were distributed to beneficiaries of the Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas (SVAMITVA) scheme, which he said was a big step towards the country becoming “aatmanirbhar” (self-reliant). The cards will pave the way for villagers to use property as a financial asset for taking loans and other financial benefits, and end disputes among villagers over land ownership, he said. Modi claimed that for six decades, residents of villages did not have bank accounts, electricity, toilets, piped water or cooking gas connections. Many were homeless. Now, 20 million people have received concrete houses.“To keep villages deprived has been the basis of politics of some. We have started the campaign to free the poor of deprivation. Some people feel that if the villages, poor, farmers, tribals develop, who will come to bow before them?. Their shop will be shut,” Modi said.He alleged that these were the people who wanted problems in the villages to continue; obstructing ecojnomic development had become their habit.“These people now have a problem with the historic agricultural reforms. They are worried and hassled. Not because of farmers, their worries are centered on their interests. Generation after generation, with a huge system of dalals (middlemen) and bribe-seekers, they had created their own ‘maya jaal’(web of illusions). People of the country have begun dismantling their maya jaal,” said the prime minister.“They have a problem with every good thing that is happening. These people want to stall the development of the country. They don’t want our villagers, our poor, our workers, our farmers to become self-reliant.”Those who ruled on the strength of brokers and middlemen can spread as much disinformation as they want, but the country will not stop, Modi said, lashing out at opponents. He said those who had benefitted from government schemes had gained in confidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-work-for-villages-ignored-by-previous-govts-says-modi/story-C0BU9HjPqx8NYBnxuYoYTP.html
12-10-2020||India||Winter could lead to spike in Covid-19 cases: Health minister||The onset of winter could lead to a spurt in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India, Union health minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan warned on Sunday, as the country braces for a more rapid transmission of the respiratory virus in cold weather.“These viruses are known to thrive better in the cold weather and low humidity conditions. Overcrowding in residential dwellings also increases during cold weather. We also have evidence from the European countries that with the onset of winters the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing as is the case of the United Kingdom,” Harsh Vardhan said. “In view of these, it would not be wrong to assume that the winter season may see increased rates of transmission of the novel coronavirus in the Indian context too.”“This is the reason why we are emphasizing on following the preventive measures prescribed by the government. The measures are simple; people need to follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour such as maintaining a physical distance of six feet from people, wearing a mask and following hand hygiene,” he added.The minister also emphasized the need for being extra careful during the coming festive season as congregations n large numbers could turn into super-spreaderevents, and also if people do not follow government-prescribed guidelines to cut disease transmission. He appealed to the people to celebrate the festivals at home, with their families and friends, instead of going out to fairs and pandals, reminding citizens that the fight against Covid-19 was their foremost dharma, for mitigating the virus and preventing deaths at any cost.““The Bhagavad Gita condones war for the warrior class. So, there is no need to congregate in large numbers to prove your faith or your religion. If we do this, we may be heading for big trouble…Our goal is to finish this virus and save humanity. This is our religion…,” he said.“Extraordinary circumstances must draw extraordinary responses. No religion or God says that you have to celebrate in an ostentatious way, and that you have to visit pandals and temples and mosques to pray,” he added.Experts also say that the coming weeks could determine what shape the pandemic takes in India.“Even though nothing can be said with certainty because it is a new virus and we are getting to know it better; still going by the pattern of respiratory viruses in the past, this virus could also spread faster in cold weather. There are many factors that aid growth of respiratory viruses in winters that includes high pollution levels, low humidity etc. that helps them stay in the atmosphere for a longer period of time. Also, overcrowded spaces during winters are also common, and all this is ideal for virus multiplication,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, head of respiratory medicine and interventional pulmonology at Fortis Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-could-lead-to-spike-in-covid-19-cases-health-minister/story-GqTKoAygR7c4wCOYm7WDBL.html
12-10-2020||India||‘Save India’s farmers from such black laws’: Cong-ruled states to intensify farm law stir||The Congress has decided to intensify its political battle against the new farm laws enacted by the Narendra Modi government by expanding the scope and intensity of protests such as the one the party recently organised in Punjab and Haryana, and going ahead with its plan of having states where it is in power pass resolutions or bills effectively nullifying these laws. According to people familiar with the matter, the assessment within the party is that the agrarian distress has already affected a large chunk of the rural population and the new farm laws will aggravate the crisis. The people, who asked not to be identified, said the Congress has also decided that the party-ruled states of Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh will summon a special session of their respective assemblies to pass their own laws to override the central laws. The union territory of Puducherry will adopt a resolution in this regard. The people added that the party’s top leaders are not convinced that these bills will be approved by the respective state governors (all of whom have been appointed by the Union government). “In that case too, we are ready for any confrontation. Our aim is to save the farmers of this country from such black laws, “ said a Congress functionary. The people said that the party discussed the possibility of moving the Supreme Court against the three farm bills, but decided that it would be better to wait to do this. With political protests gathering steam and its states set to push their own bills that would counter the new laws, the party’s internal thinking is that time is not right for going to Supreme Court as the matter will then take a completely different turn. “There is a time and scope for political movement. Similarly, there is a time and scope for asserting legal remedies in the court. The Congress retains the right to go to court and will do so at an opportune moment,” said Congress leader and lawyer Winter could lead to spike in Covid-19 cases: Health minister. Singhvi has been extensively consulted on the farm bill issue and has also drafted the bills for the Congress-led state governments to take up in the respective assemblies. The people also said that if the Congress goes to court, the move to pass bills in state assemblies might get affected as the entire issue would be before the court. “The President, who has to give his assent to every bill for becoming a law, can very well cite the ongoing cases to not sign the state bills,” said a second Congress functionary. The party is also not sure of the outcome in the court. “If the apex court rules in favour of the government, we will lose ground and it will be difficult to continue the agitation,” said a third Congress leader. He referred to the Congress protest against the Rafale deal , where a court order took the sting out of the party’s allegations. The Congress high command has also asked party general secretaries and in-charges to visit their respective states and intensify the anti-farm laws agitation there. The party will also collect two crore signatures from farmers from across the country and submit those to President Ram Nath Kovind. Some individual MPs, including DMK’s Tiruchi Siva and Congress’ TN Prathapan have knocked on the Supreme Court’s doors for remedy on the farm laws but as a collective strategy of the party, no decision to go to court has been taken yet. Prathapan has clarified that he has gone to court only on one bill and not the larger issue of three legislations. In a sustained attack at the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said that not a single policy introduced by the Centre in the last six years has benefitted the poor. “They passed the three black farm bills amid the coronavirus outbreak. What was the haste to do it at this time? They did it because they thought the farmers won’t be able to do anything, but they don’t know the power of a farmer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-ruled-states-to-intensify-farm-law-stir/story-Y8NjJYuat0jTqXKPLy45yJ.html
12-10-2020||India||100k get house ownership cards under new scheme||Some 100,000 people from states including Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh were handed over the legal ownership papers of their houses on Sunday, and the Centre vowed to give such documents to every household in every village of the country in the next three to four years.The property ownership cards were handed over to the beneficiaries under the government’s ambitious Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas (SVAMITVA) scheme at an event presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi over video link.The scheme will bring historical changes to the villages of the country, Modi said, adding that it was a key step towards an Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India).The cards will pave the way for villagers to use property as an asset for borrowing loans and deriving other financial benefits, and end disputes among villagers over land ownership, the PM said. On the occasion, Modi also interacted with several beneficiaries of SVAMITVA scheme.The prime minister said a record of property ownership opens up new avenues of investment. Access to bank loans becomes easier with a record of property ownership, which could generate self-employment, he said.The difficulty is that today only one-third of the world’s population has a legal record of their property, Modi said. He added that the property card will clear the way for people in rural India to buy and sell property without disputes.With new technology like drones being used in mapping and surveys, accurate land records can be created for every village. The Prime Minister said unprecedented development had taken place in the villages in the last six years, which hadn’t taken place in the first seven decades after independence. He listed benefits such as gaining access to bank accounts, electricity and piped drinking water connections and access to toilets built under the Clean India mission. He added that a major campaign to connect every village in the country though optical fibre is also underway at a rapid pace. Chief ministers of several states were also present at the virtual event., where Modi expressed happiness that the cards were being distributed on the birth anniversary of two great leaders, Jayaprakash Narayan and Nanaji Deshmukh, who, he said, had devoted their entire lives to the empowerment of rural India and the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100k-get-house-ownership-cards-under-new-scheme/story-W8QQb9lFUESMuyNzH0v4lI.html
12-10-2020||India||Hope Article 370 is restored in Valley with China’s help, says Farooq Abdullah||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Sunday said he wished that with China’s support, Article 370 of the Constitution, which conferred special status on Jammu and Kashmir, will be restored.In an interview to India Today TV, Abdullah noted that China was not happy with the nullification of Article 370, which was scrapped in August last year by Parliament. Parliament also pushed through the bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two Union territories -- J&K and Ladakh. Abdullah’s statement came against the backdrop of the five-month-long border standoff between India and China in Ladakh which began in early May.“As far as China is concerned, I didn’t bring {the} Chinese president here. Our Prime Minister invited him to Gujarat and even did jhoola sawari with him. He [PM Modi] even took him to Chennai and had food with him,” he said.The former chief minister of J&K said that China “never accepted” the nullification of Article 370. “They said till you restore Article 370, we won’t stop because it has now become an open issue,” he said.“May Allah wish that our people get help from their might and our Articles 370 and 35-A get restored,” Abdullah said. Article 35A of the Indian Constitution empowered the J&K legislature to define permanent residents of the state for providing some special rights and privileges; it too was revoked.Nearly all of Kashmir’s mainstream political leaders were detained on August 5, 2019, hours before Parliament nullified Article 370 of the Constitution and bifurcated the state into two union territories.After being incarcerated for months, Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah, both former chief ministers, were released on March 13 and March 24, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-art-370-is-restored-in-valley-with-china-s-help-says-farooq/story-6qGiIwnh8PfXtXO1huOMvJ.html
12-10-2020||India||LAC talks: India to push for restoration of status quo ante||With military tensions showing no signs of subsiding along the country’s northern borders, India and China are set to hold the seventh round of their corps commander-level dialogue in eastern Ladakh on Monday to reduce friction in the sensitive theatre, officials familiar with the developments said on Sunday. The talks are expected to begin at 9.30 am in Chushul on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the officials said. The Indian side will demand comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April, the officials said. The two nuclear powers have been locked in a border dispute for more than five months, with several rounds of diplomatic and military talks failing to produce a breakthrough in reducing border tensions in the sector where both armies have made arrangements for a long haul through the winter months. The latest military talks will take place weeks after China hardened its position and asserted that it recognises the 1959 LAC, which was never accepted by India. China’s hardened stance has dimmed hopes for an early resolution of the border row, as reported by HT on October 5. China’s assertion that it abides by the LAC as proposed by Premier Zhou Enlai to Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru in 1959 has complicated the border row in eastern Ladakh, and called into question Beijing’s intent to restore status quo ante and de-escalate the conflict. Experts said it was important to find a resolution to the dispute through talks. “Both countries have said at various levels that they don’t want to escalate the conflict and find a solution through talks. So, talks at both military and diplomatic levels have to continue to find a methodology to disengage and deescalate,” said National Security Advisory Board (NSAB) member Lieutenant General SL Narasimhan (retd). Monday’s dialogue will be the last round of military talks to be led by the current commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, Lieutenant General Harinder Singh. Singh, who has completed his one-year term, is heading to Dehradun on October 15 as the commandant of the Indian Military Academy. He is being replaced by Lieutenant General PGK Menon, who had also attended the previous round of military talks on September 21. At the September 21 talks, Indian negotiators firmly demanded comprehensive disengagement at all friction areas and restoration of status quo ante as the only approach towards de-escalation. On the other hand, China asked India to withdraw its soldiers from strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to reduce friction. According to a joint statement, released in New Delhi and Beijing on September 22, the two sides agreed to stop sending more troops to the front line, and to “take practical measures to properly solve problems on the ground, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquility in the border area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-talks-india-to-push-for-restoration-of-status-quo-ante/story-0mDJq6VCuICTIo3nA5HdRP.html
