13-10-2020||India||BJP to rely on technology to bolster PM Modi’s rallies in poll-bound Bihar||To ensure physical distancing norms are not violated during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rallies in election-bound Bihar, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will rely on technology to relay the rallies live across the length and the breadth of the state. Efforts are also underway to devise a strategy to handle the large rush of people who are expected to attend the PM’s rallies, said a person aware of the details.The PM’s rallies, which are expected to draw large crowds, will be telecast live even in far off places with limited access to media and the internet. About four lakh party workers who have smart phones have been deputed to broadcast the rallies in smaller groups or in select places in villages or towns.“The idea is to limit the number of people from attending in person, yet allowing them to be connected,” said a person aware of the details. Adherence to protocol of wearing masks, keeping physical distance and use of sanitisers will be strictly adhered to. In all his speeches, including the radio broadcast, Mann Ki Baat, the PM has been stressing on the need to not let the guard against the coronavirus down; and has been advocating do gaz ki doori or six feet physical distance.So far, the number and schedule of the PM’s rallies has not been firmed up; but he is expected to address a dozen rallies in the state that goes to polls in three phases, starting from October 28.According to people aware of the details, the PM’s first rally is likely to be a joint address along with Bihar chief minister and Janata Dal (United) chief Nitish Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-rely-on-technology-to-bolster-pm-modi-s-rallies-in-poll-bound-bihar/story-7lke4K32SARlIUg1tTaV2N.html
13-10-2020||India||Heavy rains lash Hyderabad, waterlogging and traffic jams reported in many areas||Hyderabad witnessed heavy rains on Tuesday with heavy water-logging and traffic jams in different areas even as several other parts of the state reported similar weather conditions, which were triggered following a deep depression over the west-central Bay of Bengal, officials said.Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) received heavy rains with provisional average rainfall reported as 64.4mm, according to official data from 8.30am to 8pm. GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar urged those living in dilapidated buildings and sheds to vacate such premises in view of the rains. He said temporary accommodation would be provided in community halls to those who do not have alternative accommodation.Several Twitter users reported traffic jams in Hyderabad and some offered food and accommodation to anyone stuck. “People stuck in ToliChowki/Shaikpet areas can connect with me. I can arrange food & accommodation. Please feel free to DM me. I will share my contact number,” tweeted Abdul Hamed. Flood like situation in Hayathnagar @HiHyderabad@GHMCOnline@ZC_LBNagar@Director_EVDM @Rajani_Weather @Hyderabadrains @WeatherBrother @HiWarangal #Hyderabad_Rain#Htderabad pic.twitter.com/anJ0Fo7aczWaterlogging was reported in many parts of the low-lying area in districts of Telangana, creating a flood-like situation, due to rain in the state since Tuesday morning. Data showed Verkat Palle in Yadadri-Bhongir district received 243.8mm of rainfall, followed by 210.8mm at Singapur Township in Medchal Malkajgiri district.Rivulets and other water bodies were in spate in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district and the administration directed officials to take up immediate repairs to roads wherever damage was reported. The district administration appealed to the people not to venture out until the water level in rivulets and the flooding receded, according to an official release.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert and predicted heavy to very heavy rains in most places across Telangana till Wednesday morning.“Heavy to very heavy rain at a few places with extremely heavy rain at isolated places very likely to occur in the districts of Mancherial, Peddapalli, Karimnagar, J Bhupalapally, Siddipet, Rajanna Sirisilla, Mulugu, Bhadradri Kothagudem, Warangal (Urban and Rural), Mahabubabad, Khammam, Suryapet, Nalgonda, Nagarkurnool, Y.Bhuvanagiri and Jangaon, and heavy to very heavy rain very likely to occur at isolated places in remaining districts of Telangana,” IMD said in its forecast till 8.30am on October 14.The weather bureau also predicted heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places over Telangana in another forecast valid from 8.30am on October 14 till 8.30am on October 15.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-lash-hyderabad-waterlogging-and-traffic-jams-reported-in-many-areas/story-xvgkHYFEZWGwqTTFYTqqQO.html
13-10-2020||India||Calcutta high court seeks police report on BJP leader’s murder; TMC rally chokes Titagarh||A division bench of the Calcutta high court on Tuesday sought a report from the West Bengal police on the ongoing probe into the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manish Shukla at Titagarh in North 24 Parganas district on the night of October 4. Shukla, 39, was an outgoing councillor of the Titagarh municipality and also a lawyer at Barrackpore court. He was gunned down on the busy BT Road by motorcycle-borne assailants who fired 18 shots. Priyanka Tibrewal, a lawyer and BJP leader, filed a petition at the Calcutta high court last week seeking a CBI investigation into Shukla’s murder. The CBI probe should take place under the supervision of the high court, the petition said. The matter came up for hearing on Tuesday. The bench headed by Justice Sanjib Banerjee asked the police to submit a report in a sealed envelope during the next hearing. The West Bengal Criminal Investigation Department (CID) is probing the case. Last Thursday, the CID arrested Subodh Yadav, a resident of Barrackpore in North 24 Parganas. This was the fourth arrest since early October 6. Three suspects, Muhammad Khurram, Sheikh Gulab and Muhammad Nasir Khan were arrested earlier. All three have criminal records. Two days ago, a CID team went to Bihar to interrogate a jailed convict named Subodh Singh who is involved in dacoities and murders in several states, including Bengal. It is suspected that though Singh is lodged in Nalanda Jail he made phone calls to the shooters. The CID team wanted to bring Singh to Kolkata for interrogation but the Bihar Police turned down the request, said an officer aware of the developments. The CID may move court to get Singh’s custody. The murder has triggered political tension in the Barrackpore Lok Sabha constituency of which Titagarh is a part. In Shukla’s murder, nine people have been named in the First Information Report (FIR) on the basis of the complaint lodged by his father Chandramani Shukla. The outgoing chairman of Barrackpore municipality, Uttam Das and his counterpart in Titagarh municipality, Prashanta Choudhury, have been named in the complaint. The two Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders have denied the allegation saying the BJP’s Barrackpore Lok Sabha MP Arjun Singh is blaming them because they built movements to stop him from making further inroads in the district before the 2019 assembly election. On Tuesday afternoon, the TMC organised a huge procession, which it called a ‘peace rally,’ in Titagarh. More than a thousand people took part in it, ignoring health advisories in force due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Urban Development minister Firhad Hakim also participated in the procession. “It is a strategy by the TMC to shield the culprits and regain control on the region,” said Singh who left the TMC in 2018 and joined the saffron camp. He defeated TMC’s sitting Barrackpore MP Dinesh Trivedi in 2019. Singh has alleged that the CID is trying to frame him in the murder case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-high-court-seeks-police-report-on-bjp-leader-s-murder-tmc-rally-chokes-city/story-pgSs84TN0bQNtR35YkdEzL.html
13-10-2020||India||Former J-K CM Mehbooba Mufti’s release welcomed widely, press conference likely on Friday||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti was released on Tuesday, more than 14 months after she was detained following the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir special status on August 5, 2019.Mufti, 61, is the last of the J&K prominent mainstream political leaders to have been set free after the constitutional changes split the region into two Union territories.“After more than a year of detention, our party president Mehbooba Mufti released today,” said Najmu Saqib, PDP spokesperson. Government spokesman Rohit Kansal earlier announced the government’s decision about her release on Twitter. Her party said that she would be addressing a press conference on Friday.Shortly after her release, Mufti released an audio statement on social media, saying she will continue to fight for the revocation of Article 370.  After being released from fourteen long months of illegal detention, a small message for my people. pic.twitter.com/gIfrf82Thw“I am free today after more than a year. During this time, the dark decision of August 5, 2019, the black day, would always pain my heart and soul. I realise that the people of J&K would have the same feeling. Nobody among us can forget the day’s assault and humiliation. Now, we all will have to reiterate that the unconstitutional and undemocratic decision of August 5 and that which was snatched from us by Delhi Darbar will have to be reversed. Also, we will have to carry on our struggle for the solution of Kashmir’s issues for which thousands gave their lives. I agree this path is not easy but I am hopeful that our resolve will help us in this. Now that I have been released, I also demand the release of the people of Jammu and Kashmir who have been jailed in different prisons of the country. As Ms Mufti’s illegal detention finally comes to an end, Id like to thank everybody who supported me in these tough times. I owe a debt of gratitude to you all. This is Iltija signing off. فی امان اﷲ May allah protect youMufti’s party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), ran a coalition government in the undivided state with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) until the alliance collapsed in June 2018 that prompted the imposition of Governor’s Rule.The former CM was arrested on August 5 from her official residence and lodged at Chesmashahi huts. She was moved to a government building close to the MLA hostel, where other detainees were held, in November.In April this year, Mufti was moved to her official residence at Fairview on Gupkar Road. Iltija Mufti, Mehbooba’s daughter who has been handling her mother’s Twitter handle since the detention, expressed her gratitude to those who supported her and signed off from the handle.“As Ms Mufti’s illegal detention finally comes to an end, Id like to thank everybody who supported me in these tough times. I owe a debt of gratitude to you all. This is Iltija signing off. May allah protect you,” she wrote. Happy to learn that Mehbooba Mufti ji’s detention has come to an end and she has been released.Mufti’s release came two weeks after the Supreme Court asked the Jammu and Kashmir administration if the former chief minister’s detention under PSA can be extended beyond a year and, if so, “how long do you propose to extend it”. The bench had fixed the next date of hearing on Thursday.Iltija had moved the Supreme Court in September seeking to modify her petition challenging her mother’s continued detention under the Public Safety Act (PSA) from February 5 and the subsequent two extensions.Mufti was initially put under preventive detention under Section 107 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and then just before her detention was to expire in February 2020, the government invoked the Public Safety Act on February 5 to keep her behind the bars. This law empowers authorities to hold any person from thee months to two years without any trial. I’m pleased to hear that @MehboobaMufti Sahiba has been released after more than a year in detention. Her continued detention was a travesty & was against the basic tenets of democracy. Welcome out Mehbooba.The administration had extended her detention by three months on July 31 2020, even as it had released People’s Conference chief Sajjad Gani Lone.Political leaders in and outside Kashmir, including those from Opposition Congress, like Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi, have been demanding her release.Nearly all of Kashmir’s mainstream political leaders were detained hours before the central government abrogate Article 370 of the Constitution, which accorded special status to the region, and bifurcated the state into two Union territories – Jammu and Kashmir with a legislature, and Ladakh without one.Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah, the two other former chief ministers and National Conference leaders, were later released on March 13 and March 24 2020, respectively. Mufti’s release has been widely welcomed.“I’m pleased to hear that MehboobaMufti Sahiba has been released after more than a year in detention. Her continued detention was a travesty & was against the basic tenets of democracy. Welcome out Mehbooba,” NC vice president Omar Abdullah wrote.“MehboobaMufti has apparently been released. Great news. She has been through a very tough time. Wishing her all the best,” said Peoples’ Conference chairman Sajad Lone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-j-k-cm-mehbooba-mufti-s-release-welcomed-widely-press-conference-likely-on-friday/story-XVYxE5Soqh420YxNBmKViN.html
13-10-2020||India||‘I never watch my own shows!’||Actor Amit Sial has his hands full. Being on a work spree, the ‘Jamtara’ actor recently shot for his new OTT show, a web film and completed dubbing for his upcoming series. Last seen in ‘Hostages’ and ‘Inside Edge’ Amit says that he relishes being in front of the camera but have a strong aversion to watch his work on screen. “Mera bas chale to har din shoot karoon…as I enjoy the process and it gives me a real thrill. But, after the shooting is done I shut myself and try to get a good sleep! It’s only while dubbing I see a bit of myself on screen but beyond that I have never watched any work of mine except,” he said. Post lockdown, the actor shot for a series ‘Simple Murder’ in Hyderabad and New Delhi with Zeeshan Ayub, Vikram Kochhar, Priya Anand and Sushant Singh. “We shot the interiors in Ramoji Film City as it was much safe there, then we moved to Delhi for outdoors. Thereafter, I shot for a web-film in Nashik which was again at safe locations,” shared Amit. In between he dubbed for the sequel of ‘Mirzapur’. “It’s always very challenging to do a sequel. When you set a benchmark and audience lap it up but then the entire team needs to go above the standards that have been already set. Rest, audience is the king!” Last year, he shot for his part in Lucknow and Varanasi. It was due to lockdown that the sequel to his other hit series ‘Jamtara’ couldn’t be shot. “The second season is in pipeline and we are working on the dates as it has ensemble cast and it has to be shot at real locations in Jharkhand.” Then he awaits for the third installment of ‘Inside Edge’ that has already been wrapped. Amit recently returned from a holiday-cum-work trip. “I went to Goa which was a vacation combined with personal reasons. I am shifting my parents there as it is much safer in Covid-era than Mumbai. My brother will stay with them while I’ll keep visiting them. After settling them, I will be able to work much freely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-never-watch-my-own-shows/story-50M8FfNGumtu3kZHG6qJvM.html
13-10-2020||India||‘Jai ho democracy ki’: Leaders react after PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti’s release||Several political leaders, including National Conference’s Omar Abdullah and Congress’ Ghulam Nabi Azad, welcomed Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti’s release late on Tuesday. Mufti’s release came after her preventive detention for more than 14 months ahead of the abrogation of Article 370 in August last year.Rohit Kansal, Jammu and Kashmir administration’s spokesperson, tweeted about Mufti’s release.Mufti, a former chief minister of the erstwhile state, was arrested along with other leaders hours ahead of the Centre abrogating Article 370 on August 5, 2019, and bifurcating Jammu and Kashmir into two Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. She was first detained under Sections 107 and 151 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and then booked under the Public Safety Act (PSA).“I’m pleased to hear that @MehboobaMufti Sahiba has been released after more than a year in detention. Her continued detention was a travesty & was against the basic tenets of democracy. Welcome out Mehbooba,” Omar Abdullah tweeted.Omar Abdullah and his father Farooq Abdullah, both former chief ministers, were also among the hundreds of political leaders who were detained hours before the Centre moved Parliament to scrap Article 370, divided the state into two Union Territories and imposed restrictions in the Kashmir Valley. Omar was released on March 25 and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah was released on March 13.“Thank God at last @MehboobaMufti has been released after more than15 months.This detention like that of Farooqsahib&@OmarAbdullah was unique one in our country,where the govt. ordered detention themselves don’t know reason and crime committed by these 3leaders.Jai ho democracy ki,” Ghulam Nabi Azad also posted on Twitter.“Mehbooba Mufti has apparently been released. Great news. She has been through a very tough time. Wishing her all the best,” said Peoples’ Conference chairman Sajad Lone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jai-ho-democracy-ki-leaders-react-after-pdp-chief-mehbooba-mufti-s-release/story-L42EBmGFwLC8bXtYQRFjoM.html
13-10-2020||India||Freeze bank accounts, provide for post-summons mediation in cheque bounce cases: Amicus to SC||Freezing bank accounts of accused, encouraging mediation and exploring alternative options to issue summons were some of the suggestions placed before the Supreme Court on Monday by the Amici Curiae to deal with the backlog of cheque bounce cases.The two Amici Curiae, senior counsel Sidharth Luthra and advocate K Parameshwar noted in their report that a significant percentage of cheque bounce cases are pending at the stage of service of summons due to the lack of current address and whereabouts of the accused.“It would be expedient to direct that banks, while issuing dishonour slips, under the Negotiable Instruments Act (NI Act), disclose the current mobile number, email address and postal address of the drawer of the cheque. Service of summons may be affected through SMS, WhatsApp, on the mobile number, email and postal address of the accused,” the report said.The Central government, the Reserve Bank of India and the Indian Banks Association should consider establishment of a nodal service agency for effective service of summons through electronic processes, it added.The Supreme Court had on March 5 taken suo motu cognizance of the pressing need for speedy trial and disposal of cases instituted under Section 138 of the NI Act.Section 138 criminalises dishonour of cheque when such a cheque given for discharge of a debt or liability is returned by the bank on account of insufficiency of funds in the concerned bank account.The apex court in its March 5 order noted that the huge pendency in cheque bounce cases under Section 138 posed great perils to the justice delivery system and appointed Luthra and Parameshwar as Amicus Curiae to assist the court and invite suggestions and solutions to deal with the issue.Amicus Curiae, which literally translates as friend of the court, is a neutral lawyer appointed by the court to assist it in cases which require specific expertise.The report by the two lawyers suggested that when a person against whom a warrant is issued has absconded or has concealed himself such that the warrant cannot be executed, then Magistrates could consider ordering attachment of the bank accounts of the accused to the extent of the cheque amount.“The Magistrate could direct the concerned bank that the account of the accused, to the extent of the cheque amount shall stand frozen. If this procedure is adopted, it would act as a deterrent for the accused from evading the summons and trial,” it said.The Amici Curiae also said that magistrates could direct parties to resort to mediation while issuing summons.“In such cases, the summons may reflect a date for mediation and also a date for trial. A Standard Operating Procedure for post-summons mediation will have to be developed in consultation with the relevant stakeholders keeping in mind that the mediation is time-bound, cost-effective and does not become another tool in the hands of the accused to delay the trial,” the report stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/freeze-bank-accounts-provide-for-post-summons-mediation-in-cheque-bounce-cases-amicus-to-sc/story-h4SVkKaG1rXJ8bb9RPmBrI.html
13-10-2020||India||Foreign secretary Shringla, US deputy secretary discuss upcoming 2+2 dialogue||Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and US deputy secretary of state Stephen Biegun on Tuesday discussed the upcoming 2+2 ministerial dialogue between the two countries and reviewed bilateral ties, including expanding cooperation in the Indo-Pacific.The two officials also discussed ways to strengthen cooperation at the United Nations, especially during India’s stint as a non-permanent member of the Security Council during 2021-22, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava tweeted.The “priorities” for the upcoming India-US 2+2 dialogue between the foreign and defence ministers of the two countries and “expanding our partnership in support of a peaceful and prosperous Indo-Pacific” also figured in the discussions, the US embassy said in a tweet.The 2+2 dialogue is expected to be held in New Delhi during October 26-27, though both countries are yet to make a formal announcement regarding the event. It will follow external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s recent meeting with US secretary of state Mike Pompeo on the margins of a meeting of foreign ministers of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue in Tokyo earlier this month. Also read: India, China bet on dialogue to resolve border row in eastern LadakhFS @harshvshringla & US Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun reviewed status & progress of our diverse & growing bilateral relationship.They discussed ways to strengthen cooperation in the UN, especially during India's membership of the UNSC for the period 2021-2022. pic.twitter.com/TjRCBvtYzVSrivastava also said in his tweets that Shringla and Biegun reviewed the “status & progress of our diverse & growing bilateral relationship” during their bilateral consultations on a diverse range of issues.The two officials also highlighted “convergences & shared interests” between the two sides and reiterated their commitment to the Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership between India and the US, he added.Beigun’s visit has coincided with a push by the US to institutionalise cooperation with India in the Indo-Pacific, primarily to counter China’s aggressive activities across the region. During his visit to Tokyo, Pompeo had spoken about institutionalising the Quad, currently an informal grouping, and expanding it to include more like-minded countries.While delivering an address on Monday night, Beigun had said India and the US “have been too cautious” while developing the Quad, though the recent ministerial meeting of the grouping in Tokyo had made the US confident that efforts had begun to create more “strategic linkages”.Beigun also described China as “an elephant in the room” as India and the US work towards an “organic and deeper partnership” based on a “fundamental alignment along shared security and geopolitical goals, shared interests and shared values”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-shringla-us-deputy-secretary-discuss-upcoming-2-2-dialogue/story-vtGLpkryVnixoXcEked2VI.html
13-10-2020||India||In Kerala, Covid-19 cases cross 3 lakh mark, TPR remains high at 18.16%||Kerala’s Covid-19 graph continues to register an upward trend with the total viral caseload crossing the 3 lakh mark on Tuesday. The test positivity rate (TPR) climbed to 18.16%, according to the statistics released by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. At a time when Covid-19 cases are going down in the country, in Kerala, the infection is increasing sharply, data shows. Out of 48,253 samples tested on Tuesday, 8,764 people tested positive with a TPR of 18.16% against the national average of 8.5 %. The state’s active caseload is 95,407, the third highest in the country after Maharashtra and Karnataka. But there is some relief also as the number of patients who recovered crossed 2 lakh.“Infection among children is high and private tuition is behind it. Parents and teachers will have to take extra caution. We can’t remain in shutdown mode always. We have opened the tourism sector partially and many destinations have set up testing kiosks,” the CM said. He said post-Covid-19 care centres will be opened as some of those who have recovered often complain about health complications. He said the recent hike was on expected lines and asked people to take utmost care and heed directives of the health ministry.Experts said the next few weeks will be critical for the state and cases may peak by this month end. Once a model for coronavirus management, cases started increasing in September and more than half of the caseload was added during this period. They said low testing rate, easing of curbs and overconfidence marred the state’s pandemic battle that was once lauded by many including international media. The Indian Medical Association Kerala chapter has reiterated its demand for a medical emergency in the state. With 8,764 new Covid-19 cases, the total has gone up to 3.03,896. Nearly 2, 07, 357 people have recovered and active cases now stand at 95,407. With 21 fatalities, the death toll has gone up to 1046.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-kerala-covid-19-cases-cross-3-lakh-mark-tpr-remains-high-at-18-16/story-J8qDXIRQjgXlAe7dBEZhpL.html
13-10-2020||India||Former J-K CM Mehbooba Mufti, in detention for over a year, released||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mehbooba Mufti was released on Tuesday, after being detained for more than a year ahead of the Centre’s decision to abrogate Article 370 and being charged under the Public Safety Act (PSA), an official said.“PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti is being released from detention,” Rohit Kansal, said Jammu and Kashmir administration spokesperson, said. Ms. Mehbooba Mufti being released @diprThe news of the PDP chief’s release was confirmed on her Twitter handle, which is being handled by her daughter Iltija. “As Ms Mufti’s illegal detention finally comes to an end, Id like to thank everybody who supported me in these tough times. I owe a debt of gratitude to you all. This is Iltija signing off. May Allah protect you,” Mufti’s daughter said. Ms Mehbooba Mufti, former Chief Minister J&K to whom this twitter handle belongs has been detained since 5th August 2019 without access to the account. This handle is now operated by myself, Iltija daughter of Ms Mufti with due authorisation.The Jammu and Kashmir administration had extended her detention by three months in July. Mufti’s release came two weeks after the Supreme Court asked the Jammu and Kashmir administration if the former chief minister’s detention under PSA can be extended beyond a year and, if so, “how long do you propose to extend it”. The bench had fixed the next date of hearing on Thursday.National Conference leader Omar Abdullah welcomed Mufti’s release. “I’m pleased to hear that @MehboobaMufti Sahiba has been released after more than a year in detention. Her continued detention was a travesty & was against the basic tenets of democracy. Welcome out Mehbooba,” Omar Abdullah tweeted.Omar Abdullah, who along with his father Farooq Abdullah, was also among the hundreds of political leaders who were detained hours before the Centre moved Parliament to scrap Article 370, divided the state into two Union Territories and imposed restrictions in the Kashmir Valley in August last year. Omar, also a former chief minister, was released on March 25 and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah was released on March 13. I’m pleased to hear that @MehboobaMufti Sahiba has been released after more than a year in detention. Her continued detention was a travesty & was against the basic tenets of democracy. Welcome out Mehbooba.Mufti was first detained under Sections 107 and 151 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and later booked under the Public Safety Act. She was lodged at Cheshma Shahi guest house and then shifted to another government guest house at MA Link Road in Srinagar. The PDP president was then taken to her residence where she remained under house arrest.Iltija had challenged her mother’s detention in the Supreme Court, which last heard the case on September 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newsalert/story-pw5ZI6w1Mifo4J1t5jBBcP.html
13-10-2020||India||‘Negligence by UP police in Hathras case among CBI’s focus area’: Official||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team is focused on five vital points after taking over investigation of the alleged gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, police officials’ privy to the investigation said here.Sharing details, a senior CBI official, who did not want to be named, said the initial two focus points are to establish and collect proper evidence related to the commission of the two crimes — gang rape and murder. He said murder has already been established as the post-mortem report confirmed that the victim had multiple injuries that resulted in her death nearly 15 days after the attack.“Contradictory theories have surfaced about the gang rape allegations. The CBI will try to collect concrete evidence to establish the gang rape by taking opinion from forensic experts or whatsoever facts surface during the investigation and by recreating the crime sequence. The CBI team will strictly stick to the facts and evidence that they come across during the probe,” he explained.The official said the third point will be to find out whether any tampering was done with evidence and facts that have surfaced so far in the case.The fourth point, he said, is to zero in on the real accused behind the two crimes. “The fifth focus point will be to find out the negligence on the part of the local police and others,” he said. The CBI had on Sunday registered a case on the request of the Uttar Pradesh government and after a notification from the Central government. The FIR was registered against accused Sandip Singh under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 307 for attempt to murder, 302 for murder and 376D for gang rape. Besides, Section 3 of the SC/ST Act for atrocities on a scheduled caste woman had been included in the FIR.The case was registered with the CBI’s Ghaziabad unit and the investigation team is being led by Seema Pahuja, a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/negligence-by-up-police-in-hathras-case-among-cbi-s-focus-area-official/story-xkZBk1rCYO13mfVqRiWt2L.html
13-10-2020||India||Centre has taken number of measures in 6 years to curb pollution: Environment ministry||The Centre has taken a slew of measures in the last six years to curb pollution, the environment ministry said on Tuesday, after Delhi’s Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia blamed the Union government for its “inaction on the issue”.Reacting to Sisodia’s attack as Delhi’s air quality entered the “red” zone, the ministry said the government believes in working towards getting rid of air pollution.“Central government believes in working to end pollution. The government has taken various anti-air pollution initiatives in the last six years, which include construction of the Eastern and Western peripheral expressways, which has reduced pollution by preventing 60,000 undestined heavy vehicles (trucks) passing through Delhi every day,” ministry spokesperson Gaurav Khare said.Earlier in the day, Sisodia attacked the Centre, saying all of north India would have to pay for its “inaction on the issue of air pollution”.“Pollution and stubble-burning are not just issues pertaining to Delhi but this affects the whole of north India. It is a matter of regret that the central government did not take any action during the year and now, the whole country will pay for it,” the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said.Responding to his allegations, Khare said the environment ministry shut down the Badarpur power plant, which directly reduced pollution, and introduced BS-VI standard-compliant vehicles and fuel with an investment of Rs 65,000 crore, which reduced vehicular pollution to a great extent.“Machines for stubble-cutting worth Rs 1,400 crore have been provided to Punjab and Haryana farmers and it has resulted in reduction of about 15 per cent and 20 per cent pollution from stubble-burning respectively,” he said.Listing all measures taken by the Centre in this regard, Khare said the zig-zag technology in 2,800 brick klins in the National Capital Region (NCR) was introduced, which resulted in lesser pollution, 2,600 NCR industries were brought on piped natural gas (PNG), the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, introduced for the first time in 2016, reduced dust pollution and hundreds of dust suppressants and water sprinkling vehicles were provided by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA).Delhi’s air quality hit an eight-month low and was recorded just a notch above the “very poor” category on Tuesday.The air quality index (AQI) of the city hit “very poor” levels in the morning and stood at 306 at 11 am. Thereafter, the pollution levels dipped slightly due to an improvement in the ventilation index.An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.“The development of strong surface-level inversion and sudden local, calm surface wind conditions led to a low-ventilation coefficient and accumulation of pollutants near the surface,” the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said. Around 675 farm fires were observed in Punjab, Haryana and other border regions of the national capital on Monday, but the wind direction was not favourable for transport of pollutants. Hence, only a marginal contribution in Delhi’s PM2.5 concentration is expected, the SAFAR said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-taken-number-of-measures-in-6-years-to-curb-pollution-environment-ministry/story-ZyMyLzkf29X0mEn7aXleoI.html
13-10-2020||India||‘ISRO helping us locate cannabis’: Odisha top cop after ‘record’ haul||The Odisha police on Tuesday claimed to have seized over 1,000 quintal of cannabis in the last 9 months, possibly the highest-ever seizure of the illegal drug by any enforcement authority in the country“Between January and September, the state police seized a total of 1054 quintal of cannabis. This is a record,” said DGP Abhay. Of the 1,054 quintals, 413 quintals were seized from Koraput district while another 240 quintals were from Malkangiri, considered the hotbed of the cultivation. “ISRO satellites are helping us locate Ganja cultivation,” the DGP said.As per the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) records, Andhra Pradesh had seized around 780 quintals of cannabis in 2017, the highest so far. Though the records of 2020 are yet to be released by the NCB, Odisha police officials said the force would top the cannabis seizure chart as there are two more months to go before the year ends.“We hope to seize around 12,00 quintals of cannabis by the end of this year. If we add seizure by other agencies such as state excise department, DRI and NCB then the figure would be an all-time high,” said additional DGP of state CID Soumendra Priyadarshi.“Our aim is not just to seize the cannabis, but go after the money trail and destroy the entire drug network. Very soon we would start destruction of cannabis cultivation in the hilly areas of the state,” he said.Police officials said on an average, 414 quintals of cannabis have been seized every year over the last 5 years in Odisha, compared to 312 in the last 10 years. “Action against drug trafficking remains among the highest priorities of the Odisha government. For the last couple of years, the Odisha police have been using ISRO’s data shared by the Narcotics Control Bureau to various agencies across the country to launch a crackdown on the illegal ganja and poppy cultivation. The satellite mapping of poppy cultivation has been stabilised in the last 10 years for which we are able to get accurate information. As cannabis mapping is a recent one, it will take some more time to get accurate data. Once it is done, we will be able to carry out drives with much precision,” said Abhay.The cultivation of cannabis starts in September, at the end of monsoon season when there is less humidity and the temperature drops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-helping-us-locate-cannabis-odisha-top-cop-after-record-haul/story-Voc2iuJr5kpkUCJWdFKC3H.html
13-10-2020||India||‘Shocked, surprised’: Sharad Pawar writes to PM Modi over Maharashtra guv’s letter to Thackeray||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s letter to the state’s chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, saying he was “shocked and surprised” at the language used.Governor Koshyari had written to Thackeray on Monday regarding the reopening of places of worship in the western state. Pawar, who is an ally of Thackeray’s Shiv Sena, talked about the “intemperate language” used by Koshyari.“In the very Preamble of our Constitution the word ‘secular’ is added that equates and shields all religions and hence the Chair of the Chief Minister must uphold such tenets of the Constitution. Unfortunately Hon. Governor’s letter to the Chief Minister invokes the connotation as if written to the leader of a political party. I firmly believe that in a democracy, free exchange of views between the Hon. Governor and the Hon. Chief Minister must take place,” Pawar said in his letter to PM Modi. It was brought to my notice through the media, a letter written by the Hon. Governor of Maharashtra to the @CMOMaharashtraIn this letter the Hon. Governor has sought the intervention of the Chief Minister to open up religious places for the public. pic.twitter.com/1he2VOatx3“However the tone and tenor used must always be in keeping with the stature of the constitutional post occupied by the individuals. Looking at the turn of events the Chief Minister in fact was left with no option but to release his reply to the Hon Governor in the press. I fully endorse the decision of the Hon.Chief Minister on this issue,” he said.The NCP leader said he has not discussed this matter either with the Koshyari or Thackeray, however, he felt that “I must share my pain with you and the public at the erosion of standards of conduct by the high constitutional office of the Hon. Governor.”Pawar also added the governor’s letter to Thackeray in his letter to PM Modi. “You have been a strong votary of Hindutva. You had publicly espoused your devotion for Lord Rama by visiting Ayodhya after taking charge as Chief Minister. You had visited the Vitthal Rukmini Mandir in Pandharpur and performed the puja on Ashadhi Ekadashi,” Koshyari had said. “I wonder if you are receiving any divine premonition to keep postponing the reopening of the places of worship time and again or have you suddenly turned ‘secular ‘ yourselves, the term you hated?” the governor had asked.Also read | In Thackeray’s comeback to Guv, Kangana Ranaut’s comment is his ammoThackeray responded to Koshyari’s letter on the issue said he does not need a “certificate” on Hindutva from the governor and that his Hindutva does not permit him to welcome a person who called Mumbai ‘Pakistan occupied Kashmir’.The last bit in Thackeray’s letter was an apparent reference to Koshyari’s meeting with Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut in September after she was criticised by many Maharashtra politicians for comparing Mumbai with PoK. Ranaut had made the comment criticising Mumbai Police for its investigation into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocked-surprised-sharad-pawar-writes-to-pm-modi-over-maharashtra-guv-s-letter-to-thackeray/story-N3NgP9NhhGf3PpXNu4M3aI.html
13-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: At least 5 killed after heavy rain pummels Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.At least 5 killed in 48 hours after heavy rain batters Andhra, TelanganaAt least five people died after heavy rain pummelled Telugu states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana due to deep depression in the Bay of Bengal in the last two days. Read moreVirat Kohli’s lady luck, Anushka Sharma’s navy blue dress look is super affordable at Rs 2000. Get the lookAnushka Sharma’s maternity wardrobe looks so comfortable that those of us nursing our Covid-19 bellies could take a tip or two from the mom to be about how to look good during the pandemic. Anushka’s recent appearance at the IPL 2020’s Chennai Super Kings vs Royal Challengers Bangalore made headlines for more than a few reasons. Read more‘What a brave little man,’ say netizens after video shows boy trying to protect mother during home invasionA little boy in the US is winning praise from people online because of a video which shows him trying to save his mother from armed robbers during a home invasion. A video of the incident was shared on Facebook by South Bend Police Department asking if anyone could help identify the suspects in the video. Read moreEvil Eye movie review: Scariest thing about Priyanka Chopra-produced Amazon horror film are the Indian accentsFor a culture that is so reliant on religious superstition, it’s surprising how hesitant Indians are about making good horror movies. So, it makes sense that Evil Eye, despite being a story rooted in desi culture, is made for (and by) the diaspora. Read moreWATCH | Taapsee Pannu’s ‘Biggini’ shoot in Maldives along with sisters Shagun, Evania and beau Mathias Boe will crack you upTaapsee Pannu, boyfriend Mathias Boe and her sisters Evania and Shagun, are living it up in the Maldives, and their posts and videos make it seem like they are quite a fun bunch. Taapsee who has been giving all of our cooped up souls such jealousy with her scenic posts, the chill vibes of the island and her to-die for vacation wardrobe that even Neena Gupta couldn’t help but comment on how great Taapsee was looking. Read moreWatch: 2 top ministers meet farmers as anti-farm law protests continueThe Union government continued its attempts to try and convince farmers that 3 recently passed agriculture reform laws are in their interest. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh met farmers as protests against the legislation continued. Representatives of NITI Aayog, NAFED, Ayurvet, and National Seed Association were reportedly present at the meeting. Meanwhile, demonstrations like ‘rail roko’ by farmers continued, especially in Punjab. Farmers fear that the new laws are a precursor to the scrapping of the minimum support price (MSP) regime. The government has denied any such intentions, claiming that the reforms aim to liberate farmers from the grip of middlemen and mandis. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-at-least-5-killed-after-heavy-rain-pummels-andhra-pradesh-telangana-and-all-the-latest-news/story-77eNVkrZuOot3ivEu52EbM.html
13-10-2020||India||In ‘Festival Special’ services, railways to run 392 more trains||The Railways on Tuesday announced it has given approval to run 392 ‘Festival special’ between October 20 and November 30 to cater to the big festive season rush.The fares for these trains will be according to those applicable for special trains, the railways ministry said. It means that ‘special charges’ will be levied, making the tickets costlier by 10-30 per cent as compared to the fares of Mail/Express trains, depending on the class of travel.According to current norms, ‘special charges’ are fixed as a percentage of fare at the rate of 10% of basic fare for second class and 30% of basic fare for all other classes.“To clear the festive rush, the ministry of railways has approved 196 pairs (392 trains) of “Festival Special” services over Indian Railways to be operated from 20th October 2020 and 30th November 2020. The fare for these Festival Special services shall be that applicable for special trains. Zonal Railways will notify their schedule well in advance,” the ministry said. To clear the festive rush, Ministry of Railways has approved 196 pairs (392 trains) of "Festival Special" services over Indian Railways to be operated from 20th October 2020 and 30th November 2020.Zonal Railways will notify their schedule in advance.https://t.co/KaPpD36NtF pic.twitter.com/XlsvHgdGk0In the order issued by the ministry, the Railway Board said these festival special trains will be operated at a speed of 55 kmph. The schedule and booking of the trains will be finalised by the railway zones, the order said.The special trains will be run for destinations such as Kolkata, Patna, Varanasi, Lucknow among others to cater to the growing demand in the ensuing holiday period of Durga Puja, Dussehra, Diwali and Chhatt puja, it said.These trains will run for a period of 40 days only in addition to the special trains that have been deployed by the national carrier. At present a total of 666 mail and express trains are running while all regular trains have been suspended indefinitely in view of the pandemic.From May 12, Railways started running limited special trains to help stranded people in other states to reach their homes. It started with 15 pairs of premium Rajdhani special trains connecting Delhi with different parts of the country, followed by 100 pairs of long-distance trains on June 1. It also started 80 trains additionally on September 12.Railway Board Chairman and CEO, VK Yadav had earlier this month said the ministry will also review the status of passenger trains depending on the demand from the state governments and the status of the pandemic.“We have conducted meetings with the general managers of zones and instructed them to speak with local administration and review the status of coronavirus. They have been asked to give us a report after which we will decide how many trains can be introduced during the holiday season,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-festival-special-services-railways-to-run-392-more-trains/story-LPwFEvuH93pIyKknCaa7sL.html
13-10-2020||India||In Thackeray’s comeback to Guv, Kangana Ranaut’s comment is his ammo||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday responded sharply to barbs from Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government’s decision on holding back permission to reopen temples in the state, telling him that it was for the government to decide after careful consideration of the Covid-19 situation in the state.Koshyari had yesterday asked Thackeray to permit places of worship to open, throwing multiple darts at the chief minister for holding back approvals for reopening places of worship. Maharashtra has over 2 lakh active Covid cases, the highest in the country.Shiv Sena’s Thackeray, a strident champion of Hindutva for decades, is often criticised by its ally-turned-foe BJP for toning down his shrill pitch on Hindutva after forming the government in Maharashtra last year in alliance with the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party.Also Read: Governor asked Uddhav Thackeray if he had turned secular. He delivers a biting responseKoshyari’s letter appeared to echo this sentiment when it complained how Maharashtra had opened bars, restaurants and beaches but “our Gods and Goddesses have been condemned to stay in the lockdown”. Or when Koshyari wondered if Thackeray - who he said, had been a strong votary of Hindutva - had “suddenly turned ‘secular’ yourself, the term you hated”.Thackeray’s unusually blunt response sent to Raj Bhavan on Tuesday didn’t pull any punches. He told the governor that the three representations forwarded by him would be considered but pointed that they were all from BJP leaders. Then came the comeback.“And yes, I am someone who follows Hindutva… My Hindutva doesn’t need your certification,” the chief minister told Koshyari who was a BJP politician in Uttarakhand.Thackeray also turned a hugely-controversial comment by actor Kangana Ranaut into ammunition, underlining that his Hindutva does not permit him to welcome a person who called Mumbai “Pakistan-occupied Kashmir”. Thackeray’s jibe was seen as a reference to Koshyari’s meeting with Ranaut last month after she was criticised by many Maharashtra politicians for comparing Mumbai with PoK.The controversy over Ranaut’s remark dates back to early September when the row over the police investigation into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death was at its peak. Kangana Ranaut had turned into a sharp critic of Mumbai Police for its handling of the case. When Sena leader Sanjay Raut told her not to return to the city if she had no faith in the Mumbai Police, Ranaut had tweeted her counterattack, asking “why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan occupied Kashmir?”.The comparison had riled the Shiv Sena, which alleged that Ranaut was a proxy for Bharatiya Janata Party leaders who supported her, and got her protection by central police personnel. The bitter back-and-forth between the Sena and Ranaut had escalated by several notches after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation last month rushed to demolish portions of her bungalow that the civic body alleged was unauthorised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-thackeray-s-comeback-to-guv-kangana-ranaut-s-comment-is-his-ammo/story-bn3bO3hu5liFOFFmOSN3gO.html
13-10-2020||India||Impact factor of newspapers still very high: CVoter survey||In a world that measures human attention in microseconds, the print media continues to offer great value to its readers. According to the CVoter Media Consumption Survey 2020, readers derive utility and value out of reportage even on those matters which are conventionally considered to be the domain of electronic media. For example, even after watching a match live on a sports channel 52% respondents still liked to read about it in the newspaper. Live match broadcast and the snazzy expert commentary embedded in it notwithstanding, a carefully worded print report still appeals to over a majority of readers.Impact of print advertisements?The sustained lure of static and printed word despite stiff competition from the electronic media has important implications for the advertisements published. Sixty-five per cent of respondents in the representative sample agreed with the statement that information in print advertisements were more useful to them. Twenty-five per cent respondents disagreed with the statement and found the information less or equally useful. These responses can be interpreted in two ways; first, newspaper advertisements are more useful to the target audience for a variety of factors such as recall, storage of information and undivided attention. Second, the newspaper advertisements appeal to the more cerebral part of the market language notwithstanding. This indicates a higher probability of positive correlation between the advertisement and potential sales due to the greater purchasing or influencing power of the reader.Do readers focus on certain sections?The Indian reader is discerning when it comes to the sections of the newspaper it prefers. Over 71% of the respondents stated that they have a preferred section of the newspaper that they read first. In other words, newspapers readers are highly likely to jump to a page or section of their preference. This guarantees a significant number of eyeballs in direct correlation to the popularity of a certain section or page.Importance of current affairs and newsThe mainstay of print media continues to be the coverage of news and current affairs channels. Seventy-five per cent of respondents preferred newspapers for a holistic coverage of news and current affairs. In other words, 3/4th of those surveyed prefer newspapers for “news” reporting. Hence when it comes to pure play news and current affairs, the newspapers remain the medium of choice and not also-ran as is being made out in some quarters. The electronic media’s centre of gravity has shifted towards reality television mixed with sensationalism. While this is a good strategy for boosting viewership, it does significant damage to the credibility of the medium. Hence, we observe that the impact factor of newspapers is still very high and continues to be in the poll position. This impact factor however is very tough to quantify in absolute figures although in comparatives such as the question asked in the survey the picture becomes clearer.In conclusion, it is a significant achievement of the print media to hold its own against a technologically superior adversary. Good old values of integrity, credibility and detailed coverage seem to be carrying the day in this age of views per post or TRP.Manu Sharma works with CVoter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/impact-factor-of-newspapers-still-very-high-cvoter-survey/story-PbAJypya5rlav0ORKf6ExM.html
13-10-2020||India||Centre permits 20 states to raise Rs 68,825 crore via borrowing to meet GST shortfall||The Centre on Tuesday permitted 20 states to raise Rs 68,825 crore through open market borrowings to bridge the GST revenue shortfall. The decision came a day after the GST Council meeting failed to reach a consensus on the stalemate over the Centre’s proposal of states borrowing against future GST collections to make up for the shortfall. The projected total compensation shortfall in the current fiscal stands at Rs 2.35 lakh crore. The Centre had in August given two options to the states -- to borrow either Rs 97,000 crore from a special window facilitated by the RBI or Rs 2.35 lakh crore from the market. It had also proposed extending the compensation cess levied on luxury, demerit and sin goods beyond 2022 to repay the borrowing. The Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, has granted permission to 20 states to raise an additional amount of Rs 68,825 crore through open market borrowings, an official statement said on Tuesday. “Additional borrowing permission has been granted at the rate of 0.50 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to those States who have opted for Option- 1 out of the two options suggested by the Ministry of Finance to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation,” it said. In the meeting of the GST Council held on August 27, it said, these two options were put forward and were subsequently communicated to the states on August 29. “Twenty States have given their preferences for Option-1. These States are - Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Sikkim, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Eight States are yet to exercise an option,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-permits-20-states-to-raise-rs-68-825-crore-via-borrowing-to-meet-gst-shortfall/story-TfIcdQosE9befgz5IvB3iO.html
13-10-2020||India||Amid Covid, big desilting ops underway to preserve Kashmir’s Wular lake||Wular Lake, the largest freshwater lake of the country that is spread across around 130 square (sq) kilometres (km) and located in Kashmir’s Bandipora district, is in the middle of massive desilting operation since May in a bid to conserve and preserve the water body, which is the lifeline of the Valley, officials said.Wular Conservation & Management Authority (WUCMA) officials said that the dredging of the lake had started in May amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the union territory (UT). The project was awarded to a Kolkata-based dredging company to increase the water-holding capacity of the lake, which is considered one of the biggest freshwater lakes in Asia.“The dredging work is in progress. Of the three sq km area, which needed to be cleared in the first phase, up to 25% of the work has been completed in the past five months,” said Mudasir Mehmood Malik, project coordinator of the catchment area treatment, WUCMA.“Earlier, this portion of the lake had turned into a solid mass of land, which has now become a vast expanse of water following the dredging operation,” he said. Around 1.25 sq km of the lake was dredged in two stints between 2012 and 2018 ahead of the ongoing project work. Around 27 sq km of the Wular lake, which is fed by Jhelum, Arin and Madhumati water bodies, had suffered massive siltation due to wanton encroachments and rampant willow plantations.The lake is important in the hydrographic system of the Kashmir Valley, as it helps in flood mitigation, biodiversity conservation, supports the livelihood of local Kashmiris and is a natural habitat for lakhs of migratory birds. “There will be an increase in the water-holding capacity, and an uptick in fish production after three sq. km area of the lake is desilted. The lake can be opened up for tourism activities as well,” Malik said. The project was awarded to Reach Dredging Limited, a division of the Kolkata-based Rashmi Group, which specialises in dredging and marine solutions. The work had started from May 7 and the project is estimated to be completed within 21 months.The manual Joseph Cyril Bamford (JCB) machine was deployed between 2012 and 2018, but the pace of dredging was inordinately tardy. At present, hi-tech Cutter Suction Dredgers, Long Boom & Short Boom excavators,Multifunction Tug Boat, Cranes, Hydrographic equipment and dumpers have been pressed into service. Over 230 skilled and unskilled workers have been deployed for the desilting operation.“Silting and other environmental changes have negatively impacted the water retention capacity of the lake and the massive area of the lake has turned into a land mass. This project is also a ray of hope for the revival of the lake and we are happy to be part of this environmental cause,” said Sunil Patwari, chief executive officer (CEO), Reach Dredging Limited, in a statement.“This project will be beneficial for those impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, as it has enabled us to employ local talent and create job opportunities,” he added.Malik said the lake has significance in Kashmir’s ecosystem. “If Wular dies, it will choke the Kashmir Valley. We are concerned about its conservation,” he said.He expects the project to be completed ahead of the schedule. “Modern technology is being used for dredging. They are also taking the silt up to three km beyond the lake,” he added. Earlier, the UT administration had sanctioned Rs 200 crore as part of the Wular Action Plan for the lake’s conservation and management. The project seeks to remove 63 lakh cubic metres of silt from the lake. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 1,600 crore to clear the 27 sq km critically silted part of the lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-big-desilting-ops-underway-to-preserve-kashmir-s-wular-lake/story-FU0RWX0Q75Cu5PT0I01eRK.html
13-10-2020||India||Indian Railways to run 392 additional trains during festival season: Here’s the full list||Indian Railways said on Tuesday it will operate 196 pairs or 392 trains between October 20 to November 30 during the festival season across the country. These 196 pairs of trains will be operated in addition to those being run already. The ministry of railways said in a statement that the decision was taken as the national transporter is expecting a rush of passenger during the upcoming festive season. These special trains will run for destinations such as Kolkata, Patna, Varanasi and Lucknow among others to cater to the demand during Durga Puja, Dussehra, Diwali and Chhatt puja, it said.The Railway Board said, in an order issued on Tuesday, these festival special trains will be operated at a speed of 55kmph and the fares applicable will be those of special trains. The railways has pressed into service more than 300 mail and express trains, which are now running regularly across the country. It has suspended all its regular services due to the coronavirus pandemic and is operating trains as per demand and necessity.Here is the full list of the trains, which will ply during the festival season:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-run-392-additional-trains-during-festival-season-here-s-the-full-list/story-tkFRAtuTXGuYqgF3xRR3IL.html
13-10-2020||India||India, China bet on dialogue to resolve border row in eastern Ladakh||India and China agreed to continue with the dialogue process to arrive at a mutually-acceptable solution for early disengagement in the eastern Ladakh theatre, the two sides said in a joint press statement, a day after the seventh round of talks between senior military commanders on Monday at Chushul. The two sides said they had a better understanding of each other’s position in the sensitive sector after the latest round of talks, even as the border row is in its sixth month and efforts to disengage and de-escalate have made no breakthrough. Both sides talked for more than 12 hours on Monday. “The two sides had a sincere, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in the western Sector of India-China border areas. They were of the view that these discussions were positive, constructive and had enhanced understanding of each other’s positions,” said the statement. ALSO READ | Pakistan, China ‘creating border dispute under a mission’: Rajnath SinghIndia and China have deployed more than 50,000 soldiers each along with advanced weapons and systems in the eastern Ladakh theatre. Even as talks at military and diplomatic levels are on, the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army have made preparations for a long haul in the sector. The statement said both sides “agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels” to resolve the border row. “Both sides agreed to earnestly implement the important understandings reached by the leaders of the two countries, not to turn differences into disputes, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquility in the border areas,” the statement added. Monday’s talks took place weeks after China hardened its position and asserted that it recognises the 1959 LAC, which has never been accepted by India. China’s hardened stance has dimmed hopes for an early resolution of the border row. ALSO READ | A reminder for China: India is free | HT EditorialThis was the last round of military talks to be led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, who on Tuesday handed over the charge of the Leh-based 14 Corps to Lieutenant General PGK Menon. In his farewell message, Singh conveyed his gratitude and appreciation to all ranks of the ‘Fire & Fury Corps’ for their professionalism and steadfast dedication in the most hostile terrain, weather and altitude challenges faced by any army in the world, an army spokesperson said. Menon asked the men under his command to discharge their duties with the same commitment and zeal, and always be prepared to deal with any threat to national security, the spokesperson said.The sixth round of military talks was held on September 21 when Indian negotiators firmly demanded comprehensive disengagement at all friction areas and restoration of status quo ante of early April as the only approach towards de-escalation. On the other hand, China asked India to withdraw its soldiers from strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to reduce friction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-bet-on-dialogue-to-resolve-border-row-in-eastern-ladakh/story-FGMlbd3vmqX9FW2G2F6auK.html
13-10-2020||India||Suspected ‘gang-raped’ minor’s body exhumed for medical test in Jharkhand||The body of a minor girl who was allegedly killed after being gang-raped and buried by family members on Sunday was exhumed by the Sahibganj police on Tuesday for medical test and post mortem, police said. The police have also detained four persons, who were allegedly involved in the crime. The incident came to light on Monday evening when police visited the village in Pathna block under Ranga police station in Sahibganj district, around 400-km from capital Ranchi, after getting information about the incident through social media. Family members of the girl did not file any formal complaint with the police even after she was out of home with her one of the friends from Wednesday last, police claimed. A friend of the deceased, who was with her since Wednesday, narrated the entire story to police. On the basis of her statement, police lodged FIR on Monday late evening. The Sahibganj superintendent of police (SP), Anuranjan Kispotta said, “As per the narration of the deceased’s friend, both the girls went to meet their boyfriends on Wednesday. When they were returning on Friday night, five persons from their village committed the crime, as per her friend’s statement. The body of the girl was found on Saturday and family members buried it on Sunday.” Police sources said the assailants had thrown the body on the roof of an under construction house in the village. The sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) PK Mishra, who visited the village on Tuesday, said, “On statement of the deceased’s friend, we have detained four youths from the village. Further action would be taken on the basis of the medical report.” Mishra said a medical board has been set up by the Sahibganj deputy commissioner (DC) and body has been sent there. Mishra said parents of the deceased, who are in their fifties, were not in position to tell what happened to their daughters and where her daughter went on Wednesday last. However, BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi has alleged that police are trying to cover up the incident. He claimed, “The mother of the girl went to Ranga police station to lodge a complaint but she was made to return saying to sort out the issue in Panchayat. After getting no help from police, they buried the body.” Marandi said the incident took place under Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren’s assembly constituency. “When CM’s constituency is not safe, one can imagine what will happen in other parts of the state,” he said, demanding immediate action in the case. Meanwhile, BJP Ranchi Mahanagar took out a candle march against the Sahibganj incident at Albert Ekka Chowk in Ranchi on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspected-gang-raped-minor-s-body-exhumed-for-medical-test-in-jharkhand/story-lUQzU2u8ir32H30BfRfBxK.html
13-10-2020||India||After fresh military-level talks to end border row with China, India says meetings to continue||India and China have agreed to “maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels” after the seventh round of corps commander-level talks on Monday on disengagement along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the western sector of the border areas, both the countries said on Tuesday.During the corps commander-level talks, held in the Indian side of the LAC in the Chushul area, the two sides had a “sincere, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on disengagement along the LAC amid a months-long standoff, according to the joint statement.“They were of the view that these discussions were positive, constructive and had enhanced understanding of each other’s positions. Both sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for disengagement as early as possible,” it said.Both sides agreed to “earnestly implement the important understandings reached by the leaders of the two countries, not to turn differences into disputes, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquility in the border areas,” according to the release.Also read | India building border infra, deploying military root cause of tension: ChinaAccording to news agency ANI, the seventh corps commander level meeting between India and China lasted for more than 11 hours and ended around 11:30pm on Monday.India and China had held the last round of talks on the border standoff on September 21, which had also remained inconclusive as Indian negotiators firmly demanded comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante as the only approach towards de-escalation. India, China had said, must withdraw its soldiers from strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to reduce friction.Also read | Parliament panel to visit Ladakh on October 28-29 amid India-China standoffIn a joint statement released in New Delhi and Beijing on September 22, they said the two sides agreed to stop sending more troops to the front line and to hold the seventh round of commander-level talks “as soon as possible, take practical measures to properly solve problems on the ground, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border area.”Also read | Pushback to Xi Jinping to reflect in US approach to ‘One China’ policy | AnalysisLieutenant General Harinder Singh and Lieutenant General PGK Menon, who represented the army headquarters, took part in the sixth rounds of talks.The sixth round of military dialogue at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC across the Chushul sector also had, for the first time, involved the participation of a joint secretary-ranked officer from the ministry of external affairs as a step to ensure that the talks yield a positive outcome. The Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, the diplomatic dialogue between the two countries, involves a representative of the Indian defence ministry.Also read | Pakistan, China ‘creating border dispute under a mission’: Rajnath SinghIndia and China have been locked in a border dispute for more than five months and several rounds of diplomatic and military talks have failed to produce a breakthrough in reducing border tensions in the sector where both armies have made arrangements for a long haul through the winter months.Meanwhile, China has hardened its position and asserted that it recognises the 1959 LAC, which was never accepted by India. Beijing’s stance has dimmed hopes for an early resolution of the border row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-fresh-military-level-talks-to-end-border-row-with-china-india-says-meetings-to-continue/story-pI4zv6DElwUZbAbk8jKSZN.html
13-10-2020||India||47% of Covid-19 deaths registered among those aged below 60 years: Health ministry||About 47% of Covid-19 deaths have been recorded among those aged below 60 years, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday.Addressing a press briefing, Health Ministry Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said about 70 per cent Covid-19 deaths have been of male patients while 30 per cent of fatalities from the infection has been reported in females.“About 53 per cent Covid-19 deaths registered among those aged 60 and above, 35 per cent in 45-60 years, 10 per cent in 26-44 years and 1 per cent each in the age-group 18-25 years and below 17 years,” Bhushan said.Providing data on case fatality rate among different age groups – with and without comorbidities, he said in the age group of 60 years and above, 24.6 per cent of deaths were of people with comorbidities while 4.8 per cent were of those without comorbidities.In the age group of 45-60 years, 13.9 per cent of deaths were of patients with comorbidities while 1.5 per cent were of those without comorbidities, he said.In the age group of less than 45 years, people with comorbidities constituted 8.8 per cent of deaths while 0.2 per cent didn’t have any comorbidities, he said.The overall case fatality rate of people with comorbidities stood at 17.9 per cent and 1.2 per cent for those without comorbidities.Bhushan further said there has been decline in the cumulative, weekly and daily COVID-19 positivity rates which stand at 8.07 per cent, 6.24 per cent and 5.16 per cent respectively.“Average daily Covid-19 positivity rate has declined from 8.50 per cent between September 9-September 15 to 6.24 per cent between October 7-October 13,” he added.He further said there are 8,38,729 active cases in the country as on date and they have been below the nine lakh mark for the fifth consecutive day.Presenting the data, Bhushan said there is “significant increase” in testing for Covid-19 and there is also continuous decline in positivity rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/47-of-covid-19-deaths-registered-among-those-aged-below-60-years-health-ministry/story-TNzO35tHCaH42ihXgQNtRP.html
13-10-2020||India||65-yr-old Dalit in UP thrashed, says forced to drink urine. Cops deny claim||A 65-year-old man in Lalitpur was allegedly forced to drink urine and beaten up by some people of his village against whom he had filed a police complaint a week back.The victim, Amar, a Dalit, was admitted to the Lalitpur district hospital. The cops, however, denied that he was forced to drink urine but admitted that the attack did take place.The main accused in the case has been arrested while the hunt for others is on, said police.“The police were informed about the assault on two people by some locals in Rora village. The cops have arrested the prime accused, Sonu Yadav. Teams have been formed for the arrest of the remaining accused and an FIR has been lodged in the case,” said Mirza Manzar Beg, SP (Lalitpur). ललितपुर के रोड़ा गांव में एक 65 वर्षीय दलित व्यक्ति को मारपीट के बाद जबरन पेशाब पिलाने की कोशिश की गई । पीड़ित अभी भी न्याय के लिए गुहार लगा रहा है । यूपी की भाजपा सरकार का दलित विरोधी चेहरा आईने की तरह साफ हो चुका है ।Amar said he approached the Sadar Kotwali police, which accepted the complaint but did not act against the culprits. On Monday night, while Amar was heading home, Sonu and others pressured him to withdraw the complaint.He was beaten up when he refused. One of the attackers peed in a cup and allegedly forced Amar to drink the urine. “I was left unconscious on the road,” said Amar. In his FIR, Amar alleged that Sonu Yadav and others had assaulted him and his son last week over a trivial issue. They were badly injured after being thrashed and attacked with an axe, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalit-man-65-forced-to-drink-urine-in-uttar-pradesh-cops-deny-claim/story-1A4MHCNNNXnsot0kJ1rkGO.html
13-10-2020||India||SC seeks Centre’s response on plea for law to regulate access of minors to social media||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought the response of the Central government on a petition praying for a suitable legal framework to regulate access of minors to social media platforms.The petitioners, Skand Bajpai and Abhyudaya Mishra, who are two law students from Uttar Pradesh, said that minor children fall easy prey to online “predators” and are often manipulated and exploited on social media platforms.“There exists no law in India to regulate minors’ access to social media. Since minors are prone to exploitation and harassment for not being able to comprehend the consequences of their actions on social media platforms, they need to be protected by law,” the petition, which was filed in July, stated.Formulate an appropriate law regulating minor’s access to social media by laying down appropriate age limit for such access, the petitioners prayed.A 3-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde issued a notice to the Centre and the case is now likely to be heard again in December.The age of attaining majority in India is 18 while most social media platforms allow individuals who are 13 years old or more to create accounts.“As per the terms and conditions of Facebook, an individual aged not less than 13 years or any other lawful age as per law applicable can hold an account on their platforms. Individuals agree and provide consent for several conducts on such platforms. (But) the age of consent in India stands at the age of majority and, therefore, minor’s consent is void ab initio (from the beginning),” the plea said.The petition also highlighted the issue of revenge porn and sought criminalisation of the same.“There is a need to deter people from engaging in revenge porn. Several nation states have already expressly criminalised revenge porn. However, in India there exists no gender-neutral legislation on this and revenge porn acts as a tool for coercion, exploitation and extortion,” it was submitted.The petitioners pointed out that sexually explicit content including private graphic information, rape videos etc are sold online through social media platforms. Accounts selling such content have mushroomed on social media and when one account gets reported or blocked, another is created to carry on the trade, the plea claimed.“These accounts in this trade and business are largely public accounts open to all members of the social media community. A simple search of the keyword “pic seller” or other similar words, would land one in a pool of results all related to this trade,” the petition stated.Further, such accounts also send ‘follow requests’ to random people on social media as a means of advertisement and promotion and also comment on the posts of public figures inviting people to subscribe to their illegal services, it added.The petitioners submitted that individuals who have been affected by such leaked videos or photographs of their private life have many a time committed suicide or tried to inflict self-harm.Bajpai and Mishra, therefore, prayed for an efficient mechanism to be put in place to investigate and punish persons behind such social media profiles. They also sought amendments to existing laws to increase the accountability of intermediaries.“The Ministry of Education should work in collaboration with Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India, to upgrade the National Education Policy and inculcate adolescent sex education as a compulsory subject, further directing them to introduce a subject related to online safety, security and conduct,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-response-on-plea-for-law-to-regulate-access-of-minors-to-social-media/story-ztwNWaV4aDB24TAoBE2NWN.html
13-10-2020||India||Aarogya Setu is among ‘tried-and-tested public health tools’: WHO’s praise for app||The World Health Organization (WHO) has said India’s Aarogya Setu contact tracing app for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has helped authorities in the second-worst hit country identify clusters and expand testing in those areas.WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said during a media briefing that the government has been using it to notify users about the Covid-19 infections across the country. “Aarogya Setu app from India has been downloaded by 150 million users, and has helped city public health departments to identify areas where clusters could be anticipated and expand testing in a targeted way,” Ghebreyesus said on Monday.Tedros made the comments as he spoke about digital technologies that are helping to make these “tried-and-tested public health tools even more effective, such as mobile applications to support contact tracing efforts.”Also read | Aarogya Setu’s new feature to help businesses function during Covid-19 pandemic: GovtThe global health body’s director general also mentioned Germany’s Corona-Warn app, which he said has been used to transmit 1.2 million test results from labs to users in its first 100 days. More than 2,700 people in Denmark have been tested for Covid-19 as a result of notifications received through a mobile application and the United Kingdom has rolled out a new version of its NHS Covid-19 app, which had more than 10 million downloads within the first week, he added.“WHO is working with the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control to help countries evaluate the effectiveness of their digital contact tracing apps. This is just one example of the innovative measures countries are taking to control Covid-19,” Ghebreyesus said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the Aarogya Setu app in April when the country was going through the first phase of nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease. The Aarogya Setu app has been developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) of the ministry of electronics and information technology.The mobile phone-based contact-tracing application meant to identify people with Covid-19 has been criticised by privacy experts for collecting excessive amounts of data.India’s Covid-19 tally stands at 7,175,880 and its death toll has climbed to 1,09,856, according to the Union health ministry dashboard on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aarogya-setu-is-among-tried-and-tested-public-health-tools-who-s-praise-for-app/story-HV7tRFBnQIOFo1aRaEo1CP.html
13-10-2020||India||ICICI Bank money laundering case: Deepak Kochhar remanded to ED custody till October 17||The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Tuesday remanded former ICICI Bank managing director Chanda Kochhar’s husband, Deepak Kochhar to the custody of Enforcement Directorate (ED) till October 17.Deepak Kochhar was arrested on charges of money laundering by ED on September 7. He was later remanded to ED custody till September 19. But he had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14 so his ED custody was suspended and he was sent to judicial custody instead and treated at a hospital.On Tuesday, Deepak Kochhar was discharged from the hospital and produced before the special PMLA court, where ED sought his custody for interrogation. The plea was opposed by Deepak Kochhar’s lawyer Vijay Aggrawal. Besides, Chanda Kochhar submitted that Deepak Kochhar was too weak to be in ED custody.Also Read: ICICI Bank-Videocon loan case: Delhi HC asks ED to respond to Deepak Kochhar’s plea to quash FIRThe court, after hearing both sides, held that the investigating agency should get a fair chance. The court said that it would not grant more days to ED, but would consider that the agency was granted custody of Deepak till September 19 which had to be suspended. Hence the court remanded him to ED custody till October 17.The ED started a probe into money laundering after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered a case of corruption against the Kochhar couple. CBI had initiated an inquiry in 2017 against the couple, after allegations surfaced that ICICI had sanctioned a credit facility of about Rs 3,250 crores to various entities in contravention to the rules and policies. In its FIR registered in January last year, CBI alleged that six high-value loans worth Rs 1,875 crore were given by ICICI Bank to Videocon group companies between 2009 and 2011. It was alleged that in 2009, a credit facility to Videocon was extended in contravention of rules and policies by the sanction committee. At that time Chanda Kochhar was one of the members of the sanction committee.Further, a loan of Rs 300 crore was disbursed to M/s Videocon international electronics limited, Videocon Group Company on September 7, 2009. It is alleged that an amount of Rs 64 crore—out of a loan of Rs 300 crore, was transferred to M/s NuPower Renewables Pvt Ltd by Videocon Industries Limited (VIL) on September 8, 2009. Also Read: Chanda Kochhar’s husband Deepak tests positive for Covid-19, admitted to Delhi hospitalThe ED which investigated the allegations, said that VIL transferred the money to NuPower Renewables Pvt Ltd (NRL) through Supreme Energy Private Limited (SEPL), which was later acquired by Pinnacle Energy, a family trust of Deepak Kochhar’s. The agency also claimed that NRL was owned, controlled and managed by Deepak Kochhar. “The loan funds travelled from VIL to NRL through SEPL, but two intermediary companies were brought in for purpose of layering. The proceeds, Rs 64 crore, received by NRL were utilised for the purchase of properties,” ED claimed in its remand application while seeking Deepak Kochhar’s custody in September.Further, the agency claimed, “A residential property, an apartment at CCI Chambers was purchased for Rs 5.25 crore on February 19, 1996 by Credential Finance Limited (CFL) (A company in which Videocon Group had substantial interest along with Deepak and Chanda Kochhar and their family). CFL defaulted in repayment of the loan of Rs 4.7 crore availed from SBI (for which the said apartment was placed as security). Videocon paid off the dues in 2009, the ownership of the apartment was transferred to M/s Quality Appliances Pvt Ltd (QAPL), now known as M/s Quality Techno Advisors Pvt Ltd (QTAPL), a Videocon group company) from CFL. On November 26, 2016, total shareholding of QTAPL was acquired by Quality advisors (a family trust of Deepak Kochhar’s set up by Chanda Kochhar’s mother) for a nominal consideration of Rs 11 lakh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icici-bank-money-laundering-case-deepak-kochhar-remanded-to-ed-custody-till-october-17/story-JkFGQAKFyYPMY4antAiIrO.html
13-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: UP issues advisories on reopening of movie theatres and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Movie theatres to reopen in UP from October 15. Here are the guidelinesThe Uttar Pradesh government has issued guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) for reopening of cinemas, theatres and multiplexes across the state from October 15 or Thursday, nearly seven months after the lockdown was imposed. According to the advisory issued by the Yogi Adityanath government, theatres and multiplexes can open only with an audience of maximum 50% of their seating capacity. Read more here.CBI team quizzes cop in Hathras, visits spot where 19-year-old was gang-rapedA team of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officers and forensic experts on Tuesday visited the crime spot in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras where a 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped last month. The brother of the woman accompanied the investigators. Read more here.IPL 2020, SRH vs CSK: MS Dhoni threat looms large for Sunrisers HyderabadWith just 112 runs from seven matches, IPL 2020 hasn’t been the best of seasons for MS Dhoni. The Chennai Super Kings captain, despite showing shades of his former self, has mostly struggled to get going, failing to finish matches for his team and getting bogged down by an average strike-rate. Read more here.Tanishq ad withdrawn: Kangana Ranaut claims it promotes ‘love jihad, sexism’, Richa Chadha calls it ‘beautiful’Jewellery brand Tanishq has reportedly pulled its ad for Ekatvam (Oneness) jewellery line after being viciously trolled online. The 45-second ad featured a Muslim family celebrating a traditional South Indian baby shower ceremony for their pregnant daughter-in-law. While Tanishq has not released a statement, the step has divided social media in two different camps. Read more here.Netizens are up for ice-cream in a leaf cup, laud Norwegian diplomat’s tweetAmong the numerous ways in which one can build a sustainable and eco-friendly environment, cutting down on the use of plastic is an essential method. Keeping this issue in mind, Norwegian diplomat Erik Solheim tweeted an important way through which one can restrict the use of plastic products, and you may be surprised to know what it is. Read more here.Watch: WHO chief lauds Aarogya Setu; speaks on Covid reinfectionWorld Health Organisation’s Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has lauded the Aarogya Setu App, India’s contact tracing app, and said that it helped city public health departments identify COVID-19 hotspots and take steps to tackle it. ‘Aarogya Setu app from India has been downloaded by 150 million users and has helped city public health departments to identify areas where clusters could be anticipated & expand testing in a targeted way,’ he said. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-up-issues-advisories-on-reopening-of-movie-theatres-and-all-the-latest-news/story-hxL5WV8ry2NEIQ69BjBRJO.html
13-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 positivity rate on constant downward trend: Health ministry||The Union health ministry said on Tuesday the positivity rate of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India is on a “constant downward trend” and that the country’s cumulative positivity rate is at 8.07%, weekly rate at 6.24% and the daily rate at 5.16%.The health ministry also said India has sustained its global position of being the country with one of the lowest Covid-19 cases and related deaths per million. “The average daily Covid-19 positivity rate has declined from 8.50% between September 9- 15 to 6.24% between October 7- 13,” it said.There are 838,729 active cases in the country as on date and they have been below the 900,000-mark for the fifth consecutive day, it added. “India is reporting a consistent slide in the new confirmed cases with 55,342 fresh infections being registered in a span of 24 hours in the country. The new low in daily cases is the result of collaborative action by states and UTs under the Centre’s strategy of comprehensive and aggressive testing, prompt tracking and surveillance, hospitalization and adherence to the Standard Treatment Protocol which has ensured a standardised quality of medical care across the public and private hospitals and for home isolation,” the ministry said. The ministry said that 76% of new cases are from 10 states and Union territories. “Karnataka has overtaken Maharashtra with the highest number of new reported cases. Both still are contributing more than 7,000 new cases. The states which are reporting spurt in cases are Karnataka, Kerala, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh. Also, 77,760 new recoveries were added in a span of 24 hours, according to data. With this, the total number of recoveries has surged to 62,27,295,” it added.The higher number of single-day recoveries is also reflected in the continuous increase in the national recovery rate, which is at present 86.78%, it added. “Besides, 78% of the new recovered cases are in 10 States and UTs. Maharashtra contributes more than 15,000 to the single-day recovery followed by Karnataka with more than 12,000 recoveries. The number of fatalities due to Covid-19 has been lower than 1000 mark for the successive days,” it said.There were 706 Covid-19 related deaths in the 24 hours and of these, nearly 79% are concentrated in 10 states and UTs. “More than 23% of new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra. The state contributed more than 15,000 to the single-day recovery followed by Karnataka with more than 12,000 recoveries,” the ministry added.India’s total Covid-19 caseload mounted to 7,175,880 and its death toll climbed to 109,856, according to the health ministry’s dashboard on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-on-constant-downward-trend-health-ministry/story-JE3b8bHBqncaZYLYWMSfxK.html
13-10-2020||India||Scientists radio-tag a crane, track its journey from Gujarat to Northern Kazakhstan and back||In a first, the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun has tracked the journey of a common crane from Gujarat to its breeding site in Northern Kazakhstan and back to Gujarat where it returned on World Migratory Bird Day (October 10, 2020). This female common crane (a migratory bird) named Vadla was tagged with a transmitter in March this year by WII scientists to access the impact of power lines on such migratory birds. Suresh Kumar, a senior scientist from the Endangered Species Management department in WII who led the project said, “This project aims to study the impact of power lines on large birds like cranes and flamingos. The primary purpose is to see how these cranes fly across these power lines as there are reports of cranes and flamingos colliding with power lines and dying, which is a major issue.” Kumar said that the project is funded by the Power Grid Corporation of India Limited. He further said that this is the first of such study where scientists are trying to assess these impacts and trying to identify the critical power line stretches that could potentially affect these birds. “One of the ways in which we are trying to understand this is by deploying transmitters on these birds to see how they move around when they are here. Now, one such bird that we had tagged in March this year, left for its breeding ground from Gujarat and has now returned. While tagging we did not know about its breeding ground, as it was being done for the first time… it ended up in Northern Kazakhstan from where it has returned,” Kumar said. The scientist further said that they now know the migratory route of the bird, the spots where the crane stopped at night for resting, “They are now trying to gather more information about the sites, as many of them are extremely remote like deserts in Afghanistan and Turkmenistan. With the broad idea of the crane’s behaviour, we will analyse all the data we get in a more detailed manner in the near future.” Prakash Javadekar, Union minister for environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) took to social media on Tuesday morning and tweeted, “A common crane named Vadla, migrated to a breeding site in Kazakhstan and then returned exactly to the site of her tagging in Gujarat on World Migratory Bird Day Oct 10. Isn’t it amazing and Kudos to Dr. Suresh Kumar and his team who tracked Vadla.” The theme of this year’s World Migratory Bird Day was Birds Connect Our World. The common crane is a medium-sized crane which is found in the Indian subcontinent, Asia, Africa, Europe. These cranes which are migratory in nature usually breed during May. Power lines have been a big threat to the birds in the country. Studying the Great Indian Bustard, the MoEFCC last year had released a report stating that high voltage transmission lines with vertical alignment are the biggest threat to the Great Indian Bustard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-radio-tag-a-crane-track-its-journey-from-gujarat-to-northern-kazakhstan-and-back/story-LxAv09Fz368nAN2clKSD2H.html
13-10-2020||India||Movie theatres to reopen in UP from October 15. Here are the guidelines||The Uttar Pradesh government has issued guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) for reopening of cinemas, theatres and multiplexes across the state from October 15 or Thursday, nearly seven months after the lockdown was imposed. According to the advisory issued by the Yogi Adityanath government, theatres and multiplexes can open only with an audience of maximum 50% of their seating capacity.Adequate physical distancing is mandatory while seating and every alternate seat will have to be kept vacant and marked. Cinemas will also have to provide provisions for sanitisers and handwashing facilities. All patrons will be screened before entry and only asymptomatic people will be allowed to enter.Also read | School closure over Covid-19 may cost over $400 billion to India: World BankHere is what you need to know before heading out:Seating arrangement, booking tickets:1. Thermal screening and using sanitiser will be required at the time of entry into the auditorium.2. Spherical signs will be made according to the physical distance standard.3. Anyone showing symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be not be allowed to enter.4. Sufficient time interval will be kept between two shows in single-screen cinema and between shows on different screens in multiplexes.5. The maximum seating capacity will be 50%.Also read | UP govt releases SOPs for festivals and political events, key detail here6. Seats which will be kept empty will marked during online booking or window booking.7. Such seats will be marked with a tab or floor fluorescent8. Only advance or online booking will be done.9. There will be touchless transaction during window bookings10. You will have to provide your mobile number at the time of booking the ticket.General protocol:1. Physical distance of at least 6 feet has to be maintained outside common and waiting areas.2. You will have to use face covers or masks at all times. It will be necessary to wash hands with soap from time to time or use a sanitiser.3. Tissue paper or handkerchief or elbow will definitely be used while coughing.4. Spitting in a public place will be prohibited.5. People have been advised to use the Aarogya Setu App.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/movie-theatres-to-reopen-in-up-from-october-15-here-are-the-guidelines/story-pK1ToyVTnAj8VzbnXmr33O.html
13-10-2020||India||Government body claims cow dung chip reduces radiation from mobile handsets||The chief of a federal body on animal husbandry has unveiled a chip made of cow dung, claiming it reduces radiation from mobile handsets. Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog chairman Vallabhbhai Kathiria showcased the chip while launching “Kamdhenu Deepawali Abhiyan”, a campaign to promote products made of cow dung. “Cow dung is anti-radiation. If you bring this home and place it in (on) your phone, it (the phone) will become radiation-free,” Kathiria said, showcasing the product at a press conference on Monday. The Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog is a body under the ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying, set up by the Narendra Modi government for “conservation, protection and development of cows and their progeny”, according to its website. Also Read: 3 friends from Delhi killed in crash trying to save a cow on roadKathiria said the chips are not certified by any scientific body but have been tested in laboratories. “You can test its effectiveness in any laboratory and even in colleges,” he said. Over 500 ‘gaushalas’, or cow shelters, are making these anti-radiation chips, he said. Scientists say that rigorous scientific tests, including peer review, would be necessary to demonstrate qualities like radiation absorption capacity of cow dung. “I don’t know anything about this, but any claim needs to pass rigourous scientific tests based on facts, whether it is a cow dung chip or a corona vaccine,” said Samir Brahmachari, a biophysicist and former director-general of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. The cow is revered by many Hindus, and some believe its by-products, such as urine, promotes health and well-being. Some uses of cow dung have been scientifically proven. For example, cow manure can be naturally treated to remove methane, a greenhouse gas, according to the US Environment Protection Agency. Also Read: IMA asks health minister to give proof on AYUSH, yoga-based treatment of CovidHowever, many claims regarding cow dung and cow urine remain untested by modern standards of science. In February, Swami Chakrapani Maharaj, president of the Hindu Mahasabha, a conservative Hindu organisation, declared that “consuming cow urine and cow dung will stop the effect of infectious coronavirus”. Meera Nanda, an Indian historian of science, describes this as a conviction that “India has always known everything that is worth knowing”. According to her, this has prevented Indians “from developing an ethos of honest inquiry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-body-claims-cow-dung-chip-reduces-radiation-from-mobile-handsets/story-pa0IGicBvWzykyNjEUkSFO.html
13-10-2020||India||16 Corps gets a new commander amid a spike in LoC ceasefire violations by Pakistan||Lt Gen M V Suchindra Kumar took over command of the 16 Corps also known as White Knight Corps from Lt Gen Harsha Gupta at the Nagrota Military Station in Jammu on Tuesday.General Kumar took charge amid a spike in ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the Line of Control south of Pir Panjal.“Lt Gen Harsha Gupta on relinquishing the command of the White Knight Corps laid wreath for the brave soldiers, who have made supreme sacrifice for the nation, at Ashwamedh Shaurya Sthal at Nagrota Military Station and called upon all ranks to continue on the path to strive for excellence,” said Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand.On assuming command of the White Knight Corps, Lt Gen M V Suchindra Kumar said that it was an honour to command such an elite formation with a rich history of Jammu and Kashmir. “He exhorted all ranks to continue working with utmost zeal and enthusiasm and always remain combat ready to thwart the nefarious designs of India’s adversaries and inimical forces while being in complete synergy with civil administration and paramilitary forces,” Col. Anand said. White Knight Corps is the first line of defence along the LoC south of Pir Panjal range. Right from Akhnoor in Jammu district to the twin border districts of Rajouri and Poonch, 16 Corps has the operational responsibility of nearly 300 km long de-facto border with Pakistan.While the standoff with China in eastern Ladakh has been on since May, Pakistan has intensified ceasefire violations along the LoC in Jammu region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-corps-gets-a-new-commander-amid-a-spike-in-loc-ceasefire-violations-by-pakistan/story-1IYe9sLUGagwZaeaQLmsbP.html
13-10-2020||India||Health ministry issues guidelines to manage seasonal epidemic infections with Covid-19||With co-infection cases increasingly being reported by doctors, the Union health ministry has issued guidelines for the management of co-infection of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with other seasonal epidemic-prone diseases such as dengue, malaria, seasonal influenza (H1N1), etc.ALSO READ: Changing season got you sick? 6 things you can do to ease your flu symptoms“Given the seasonal pattern of epidemic-prone diseases observed every year in our country, diseases like dengue, malaria, seasonal influenza, leptospirosis, chikungunya, enteric fever, etc. can not only present a diagnostic dilemma but may co-exist in Covid-19 cases. This poses challenges in the clinical and laboratory diagnosis of Covid-19, and may have a bearing on clinical management and patient outcomes,” a health ministry statement read.“The scope of this document is to provide clear guidelines on prevention and treatment of co-infections…” the statement further read.Also Read: Covid-19 reinfection casts doubt on virus immunity: StudyThe document is based on the standards set up by international health agencies such as the World Health Organization (WHO), which say that apart from fever, patients could present other symptoms mimicking Covid-19 making the diagnosis difficult.“This document has been put out largely as a reference material to benefit treating doctors who are dealing with such cases on a daily basis,” said a health ministry official in the know of things.Approach to diagnosis of suspected co-infection A high index of suspicion must be maintained for these epidemic-prone diseases prevalent in a particular geographic region during monsoon and post-monsoon seasons. Bacterial co-infections must also be suspected in moderate or severe cases of Covid-19 not responding to treatment. Malaria/Dengue Confirmation of malaria or dengue infection does not rule out the possibility of the patient not suffering from Covid-19. Similarly, a high index of suspicion of malaria or dengue must be there when a fever is diagnosed as a symptom of Covid-19, particularly during the rainy and post-rainy season. Seasonal influenza Both Covid-19 and seasonal influenza present symptoms influenza like illness ((ILI/SARI), hence all ILI and SARI cases in areas reporting Covid-19 cases must be evaluated and tested for both Covid-19 and seasonal influenza. Also Read: How long can I expect a Covid-19 illness to last?ChikungunyaChikungunya manifests itself with an acute onset of moderate to high-grade continuous fever and malaise followed by rash, myalgia (muscle pain) and arthralgia (joint pain). Respiratory failure may ensue in late stages. Co-infection with Covid-19 may be suspected in chikungunya-endemic areas during monsoon. Leptospirosis (rat fever)Leptospirosis, apart from the symptom of fever, also has a tendency to manifest as acute respiratory illness, leading to respiratory distress and shock. In areas where leptospirosis is known to cause outbreaks during monsoon or post-monsoon, doctors need to keep in mind this co-infection while evaluating a patient. Scrub typhus Scrub typhus is known to be prevalent in the foothills of Himalayas in places such as Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Manipur, Nagaland, Meghalaya, etc. However, in the recent past, scrub typhus outbreaks have also been reported from Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The clinical picture consists of sudden high-grade fever, severe headache, apathy, myalgia and generalised lymphadenopathy (swelling of lymph nodes). The patients may develop complications that include interstitial pneumonia (30% to 65% of cases), meningoencephalitis (brain swelling) and myocarditis (swelling of heart muscles). Bacterial infections Few patients with Covid-19 experience a secondary bacterial infection. In such cases, empiric antibiotic therapy needs to be considered.“Despite the possibility of above mentioned co-infections, in present times of the pandemic, the approach to diagnosis for Covid-19 essentially remains the same. Testing protocol as per the ministry of health and family welfare and Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines will be followed. However, in addition, further tests for a likely co-infection will also be undertaken, whenever suspected,” the ministry guidelines read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-issues-guidelines-to-manage-seasonal-epidemic-infections-with-covid-19/story-DNhVgF3Pe3sFWgCLiL4MAL.html
13-10-2020||India||Priest held for alleged sexual assault on woman in Kerala||The Kerala police on Tuesday arrested a Christian priest for allegedly sexually assaulting a 22-year-old woman in Idukki on Monday. Police said the priest Reji Palakkadan, also an Ayurveda practitioner, was held following a complaint filed by the woman’s parents.Palakkadan was running an Ayurveda clinic in Adimali as part of the church and the woman had visited the facility for treatment on Monday, police said. In their complaint, the parents said their daughter was assaulted by the priest in the name of treatment. The accused also threatened her not to reveal the incident to anyone. But she later narrated her plight to her parents who then filed a complaint with the police. Circle Inspector Anil George said the accused was booked under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code (assault or criminal force on a woman with intent to outrage her modesty). “The accused priest was known as a doctor in the area. We will also examine his educational qualifications and other details. He will be produced in the court later in the day” George said. The church is yet to react to the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priest-held-for-alleged-sexual-assault-on-woman-in-kerala/story-fN8sBOSkNMpU3AwvoLIW3K.html
13-10-2020||India||No second chance to failed class 9,11 ISCE Board students: SC||The Supreme Court (SC) on Tuesday refused to allow a second chance to failed students of Grades 9 and 11, whose schools are affiliated to the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), to appear for examinations in a bid to improve their scores and get promoted to the next class. A failed Grade 11 student, whose school is affiliated to the CISCE, had moved the apex court citing a similar relief provided by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) because of the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The student’s petition had prayed for an exception to the rule before the court, while citing the CBSE’s notification dated May 13. The CBSE as a “one-time measure” had extended its relief to both Grade 9 and 11 students this academic year owing to the contagion. The three-judge SC bench, headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar, dismissed the petition after the CISCE authorities submitted that granting the prayer would open a floodgate of similar requests by other failed students of Grades 9 and 11. The CISCE pointed out that around 10,000 such students from across 2,500 schools would seek to avail of the relief. The CISCE’s counsel, senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, argued that 90% of the syllabi of Grades 10 and 12 were covered by schools and any relief at this stage would hamper the academic year of the successful candidates. “We do not provide retest as a policy decision,” the CISCE argued. The bench, which also comprised Justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, observed, “We can’t direct the board (CISCE) and create a situation, where lakhs of students seek a retest to improve their marks. How many such students will be there? It will lead to a chaotic situation.” Alakh Alok Srivastava, the petitioner’s lawyer, urged the SC to take a compassionate view and urged the latter to direct the CISCE to take a leaf out of the CBSE’s May 13 order. Srivastava pleaded that the petitioner would be able to cope up with his studies as both the CISCE and the CBSE authorities have decided to reduce their syllabi by 30% in all subjects and a move was in the works to further lessen them by 50% because of the raging viral outbreak. “It is not open for this court to issue any writ or direction to the CISCE to follow a decision by another board (CBSE),” the bench observed. The bench heard the submissions from both the parties and agreed with the CISCE’s contention while dismissing the petition of the unsuccessful Grade 9 candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-second-chance-to-failed-class-9-11-isce-board-students-sc/story-nCMgDBtPbrIdaQHFmfzEoO.html
13-10-2020||India||Parliament panel to visit Ladakh on October 28-29 amid India-China standoff||A group of parliamentarians is set to visit the Ladakh sector to get first-hand insights into aspects related to high-altitude clothing for soldiers, housing and rations at a time when India and China are locked in a border row and efforts to reduce friction have made no headway, officials familiar with the developments said Tuesday. The members of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC), headed by Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, are likely to visit Leh on October 28-29, the officials said. The visit was finalised after Chowdhury wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla last month suggesting that the PAC visit the Ladakh sector to interact with soldiers deployed there and understand their working conditions and requirements. Also Read: PLA rotates LAC troops, shows handThe committee is currently examining a recent report by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) that had pointed out deficiencies in high-altitude clothing and equipment and the need to equip soldiers with proper gear. The PAC discussed some issues related to rations and clothing with chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat during a meeting on September 6, the officials said. At this meeting, the PAC chairman asked the CDS to consider a tour for the MPs to the Ladakh sector, following which Chowdhury wrote to Birla. The PAC is expected to meet on October 23 to finalise its itinerary. In a report tabled in Parliament in February, the national auditor had drawn attention to the shortage of essential gear, clothing and rations being faced by soldiers deployed in high-altitude areas such as Siachen and Ladakh. Also Read: India, China hold seventh military talksThere was a critical shortage of snow goggles and troops were not issued multi-purpose boots between November 2015 and September 2016, a press statement issued by the CAG had then said. However, reacting to the CAG report, senior army officials had said that the deficiencies had been taken care of and each soldier deployed in Siachen was supplied with gear worth Rs 1 lakh. The MPs are likely to be briefed by senior army officials and Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) scientists during the visit. The PAC scrutinises the appropriation accounts of the government and the reports prepared by the CAG. The PAC’s Leh visit comes at a time when both Indian and Chinese forces have made arrangements for a long haul in the eastern Ladakh theatre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-panel-to-visit-ladakh-on-october-28-29-amid-india-china-standoff/story-DmxN35t5yORO9iqiFbw2MJ.html
13-10-2020||India||UP lawyer shoots dead elderly parents during morning prayer||A lawyer allegedly shot dead his parents over a property dispute while they were at prayer in their home here on Tuesday, police said. Lalta Prasad Gangwar (76), a retired teacher, and his wife Mohini Devi (70) were at prayer around 5 am when their son Durvesh Gangwar came to their home in Bahroli village and started hurling abuses at them. He beat them up and accused them of taking his brother’s side and then fired at them, killing the couple on the spot.  “Accused Durgesh Gangwar was angry with his parents over the division of property. He used to say that his parents had given a bigger share of the property to his brother Umesh and helped him in every possible way,” Senior Superintendent of Police of Bareilly Rohit Singh Sajwan said. Sajwan said the police suspect a property dispute behind the crime.Durgesh stays with his family at Teachers’ Colony in Meerganj here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-lawyer-shoots-dead-elderly-parents-during-morning-prayer/story-VYk8D1MvXsKhGIcsfXkkaP.html
13-10-2020||India||Khushbu Sundar fifth Congress spokesperson to leave since March 2019||Actor-turned-politician Khushbu Sundar is the fifth Congress spokesperson to have jumped ship or been sacked since Marc h 2019 ahead of the Lok Sabha elections last year. First to switch sides was Gandhi family loyalist Tom Vadakkan who joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in March 2019, accusing the Congress of questioning the integrity of the armed forces after the Balakot air strikes. Vadakkan, once considered close to Vincent George, a longtime aide of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, had been associated with the party’s media department for nearly 20 years, many of them under leaders such as Pranab Mukherjee and VN Gadgil. In the recent organisational reshuffle in the BJP, Vadakkan was named as one of the party spokespersons. Vadakkan’s exit was followed by that of Priyanka Chaturvedi who quit the Congress to join the Shiv Sena in April 2019. Chaturvedi, who was the convenor of the Congress media cell, was upset over the reinstatement of some Uttar Pradesh party workers who had misbehaved with her earlier during a press conference in Mathura. The Shiv Sena later nominated her to the Rajya Sabha. Then, it was the turn of former Jharkhand Congress chief and spokesperson Ajoy Kumar who joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in September 2019 just before the assembly elections in the tribal-dominated state. He had complained about the functioning of the party’s Jharkhand leadership. However a year later, Kumar returned to the Congress fold this September. Announcing his return to the Congress on Twitter, he said, “Silence becomes cowardice when occasion demands speaking out the whole truth & acting accordingly. – Mahatma Gandhi. Driven by my conscience to speak up against injustice & institutional capture, I’ve been inspired by Shri Rahul Gandhi & decided to come back to INCIndia today.” But before Kumar’s return, the Congress in June this year removed Sanjay Jha as party spokesperson after he publicly criticised the party’s functioning and questioned the leadership. Jha had written an article in Times of India on June 7, saying it is a false claim that the Congress had an internal platform for frank exchange of ideas to get the party back on track. “It is a false claim that there exists a robust internal democratic process that listens to individual voices, and more importantly, is continuously focused on party renewal, political strategy, tactical warfare, leadership development and resuscitation starting at the grassroots, the erstwhile USP of the Congress,” he wrote in the article. And on Monday, Sundar became the fifth Congress spokesperson to leave. Soon after her joining the BJP, she told reporters that if the nation has to move forward, we need somebody like Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take the country in the right direction. “My expectation from BJP isn’t about what party is going to do for me, but about what party is going to do for people of the country. When you have 128 crore people actually believing in one man and that’s our PM, I think they’re doing something absolutely right,” she added. Earlier, in her resignation letter to the Congress president, Sundar wrote, “Few elements seated at higher levels within the party, people who have no connectivity with the ground reality or public recognition are dictating terms and people like me who wanted to work for the party sincerely, are being pushed and suppressed.” The actor had earned the ire of Congress leaders from Tamil Nadu after she took a divergent stand on the issue of the National Education Policy (NEP). While the Congress had strongly opposed the policy, she welcomed it. Sundar later apologised to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi but insisted she would “rather speak the fact than be a head nodding robot or a puppet”. A Congress functionary blamed the managers of the communications department for the exit of the spokespersons who are also faces of the party in the media. “It is surprising to see that these spokespersons find it difficult to defend the leadership and hence prefer to jump ship. Our media managers have also failed in keeping their house in order,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khushbu-sundar-fifth-congress-spokesperson-to-leave-since-march-2019/story-z3oA6JUSGhiYG4RTs4qKIN.html
13-10-2020||India||In Andhra, stalker sets woman on fire, she pulls him in. Both dead||A 24-year-old woman, working as a nurse at a Covid-19 care centre at Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district, was set on fire by a stalker at her residence on Monday night, the police said. The stalker, who sustained 80 per cent burn injuries while setting the woman ablaze, also succumbed to his burns while undergoing treatment at Government General Hospital in Guntur in the early hours of Tuesday. Assistant Commissioner of Police M Ramesh told Hindustan Times that the woman had been in love with the man for the last four years, but a few months ago, she wanted to end the relationship with him. “Yet, the man had been stalking her and harassing her to marry him,” he said. On October 5, the woman lodged a complaint with the Governorpet police in Vijayawada alleging that the man was continuing to harass her, though she had been spurning his love. “He was called to the police station and warned against stalking her. After he gave an undertaking that he would not trouble her again, the woman withdrew the complaint,” the ACP said. On Monday night, when the woman returned to her room nearer to the Covid-19 care centre where she was working, the stalker appeared again and argued with her for filing a police complaint against him. “It was evident that he came prepared to kill her. During the course of argument, he took out a bottle of petrol he had brought with him, poured it over her and set her ablaze. The woman caught hold of him tightly so that he could not escape after killing her. Listening to their cries, neighbours rushed there and separated them before dousing the fire,” Ramesh said. While the woman died on the spot, the stalker was severely injured and was rushed to the government hospital Guntur after initial treatment in Vijayawada. “He died in the early hours of Tuesday,” the police official said. The ACP said while the police booked a case of murder (Section 302 of the IPC) against the stalker initially and after his death, another case was registered under Section 174 of Criminal Procedure Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-andhra-stalker-sets-woman-on-fire-she-pulls-him-in-both-dead/story-dmkApLzIwVsaMZJ00TTNOP.html
13-10-2020||India||Kedarnath Trust allocates Rs 120 crore for construction work in temple premises||The Shri Kedarnath Utthan Charitable Trust (SKUCT) has allocated Rs 120 crores for the construction work in the temple premises.According to the state’s Tourism Secretary Dilip Jawalkar, the second phase of the construction work with a cost of Rs 120 crores will be completed in Kedarnath Dham, including 50 feet wide walkway, security wall and other works. The temple authority has given the amount to the organisations, which will carry out the construction work.The SKUCT receives funds for reconstruction work from various PSUs and companies under their corporate social responsibility activities.The SKUCT has been constituted by the Uttarakhand government in 2017 with an aim to facilitate construction, re-construction, development, re-development and renovation of all infrastructure at Kedarnath Dham.The government constituted the trust with an aim to ensure holistic and time bound rehabilitation of the Kedarnath shrine - that was badly affected by flash floods in the year 2013.Kedarnath Dham is one of the most revered pilgrimage centres of northern India. Located at an altitude of 3,584 meters, amidst the snow-clad Himalayan peaks and on the banks of river Mandakini, this shrine is dedicated to Lord Shiva and is regarded as one of the 12 Jyotirlingas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kedarnath-trust-allocates-rs-120-crores-for-construction-work-in-temple-premises/story-HnL0I1H8iO7H2QNMa5mOFJ.html
13-10-2020||India||Covid-19 positivity drops in Assam, minister says curve is flattening||After a surge in September, the positivity rate of Covid-19 in Assam has dropped this month leading health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to say that the pandemic’s curve is flattening in the state. “In September, the positivity rate had reached 8% of the total samples tested. But since the past week, it has come below 5% and on Monday when we conducted over one lakh tests, the rate was just 1.41%,” Sarma told journalists at a press conference. Till Monday, Assam’s Covid-19 tally stood at 195,304 cases with 166,036 recoveries and 826 deaths. The recovery rate in the state is 85% and the mortality rate is 0.42%. Till Monday nearly 39.50 lakh samples had been tested across the state and the total test per million is 115,179. The rate of doubling of cases has slowed down to 46.4 days at present. “If we are able to stay vigilant over the next few days, we can say the Covid-19 curve in Assam has started flattening for the first time. If all guidelines are followed during the coming Durga Puja season and there is no substantial rise in cases, it would be significant,” said Sarma. The minister said that while 826 people have been declared dead due to Covid-19 till date by the death audit board (DAB) nearly 1000 more have died in the state due to post-Covid complications or illnesses and accidents not related to the disease. “We are expecting to get the first set of Covid vaccines between January and July next year. Frontline workers and senior citizens above 60 years would be the first recipients. It is expected that more than one vaccine would be available around that time,” said Sarma. The minister also announced a fresh set of guidelines that have to be followed during the Durga Puja festivities that begin next week. They include mandatory permission from district authorities to organize puja, construction of airy and spacious pandals with separate entry and exit points and mandatory Covid-19 tests for priests before and after the puja festivities. “Anyone entering puja enclosures will have to wear masks and sanitize their hands and no more than 50 people will be allowed at one time in the pandals,” said Sarma. “Puja mandaps will have to close at 10 pm, pillion riding by men won’t be allowed during the festival, no cultural programmes or competitions will be allowed, but aarti can be performed at the pandals,” he added. Other guidelines include closure of restaurants at 9 pm during festive season, ban on mass immersions of idols as well as ban on processions carrying idols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positivity-drops-in-assam-minister-says-curve-is-flattening/story-PViDliqlgbCCEOaJeLU2SI.html
13-10-2020||India||Health Ministry guidelines for co-infection management of Covid-19 with seasonal epidemic-prone diseases||The Ministry of Health on Tuesday issued guidelines for the management of co-infection of Covid-19 with other seasonal epidemic-prone diseases.With the aim of providing clear guidelines on prevention and treatment of co-infections of coronavirus with other diseases, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said, “As per the World Health Organisation (WHO) case definition, a Covid case may present with acute onset of fever and cough, or, acute onset of any three or more of the following signs or symptoms: fever, cough, general weakness or fatigue, headache, myalgia, sore throat, coryza, dyspnoea, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, altered mental status.”“This case definition, although sensitive, is not very specific. Seasonal epidemic prone diseases, as cited in the foregoing paragraphs may all present as febrile illness, with symptoms that mimic Covid-19. If there is a co-infection, then apart from the febrile illness there may be constellation of signs and symptoms that may lead to difficulty in diagnosis. A comparative analysis of disease onset, symptoms, signs, warning signs, complications and diagnosis is given at Annexure,” the ministry added.The seasonal pattern of epidemic prone diseases observed each year includes diseases like Dengue, Malaria, Seasonal Influenza, Leptospirosis, Chikungunya and Enteric fever. They can co-exist with the current Covid-19 pandemic and can also pose clinical and laboratory diagnostic issues.The Health Ministry has listed approaches to diagnose suspected co-infection which include, a high index of suspicion for epidemic prone diseases existing in specific regions during monsoon and post-monsoon seasons. Bacterial co-infections must also be suspected in moderate or severe cases of Covid-19 not responding to treatment.“It should also be considered that malaria and dengue can coexist with other infections, and thus a diagnosis of either of these does not rule out the possibility of the patient not suffering from Covid-19. Similarly, a high index of suspicion of malaria and dengue must be there when a fever case is diagnosed as Covid-19, particularly during the rainy and post rainy season in areas endemic for these diseases,” the Ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-guidelines-for-co-infection-management-of-covid-19-with-seasonal-epidemic-prone-diseases/story-RmOtFgNCJkr6z4RHV37CyH.html
13-10-2020||India||Father of Hathras rape victim not well, refuses to visit hospital: Official||Parents of the Hathras gang-rape victim were not feeling well upon arrival to their house in Bulgadhi village after appearing before the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court on Monday.The victim’s mother, accompanied by two of her family members, was taken to the hospital.Earlier in the day, Hathras chief medical officer Brijesh Rathore told news agency ANI that he visited the victim’s residence after her father refused to go to the hospital despite not feeling well.“We had sent a team that informed us that he has ailments including high blood pressure. However, he is not willing to go to hospital. I’m going there and will listen to his concerns,” Rathode said. Meanwhile, a team of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials reached Hathras to investigate the gang-rape and torture of the Dalit woman by ‘upper’ cast men on September 14. The victim’s brother was also brought to the crime scene.The victim died in New Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital a fortnight later, fuelling waves of protest from Opposition parties against the state government’s handling of the case.The CBI registered a case against an accused and took up the investigation of the incident on October 11.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/father-of-hathras-gang-rape-victim-not-well-not-willing-to-go-to-hospital-hathras-cmo/story-bNsIchcpEl3OvdO6p1M35J.html
13-10-2020||India||Cow dung ‘chip’ reduces radiation from mobiles: Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog chief||Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA) chairman Vallabhbhai Kathiria unveiled a ‘chip’ made of cow dung and claimed that it reduces radiation from mobile handsets and it will be a safeguard against diseases.Speaking at the launch of a nationwide campaign ‘Kamdhenu Deepawali Abhiyan’, which is aimed at promoting cow dung products, Kathiria said: “Cow dung will protect everyone, it is anti-radiation... It is scientifically proven...This is a radiation chip that can be used in mobile phones to reduce radiation. It will be safeguarded against diseases.”The ‘chip’, named Gausatva Kavach, is manufactured by Rajkot-based Shrijee Gaushala.Set up in 2019, the RKA aimed at conservation, protection and development of cows and their progeny. The Aayog, which comes under the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, has started a nation-wide campaign to encourage the use of cow dung-based products during festivals.Watch l ‘Chip made of cow dung reduces radiation’: Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog chief Kathiria further appealed to people to avoid using China-made diyas this Diwali, stating that the campaign launched by the RKA will also boost the ‘Make in India’ concept of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the ‘swadeshi movement’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cow-dung-chip-reduces-radiation-from-mobiles-rashtriya-kamdhenu-aayog-chief/story-502bOjyO4iqPgNFJHOJFNL.html
13-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape: Victim’s mother taken to hospital after her health deteriorates||Following her deteriorating health condition, the mother of Hathras victim was taken to hospital on Tuesday.She was accompanied by two of her family members. This came after Hathras Chief Medical Officer Dr Brijesh Rathore visited the victim’s residence after the victim’s father who was also unwell declined to go to the hospital.Earlier in the day, Hathras victim’s family returned to their house in Bulgadhi village after appearing before the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court. It is noteworthy that the bench had taken suo moto cognisance of the incident, in which a 19-year old woman had died on September 29 after alleged assault and gang-rape on September 14.Meanwhile, a team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which has taken up the investigation of the Hathras incident, on Tuesday, reached the victim’s village Bulgadhi on Tuesday amid tight security, said the police.Ahead of the CBI’s visit, Uttar Pradesh Police had deployed personnel to maintain law and order in the area.The victim’s brother has been brought to the incident site where the CBI team is carrying out the investigation.The CBI had recently registered a case against an accused and took up the investigation of the Hathras incident.The case was filed on the request of the Uttar Pradesh government and “further notification from the Government of India.”A 19-year-old Dalit woman had succumbed to her injuries at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 29 after being assaulted and allegedly gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras on September 14.The Uttar Pradesh government had recommended a CBI probe into the Hathras incident. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-victim-s-mother-taken-to-hospital-after-her-health-deteriorates/story-f1SZtNQaJT2qrehHC6TG8J.html
13-10-2020||India||CBI team quizzes cop in Hathras, visits spot where 19-year-old was gang-raped||A team of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officers and forensic experts on Tuesday visited the crime spot in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras where a 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped last month. The brother of the woman accompanied the investigators.The CBI has registered a case against the prime accused Sandip Singh. He along with three other accused, all from upper caste - are in jail. They were named by the victim before she died on September 29.The central agency took over the probe following the recommendation of chief minister Yogi Adityanath and a notification from the Centre. The officers have received the documents related to the case.Before reaching the spot in the victim’s Boolgarhi village, the CBI team visited Chandpa police station under which the village falls and questioned a policeman associated with the case. The woman’s parents and two brothers appeared before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Monday in connection with the rape case. They demanded that the high-profile trial be shifted out of the state, said their lawyer Seema Kushwaha, who also fought the December 2012 Delhi gang-rape case. The court condemned the forcible cremation of the victim by the Uttar Pradesh police at 2.30 am on September 30 that had sparked protests across the country. The 19-year-old died in a Delhi hospital after the assault and her family members claimed she was cremated against their wish. They had earlier alleged that they couldn’t even see her face before the police “burnt the body with petrol.”The police have, however, denied these allegations. The case will next be heard on November 2.A Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by the state government was earlier probing the case. During the hearing on Monday, the victim’s lawyer called out the SIT revealing call details between the accused and the victim’s brother and alleged that a “perception” was being created to take the focus away from the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-team-quizzes-cop-in-hathras-visits-spot-where-19-year-old-was-gang-raped/story-jN0HpNuhlaj0XZA6bIBn8I.html
13-10-2020||India||Rice procurement up 33%, but MSP eludes other crops||The government has bought over 4 million tonne of paddy from nearly 350,000 farmers, who have been paid minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 8,032 crore till October 11 since procurement of crops began on September 24. The quantity procured so far is 33% higher than the corresponding period last year, according to data cited by the farm ministry. While the procurement of the kharif staple is robustly continuing, farmers in Punjab and Haryana, however, continue to protest a set of laws enacted by Parliament to deregulate agricultural markets, which they fear will weaken the MSP system, whereby farm produce is bought by the government at assured prices. The Centre would also procure pulses, oilseeds and copra at MSP prices beyond the quantity approved so far from any state where the market rate falls below MSP under its price support scheme, the agriculture ministry said a statement. Also Read: Haryana farmers fret as basmati prices fall to ₹1,800 per quintalDespite this, several summer-sown crops, such as soybean and maize, are selling below minimum set by the government because the government procures too little of non-cereals. The government “continues to procure kharif 2020-21 crops at its MSP from farmers as per its existing MSP schemes” and procurement is “going on smoothly”, a farm ministry statement said, pointing to the higher procurement trend. Till October 11, the government through its food agencies has additionally procured 606.56 tonne of two pulses—moong and urad—with an MSP value of Rs 4.36 crore.The government has also approved requests from 10 states to procure 3.70 million tonne of pulses and oilseeds. These states are Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana, Gujarat, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh. The government has also sanctioned the procurement of 100,000 tonne of copra, a perennial crop, from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Also Read: Farm bills: Farmers set preconditions after government outreach for talksCrops, such as soybean, ragi, maize and cotton, are selling up to 30% below MSPs, data from Agmarknet, the agriculture ministry’s portal that tracks prices in mandis or wholesale markets, shows. Poor returns from crops have been a lingering problem for farmers, especially during episodes of glut, such as now. MSPs, which are fixed at 50% over cost for nearly two dozen crops, don’t necessarily lead to higher farm incomes as the government’s procurement at MSP rates is largely restricted to wheat and rice. For most other crops, farmers are mostly price takers, meaning they are forced to accept whatever the markets dictate. “Nudging the private sector towards triggering a market-clearing price that is closer or equal to MSP will depend on the extent of government’s procurement,” economist Abhijit Sen said. For commodities, such as pulses and oilseeds, the government’s procurement is insufficient to improve market rates. For instance, the nearly 3.70 million tonnes of pulses and oilseeds they government has approved for procurement at MSP is less than 15% of the total production—too small a quantity to make a difference in prices offered by private entities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rice-procurement-up-33-but-msp-eludes-other-crops/story-NdKDCLtLkTPY66KF5UBpaL.html
13-10-2020||India||Polls to 11 Rajya Sabha seats in UP, Uttarakhand on Nov 9||Elections to 10 Rajya Sabha seats in Uttar Pradesh and one in Uttarakhand, falling vacant next month, will be held on November 9, a press release issued by the Election Commission of India (ECI) said on Tuesday.October 27 is the last date of filing nominations and November 2 is the last day of withdrawal of candidature.In view of Covid-19 pandemic, the EC said that the Chief Secreatries concerned should ensure that a senior officer from the state should be deputed to make sure all coronavirus guidelines are being followed.Everyone should wear a mask at all times, thermal scanning should be conducted at entry and exit gates, sanitisers should be made available at all places, the EC said in its release. Social distancing norms should also be complied with, the release added.Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri and SP leader Ram Gopal Yadav are among the 10 members from Uttar Pradesh retiring on November 25. Actor-politician Raj Babbar’s term as Rajya Sabha member from Uttarakhand also ends on November 25.Counting of votes will take place on November 9 from 5pm onwards. The notification for the elections will be issued on October 20, the press release said. (with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polls-to-11-rajya-sabha-seats-in-up-uttarakhand-on-nov-9/story-XFdEFtaIAEyaVwrFPhmelO.html
13-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: SP and RLD may forge long term alliance in Uttar Pradesh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amid fluid opposition tie-ups in UP, SP-RLD may forge long-term allianceThe SP contested the 2017 UP assembly polls in alliance with the Congress and won only 47 seats, losing 177 seats in comparison to its 2012 tally of 224 seats. The RLD went alone in the polls and won only one seat which was eight below its 2012 mark. Read morePushback to Xi Jinping to reflect in US approach to ‘One China’ policy Two of the biggest takeaways from the October 6, Quad security dialogue were that US confrontation with China over Taiwan has the potential of serious escalation and that Washington blames Beijing for not only the global pandemic but also for the economic hit on the American economy on the eve of Presidential elections. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘The game needs you back,’ India coach Ravi Shastri wants AB de Villiers to step out of international retirementAB de Villiers got the world of cricket talking once again with his incredible knock for Royal Challengers Bangalore against Kolkata Knight Riders on Monday. De Villiers plundered 73* off 33 balls with five fours and six sixes to set the stadium ablaze. Read moreApple HomePod Mini launch expected besides iPhone 12 series: Here’s the rumoured price, featuresAt Apple’s mega launch event later today, the iPhones might not be only products to see the light of the day. As per tipster Jon Prosser, the firm is also planning to launch HomePod Mini. Read moreMaruti Suzuki Alto completes 20 years in India with over 40 lakh units soldMaruti Suzuki’s entry-level car, Alto, has completed 20 years in the Indian market with over 40 lakh units sold here. Launched back in 2000, the car has been the preferred choice of many first time buyers. Read moreLangurs ‘join’ online class as kid studies at home. Pic leaves tweeple fascinatedA picture of a child’s online class at home is collecting several reactions on Twitter. The image shows a regular scene seen in most houses - a child sitting in front of a table with books and some stationery, looking into the screen of phone during the online class. Read moreIndia logs 54k new covid-19 cases, lowest since Aug 17Hindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far; J&J Covid-19 vaccine study paused; study on SARS-CoV-2; new curbs for England; mass coronavirus testing in China’s Qingdao. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sp-and-rld-may-forge-long-term-alliance-in-uttar-pradesh-and-all-the-latest-news/story-XvFJMVnDDDvQ0037PawQfJ.html
13-10-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM asks Chief Justice of HC to notify fast track courts for sexual crimes||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written a letter to Chief Justice of Chhattisgarh High Court PR Ramchandra Menon requesting him to notify fast track courts in all the districts for speedy hearing and disposal of cases of sexual offences. Baghel in his letter on Monday said that sexual offences against women and children are a matter of grave concern in the country and need immediate attention. “Despite the fact that adequate laws have been made on the above subject these kinds of heinous crimes are not decreasing in number. Additionally, delayed justice is also a matter of concern,” he wrote. The CM said that in cases of sexual offences against women and children, there’s an urgent need for prompt consideration for the victims to get speedy justice and exemplary punishment for the accused. “It is our responsibility to ensure that,” the letter said. Baghel also said that the required number of fast track courts for cases related to sexual offences should be notified in all the districts of the state for which the time period and time limit of hearing of such cases will be prescribed.The state government has affirmed that it will provide all necessary cooperation in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-asks-chief-justice-of-hc-to-notify-fast-track-courts-for-sexual-crimes/story-hcHavuH17s8O5y9KhyIPQP.html
13-10-2020||India||Army personnel found dead at his residence in Kolkata||An Army personnel, who was on leave, was found dead at his residence in the southern part of the city early on Tuesday, a police officer said.Subhas Das (40) was found unconscious in his room at 12.10 am. He was taken to National Medical College and Hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead, the officer said.Das, a soldier of the Army’s Rajput Regiment, was posted at Tamluk NCC unit, he said.No complaint has been lodged in the case, and a preliminary probe suggested that Das had arguments with his wife on Monday night over his drinking habit.The body has been sent for post mortem to ascertain the exact cause of death, the officer added.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-personnel-found-dead-at-his-residence-in-kolkata/story-7ZEvFpNpS0tlqqMtjzjJzL.html
13-10-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi releases autobiography of Dr Balasaheb Vikhe Patil, says ‘his work will inspire generations’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday released the autobiography of late multiple term Lok Sabha MP Dr Balasaheb Vikhe Patil.The autobiography is titled ‘Deh Vechava Karani’ or dedicating one’s life for a noble cause.Speaking on the occasion, PM Modi said though Dr Patil’s autobiography was releasing only today, but the stories of his life can be seen throughout Maharashtra, his home state.“Balasaheb’s work for the progress of poor, efforts towards education and success of cooperative in Maharashtra will inspire generations to come,” the PM said.He further said Dr Patil always tried to work for the betterment of the society through his politics. “Balasaheb always stressed on how politics can be used for meaningful change of the society and how to resolve issues of the poor. This is what separated him from others,” PM Modi said.The PM also credited the Padma Bhushan awardee with bringing farmers together. This, he said, was because Dr Balasaheb had seen the pain of poor and farmers closely.PM Modi also warned people of Maharashtra on the danger of coronavirus. “The danger of coronavirus still persists. In Maharashtra, the situation is a little more worrying. I appeal to all, don’t be careless about wearing masks and social distancing. Remember jab tak davai nahin, tab tak dhilai nahin (no laxity till a medicine is available).”The prime minister also renamed the Pravara Rural Education Society to ‘Loknete Dr Balasaheb Vikhe Patil Pravara Rural Education Society.’ The society was established in Ahmednagar’s Loni district to provide world-class education to rural masses and empower the girl child.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, his predecessor Devendra Fadnavis and state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Chandrakant Patil also addressed the ceremony, which took place virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-releases-autobiography-of-dr-balasaheb-vikhe-patil-says-his-work-will-inspire-generations/story-HZE21ThI1MvwxlhY1TY6DP.html
13-10-2020||India||Man climbs 2 floors, throws acid on 3 sisters sleeping at home: Cop||Three Dalit sisters - aged 8, 12 and 17 years - were attacked with inflammable liquid, suspected to be acid, while they were sleeping inside their house in Uttar Pradesh’s Gonda district in the early hours of Tuesday, said police officials. There have been no arrests in the incident as yet. Officers said the preliminary enquiry suggested that the inflammable liquid was thrown from the open window of the house; the eldest sister suffered major injuries on face and chest while two other sisters have minor injuries on hands. They said all three have been admitted to the Gonda district hospital where they are being treated and investigation is underway.The officials confirmed the three sisters are from Dhobi community and fall under the scheduled caste category.A police official at DGP headquarters in Lucknow said the incident took place in Paska village under Paraspur police station limits of Gonda at around 2.30 am on intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. He said the initial probe revealed that the girls were sleeping in the room on the second floor of the house and the attacker climbed up to throw acid from the open window.He said the sequence of events suggested that the attacker was aware about the family and knew that the girl sleeps in a room on the second floor. He said the police team have yet to trace the attacker and reason behind the crime. The eldest girl, the officer added, would probably help in tracing the accused and clarify the reason behind the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-climbed-2-floors-to-throw-acid-on-3-dalit-sisters-in-up-s-gonda-cops/story-nfykSBWiV1J6Q3j2RJBVIJ.html
13-10-2020||India||Amid fluid opposition tie-ups in UP, SP-RLD may forge long-term alliance||Donning their signature red caps, a group of Samajwadi Party (SP) leaders from Lucknow and west UP rallied around Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Jayant Chaudhary on the stage at the RLD’s Loktantra Bachao Mahapanchayat (Save Democracy rally) in Muzaffarnagar last Thursday.It was at this rally that Jayant asked his clansmen (Jats) in the region to return to their political home (the RLD) to oust the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from power at the Centre and in the state.Then, on Friday night, the RLD declared Praveen Kumar Singh as its candidate for the Bulandshahr assembly seat after the SP announced that it would leave the seat for the RLD. Bypolls will be held for seven assembly seats, including Bulandshahr, in UP on November 3.“On all other (six) seats, the RLD will support the Samajwadi Party,” said RLD national secretary Girish Kumar Chaudhary.These moves signal that the SP and RLD alliance, the only one among Opposition parties in UP at present, may turn out to be a long-term one.“We will be allies in the 2022 UP assembly polls as well,” said Anil Dubey, the RLD’s national general secretary.The SP contested the 2017 UP assembly polls in alliance with the Congress and won only 47 seats, losing 177 seats in comparison to its 2012 tally of 224 seats. The RLD went alone in the polls and won only one seat which was eight below its 2012 mark.Soon after, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and RLD’s Jayant Chaudhary became friends. The two came together for the first time in the 2018 UP Lok Sabha and assembly bypolls for four seats -- Gorakhpur, Phulpur, and Kairana (all Lok Sabha) and Noorpur (assembly). They wrested all the four seats from the BJP.In 2019, when Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati and Akhilesh Yadav firmed up an alliance, the RLD was nowhere in the picture initially. However, Akhilesh Yadav convinced her to take the RLD on board. The SP-BSP gave three seats (Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat and Mathura) to the RLD to contest. The RLD could not win any of these seats. The SP’s tally remained at five, the same as in 2014, but it lost in its bastions of Kannauj and Firozabad. The BSP, on the other hand, won 11 seats, against none in 2014.Soon afterwards, Mayawati walked out of the alliance, but the RLD continued with the SP. In the 2019 UP assembly bypolls for 11 seats, SP retained the Rampur seat and wrested Jalalpur and Zaidpur from the BJP. The BJP won the eight other seats.Now, the SP and the RLD are contesting the 2020 assembly bypolls together. Malhani (Jaunpur) was the only one of the seven seats that the SP had won in 2017. The BJP had bagged the six others. The SP-RLD alliance is looking to retain Malhani and win more seats this time.Commenting on the SP-RLD tie-up, SK Dwivedi, a political analyst and former head of the department of political science at Lucknow University, said: “It is good that the two parties and their leaders, Akhilesh and Jayant, have behaved in a mature way without any tension and bickering between the two parties since they came together. This, despite the fact that both their fathers — Mulayam Singh Yadav and Ajit Singh — were sworn adversaries in politics. Akhilesh should look to bring more such regional players into the alliance.”Samajwadi Party national secretary Rajendra Chaudhary and his RLD counterpart Anil Dubey said that the two parties will be together for the 2022 UP assembly polls as well.The RLD and SP are currently campaigning together for the RLD’s Bulandshahr candidate Praveen Kumar Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-fluid-opposition-tie-ups-in-up-sp-rld-may-forge-long-term-alliance/story-XtG20U8PPISSleadAstZzL.html
13-10-2020||India||Act against BJD leaders violating Covid norms, BJP MP tells Naveen Patnaik||Smarting over the sealing of her office in Bhubaneswar over alleged violation of Covid-19 guidelines, BJP MP Aparajita Sarangi wrote to chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday for his ‘partial’ attitude in taking action while overlooking similar violations of Biju Janata Dal MLAs and ministers.Sarangi’s office in Bhubaneswar was sealed on October 10 after video clips emerged of celebration of her birthday in her office the previous day in which her supporters were seen without masks and violating social distancing guidelines. Soon after Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation sealed the office, a livid Sarangi started her office by the roadside to protest the action.In a stinging letter to the CM, the first-time BJP MP raised questions on the selective nature of the BMC in enforcing the rules even as the guidelines were reportedly violated by the BJD leaders frequently on several occasions.“I appreciate the alacrity with which BMC has taken this action; however, it is the selective nature of BMC’s action which raises suspicion regarding the intent behind such enforcement. I have come across innumerable instances of violation of Covid-19 regulations at BJD party headquarters as well as by the Ministers, MLAs and party workers. While no action has been initiated against such violations, the sealing of my office, that too without detection of a single Covid positive case in my office or among my supporters who were present in the office, does deserve answers from your government,” she wrote“The action of sealing the office of a sitting MP smacks of partiality and vindictiveness. Given the flagrant violations at BJD party office, I would also be looking at when the BJD party office will be sealed,” Sarangi said in the letter,” the MP said in her letter.Sarangi gave examples of alleged violations of Covid-19 regulations by minister of state for home, Divyashankar Mishra as well similar violations during the funeral event of BJD MLA Pradeep Maharathy, who died last week. “While a case has been filed against MLA Uma Samantray, minister(Sameer Dash) has been allowed to go scot-free. He had tested positive only a few days before and how he was allowed to participate in the funeral without specifically being tested negative. What action has been taken for such an unusual congregation at Swargadwar? she asked.Sarangi said the sealing of her office was intended to prevent her from discharging her responsibilities as a public representative. “I am now forced to hold my office on the roads of Bhubaneswar for the next 15 days. Under any circumstances the wheel of progress/development will not stop,” she said.However, BJD MP from Jagatsinghpur, Rajashree Mallick defended party MLA Umakanta Samantray and other leaders over the alleged violation of Covid-19 guidelines while attending the funeral of late senior leader Pradeep Maharathy at Swargadwar in Puri. “Uma has done nothing wrong in attending the funeral,” said Mallick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/act-against-bjd-leaders-violating-covid-norms-bjp-mp-tells-naveen-patnaik/story-vfdqFKXqNi1kIInFnTrZQL.html
13-10-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine expected in early 2021, distribution plan in works: Harsh Vardhan||India is likely to have a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by early next year and it will possibly come from several sources, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said in a meeting of the Group of Ministers on Tuesday, according to news agency ANI. “We’re expecting that early next year we should have vaccine in the country from maybe more than one source. Our expert groups are formulating strategies to plan on how to roll out the distribution of the vaccine in the country,” the health minister was quoted as saying by ANI. Follow live updates on coronavirus here The World Health Organization (WHO) chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan has also said that a vaccine will be ready for registration by the end of 2020 or early next year at the earliest. ALSO WATCH | By July, 40-50 crore vaccines for 20-25 crore people: India’s Covid target “As you know, we have about 40 vaccine candidates now in some stage of clinical trials, and 10 of them are in the phase three trials, which are the late-stage clinical trials, which will tell us about both the efficacy and the safety,” she said. Vardhan had earlier said that the government is working in collaboration with the state governments to collect data so as to ensure a fair and equitable distribution of vaccines, once they are ready. “Our utmost priority is how to ensure a vaccine for each and everybody in the country,” he had said.Click here complete coronavirus coverage In the latest episode of weekly Sunday Samwad, the health minister informed the citizens about the key factors that will be taken into account to ascertain the priority groups. “Prioritisation of groups to be vaccinated shall be based on key considerations, first is occupational hazard at the risk of exposure to the infection and second is the risk of developing severe disease and increased mortality,” he said. On the number of vaccines that will be available, the health minister on Sunday said that given the population size of the country, India may have to tie up with more than one vaccine manufacturer to ensure that everyone is able to access the shot. “All Covid-19 vaccines currently in India are in the phases 1, 2 or 3 of trials with results awaited. Adequate safety and efficacy data is required for emergency use authorization vaccine approval for ensuring patient safety. Further course of action will be based on data generated,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-expected-in-early-2021-distribution-plan-in-works-harsh-vardhan/story-B8cvFQSdvm9J97NAbDyngK.html
13-10-2020||India||App to help ease accessibility issues differently abled face in buildings, transport system||The ministry of social justice and empowerment is set to launch a mobile application which will allow the differently abled, elderly and even Covid-19 patients to lodge accessibility-related problems in buildings or transport infrastructure by simply clicking and uploading pictures from their mobile phones.Sugamya Bharat app is part of the ministry’s efforts to ensure a barrier free environment in government and other buildings as well as transport systems.In a letter dated October 7, the department of empowerment of persons with disabilities secretary, Shakuntala Doley Gamlin, has said that a decision was taken by the prime minister’s office in July 2019 for crowdsourcing a mobile app to enable persons with disabilities to register their complaints regarding access to places by uploading photographs.Also read: Social innovation hub on anvilShe said the Sugamya Bharat app would allow public participation in such issues faced by not just the differently abled but also pregnant women, children, and those who are temporarily disabled owing to illness, surgery etc.The department has also made a provision in the app for registering Covid-related issues, the official said in the letter.A project management unit has also been set up for running it. According to Gamlin, once someone has raised an issue or lodged a complaint about difficulty in accessing a building or a facility by uploading a picture and briefly describing the problem, the social justice ministry team would forward it to the concerned authorities. If the matter is not addressed soon, it will be taken up with the head of the department of the particular body. Reminders will be sent and the it would be followed up till the issue is addressed.Gamlin also asked every ministry and department to designate a senior officer as the nodal officer so that issues can be taken up and resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/app-to-help-ease-accessibility-issues-differently-abled-face-in-buildings-transport-system/story-ZTydvddJVqsVFi5ZMNgumM.html
13-10-2020||India||Eight firms submit bids for consultant to chart UP’s $1 trillion economy roadmap||A top management institute is among eight bidders that have submitted their proposals to the Uttar Pradesh government for selection as the consultant to perform the ‘herculean task’ of working out a roadmap to boost the state’s gross domestic product (GSDP) to one trillion dollars in the next five years.“The Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, is one among the eight bidders for the consultant and the state government will soon decide the date and time for technical presentation, evaluation and opening of financial bids,” confirmed a senior officer.With most agreeing that working out a roadmap to boost the size of GSDP to one trillion dollars is a challenging one, especially in view of the impact of Covid-19 on the state’s economy, the response to the state government’s request for proposal (RFP) is being considered encouraging.“The consultant will face a great challenge to suggest an out of the box idea for a roadmap to boost the size of GSDP to one trillion dollars. It looks like an aspirational goal rather than an achievable target. It will need a growth rate of nearly 45% per annum,” said Yashvir Tyagi, retired professor of economics, Lucknow University.The RFP document asks the consultant to design ‘monthly, quarterly and annual key performance indicators, how to measure them, and who should measure them and its online reporting mechanism’. It also asked the consultant to ‘make critical assessment (e.g. SWOT analysis) of existing institutional framework in the state to participate in the entire process towards achieving the mission…’It further asked the consultant to ‘develop strategic framework based on status and recent trends, determine multipliers between sectoral growth and impact on GSDP and assign targets and how to achieve them for each sector towards one trillion (dollar) economy’.The state government has already made it clear to the bidders that the work to boost the size of the state’s GSDP to one trillion dollars will be a herculean task.About the state’s economy, the RFP said, “The state has already embarked upon the journey of growth and prosperity. Resultantly, in 2018-19, GSDP has already touched Rs 15.80 lakh crore ($230 billion) with a rich growth rate of 7% over the previous year. However, it would be a challenging task to boost the size of the GSDP by nearly five times to reach the target of one trillion dollars in five years (2020-2025), discounting for dollar fluctuations and global trends.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-firms-submit-bids-for-consultant-to-chart-up-s-1-trillion-economy-roadmap/story-1gIklnVYZ1mFGWEG3Ke4XN.html
13-10-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 cases drop to 55,342; recoveries above 6.2 million||India continues to witness a decline in the number of daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). On Tuesday, the country recorded 55,342 new infections, the lowest in nearly two months, according to figures released by the ministry of health and family welfare.Earlier in the day, the ministry said that India’s average daily Covid-19 cases have been declining for the past five weeks. “India is showing a trend of declining average daily cases over the past 5 weeks,” the ministry tweeted and shared a graph that showed the daily average figures from the week starting September 9. The country’s total caseload has gone up to 7,175,880 with the maximum number of active cases coming from Maharashtra (2,21,637), followed by Karnataka (1,20,289), Andhra Pradesh (46,295) and Tamil Nadu (44,095). The active cases in the country that stood at 8,38,729 on Tuesday have remained below 9,00,000 since October 9 and have steadily maintained the downward trend, the ministry said.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Even as the toll from the disease has gone up to 1,09,856, recoveries continue to bind hopes as 6,227,295 people have recovered in home isolation or have been discharged from hospitals. The recovery rate is currently at 86.36 per cent.As pharma firms across the globe are racing to come out with a vaccine against the disease, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has said that the shot may be ready for registration by the end of 2020 or early next year at the earliest. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “As you know, we have about 40 vaccine candidates now in some stage of clinical trials, and 10 of them are in the phase three trials, which are the late-stage clinical trials, which will tell us about both the efficacy and the safety. So, the best we could make a guess or predict, looking at when a trial started and when it is likely to have enough data to submit to the regulators, is [at] earliest from December of 2020 into the early part of 2021,” WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Meanwhile, the global infection tally has surpassed 37 million and India is only second to the United States, which has 7,804,047 confirmed cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-cases-drop-to-55-342-recoveries-above-6-2-million/story-5OXD7UZXuVp96ohbie9SAK.html
13-10-2020||India||Bombay HC refuses pre-arrest bail to head of firm accused of cheating IITM of Rs. 2.62 cr||The Bombay high court last week refused anticipatory bail to the managing director of a private firm accused of causing wrongful loss of Rs. 2.62 crore to the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune by supplying sub-standard digital display boards to the institute.The anti-corruption wing of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had booked Anil Girkar, managing director of M/s.Video Wall India Private Ltd., his wife Manisha, also a director in the firm, along with some scientists and engineers of IITM in connection with the alleged fraud.The CBI alleged that in 2012, the firm was awarded a contract to supply 12 high quality digital display boards and three indoor LCD display for displaying data of current air quality, meteorological data, forecast at different places in Pune, as part of IITM’s SAFAR - System of Air Quality Forecasting and Research - project. The firm, however, supplied sub-standard displays and the officers concerned at IITM fraudulently approved the items as quality products, as contemplated under the tender.The couple had moved HC after the sessions judge at Pune rejected their anticipatory bail applications on August 14, 2020.They had questioned the belated allegation of fraud and escalation of prices. It was argued on their behalf that the contract was awarded to them after their bid was scrutinized by an expert committee.They also contended that there was no need of custodial interrogation of the applicants, since the supply was made by their firm as per specifications mentioned in the tender notice. The contract was successfully discharged and after completing the work of operation and maintenance for five years, in 2017 it was also given an extension for three years, and this sequence of events clearly leads to an inference that there was no deficiency on their part, they said.Advocate Hiten Venegaokar, who represented CBI, on the other hand pointed out that the tender document envisaged supply of branded products by certain Japanese and German manufacturers, but the firm supplied China-made cheap display boards. He also pointed out that the firm imported the boards from a Chinese firm for a total amount of Rs. 24.67 lakh, and charged IITM Rs. 2.98 crore for the same - about eight times the procurement cost.Justice Bharati Dangre accepted the contention. The judge noted that the tender required the display boards with brightness of 9,000 NIT, but those supplied had brightness of only 6000 NIT. Similarly frame refresh rate was required to be at least 4,000 Hz, as against the actual of 60 Hz.“The (internal) enquiry (at IITM) therefore revealed that what was supplied was sub-standard material. It was lacking in the particulars specified in the tender notice and in the supply order,” said justice Dangre while rejecting Girkar’s pre-arrest bail plea.HC, however, granted anticipatory bail to his wife, Anita, on the ground that she had no role to play in the entire transaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-refuses-pre-arrest-bail-to-head-of-firm-accused-of-cheating-iitm-of-rs-2-62-cr/story-xQzlTsjzspmYxqSJq2s22L.html
13-10-2020||India||India’s average daily Covid-19 cases declining for 5 weeks: Health ministry||The Union health ministry on Tuesday said that India’s trajectory of daily Covid-19 cases has been witnessing a downward trend over the last five weeks. “India is showing a trend of declining average daily cases over the past 5 weeks,” the ministry wrote on Twitter along with a graph that showed the daily average figures from the week starting September 9.According to the government, the average daily cases between September 9 and September 15 stood at 92,830, which came down to 90,346 between September 16 and September 22. The falling trend continued with 83,232 average new cases between September 23 and September 29 and in the corresponding two weeks, the average dropped to 77,113 and 72,576, data cited by the government showed. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The ministry also pointed towards the declining number of active cases. After a month, on October 9, active cases fell below the 900,000-mark and have steadily followed a downward slope since, it said in the tweet. As of Monday, there were 861,853 active cases of the coronavirus disease while the total caseload in the country stood at 7,120,538. Over 100,000 lakh people have died of the infection in the country. The recovery figures, however, continue to keep hopes up. So far 6,149,535 have recovered from the viral infection in home isolation or have been discharged from hospitals. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage In another tweet, the ministry hailed sustained testing efforts for the encouraging results. “The Centre in close collaboration with the State/UT governments has adopted a graded strategy of #COVID19 management and public health response. Sustained efforts of TEST TRACK TRACE TREAT TECHNOLOGY are progressively yielding encouraging outcomes,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-average-daily-covid-19-cases-declining-for-5-weeks-health-ministry/story-5oGqonU9Ptnbg6w6UhOOpO.html
13-10-2020||India||Enraged over attacks, seers’ body demands security||Enraged over the killings of priests and seers reported from several states in the recent past, Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti, an umbrella body of Hindu seers, has said it will launch a nationwide stir if the government does not provide security to seers.The demand for security for the seer community was made at a meeting of seers from across the country was held and presided over by the samiti’s general secretary Swami Jeetendranand Saraswati in Varanasi on Monday. Also Read: No trace of eminent Akhara Parishad seer even after 3 years, saints demand CBI probeSpeaking on the occasion, Patalpuri Matt’s mahant Baba Balakdas Maharaj alleged that Naxals were behind the attacks on seers. Mahant Jagdishwar Das Maharaj of Noida said seers of Delhi and NCR were ready to support the agitation.On April 16 this year, two sadhus and their driver were travelling from Mumbai to attend a funeral in Gujarat’s Surat when their vehicle was stopped and they were allegedly attacked and killed by a mob in Gadchinchile village in Palghar town of Maharashtra in the presence of police. On October 7, a priest was allegedly set afire in Rajasthan’s Karauli district, and four days later, on October 11, a priest was attacked in Gonda district of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enraged-over-attacks-seers-body-demands-security/story-lBQmhJtO8NfOURBlHhR6yJ.html
13-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Vaccine candidates and therapies and where they stand||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) roared back as the world reopened after spending months under lockdown. This underscored an urgent need for treatment and vaccines.Billionaire and Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates has said that normalcy will come only when second generation of Covid-19 vaccine will be rolled out. The World Health Organisation (WHO), meanwhile, believes that a Covid-19 vaccine will be ready for registration by the end of 2020 or early next year at the earliest.The virus that was first detected in China late last year has now touched nearly every corner of the globe. As of October 12, 37.7 million had been infected by Covid-19.The race to develop a vaccine is moving ahead at an unprecedented pace, with over 150 candidates in development and some two dozen candidates already being tested in people, according to news agency Reuters. However, there are still no word on a vaccine’s availability.Here are some of the drugs, therapies and vaccines under development to fight Covid-19:Remdesivir: The antiviral drug given by infusion previously failed as an Ebola treatment but showed promise against certain coronaviruses in animal studies. In a randomised trial, remdesivir led to significant reduction in recovery time of hospitalised patients compared with a placebo, demonstrating that it does impact Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. More than a dozen trials are underway in China, Europe and the United States with positive results starting to emerge.Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ): The HCQ is widely used for treating malaria, but it has now been found to have anti-viral as well as anti-inflammatory activity. During trials, the HCQ successfully blocked the novel coronavirus’ entry into cells. Subsequent studies have found little benefit in patients treated with the drug. Health experts caution that HCQ should never be used without a prescription and could lead to dangerous side effects. Dozens of clinical trials to assess benefits of the drug to Covid-19 patients are ongoing, but several major trials were halted following a safety warning by the World Health Organisation (WHO) in May.Aspirin, Clopidogrel (Plavix), Rivaroxaban (Xarelto), Atorvastatin (Lipitor), Omeprazole (Prilosec): These have been put under trial in the United Kingdom. The drugs try to mitigate the effect of Covid-19 on heart muscles. These cardioprotective drugs will be tried on 3,000 patients in the UK, with a completion date of March 30, 2021.BCG tuberculosis vaccine: Bacillus Calmette-Guerin tuberculosis vaccine induces a broad innate immune-system response, which has been shown to protect against infection or severe illness with other respiratory pathogens. Large trials of the drug were conducted in Australia and the Netherlands to understand its efficacy in fighting the vius that causes Covid-19. In a small trial in the United Arab Emirates, none of the 71 hospital staff who received a BCG booster shot in early March had been infected with the virus by late June, compared with 18 of 201 staff who did not receive the vaccine and tested Covid-19 positive.Convalescent plasma: This is a method which is being considered by health experts to treat Covid-19. Blood plasma from recovered Covid-19 patients is transfused into patients who are currently ill, in the hope that freshly-made antibodies will help fight the virus. The method has been used for more than 100 years and carries little risk of harm or side effects. In Delhi, the government led by Arvind Kejriwal has opened centres where plasma is donated. Kejriwal has also urged people of Delhi to come out in large numbers to donate the plasma which can then be used to treat patients suffering from Covid-19.NKG2D-ACE2 CAR-NK cells: The non-drug therapy pairs NKG2D receptor for the immune system’s natural killer (NK) cells that play a major role attacking foreign invaders like cancer or viruses, with the ACE-2 receptor that the coronavirus uses to enter human cells. The therapy is being tested by Chinese firm Chongqing Sidemu Biotechnology Technology Co Ltd. More than 90 patients are undergoing tests to know whether this cell therapy can prevent the Sars-CoV-2 virus from entering cells and multiplying.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-candidates-and-therapies-and-where-they-stand/story-hUGWVbUvQZhjQVX5gEfpPL.html
13-10-2020||India||Heavy rain warning for peninsular and central India as deep depression crosses land||The deep depression over west central Bay of Bengal crossed the north Andhra Pradesh coast close to Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh and 100km nearly east-northeast of Narsapur in Andhra Pradesh between 6.30am and 7.30am Tuesday with a wind speed of 55 to 65 kmph, gusting to 75 kmph.The deep depression will bring heavy to extremely heavy rain in parts of peninsular and central India and the west coast, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The depression is being monitored by coastal Doppler Weather Radars of Machilipatnam, Visakhapatnam and Gopalpur. As per radar imageries, the rain bands lie along the coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh and adjoining interior districts. Moderate convection also lies over south Odisha and Telangana.Also Read: Monsoon withdrawal delayed till October 20: IMDHeavy to extremely heavy rainfall (over 20cm per day) at isolated places is likely over Telangana; coastal and north interior Karnataka, south Konkan and Goa, Madhya Maharashtra and Marathwada, Andhra Pradesh, Rayalaseema, south interior Karnataka, south Odisha, south Chhattisgarh and Vidarbha on October 13 and 14 according to IMD’s Tuesday morning bulletin.IMD has advised fishermen not to venture into westcentral, northwest and southwest Bay of Bengal, and along and off Andhra Pradesh-Odisha-Tamil Nadu, Puducherry coasts till October 13 evening and over the Gulf of Mannar during October 12 to 13.Also Read: Very poor air chokes parts of NW IndiaThere is no likelihood of monsoon withdrawal resuming until the depression dissipates, IMD scientists said. “The system will cross coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalseema, Maharashtra, south Gujarat etc. and emerge in the Arabian Sea. It will bring heavy and widespread rain along its path. We cannot say anything about monsoon withdrawal when there is so much rain. Another low pressure area is also likely to form soon after the current one dissipates,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.The monsoon withdrawal line remains along Faizabad, Fatehpur, Nowgong, Rajgarh, Ratlam, Vallabh, Vidyanagar and Porbandar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-warning-for-peninsular-and-central-india-as-deep-depression-crosses-land/story-J3wZ1gY2S6IzypOomTURzJ.html
13-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Steady decline in cases in Maharashtra, trend could reverse in festive season||Maharashtra is witnessing a steady decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases for over a month now. But with festive season approaching, the state health department officials say the trend could reverse if people do not follow safety measures during celebrations. On Monday, Maharashtra reported its lowest spike in 90 days with 7,089 new infections pushing the state’s tally to 1,535,315. The state had recorded 6,741 cases on July 14. In Maharashtra, the daily cases peaked at 24,886 on September 11. Since the second week of September, the state has seen a decline in the daily caseload. The seven-day average of daily cases in Maharashtra touched 21,996 between September 8 and September 14, the highest so far. In the four weeks since, the average number of cases dropped and stood at 11,666 on Monday— down by 46% from the peak in September.In October, so far, the average rate of samples testing positive has been 17.09%, which has brought the state’s overall positivity rate further under 20%. Also read: The mystery of India’s low coronavirus death rateSince October 1, the daily rate of samples testing positive has decreased from 18.25% to 14.47% on October 11. In the last 24 hours, 54,322 samples were tested, of which 7,089 tested positive, which is a positivity rate of 13.04%.State health department officials warned that the curve may rise again with the festive season coming. Officials said that people will have to maintain discipline in celebrations during Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali in the coming days as lowering the guard could shoot up the Covid-19 cases.“We have already witnessed what happens with increased movement of people; cases increased between June and September. We are seeing some decline in the number of cases over the last fortnight. The recovery rate has gone over 80%. People should be disciplined and maintain physical distancing and wear masks. Or else there could be some increase in new cases after the festive period,” a senior health department official said requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-steady-decline-in-cases-in-maharashtra-trend-could-reverse-in-festive-season/story-JRlhjSUCPSoebhGeDvUlXO.html
13-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Normalcy only when second generation of Covid-19 vaccine is out,’ says Bill Gates and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Normalcy only when second generation of Covid-19 vaccine is out’: Bill GatesMicrosoft co-founder Bill Gates has given a gloomy picture for the world looking to get to normal after being hit by the coronavirus pandemic. In a television programme, the billionaire said that life will get back to normal only when a second generation of Covid-19 vaccine become available. Read more.State of the economy: The recovery questionLatest data for two important economic indicators, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and the Index of Industrial Production (IIP), released on Monday, show that the economy remains in a grim situation. Read more.Apple iPhone 12 launch: What to expect, how to watch livestreamApple’s biggest event of the year will take place later tonight where it is expected to launch as many as four new iPhones. The iPhone 12 series is expected to come with a redesigned look, 5G connectivity along with the incremental upgrades. Read more.‘Kareena Kapoor is the fashionable one, Karisma was more studious,’ says dad Randhir KapoorVeteran actor Randhir Kapoor has spoken about his two daughters, actors Karisma and Kareena Kapoor. Both have ruled the industry, having made their debuts within a decade of each other. While Karisma is seen in limited projects these days, Kareena remains among the top names in Bollywood. Read more.Netflix India presents funny crossover between Welcome and Taare Zameen Par. WatchLast week, Netflix India shared a post on their official Instagram account with the hashtag #CrossoversNobodyAskedFor. The share showed a scene from the famous American sitcom Friends starring Phoebe and another one from the popular Bollywood film Kal Ho Naa Ho featuring a character named Camilla. Watch full video here.IPL 2020: ‘Before the end of 2020, he will be a part of Indian team,’ Aakash Chopra’s huge statement on Mumbai Indians starSuryakumar Yadav has been in sensational form in the ongoing season of the Indian Premier League 2020. Up against Delhi Capitals on Sunday, he proved to be the gamechanger, smashing 53 runs in 32 balls on a surface that was proving to be difficult to bat on for most batsmen. Read more.Trump or Biden: Amid India-China faceoff, who’s better for Delhi’s cause?China experts Atul Aneja, a senior journalist, and Srikanth Kondapalli, Professor of Chinese Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), discuss with Hindustan Times’ Aditi Prasad how the US Elections in November is going to be critical for Delhi amid India-China standoff. Aneja said, “If Joe Biden comes as the next President, I don’t think they’re going to have the resolve to confront China.” Watch full video here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-normalcy-only-when-second-generation-of-covid-19-vaccine-is-out-says-bill-gates-and-all-the-latest-news/story-DjBKegzmvx48q0GhGwfJ5K.html
13-10-2020||India||Mumbai power outage: Electricity restored in suburban areas after a wait of 15 hours||Over 15 hours after a power outage in Mumbai, electricity was restored in parts of the city, Navi Mumbai and Thane around 2am Tuesday. In Mumbai, suburban areas of Mulund, Bhandup, Vikhroli and some parts of Malad and Santacruz had no power or faced frequent power cuts till late Monday night. At midnight, state energy minister Nitin Raut stated that the staff was working on a war-footing to restore power in parts of Mulund, Thane and Navi Mumbai. He had earlier said that the areas did not receive power supply as around 500MW of Tata Power plant was not in sync with the system yet. Also Read: Power outage in Mumbai: Why did city’s islanding system for uninterrupted electricity supply fail?Later he tweeted, “Tata’s generation started and picking up. I am personally monitoring the situation and assure you that it will gain momentum in an hour.” Millions of residents were affected after a major outage in Mumbai on Monday morning took place due to “multiple trippings” at the substations supplying power to Mumbai, bringing it to a complete standstill. While power was restored in some parts in three hours, many parts were in the dark till late at night. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday evening ordered a probe in the incident. He also asked officials to remain alert since heavy rainfall is predicted in Mumbai. Monday’s blackout from around 10.05am paralysed India’s financial capital, already straining under the Covid-19 pandemic, stranding thousands of train passengers; affecting hospitals, online exams and mobile telephone services; disrupting the new normal of work-from-home and trapping people in elevators. BJP MLA from Mulund Mihir Kotecha also said that inverters had dried up at two hospitals in Mulund on Monday night resulting in complete chaos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-power-outage-electricity-restored-in-suburban-areas-after-a-wait-of-15-hours/story-hjaMqHdM70RRGZ9IjywW0L.html
13-10-2020||India||India, US too cautious with ‘elephant in room’ China: US official||While referring to China as the “elephant in the room”, visiting US Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun said here on Monday that India and the United States have been “too cautious” towards China’s reaction to the strategic ties between New Delhi and Washington.Speaking at the Ananta Centre India-US Forum event, Biegun said: “Of course, as we advance in this direction, there is an elephant in the room: China. Last week, in advance of Secretary Pompeo’s meeting with minister Jaishankar and their Japanese and Australian counterparts in Tokyo, I read remarks by the esteemed, retired Indian diplomat Ashok Kantha. I was particularly struck by a comment he made.”“I could not agree more with Ambassador Kantha. We have been too cautious. Last week’s important and successful Quad ministerial leaves the United States confident that perhaps, just maybe, we can say that we are present at the creation of those strategic linkages to which Ambassador Kantha refers,” he added.External affairs minister S Jaishankar and US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo had last week met for the Quad (Australia, India, Japan, US) ministerial dialogue in Tokyo last week.Biegun further said that Washington appreciates New Delhi’s strategic autonomy adding that there is “enormous opportunity” in the United States’ security relationship with India.“In thinking about the future, it is no secret that I see enormous opportunity in the United States’ security relationship with India. India has a strong and proud tradition of strategic autonomy, and we respect that,” the US Deputy Secretary of State said.He added that the Trump administration does not “seek to change” India’s traditions. “Rather we want to explore how to empower them and India’s ability to defend its own sovereignty and democracy and to advance Indian interests, across the Indo-Pacific region. As the United States assesses our own interests and how they intersect with India’s, we have seen the conditions emerge for an organic and deeper partnership--not an alliance on the post-war model, but a fundamental alignment along shared security and geopolitical goals, shared interests, and shared values,” Biegun added.Beigun, on Monday, arrived in New Delhi for his three-day visit with an aim to advance the United States-India Comprehensive Global Strategic PartnershipExternal affairs minister Jaishankar on Monday met with visiting Biegun and exchanged views on world politics and regional issues.“... Appreciated the steady progress of our bilateral cooperation. Confident that our Strategic Partnership would continue to deepen,” Jaishankar tweeted.Beigun’s visit to India comes ahead of the upcoming “2+2” talks at the foreign and defence ministerial level between India and the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-too-cautious-with-elephant-in-room-china-us-official/story-DVkb8Q3DeklyaOVVXwBWVK.html
13-10-2020||India||7-year-old girl in Tehri becomes fifth leopard victim in less than a month in Uttarakhand||A 7-year-old girl became the latest victim of leopards in Uttarakhand after she was attacked outside her home in Tehri Garhwal district late Sunday night, officials said on Monday.This is the fifth case of a child being killed by a leopard in Uttarakhand in the past one month. DS Meena, divisional forest officer of Narendra Nagar forest division in the district said that the incident occurred late on Sunday night when the girl went to the washroom outside the house by herself. “The incident occurred around 9:30 pm on Sunday night when the 7-year-old was attacked by a leopard outside her house. The girl was going to use the washroom outside the house when the animal dragged her away. Her body was later recovered from a nearby forest area on Sunday night itself and sent for post-mortem examination on Monday afternoon,” said the DFO. Villagers protested after the incident demanding that the leopard be declared as a man-eater and eliminated. They have been cautioned against letting their children come out of houses without being accompanied by elders. The DFO further said that the forest department has installed a cage and camera traps to track the leopard’s movements and catch it. On October 7, a 7-year-old girl was killed in a leopard attack outside her house in Berinag division of Pithoragarh district. On October 1, a 14-year-old boy was killed by a leopard in Pauri Garhwal district when he was grazing cattle in the forest area. On September 24, a leopard killed an 11-year-old girl in Pithoragarh district when she was collecting fodder near her house. On September 19, a 7-year-old girl was mauled to death by a leopard when she was playing near her house in Almora district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-year-old-girl-in-tehri-becomes-fifth-leopard-victim-in-less-than-a-month-in-uttarakhand/story-7hzSDiTzWc1egNQYIixA5I.html
13-10-2020||India||Nagaland minister dies of Covid-19 complications, death toll climbs to 18||Nagaland’s environment minister C M Chang died of Covid-19 complications on Monday in the state capital, officials said. He was 77.Chang, a retired IAS officer and former Member of Parliament, Lok Sabha (2009-13), who tested positive for Covid-19 was undergoing treatment at the Naga Hospital Authority Kohima (NHAK) for several underlying health problems, sources said.State Nodal Officer for Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, Dr. Nyan Kikon said Chang’s death has taken the tally of Covid-19 fatalities in the state to 18 while six deaths are still under investigation. Nagaland’s total active Covid-19 cases stood at 7,240 on October 12.The state government has announced a two-day mourning period from October 13 to October 14 as a mark of respect to the minister during which the national flag will be flown at half mast and there will be no official entertainment. A state funeral will also be accorded to Chang.Chang was elected to the Nagaland Legislative Assembly from 51 Noksen constituency under Tuensang district in 2013 and later retained the same seat in 2018 on Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) ticket.In a condolence message, chief minister Neiphiu Rio described Chang as a forthright, good-natured and a fine gentleman who had made significant sacrifices for the welfare of society. “He (Chang) was a close friend of mine for several years and we shared a close working relationship for decades. He was like a brother, a trusted advisor and a loyal associate. I am unable to fully express the loss, especially at this juncture,” stated Rio.Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi expressed shock over the demise of Chang and said the minister would be remembered for his contribution to the state of Nagaland as an able administrator, a prominent parliamentarian, a minister and a hugely popular public figure.“In his demise, not only has the Chang community lost a tall leader but is a loss for the entire state and the country,” Ravi stated while conveying his condolences to Chang’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-minister-dies-of-covid-19-complications-death-toll-climbs-to-18/story-H9KIdFB1JotbIdHJ5FUpFI.html
13-10-2020||India||PM Modi to release autobiography of Dr Balasaheb Vikhe Patil today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release the autobiography of Dr Balasaheb Vikhe Patil and rename Pravara Rural Education Society as Loknete Dr Balasaheb Vikhe Patil Pravara Rural Education Society on October 13 at 11 am via video conferencing.Dr Balasaheb Vikhe Patil served as Member of Lok Sabha for multiple terms. His autobiography is titled ‘Deh Vechwa Karani’ which means ‘dedicating one’s life for a noble cause’, and is aptly named as he dedicated his entire life to the benefit of society through his path-breaking work in various fields, including agriculture and cooperatives.Pravara Rural Education Society was established in 1964 at Loni in Ahmednagar district, with the aim to provide a world-class education to the rural masses and empower the girl child. The Society is currently serving with the core mission of educational, social, economical, cultural, physical and psychological development of students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-release-autobiography-of-dr-balasaheb-vikhe-patil-today/story-bfR0tczDC2Qcf5tRNPZv8L.html
13-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Election: Over 52,000 voters opt for postal ballots in 71 constituencies||More than 52,000 voters belonging to Senior Citizen (above 80 years of age) and PwD (Persons with Disabilities) categories, have opted to exercise the facility to vote through postal ballots in the forthcoming phase 1 of General Election to the Legislative Assembly of Bihar 2020, the Election Commission said on Monday. “These electors will be provided postal ballots on pre-informed date(s) by the Returning Officers with proper security and videography arrangements to ensure secrecy, safety, and transparency in the process. This is the first time that postal ballot facility is being extended to both the categories in Bihar elections,” the EC said.Also Read: Bihar assembly elections 2020: BJP releases list of 46 candidates for phase 2Booth Level Officers of 71 Assembly Constituencies in Bihar have reached out to more than four lakh such electors. Remaining voters intend to visit the booth on the poll day for voting.General Election to the Legislative Assembly of Bihar 2020 were announced on September 25. In the first phase elections, polling in 71 ACs spread over 16 districts of Bihar, is to be held on October 28.Earlier, during Commission’s visit to Bihar from September 29 - October 01, 2020, attention was drawn to certain concerns regarding the implementation of this provision for the above categories of voters, the poll body said.To comprehensively address these concerns, on October 3, 2020, Commission had directed: “BLO will visit to the houses of the concerned electors, as provided by the RO, in the Polling Station area and deliver Form- 12-D to the concerned electors. If an elector is not available, he/she will share his/her contact details and revisit to collect it within five days of the notification.”Also Read: Bihar polls: Nitish Kumar vows ‘progress with justice’ in first rally“The elector may or may not opt for postal ballot in the acknowledgement attached with the Form 12-D. If he/she opts for postal ballot, then the BLO will collect the filled-in Form 12-D from the house of the elector within five days of the notification and deposit it with the RO forthwith. BLO shall deposit all the acknowledgement forms with the RO along with all Form 12-D. Sector Officer shall supervise it under the overall supervision of RO.”In subsequent two phases of elections in Bihar and in bye-elections in all other States, this exercise will continue so that electoral process becomes more accessible, inclusive and SAFE for these categories during the period of Covid-19. BLOs will visit approximately 12 lakh such electors’ homes in Bihar in the next two phases for this purpose, the press statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-over-52-000-voters-opt-for-postal-ballots-in-71-constituencies/story-pOjX15zbTZtHInNNE1UimK.html
13-10-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah never said Article 370 will be restored with China’s help, clarifies National Conference||The National Conference (NC) has rubbished reports that its patron Farooq Abdullah said that Article 370 of the Constitution will be restored in the Kashmir Valley with China’s help. Abdullah made the remarks during a television interview.The NC said that its leader’s comments were twisted. It said that Abdullah never justified the expansionist or aggressive intention, what is being claimed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Our patron was highlighting the anger of the people because of the abrogation of Article 370 last year. He has been doing that the past month. He said that nobody is ready to accept these changes in Jammu and Kashmir,” a spokesperson of the NC said, according to Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan.“Our leader never said that Article 370 will be restored with the help of China, which was claimed by BJP leader Shambit Patra at a press conference. He also presented some earlier statements of Mr Farooq Abdullah in a wrong manner,” Hindustan further quoted the spokesperson as saying.ALSO WATCH | BJP slams Farooq Abdullah’s Article 370 & China remark, says it’s ‘seditious’Abdullah said in a television interview on Sunday he wished that with China’s support, Article 370 of the Constitution, which conferred special status on Jammu and Kashmir, will be restored.In the interview, Abdullah noted that China was not happy with the nullification of Article 370, which was scrapped in August last year by Parliament.“As far as China is concerned, I didn’t bring {the} Chinese president here. Our Prime Minister invited him to Gujarat and even did jhoola sawari with him. He [PM Modi] even took him to Chennai and had food with him,” he had said.The former chief minister of J&K said that China “never accepted” the nullification of Article 370. “They said till you restore Article 370, we won’t stop because it has now become an open issue,” he said.“May Allah wish that our people get help from their might and our Articles 370 and 35-A get restored,” Abdullah said.The BJP termed the comments “seditious”. “It is saddening as well as worrying. A sitting MP is using such words for the country. He thinks that China’s aggression is because abrogation of Article 370 has happened. He categorically states that since Indian Parliament abrogated Article 370, China is disturbed and that is why China’s aggression is justified. He seems to justify the expansionist tendencies of China,” BJP leader Sambit Patra said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-never-said-article-370-will-be-restored-with-china-s-help-clarifies-national-conference/story-LtEekST6Km1b4fEOrwMfdM.html
13-10-2020||India||‘No oppression took place in Hathras, incident was fabricated,’ says BJP MP Mohan Mandavi||In Chhattisgarh, BJP MP Mohan Mandavi has hit out against the Congress for protesting and portraying as “oppression” the recent incident of assault and alleged rape in Hathras, which he termed as “banavati” (fabricated) and questioned why Congress leaders have not visited Bastar, where a tribal girl was allegedly gangraped.Addressing a public gathering Mohan Mandavi said, “...No oppression took place there (Hathras). Congress leaders are going there-where nothing has happened-by fabricating and portraying it as oppression. If a CBI investigation is conducted then in every 4 to 5 villages such incidents will be found. Why are they not coming to Bastar where an incident occurred with tribals?” Later on, speaking to media, Mandavi said, “In the Bastar region, so much of atrocities are taking place against women. The government is sleeping. They go to Hathras which is a ‘banavati’ (fabricated) incident but the MLAs, and Chief Minister (Bhupesh Baghel) in the state does not pay attention to incidents happening here.”A 19-year-old girl had succumbed to her injuries at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 29 after being assaulted and allegedly gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras on September 14.Also, a young tribal woman allegedly died by suicide at her house this July after she was allegedly raped by seven people, including three minors, at nearby Kanagaon where she had gone to attend a wedding.The case was brought to light after the girl’s father attempted to kill himself because he could not get an FIR registered. Police exhumed the body of the girl and sent it for autopsy. Five of the accused have been arrested and Dhanora Station House Officer Ramesh Sori was suspended for negligence in registering rape case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-oppression-took-place-in-hathras-incident-was-fabricated-says-bjp-mp-mohan-mandavi/story-lmKkfccmZcJ25qG5HXn0RN.html
13-10-2020||India||Balwinder Singh a target in TMC’s fight against BJP, says Akal Takht jathedar||Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Monday condemned the October 8 incident at Howrah in which a Sikh man’s turban fell off while he was arrested for carrying a pistol at a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) agitation.The incident triggered outrage as the pagri (turban) and kesh (unshorn hair) are an integral part of the Sikh faith. Akali Dal leaders have alleged that the man, Balwinder Singh, was dragged by his hair. The Akal Takht is the highest temporal seat of Sikhism and its jathedar is the leader of the clergy. The National Commission for Minorities on Monday also sought a report from the state government on this incident within 15 days Balwinder Singh is in police custody and has been charged with carrying a pistol, the licence for which is not valid in West Bengal. In a video message circulated among members of the Sikh community, Giani Harpreet Singh has accused the West Bengal government of making Balwinder Singh a target in the political fight between the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP. “In the ongoing fight between TMC and BJP, Balwinder has been made a target by the Mamata Banerjee government. This is absolutely unacceptable. He has licence for the weapon and it is valid across India,” he said in Punjabi. “The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa has gone to Bengal and talked to police officials. It seems the Bengal government, especially the chief minister, has made up her mind to play with the life of the young Sikh. Her fight is with the BJP. Let her continue with that fight but this man should not be made a target,” said the jathedar. “The incident has caused anger and frustration among Sikhs across the world. Balwinder Singh is an innocent man. Mamata Banerjee should do justice and release the man without any condition,” he added. Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who is also an Akali Dal leader, has challenged the charges brought by the state police against the accused. He wrote a four-page complaint to Virendra, the director general of police, on Monday. “I have shown the local police copies of the original licence and the district magistrate’s office at Rajouri, Kashmir, has also confirmed that area validity of the licence was extended to cover all states. I have filed a police complaint. I will also file a writ petition in the Calcutta high court,” Sirsa told HT. He shared photos of the original licence on his social media page along with videos in which Balwinder Singh’s wife appealed for his release. HT tried to contact Virendra several times on Monday afternoon but nobody picked up the phone in his office. The letter sent to chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay by the national commission for minorities said it sought the report on the basis of a complaint received from Tejinder Pal Singh Bagga. A copy of the letter was also sent to Virendra. Bagga is one of the spokespersons of the Delhi unit of the BJP. He shared an image of the letter on Twitter. A delegation of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee met West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday and sought his intervention. “Concerned at adversarial stance @WBPolice @HomeBengal with all out effort to garner and manipulate support for inhuman treatment meted out #BalvinderSingh. Time @MamataOfficial for healing touch rather than be in justification mode. Law allows capping of such wrongs,” Dhankhar tweeted on Monday. In a second tweet he referred to a Supreme Court judgement and recalled that Rabindranath Tagore returned his Nobel prize after the Jallianwala Bagh massacre by the British. “Apex Court dictum in D K Basu was outraged @MamataOfficial. Recall Kabiguru felt pain of Jallianawala Bagh massacre thousand Kms away here & renounced his title. Time to vindicate Tagore so that we hold our ‘head high’ and not ‘in shame’ Time to be in rectification mode,” wrote Dhankar. After the October 8 incident, Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal tweeted, “Strongly condemn the vicious attack on a Sikh security official Balwinder Singh & disrespect of his #turban by West Bengal Police. The dishonour has infuriated Sikhs across the world. I urge @MamataOfficial ji to take exemplary action against the erring policemen.” TMC leaders refused to comment on the developments on Monday, saying the government was looking into these issues. On Sunday, the state home department said that a certain political party was adding communal colour to the incident. “Our Sikh brothers and sisters live here in West Bengal in perfect peace and harmony, in happiness and tranquility, with respect from all of us for their faith and practices. A recent incident when one isolated individual got caught with one illegally carried firearm in an agitation that was not authorised and is now being twisted out of context, distorted and given communal colours in fractious and partisan interests,” tweeted the state home department. “One political party is giving communal colour to the subject in narrow partisan interests in a manner that Bengal does not believe in. Policing was done as per law, but highest respect for the Sikh panth and ways from the state government is affirmed,” the tweet added without naming the BJP. The home department did not make any statement on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/balwinder-singh-a-target-in-tmc-s-fight-against-bjp-says-akal-takht-jathedar/story-fZK8DupzdBChsdaeL3qDXM.html
13-10-2020||India||Key posts vacant as RTI law completes 15 years||Around one-third of information commissions in India are headless, one-fourth of information commission posts are lying vacant and in Jharkhand and Tripura, the commissions are defunct, two reports on 15 years of the Right To Information (RTI) law said on Monday.The transparency law came into force on October 10, 2005, giving a statutory right to citizens to seek a response from the government to questions they had; in a way, it became the biggest tool of grievance redressal. With the passage of time, the burden of replying to the applications increased, which lengthened the response time, leading to a higher backlog of RTI applications. In these 15 years, around 33 million RTI applications were filed with various government departments across the country, said Transparency International India (TII), an anti-corruption watchdog; the number is based on annual reports of information commissions across India.Only about 9% of these RTI applications resulted in a second appeal, meaning that over 90% of the applicants were satisfied with the government’s response, which transparency law activists said is RTI’s biggest achievement.The first appeal against a dissatisfactory RTI reply is filed with the government department from where the reply is sought. And, the second appeal is with the information commissions, an independent body that can direct departments to provide the information and impose a fine for delay in providing it.As India headed into the 15th year of RTI amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the information commissions received severe setbacks.The Jharkhand information commission is without a commissioner since May 8, 2020, when the incumbent, acting chief information commissioner Himanshu Chaudhary, retired. “We have invited applications in January but the appointment is pending in the absence of clear directives from the assembly secretariat,” said Sudhir Kumar Ranjan, joint secretary, Jharkhand’s personnel department. The appointment is stuck as the state Assembly is yet to appoint leader of opposition, who is a member of the appointments committee headed by the chief minister.The Tripura information commission also has not had a single commissioner since April 2020, after G Kameswara Rao, former chief secretary, retired. State government officials said they were in the process of making the appointment.A report by Satark Nagarik Sangathan (SNS), a citizens’ group working to promote transparency in government functioning, said nine states including Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Rajasthan do not have a chief information commissioner, whose appointment under the RTI law is a statutory requirement. “The absence of a commissioner has serious ramifications for the effective functioning of the information commissions since the RTI Act envisages a critical role for the chief, including, superintendence, management and direction of commission’s affairs,” the SNS report said.The Central Information Commission (CIC), which hears second appeals against all central government departments and union territories, has also been without a head since August 17, 2020.The department of personnel and training said the process of appointing a chief has started.Anjali Bhardwaj of SNS said showing complete lack of political will, the governments are not making appointments of commissioners in a timely manner leading to backlog of 220,000 cases till July 31, 2020. “Today, one of the challenges the transparency regime faces is the attack on transparency watchdogs,” she said.The TII report said 24% of the information commissioner posts in 28 states were lying vacant despite a Supreme Court order on February 15, 2019, directing all states and the Centre to fill all the vacant posts within six months, saying seeking information was a “fundamental right”. The court also lamented that most of the information commissioners appointed under the public service category were retired bureaucrats while asking states to select people from diverse backgrounds in the commissions.During the Covid pandemic, only 10 of the 28 information commissions worked and in these commissions, very few appeals were heard because of technical snags. “Instead of providing respite during Covid, the transparency watchdogs in most states stopped functioning. The pandemic has further undermined one of the most important governance legislations,” said SR Wadwa, chairman of TII.The SNS report said despite the RTI law being in place for 15 years, many information commissions are not very transparent about their functioning. “Many commissions still provide very less information on their orders and appeals, making analysis of their work difficult,” said Bhardwaj, adding that the Bihar information commission does not even have a website.Several studies on RTI done in the past decade show that the transparency law has improved governance and checked petty corruption, but its misuse has also increased manifold. Now, most public information officers are reluctant to give information to serial RTI applicants.RTI has proved to be “curative” and “preventive” for corruption and improved governance, but its misuse has emerged as a major obstacle in its effectiveness, said Padma awardee RTI activist Subhash Aggarwal.“There is a need to increase RTI fees and seek identity documents as some states such as Punjab and Odisha have done to prevent the misuse,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-posts-vacant-as-rti-law-completes-15-years/story-RlFF1F88q2qRkmdP6Sg1fN.html
13-10-2020||India||BJP attacks Farooq Abdullah, says China remark ‘seditious’||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday termed as “seditious” a statement by National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah that he hoped, with China’s support, Article 370 will be restored in Jammu & Kashmir.Abdullah, former chief minister of Jammu & Kashmir, in an interview to India Today TV on Sunday said China “never accepted” the nullification of Article 370.“They said till you restore Article 370, we won’t stop because it has now become an open issue,” he said.“May Allah wish that our people get help from their might and our Articles 370 and 35A get restored,” he added.Lashing out at Farooq Abdullah for the statement, BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra said the comments were “saddening as well as worrying”.“He is a former chief minister and sitting MP and yet in an interview said that Article 370 that has been abrogated in Parliament should be installed with the help of China. A sitting MP is using such words for the country. He thinks that China’s aggression is because Article 370 has been nullified. He categorically states that since Indian Parliament abrogated Article 370, China is disturbed and that is why China’s aggression is justified. He seems to justify the expansionist tendencies of China.”Terming Farooq Abdullah’s statement as “seditious” he added: “If you have reservations about the democratic process you’re allowed to talk about it but to say that you will join hands with another country to reinstall something is condemnable. This is also seditious.”Nearly all of Kashmir’s mainstream political leaders, including Farooq Abdullah, were put in months-long detention on August 5, 2019, hours before Parliament nullified Article 370 and split the state into two Union Territories -- Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.National Conference (NC) general secretary Ali Mohamad Sagar said that the party has always sided with India, and said that all conditions of the accession of Jammu and Kashmir must be fulfilled.“On a political basis, BJP divided Jammu and Kashmir and split into two Union Territories(UTs). Farooq Abdullah spoke in this context. Just focussing on a single word won’t do. Farooq sahab said that till tomorrow they were friends with China. Now today, China is saying that Ladakh is disputed. So instead of putting blame on Farooq Abdullah, they should introspect... They should maintain the secular image of the country and take due care of the aspirations of its only Muslim majority state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-attacks-farooq-abdullah-says-china-remark-seditious/story-nUdoZ1qWbQgSYzScXeyOcJ.html
13-10-2020||India||IMD predicts heavy rain in peninsular region today||The depression over west central Bay of Bengal has intensified into an intense low-pressure system that will bring heavy to extremely heavy rain in parts of peninsular, central India and the west coast, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday.The deep depression is likely to move west-north-westwards and cross north Andhra Pradesh coast between Narsapur and Visakhapatnam early on October 13 as deep depression with a maximum wind speed of 55 to 65 kmph gusting to 75 kmph.The deep depression that is centred about 250 km south-southeast of Visakhapatnam, 290 km east-southeast of Kakinada and 330 km east-southeast of Narsapur is likely to bring widespread and heavy to extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) in many places over east & west Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Vijayanagaram, Srikakulam districts of north coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Ganjam, Gajapati, Koraput and other parts of south Odisha, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalaseema, Telangana, south Konkan, Goa, south Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, Karnataka, north Kerala, south Chhattisgarh etc from October 12 to 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-heavy-rain-in-peninsular-region-today/story-jsigHPPetYpG2Z05fj3m5L.html
13-10-2020||India||Expert panel suggests Covid-19 testing at offices with two or more infections||With the resumption of economic activities, a team of experts has recommended saturation testing of employees, especially in industrial areas, where two or more people have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“With gradual opening up of offices and economic activities the workplaces are becoming hot spots and infection and reaching from workplaces up to the families,” according to the revised Covid-19 control strategy drafted by a team of experts from the National Centre for Disease Control, in collaboration with New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences, ICMR, and Niti Aayog.“All workplace contacts in offices/ workplaces being run in closed setting, to be enlisted and districts should keep a database of positive cases reported from workplace. In cases where workplace / offices fall in different districts proper arrangements need to be worked out,” read the document.All positives will be closely followed up, and symptomatic negatives made to undergo the confirmatory test. Asymptomatic negatives will also be monitored for symptoms, of which those who show symptoms will be tested, as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines for testing.The revised strategy advises on-priority identification of workplace clusters where everyone will be screened for Covid-19 after risk assessment in all the districts, and 100% first time testing, or saturation testing, to be done using a rapid antigen test (RAT) only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-panel-suggests-covid-19-testing-at-offices-with-two-or-more-infections/story-XE5YryqTtd6f7BQj1o9E5N.html
13-10-2020||India||Centre calls farm groups for dialogue tomorrow||The Union government has invited at least 31 farmers’ organisations and their leaders from Punjab for talks in the national capital on October 14, the second attempt in a month to reach out to farmers protesting against a set of laws enacted by Parliament to liberalise agricultural markets.The government has proposed talks by a team led by agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal, who signed off on the letter of invitation to the farm leaders on October 10. The top bureaucrat in the agriculture ministry wrote to farmers’ organisations in Punjab on October 8 for a meeting, which was rejected.Farmers’ groups said they did not participate in the meeting because in its October 8 letter, the government had said that “farmers had misunderstood the laws”. “Farmers very well understand the laws and the intention behind them, which is why we rejected the meeting,” said Avik Saha, the coordinator of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an umbrella platform of protesting farmers’ groups in Punjab and Haryana.Saha said farm organizations then received a redrafted, two-line letter from the agriculture secretary on October 10. “In Punjab, farmers have been agitating over issues related to agriculture over past several days. The government of India has always been serious about agriculture and farmers. This is why the government is interested in holding talks with you,” the letter from the farm secretary, which HT has reviewed, states.The AIKSCC said it would not participate in talks unless key demands are met. “We are preparing our charter of demands which we will release soon,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal faction). Saha said “there can be no talks on the merit of these laws”. He said the pre-conditions farmers will set are (a) repeal of the laws, (b) legal backing for minimum support prices (MSPs) and (c) any talks will have to be with a committee authorized by the Cabinet.Influential farm leaders from Punjab invited to the talks include Balbir Singh Rajewal, head of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), Ruldu Singh Mansa, president of Punjab Kisan Union, Major Singh Punnawal of the Kulhind Kisan Sabha and Indrajit Singh Kot Buddha of Kisan Sangharsh Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-calls-farm-groups-for-dialogue-tomorrow/story-3ApJjTFUvkHi3B9O3aRvkI.html
13-10-2020||India||CBI to probe ‘derogatory’ remarks against Andhra judiciary||The Andhra Pradesh high court on Monday ordered a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the abusive posts on social media and alleged derogatory statements made by some YSR Congress Party leaders against the state’s judiciary.A division bench of the high court, comprising justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi, observed that since the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the state police had failed to act against those who had made derogatory comments against the judiciary, it was entrusting the case to CBI for an impartial inquiry.The bench directed that CBI take up the investigation, initiate proceedings against the people who made such statements and submit a report to the high court within eight weeks. It asked the state government to cooperate with CBI in the probe.On October 8, the high court concluded arguments on a petition filed by the high court’s registrar general stating that the CID had not taken any steps on complaints over derogatory posts against judges on social media platforms.According to senior high court advocate Lakshmi Narayana, the high court had observed that the CID filed a first information report (FIR) only against a few social media activists although more than 90 people had been found to have made abusive comments against the judiciary for delivering judgements against the state government.“The CID also failed to ensure deletion of abusive comments on the social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. It also did not initiate any action against the YSRC leaders who made comments against the media,” he said.During the hearing, the high court bench found fault with the alleged remarks made by assembly speaker Tammineni Sitharam, deputy chief minister Narayana Swamy, MPs Vijayasai Reddy and N Suresh and former MLA Amanchi Krishnamohan, among others, against the judiciary.It observed that they amounted to a direct attack on judiciary.It also observed that the CID was booking cases against people who criticise the government in social media while not acting on the specific complaint by the HC.Advocate general S Sriram and CID counsel Niranjan Reddy said they had no objection to the court ordering a CBI probe.Interestingly, on Saturday evening, the state government released to the media a copy of the letter written by chief minister Jagan Reddy to Chief Justice of India SA Bobde making allegations against the second senior most judge in the apex court, NV Ramana and referring to roster management by the latter in the Andhra High Court.The letter alleged that several judgements given by the high court were against the state government and attached copies of orders issued in such cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-to-probe-derogatory-remarks-against-andhra-judiciary/story-bIodSWIN0jGr48zg39oETL.html
13-10-2020||India||Supreme Court seeks reply on farm laws||The Supreme Court set the ball rollingon Mondayon the challenge to the three crucial farm reform laws enacted by the Centre, seeking a response in four weeks to three separate petitions.On a petition filed by a group of farmers from Chhattisgarh, led by Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress vice president Rakesh Vaishnav, a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde agreed that since the issue was already pending consideration with the Chhattisgarh and Allahabad high courts, it would be prudent to examine the constitutional questions of law arising from the three laws at one forum.The three laws are the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. These were enacted by Parliament on September 24 and have since been notified after receiving Presidential assent.The top two law officers of the country – attorney general KK Venugopal and solicitor general Tushar Mehta -- appeared for the Centre along with additional solicitor general (ASG) KM Nataraj, anticipating this order.The bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said: “You (Centre) have to file a response somewhere, whether before this court or any high courts.” A-G Venugopal requested for six weeks’ time to file a reply but the bench posted the petitions for hearing after four weeks.The court also issued notice on two separate petitions raising a similar challenge. These were filed by two Members of Parliament – Tiruchi Siva from Tamil Nadu’s Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and Manoj Kumar Jha from Bihar’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD).The court did not entertain a petition filed by a lawyer Manohar Lal Sharma, claiming that “no cause of action” was pointed out in his plea. He was allowed to withdraw it. The presence of three law officers to represent for Centre was noted by the bench. “We find AG, SG and ASG in a case where there is no cause of action. In common parlance it is called overkill.” The court is of the view that “mere passing of the law does not give rise to cause of action” for a law to be challenged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-seeks-reply-on-farm-laws/story-dx6gqnYkJG7PyansFlhUxO.html
13-10-2020||India||Plea against halal meat: Supreme Court says it cannot dictate food habits||The courts cannot interfere with the food habits of people, the Supreme Court said on Monday, rejecting a plea seeking ban on the Halal method employed by the Muslim community to slaughter animals for meat.A bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul questioned the bona fide of the petitioner, stating it was a “mischievous” plea and cannot be entertained.“Courts cannot determine who can be a vegetarian or non-vegetarian. Those who want to eat Halal meat can eat Halal meat. Those who want to eat Jhatka meat can eat Jhatka meat,” the bench, which also comprised justice Dinesh Maheshwari, said.The petition was filed by an organisation, Akhand Bharat Morcha, challenging Section 28 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act.Section 28 provides that killing of animals in a manner required by the religion of any community will not be an offence under the Act.Various forms of animal slaughter such as Halal and Jhatka get the protection afforded by Section 28.Halal, an Arabic word which translates to “permissible” or “lawful,” signifies what is allowed under Islamic law. It is particularly associated with Islamic dietary practices and method in which meat is prepared. Jhatka is the method more common for the Hindu and Sikh community.The court pointed out to the petitioner that Section 28 protects not just Halal but Jhatka too.The petitioner argued that killing by Halal causes more suffering to the animal than by Jhatka, and that such exemptions should not be allowed in a secular country.The bench declined to entertain the plea.“Your petition is mischievous in character,” the top court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-against-halal-meat-supreme-court-says-it-cannot-dictate-food-habits/story-bGhO8oNi90Oj85l89M4ThK.html
13-10-2020||India||Grid failure brings Mumbai to a halt||A massive power outage crippled businesses, public transport, schools, colleges, hospitals and water supply in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) on Monday, affecting over 20 million residents. The outage, lasting more than eight hours in some areas, was triggered by the tripping of Line 2 at the Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited’s 400 KV transmission system in Kalwa in neighbouring Thane district, which supplies 1,600 megawatts (MW) to Mumbai and adjoining areas. The system has two lines, of which one was shut in the morning for maintenance (there was a voltage fluctuation in this line at 4.33 am that led to it being shut), effectively putting the load on the second line that handles 633 megawatts of load. This line tripped at 9.58 am, which automatically led to a load transfer to the backup 900 MW Pune-Kharghar line. This too tripped at 10 am, leading to the outage that threw life out of gear in India’s financial hub. Mumbai has a complex power distribution matrix. The Kalwa-Padghe line generates around 50% of the city’s daily demand of 2,500 MW to 3,000 MW, depending on the season. The remainder of the city’s power is brought in from other sources and is supplied to four distributors – private and state-owned. All four could not supply power to their customers. The immediate impact was on the city’s suburban train system. The three main local networks – Western line, Central line and Harbour line – stopped functioning within minutes of each other, leaving thousands stranded during the peak morning hours. Services – which have been curtailed on account of the Covid-19 pandemic – resumed two hours and 20 minutes later at 12.26 pm. Railway officials said outstation services were not affected by the outage as there were none operating at the time. Over 700 traffic signals stopped working in the city, leading to traffic moving at a snail’s pace at key junctions. “As CCTV cameras were not functioning, we had to communicate and take updates over the phone,” said a traffic police officer posted at the control room. Pravin Padwal, additional commissioner of police (traffic), said the entire traffic police force of 2,800 personnel was deployed to manually control the traffic. Police officers said the force’s emergency response system (100) – which handles 5,500 calls a day – collapsed for nearly three hours. Health services, especially in civic-run hospitals, were affected as a result of the power outage across the city. Major civic-run cancelled minor surgeries. Resident doctors felt the heat as they had to examine patients in the Out Patient Department in PPE suits in the dark. Exams at several colleges affiliated to the University of Mumbai had to be rescheduled. In some cases, exams had to be called off after they had begun. CM Uddhav Thackeray ordered a probe into the power failure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grid-failure-brings-mumbai-to-a-halt/story-LkyZ8ZdS8Ay3qsExKagytJ.html
13-10-2020||India||Congress panel to discuss internal poll process||The newly constituted central election authority (CEA) of the Congress will meet on Wednesday to discuss the process to be adopted to conduct organisational elections in the next few months in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic, people aware of the matter said.The party has already asked all state units to send an updated list of All India Congress Committee (AICC) delegates who form the electoral college for the organisational polls.The CEA has also asked the party’s data and technology department to help it in verifying the details of the AICC members, said a Congress functionary on the condition of anonymity.Also read: Congress likely to elect new president in JanuaryThe meeting on Wednesday at the party’s headquarters in Delhi will lay the groundwork for the elections to the president’s post and also the Congress Working Committee (CWC), he added.While carrying out a major organisational reshuffle on September 11, Congress president Sonia Gandhi had formed the CEA for holding the internal polls. The five-member CEA is headed by Madhusudan Mistry and its members are Rajesh Mishra, Krishna Byre Gowda, S Jothimani and Arvinder Singh Lovely, one of the 23 signatories to a letter written to Sonia Gandhi last month seeking a complete overhaul of the party.At a stormy Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on August 24, both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi had asked the party’s highest decision-making body to hold the organisational elections within a month but some members, including Ghulam Nabi Azad, maintained that it was not feasible because of the pandemic. Finally, an upper limit of six months was fixed for completing the internal elections.Hyderabad-based political analyst C Narasimha Rao said organisational elections are good for internal democracy of any political party.Also read: Congress at its historic low, needs 24x7 leader, says Kapil Sibal“In Congress, nomination had become an integral part for many decades now. Holding elections for any party post is good but the Congress should also try to strengthen the process of internal discussion on all important issues,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-panel-to-discuss-internal-poll-process/story-jmNhw5vrkmvFl5sjkYozaO.html
13-10-2020||India||Delhiwale: The bard of #bored||Is there a better time than the pandemic? Of course, this question only applies to people of his kind—writers. After all, what does such a person need but a room of one’s own, a lot of quietude to concentrate, and little intrusion from family and friends?The lockdown nature of life these days does seem desirable then—for a writer.“But there’s such a background hum of anxiety,” says Siddharth Kapila, talking of “pain and death all around”, and of how in a time like this “a week of productivity is followed by weeks of stress and listlessness.”In his late 30s, Mr Kapila gave up his law practice a few years ago to focus on writing, “which is not merely a hobby for me.” He has two addresses in the city—his parents’ home in Bengali Market and a small first floor studio in Greater Kailash. In fact, this evening he is talking on WhatsApp video from the isolation of this pad. Working on a book about Hindu pilgrimage sites across the Ganga river, Mr Kapila’s last book-related trip was to Benares, some weeks before Covid-19 hit our part of the world. “But now I don’t go out, not even in Delhi... particularly because my parents are in their 70s, and I don’t want to risk bringing the infection home.”Besides writing, Mr Kapila spends a big part of his time cooking. His lockdown-era Instagram feed is crammed with dishes (eggs benedict, chicken schnitzel, shrimp scampi spaghetti...)Recently he cooked up something new—a poem. “I was having coffee by the window, watching the morning light outside. I got inspired by the moment and wrote this poem within 10 minutes.”Insisting he is no poet, Mr Kapila agrees to share the said poem, which might speak to those of us who strongly relate to hashtags as contemporary as he used while posting these verses on his social media feed—#bored, #tired, #quarantinetime, and #covidtimes.POEMA rectangle of sunlight,A pile of books unread,Hope and despair,Shadow and light,Morning or evening,Can you tell?We chug along,With the help of small windows of hope,Hoping still to go back to the time as it was before,But we can’t. Not yet.So patiently we sip our coffee. And wait.We read, we get on. We live. We wait,To move into a bright new world filled with wonder,Of books all read and windows burst wide open,The light flooding inside.This too shall pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-bard-of-bored/story-5Xe6niASbYZdT4LHmipA0I.html
13-10-2020||India||CEA proposes relaxing air pollution control deadline for thermal power plants||The Central Electricity Authority (CEA) has proposed that coal-fired power plants across the country install air pollution control equipment in phases, with their immediate installation required only in areas with high levels of sulphur dioxide (SO2), a by-product of the burning of fossil fuels and a major respiratory irritant.Other thermal power plants, located in areas where S02 levels are under control, can defer the installation of such equipment, the CEA said in a new report, which comes just two years before the deadline set by the environment ministry for all coal-fired power plants to meet safe emission norms.Deferring the installation of air pollution control equipment can lead to delays in reducing air pollution concentrations across the country, according to experts.SO2 forms sulfate aerosols that caused the Great Smog of London in 1952 and has been responsible for smog episodes in China and India. Sulfates makes up over 10% of the fine particles in both Asian countries and often much more during heavy pollution episodes.India is already three years behind in implementing emission standards notified in 2015 by the environment ministry and which were supposed to take force in 2017.The deadline was delayed to 2022 following resistance by the thermal power industry. The environment ministry agreed to extend the deadline to 2022 and approached the SC, which also ordered an extension.But a CEA report seen by HT recommends that flue-gas desulphurization (FGD)—a technology to remove SO2 from exhaust be installed on a priority basis only in areas where SO2 concentrations are above 40 micrograms per cubic metres (24-hour average).The report doesn’t address the issue of SO2 emissions’ contribution to generation of secondary particulate matter 2.5, a major pollutant in the air that has been identified as a major health challenge by scientists.“Sulphur dioxide when emitted, as it travels because of atmospheric chemistry, turns into particulate matter in the presence of ammonia. It has been found that sulphate levels in many parts of the country are high, which is why controlling SO2 is important,” said Mukesh Sharma, a professor in the department of civil engineering at Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur.SO2’s contribution to particulate pollution has been overlooked in the CEA report. In 2017, a paper in Nature journal warned of the rising SO2 problem in India. The paper, titled India Is Overtaking China as the World’s Largest Emitter of Anthropogenic Sulfur Dioxide, said China and India are on opposite trajectories when it comes to sulphurous pollution. Since 2007, emissions in China have declined by 75% while those in India have increased by 50%. With these changes, India has been surpassing China as the world’s largest emitter of anthropogenic SO2.Some of the reasons for phasing the installation of pollution control equipment, particularly FGD, cited by CEA in the report include lack of time to develop indigenous manufacturing facilities; the need to import the equipment which creates a market for mainly foreign companies and an investment of ₹1 lakh crore needed for large-scale emissions control from thermal power plants. This will lead to a drain on foreign exchange resources, the report says.China began installation of desulphurization equipment in 1996 and by 2015, 83% of its total thermal power capacity was fitted with emission control equipment. The report suggests that the ministry of power held a meeting on January 21, 2020 where it was decided that CEA will submit a paper on graded installation of FGDs which will then be taken up by the ministry of power with the ministry of environment.“The MoP has to discuss these timelines with the environment ministry and only then can they be implemented,” said a senior CEA official who declined to be identified.“It is worrying to see CEA coming up with illogical and unscientific arguments to dilute the implementation of norms after five years of the notification and after it was given the job of monitoring and ensuring implementation of the 2015 norms,” said Sunil Dahiya, an analyst at the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/compliance-date-for-thermal-plants-deferred/story-FpmzTOtA6UcB0OCBLtpiGJ.html
13-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||What explains the coronavirus disease’s trajectory in Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, and Bengaluru? All five cities, among India’s largest and most important, have been badly hit by the viral disease – and all five would appear to be witnessing a prolonged run of the disease, with some ebbs and flows. This columnist has hypothesised about this in the past, proffering factors such as population density as a possible explanation. A recent (October 5) article in peer reviewed journal Nature Medicine by Benjamin Rader from the Boston University’s School of Public Health, Samuel V Scarpino from the Network Science Institute at Boston’s Northeastern University, Moritz Kramer at the Department of Zoology at Oxford University, and others, claims that the “degree to which cases of Covid-19 are compressed into a short period of time (peakedness of the epidemic) is strongly shaped by population aggregation and heterogeneity”. It adds that “epidemics in crowded cities have larger total attack rates than [in] less populated cities”, that “in general, epidemics in coastal cities were less peaked and larger and more prolonged”, and that infection trajectories in rural areas were likely to be peaked.Also read: Expert panel suggests Covid-19 testing at offices with two or more infectionsThis could explain why some cities see sharp spikes (or peakedness as the researchers term it; this typically happens in less crowded and less heterogeneous cities, according to the study), while others, such as the Indian cities named above (crowded, and where a heterogeneous population tends to move about), see prolonged attacks. In some ways, this is vindication of the density hypothesis – densely populated cities do tend to see extended runs of the pandemic according to the study – but it is also much more. That is because the study also looks at so-called mean crowding (a measure of both density and its variation across an area), mobility data (sourced from Google in some cases), and applies a mathematical model to calculate the epidemic’s peakedness within cities. The model even took into account the impact of lockdowns or other restrictions put in place to slow the spread of the disease.The study’s authors explain that this “multivariate model” successfully explained trajectories of the coronavirus disease in Chinese cities and Italian provinces. But that’s not the most interesting part of the study. That would be the fact that the researchers went on to apply the model to 310 cities around the world and calculated their “predicted epidemic peakedness”. This is a number between 0 and 1, where a number closer to 1 shows high peakedness, and a number closer to zero a prolonged run of the pandemic. In this case, spike (or peakedness) should not be confused for actual numbers. A spike refers to a sudden rise and an equally sudden fall in cases; a prolonged outbreak refers to an extended run for the disease. It’s easy to see how the latter could witness higher daily cases, say, than the former.Also read: Rushing a Covid-19 vaccine is a terrible idea. Here’s whySo, what do the predictive scores show?New York has a score of 0.0035. Mumbai’s is 0.011. Delhi’s is actually lower than Mumbai’s at 0.008. Hyderabad’s score is 0.012. Chennai is at 0.016. Kolkata at 0.011. The researchers do not appear to have calculated the score for Bengaluru, but given the pattern of scores of other Indian cities, it is easy to see what it could be.One of my first reactions after going through the study was that it would be interesting to see it redone with more data (from more cities). The researchers seem to think so too. “As with all modelling studies, further data generated during the epidemic might change our parameter estimates, and large-scale serological data would help verify our findings.”That it would – and it’s another reason why India should carry out widespread antibody tests at regular intervals to assess the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-t795mrid2ygSr6jzQfmM6L.html
13-10-2020||India||PLA rotates LAC troops, shows hand||The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has started rotating troops on the north bank of Pangong Tso, signalling that it has no immediate plans of either disengagement or de-escalation in Ladakh. The 7th round of India-China military-diplomatic talks began in Chushul on Monday with the XIV Corps Commander meeting the South Xinjiang military district commander to discuss comprehensive disengagement.According to military commanders, the PLA has moved an additional brigade north of Pangong Tso for rotating troops from the Finger Four mountainous spur to keep up the morale of the deployed troops. “Given that both sides are deployed at {an altitude of} nearly 18,000 feet on Finger Four and the weather is deteriorating, the PLA is rotating 200 troops at a time so that front-line troops are fresh and motivated. This clearly means that PLA has no plans for disengagement at least this winter,” said a senior official who requested anonymity .Also read: 54 done, BRO rushes to build 48 bridges that can shoulder T-90 main battle tanksThe assessment of the Indian side is that comprehensive disengagement will be a long-drawn process despite the inherent risk of a flare-up as the PLA will occupy positions south of Pangong Tso the moment they are vacated by the Indian Army. While PLA has come up to its perception of the Line of Actual Control(LAC) on the north bank, Indian Army troops have come up to its perception of the LAC on the south bank by pre-empting the PLA all along the Rezang La Rechin la ridgeline.Even though winter is expected to set in by the end of this month and take a turn for the worse, the Indian Army is prepared to stay on the heights all along the 1,597 km LAC in Ladakh. The Indian army commanders have learned from the fact that the Sumdorong Chu standoff in Arunachal Pradesh that started in 1986 was fully resolved through comprehensive disengagement by November 1995 — after nine years of continuous deployment. While the Sumdorong Chu standoff was resolved, the Indian Army has been sitting on the Saltoro Ridge since Operation Meghdoot was launched in April 1984 — 36 years and counting.While the PLA aggression in the Galwan Valley and north of Pangong Tso was pre-planned with military objectives in mind, the Chinese were not prepared for either the June 15 flare-up or the August 29-30 pre-emption. It is quite evident that PLA commanders thought that the Indian Army would accept the aggression as fait accompli and move on. However, with both sides deployed in full at the LAC in Ladakh, the chances of an accident are high and thus distance is being kept between the front-line troops.Also read: PLA rotating troops on north Pangong Tso, signals disengagement is far offEven though the PLA’s Western Theatre Command is deployed all along the Ladakh LAC and in depth, the Chinese problems have been complicated by the standoff with the US over Taiwan. The PLA is currently stretched, with its South and Northern Theatre Commands also deployed to pressurize Taiwan, with the US Navy active in the South China Sea. What happens next in Taiwan largely depends on the US posture after the November Presidential election outcome, but either way American policy towards China has hardened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-rotates-lac-troops-shows-hand/story-BTArWOVpwKeuPCrPcVY9FJ.html
13-10-2020||India||Mathura Mosque case: Now, an appeal before a district judge||An appeal has been made before the court of a district judge, Mathura, against a civil court order of September 30 that dismissed a legal suit for the removal of Idgah Masjid, which the plaintiffs claim “was built on the land of Shri Krishna Janambhoomi.” The district judge’s court has sought the records from the lower court and has fixed October 16 as the date of hearing, said Hari Shankar Jain, counsel for the petitioners. The petitioners, who belong to other districts, had filed a case seeking removal of the mosque from the site, claiming that it was built after razing a temple by then Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. The plaintiffs have sought a declaration that the land, measuring 13.37 acres, be vested in deity Sri Krishna Virajman.Earlier, the civil court had dismissed the petition on September 30, after hearing arguments, said Bhagat Singh Arya, additional district government counsel. The suit claiming ownership of the entire land of 13.37 acres land which is believed to be the birthplace of Lord Sri Krishna, the 8th incarnation of Lord Vishnu, was filed on September 25 through the next friend of the child deity, one Ranjana Agnihotri, an advocate and a resident of Lucknow. Six other devotees were also plaintiffs to the suit.They had sought cancellation of a settlement entered into between the Shri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan which is the governing body of the temple complex and the Committee of Management of Trust of Shahi Idgah (Idgah Trust) in 1968.The suit stated that Lord Shri Krishna was born in a prison of King Kans and the entire area under dispute is known as ‘Katra Keshav Dev’. Katra Keshav Dev is sacred for the devotees of Lord Shri Krishna and the Hindu community. Hindu rulers have always paid homage to the birthplace of Lord Shree Krishna and from time to time they constructed/ renovated temple at the spot, the petition said.It was submitted that the Idgah Trust with the help of some Muslims encroached upon the land belonging to Shri Krishna Janmasthan Trust and the deity and erected a superstructure at the place.The birthplace of Lord Krishna lies beneath the structure raised by the trust, the suit added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mathura-mosque-case-now-an-appeal-before-a-district-judge/story-p3QjOHSNrZgFXrOxmePNjP.html
13-10-2020||India||Top film houses move High Court against 2 channels||Many of Bollywood’s biggest production houses and industry bodies came together on Monday to move the Delhi high court seeking to restrain two television news channels from making or publishing alleged “irresponsible, derogatory and defamatory remarks” against the film industry.The lawsuit — filed by four industry associations and 34 production houses, including those owned by Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan, Salman Khan, Akshay Kumar, Karan Johar, Ajay Devgn, Anil Kapoor, Farhan Akhtar, Rohit Shetty, Vinod Chopra, and Ashutosh Gowariker — also asked for the channels to be barred from conducting a “media trial”. The Film & Television Producers Guild Of India (PGI), Cine & TV Artistes’ Association (CINTAA), Indian Film and TV Producers Council (IFTPC), Screenwriters Association (SWA), Yash Raj Films, and Reliance Big Entertainment, were among the other petitioners. The petitioners sought directions against Republic TV, its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and consulting editor Pradeep Bhandari; Times Now, its editor-in-chief Rahul Shivshankar, and group editor Navika Kumar, as well as social media platforms.“The plea comes in the wake of these channels using highly derogatory words and expressions for Bollywood such as ‘dirt’, ‘filth’, ‘scum’, ‘druggies’ and expressions such as ‘it is Bollywood where the dirt needs to be cleaned’, ‘all the perfumes of Arabia cannot take away the stench and the stink of this filth and scum of the underbelly of Bollywood’, ‘This is the dirtiest industry in the country’, and ‘cocaine and LSD drenched Bollywood’,” read the petition, filed by law firm DSK Legal. The matter is likely to be heard this week.“We are seeking an apology and stay on the kind of coverage that’s being done on news channels,” said Ramesh Taurani, board member, IFTPC. Amit Behl, senior joint secretary of CINTAA, said the film industry comprised hard-working individuals and couldn’t accept being collectively labelled with allegations. “All of us stand united against attempts to defame the entire filmmaking community,” he added.The petition came after roughly four months of media controversy over the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in his Mumbai home on June 14. The incident is currently being probed by several government agencies – including the Central Bureau of Investigation, Enforcement Directorate and Narcotics Control Bureau. Some sections of the media have blamed Bollywood stars for the death of the 34-year-old actor and, based on private chats and messages, implied that some top film stars and producers were part of a drug ring. Kumar and Shivshankar said they did nothing wrong. “Cases against journalists of Times Now that have only sought justice for those who are wronged are a bad precedent. The mighty may think they can weaken the resolve of the fearless at Times Now but they are wrong,” Shivshankar tweeted.“If fighting for justice invites court cases, bring it on. All the A-listers can come together but India will continue to fight for the truth. You can’t intimidate us @TimesNow & can’t take away the viewers who believe in us. Let truth prevail,” Kumar tweeted. “Even after the case involving the unfortunate death of actor Mr. Sushant Singh Rajput (which appears to have triggered the diatribe against Bollywood) was transferred to the CBI, these defendants indulged in what could be aptly described as a frenzy suggesting that the CBI would start making arrests,” the petition read.The petition said it didn’t seek a blanket gag order on media reportage in the Rajput case but wanted an injunction on publication of material that violated applicable laws. The plea said Bollywood was a huge source of revenue, foreign exchange and employment. “The livelihood of persons associated with Bollywood is being severely impacted by the smear campaign being run by the defendants,” the petition said.The suit alleged that the defendants conducted and published private investigations and effectively acted as courts to condemn people connected with Bollywood as guilty based on alleged evidence, making a mockery of the criminal justice system.“The privacy of the members of Bollywood is being invaded, and their reputations are being irreparably damaged by painting the entire Bollywood as criminals, seeped in drug culture, and making being part of Bollywood as synonymous with criminal acts in the public imagination,” the plea read.The suit contended this was not the first time legal action was initiated against the defendants and some of them were penalised earlier for alleged irresponsible reportage and defamatory content.The petition came days after actor Rhea Chakraborty – Rajput’s girlfriend – got bail in a drug case. Chakraborty’s lawyer also threatened to take action against people who implicated the 28-year-old actor in Rajput’s death and the drug racket. Others who have filed the suit are Screenwriters Association (SWA); Aamir Khan Productions; Ad-Labs Films; Ajay Devgn Fflims; Andolan Films; Anil Kapoor Film and Communication Network; Arbaaz Khan Productions; Ashutosh Gowariker Productions; BSK Network and Entertainment; Cape of Good Films; Clean Slate Filmz and Dharma Productions.The list also included Emmay Entertainment and Motion Pictures; Excel Entertainment; Filmkraft Productions; Hope Production; Kabir Khan Films; Luv Films; Macguffin Pictures; Nadiadwala Grandson Entertainment; One India Stories; R.S. Entertainment (Ramesh Sippy Entertainment); Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra Pictures; Red Chillies Entertainment; Reel Life Productions; Reliance Big Entertainment and Rohit Shetty Picturez.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-film-houses-move-high-court-against-2-channels/story-3qwsKIHRGKaM73HwG4ZRKK.html
13-10-2020||India||Nagaland students ban movement of govt vehicles; put stir on hold after minister’s death||Student organizations in Nagaland on Monday launched an indefinite ban on movement of government registered vehicles (NL 10 and NL 11) in protest against the government’s failure to mainstream the services of over 2,500 teachers under the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) and Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA) of 2010 and 2013 batches into the School Education Cadre. The ban, sounded by the Naga Students’ Federation (NSF) along with the Eastern Naga Students’ Federation (ENSF), is being imposed across the state. On Monday, NSF president Ninoto Awomi informed that the strike went off without any untoward incident. However, several vehicles with government registration numbers were spotted plying and were seized. The seized vehicles are being kept at the NSF Solidarity Park, near the State Civil Secretariat in Kohima, and will be released only after the state government complies with the demand of the two apex student bodies. Awomi said sources informed them that the state cabinet was meeting over the issue but the organizations were yet to receive any response from the government. The NSF and ENSF have been mediating the issue between the teachers and the state government since 2018. The government had communicated earlier that the formalities were being worked out, but the student bodies are adamant that the government should issue a time-bound commitment. The indefinite stir, however, was put on abeyance on Monday evening following the death of a state minister. NSF and ENSF have announced that they have decided to keep their agitation in abeyance considering the demise of Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change and Justice and Law, CM Chang, as a mark of respect for the departed leader. The student bodies will resume the agitation from October 19. The two federations directed their respective units and subordinate bodies to put in place all necessary preparations in order to ensure that the next phase of agitation is carried out successfully. Meanwhile, stating that the government was doing whatever is possible despite various constraints, the Department of School Education, Nagaland, appealed to the student bodies to understand the difficulties being faced by the state and withdraw the agitation in the interest of all stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-students-ban-movement-of-govt-vehicles-put-stir-on-hold-after-minister-s-death/story-zoGlrld1uTSvX1tc1WQPFK.html
13-10-2020||India||Two former ministers, Congress spokesperson join BJP ahead of Manipur bypolls||In yet another significant political development in Manipur, two former ministers and spokesperson of the Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee (I) joined chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the by-elections in the state.Chief Minister N Biren Singh and president S Tikendra of the BJP Manipur led party leaders including MPs and ministers to felicitate the three prominent leaders and a lady social worker at the Durbar Hall of the CM’s bungalow in Imphal on Monday.The two former ministers who joined the BJP are senior Congress leader N Mangi of the Kumbi assembly constituency and A Biren Singh of the Jiribam assembly constituency while the MPCC (I) spokesperson was O Nabakishore who had contested the last Lok Sabha polls on a Congress ticket. The lady social worker was S Kebisana of Naoriya Pakhanglakpa constituency. Speaking on the occasion, chief minister Biren Singh said more and more people are joining BJP in view of the people-oriented development activities in the last three and half years in the state. “Today’s event shows people’s support for the party,” he said.Later in a tweet, he wrote, “Former Lok Sabha candidate, Gen Secy @INCIndia and retired IAS O Nabakishore along with senior Congressman and former Minister N. Mangi, Pradhans and others joined @BJP today.”Last month, a total of 28 Congress party members and office bearers from the Singhat constituency led by its president Henkhopao alias HP Haokip joined the BJP.Manipur will go for by-elections in five assembly constituencies on November 7. Elections to the legislative assembly will be held in Wangoi in Imphal West district, Saitu in Kangpokpi district, Singhat in Churachandpur district, Lilong and Wangjing-Tentha both in Thoubal district.The last date for filing nomination is October 20 followed by scrutiny and the last date of withdrawal of candidature on October 21 and 23 respectively. Polling will be held on November 7 while counting and completion of the election process will be on November 10 and 12 respectively.By-election to the five Assembly constituencies was needed after their respective sitting MLAs resigned from the membership of the Manipur Legislative Assembly in August.Currently, 13 assembly constituencies are lying vacant in the 60-member Manipur Legislative Assembly following disqualification and resignation of MLAs.The BJP-led government in Manipur came to power in March 2017 with the support of four MLAs each from NPP and NPF, besides one MLA each from TMC, Lok Janshakti Party, and an Independent in the 60-member House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-former-ministers-congress-spokesperson-join-bjp-ahead-of-manipur-bypolls/story-DwOR7bmVnzFdU10v1tPr4M.html
13-10-2020||India||Bengal CID team reaches Patna to probe BJP leader Manish Shukla’s murder||A CID team from West Bengal reached Patna on Monday to investigate the murder of former BJP councillor Manish Shukla.Shukla, 39, an outgoing councillor of the Titagarh municipality in North 24 Parganas district of West Bengal was gunned down on October 4 night. The CID team will be questioning gangster Subodh Singh, who is currently lodged at Beur Jail.A CID official pleading anonymity said, “Subodh had sent shooters from Bihar and also provided arms and ammunition to the killers. The information was revealed by one of the arrested persons Mohammad Nasir Khan.”According to the police, Khan had approached Singh to supply sharp shooters to carry out the crime.Police suspect that Singh conspired about Shukla’s murder from within the jail. The department plans to approach the local court to seek his custody.An official said the probe by CID has revealed that in 2017, Subodh had planned a robbery at the gold finance branch of Muthoot Finance in Asansol where seven armed robbers looted cash and gold worth Rs 8.5 crore (nearly 28 kg of gold) and also stole the hard disc of the CCTV. In 2010, Subodh was involved in a bank robbery at Titagarh in North 24-Parganas district.So far, four people have been arrested for their involvement in Shukla’s murder. Those arrested include local businessman Khurram Khan, hired killer Gulam Sheikh, Nasir Khan and Subodh Yadav.Shukla’s father Chandra Mani Shukla had lodged an FIR against nine people, including two TMC leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cid-team-reaches-patna-to-probe-bjp-leader-manish-shukla-s-murder/story-TtmEQLvgB6LddQzqi1xaXN.html
13-10-2020||India||Accused of casting spell on niece, Meghalaya man buried alive by nephews||Meghalaya’s West Khasi Hills police on Monday exhumed the body of an octogenarian man allegedly buried alive by his nephews on charge of practising witchcraft on his niece.Confirming this, West Khasi Hills SP, Herbert G Lyngdoh told HT that as part of the investigation, following permission from the district magistrate, a police team proceeded from Nongstoin Police Station (PS) to Nongdishong village about 15 kilometres away to exhume the body. The team also conducted an inquest and thereafter a thorough post mortem by doctors was conducted to ascertain all facts pertaining to the alleged murder.“All legal formalities as part of the investigation will be carried out by my team and we will ensure that justice as per the law of the land will prevail and that all culprits will be held accountable,” Lyngdoh assured. He added that following submission of the post mortem report by the concerned authority, the police will proceed with the case further as per the procedure. Also read: The mystery of India’s low coronavirus death rateAccording to the police, an FIR filed by the headman of Mawliehbah Mawnar village at Nongstoin PS on October 10, 2020, claimed that Morris Marngar, a resident of the village, was taken away by a group of people, including four of his nephews, to neighbouring Nongdishong village on the pretext of some important work. Morris never returned home causing his family members to worry and seek help assuming that he may have been abducted.Based on the statement of the deceased’s daughter, a group of people came to their residence on October 6, 2020, at around 7 pm and took her father away and nothing was heard from him since then. These included Densil Marngar (40), Jales Marngar (27), Diberwell Marngar (30) and Bernan Marngar - all residents of Nongdisong village and nephews of the victim.Nongstoin police swung into action and a team led by Nongstoin PS 0fficer-in-charge sub-inspector B Blah went for inquiry only to find out that Morris had been buried alive at a place called Pordidoh in the village after being held captive for a day at his niece Sildaris Marngar’s house. Morris was accused of practising witchcraft and casting a spell on his niece Sildaris as a result of which she had been ailing for the past three months and hence the gory punishment by his nephews, sources stated.Also read: India generated over 18,000 tonnes Covid-19 waste since JuneA case was registered and an investigation was initiated by the police leading to the arrest of three main accused - Densil Marngar, Jales Marngar and Diberwell Marngar. 18 others remained at large.An interview of the main accused further led to the arrest of more accomplices on Sunday namely Walphanus Marngar (32), Exstarning Marngar (52), Beransius Marngar (30), Kyrshanborlang Marngar (25) and Michalpol Marngar (27) - all relatives of the deceased. The police have launched a manhunt to nab the remaining accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accused-of-casting-spell-on-niece-meghalaya-man-buried-alive-by-nephews/story-n7TL0AOxacszDjZkeHLNtL.html
13-10-2020||India||Top US diplomat calls for expansion of Quad group||The United States and India are ready for a “fundamental alignment” based on “shared interests and shared goals” US deputy secretary of state Stephen Biegun said on Monday. Biegun said this was not about “an alliance on the postwar model” but an alignment “along shared security and geopolitical goals.” At policy institute Ananta Centre’s virtual Indo-US Forum on Monday, Biegun explained: “As the US assesses our own interests and how they intersect with India’s we have seen the conditions emerge for an organic and deeper partnership.”Washington’s highest-ranking diplomat also called for an expansion of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, better known as the Quad, which is an informal grouping of India, Australia, Japan and the US. “Any country that seeks a free and open Indo-Pacific and is willing to take steps to ensure that should be welcome to work with us,” he said. “The Quad is a partnership driven by shared interests, not binding obligations, and is not intended to be an exclusive grouping.” Governments, he said, have been “too cautious” about the Quad. The US respects that India has a “strong and proud tradition of strategic autonomy,” Biegun said. He saw “enormous opportunity” in the bilateral security relationship. “We do not seek to change India’s traditions,” he stressed. “Rather we want to explore how to empower them and India’s ability to defend its own sovereignty and democracy and to advance Indian interests, across the Indo-Pacific region.” As the Indo-US relationship advances, he added, China was the “elephant in the room.” Elaborating on the kind of alignment he envisaged, Biegun said future security partnerships did not necessarily need to follow the postwar model “with a heavy in-country US troop presence.” The US benefited from close links with countries, “like India,” that share the US vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific and “seek to provide for their own defence.” In this context, he said, the US “benefits from an India that is as strong and prosperous.” Cooperation can come in many new ways given advances in technology, shifts in global economic influence and changing geopolitics. He said the US was prepared to do more to strengthen “India’s ability to defend itself and by promoting interoperability among our militaries through regular exercises and exchanges, common defense platforms, and co-development.” He said he hoped the coming bilateral 2+2 ministerial meeting of the two countries’ defence and foreign ministers would allow India and the US to “explore next steps on some of these issues.” Biegun said the Quad members stand for a “vision of a Pax Indo-Pacifica, a region at peace, protected and made prosperous in equal measure by those who comprise the Indo-Pacific” and represented four democratic anchors of the region. He said the outcome of the US presidential elections, now less than a month away, would make no difference to the bilateral relationship. “The vital partnership between the US and India will continue and deepen over the decades to come,” he said. “I have never been more optimistic regarding the future possibilities of the India-U.S. relationship.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-us-diplomat-calls-for-expansion-of-quad-group/story-R06qlCO6ft59K6GMJPkEPM.html
13-10-2020||India||Sexual offences:Govt reply sought on equal protection for transgender persons||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the central government on a public interest litigation (PIL) that demanded equal protection under the law for sexual offences against transgender persons.The petition, filed by advocate Reepak Kansal, challenged the constitutional validity of Section 354A (punishing sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), specifically clauses (i), (ii) and (iv) of sub-section (1) as it excluded transgender persons from being treated as victims of sexual harassment. “There is no provision or section in the Indian Penal Code (IPC) which may protect the third gender from the sexual assault by male/ female or another transgender,” stated the petition.The bench, headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde and also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, appreciated the thought behind the petition. The bench said it was a “good case” that needed hearing.Arguing for Kansal, senior advocate Vikas Singh told the bench that in 2014, the top court passed a landmark ruling by recognising members of the transgender community as the third sex and confirming the rights of the marginalised community. “This gave them a distinct identity. However, they are still deprived of equal protection of law when it comes to sexual offences they face from within the community and outside,” he argued.The bench asked Singh to file details of cases where the court passed orders in the absence of laws to deal with issues. In the hearing conducted via video conferencing, the bench referred to the framing of the Vishaka guidelines to deal with sexual harassment of women at work places in 1997 and the decriminalization of homosexuality in 2018.“In spite of declaring transgender people to be a ‘third gender’ by this court, there is no provision/ section in the Indian Penal Code which may protect the third gender from the sexual assault by male/ female or another transgender,” the petition said.The petition said that the motive behind the 2014 judgment was to grant “equity and equality” to members of the transgender community and equal protection before law. “However, this was not being realized under the sexual harassment law contained under Section 354A IPC. This amounted to violation of Article 14 (right to equality) and Article 21 (right to life and liberty) of transgender persons in being treated differently by the law,” the petition added.In November 2019, Parliament passed the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act that laid out the rights and protections for the marginalised community.But Section 18(d) of the act made sexual offences against transgender persons punishable with a minimum term of six months, extendable up to two years. The act used the term “sexual abuse” and failed to make any distinction between the various offences under this category making sexual harassment, abuse or rape, all punishable with maximum term of two years. Activists argued that this section was discriminatory because IPC provisions for violence committed against women is up to seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sexual-offences-govt-reply-sought-on-equal-protection-for-transgender-persons/story-tIbRzrccRG08O0vk17FcNK.html
13-10-2020||India||High Court pulls up UP govt for Hathras night cremation||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Monday criticised the Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to forcibly cremate a Dalit rape victim in the middle of the night in Hathras district, as it started hearing the sensitive case that roiled India and sparked angry street protests. A division bench of justices Pankaj Mithal and Rajan Roy recorded the statements of five family members of the 19-year-old woman who died roughly three weeks ago, and senior state government officials. It fixed November 2 as the next date of hearing. Media was barred from the heavily secured hearing attended by roughly 15 people. The victim’s family also demanded that the high-profile trial be shifted out of the state, said their lawyer Seema Kushwaha.The court took serious note of the Hathras district administration’s decision of cremating the woman’s body at 2.30am on September 30, said Seema Kushwaha, the victim family’s lawyer. “During the hearing, the court asked the officials ‘if the girl belonged to your family, then would you have done the same thing’?” said Kushwaha.HT could not independently verify the exact observation by the bench because the media was not allowed inside the courtroom.The bench also asked the government whether the victim would be cremated at night if she belonged to a rich family, instead of a poor one, according to Kushwaha. Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar told the court that the decision to cremate the victim was taken due to the law and order considerations and there was no pressure from the state government. The government had received intelligence inputs that law and order could deteriorate due to protesters the next morning, the court was told in an affidavit. “A police officer of the level of additional director general of police will appear before the court at the next hearing. The court has exempted the family from appearance at the next hearing,” said additional advocate general Vinod Kumar Shahi, who represented the state government. “The family members of the victim have presented their side. We have presented our side,” he added.Senior advocate J N Mathur, who was appointed amicus curie by the court, pleaded that every citizen had the right to be cremated with dignity by the family members as per their religious practices. He cited Article 25 of the Constitution on the right to practice one’s religion freely. The family, through Kushwaha, told the court that police presence in the village was enough to control any situation, especially when the district’s borders were sealed.In court, Kushwaha presented three demands: keep facts related to the probe and the special investigation team’s (SIT) report confidential, transfer the trial out of Uttar Pradesh and provide security for the kin until the case concluded. “The family wants the case to be transferred to Delhi or Mumbai,” she told reporters outside the court.The victim, who hailed from the Valmiki caste, was raped on September 14 by four men from the dominant Thakur caste when she had gone to the fields to collect cattle fodder. She died in Delhi in the early hours of September 29. At 2.30am the next day, the police forcibly cremated her in a field near the village – triggering protests by Opposition parties and Dalit groups. The government set up an SIT and a separate probe into an alleged international conspiracy to defame the state administration, and suspended five police officers. The government has also denied the woman was raped, citing a forensic report, though experts have noted lapses in protocol and pointed to her dying declaration, where she said she was raped. Four accused – all from the Thakur caste – are in jail. The HC took suo-motu (on its own) cognisance of the case on October 1. On Monday, the court recorded the statements of the woman’s father, mother and three brothers. All travelled from Hathras to Lucknow under tight security in a convoy of six cars. The court also recorded the statements of additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi, director general of police HC Awasthy, additional director general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar, Laxkar and Hathras superintendent of police Vineet Jaiswal.Mathur said the court ordered the state government to ensure that such incidents of rape did not take place in the future. In response, Awanish Awasthi assured the judges that the government would finalise a plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-pulls-up-up-govt-for-hathras-night-cremation/story-XnnWzQ4qms0o2emz1ZPeoK.html
13-10-2020||India||India, China hold seventh military talks||Senior military commanders from India and China on Monday met for the seventh time in eastern Ladakh in their latest attempt to reduce friction in the sensitive theatre where India and China have deployed more than 50,000 soldiers each along with advanced weapons and systems, officials familiar with the developments said. The talks between delegations led by corps commander-ranked officers began at 12 pm at Moldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and were on when this report was filed. At the last round of military talks on September 21, the Indian side demanded comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April. The Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army have been locked in a border row for more than five months and efforts to reduce friction have made no headway so far, with both sides prepared for a long haul through the winter months. Monday’s talks took place weeks after China hardened its position and asserted that it recognises the 1959 LAC, which has never been accepted by India. China’s hardened stance has dimmed hopes for an early resolution of the border row, as reported by HT on October 5. China’s assertion that it abides by the LAC as proposed by Premier Zhou Enlai to Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru in 1959 has complicated the border row in eastern Ladakh, and called into question Beijing’s intent to restore status quo ante and de-escalate the conflict, experts previously told HT. Monday’s dialogue was the last round of military talks to be led by the current commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, Lieutenant General Harinder Singh. He has completed his one-year term and is heading to Dehradun on October 15 as the commandant of the Indian Military Academy. Lieutenant General PGK Menon, who attended the talks on Monday and previously on September 21, will be Singh’s successor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-hold-seventh-military-talks/story-rT2lzi1o1ZBNgNd6ABMPUM.html
13-10-2020||India||Very poor air chokes parts of NW India||New Delhi: For the past four days, several parts of northwest India have started recording “poor” air quality—a result of north-westerly calm winds and crop fires flaring across Punjab and Haryana. On Monday air quality deteriorated further with Baghpat, Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh; Kurukshetra and Panipat in Haryana recording “very poor” category air.Also Read: Delhi: Pollution levels likely to dip today, reach moderate levelHarvesting has only begun in the north-western states; crop fires are likely to peak next week when harvesting is mid-way, farm leaders said.Though NASA satellite images show widespread fires in Punjab and Haryana, IMD expects impact from the smoke may reduce over the next 3 to 4 days because of a likely change in wind direction from north-westerly to easterly. Moisture in the air is also likely to increase for a few days until wind direction changes back to north-westerly.The air quality early warning system under the union ministry of earth sciences (MoES) had forecast on Sunday that air quality in Delhi would improve after wind direction changes to easterly. But dispersal of pollutants was impacted by very low wind speed. “Winds have been blowing under 5 kmph at Safdarjung. It’s not suitable for dispersion yet,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.“Though winds are changing, the wind speed is very low so dispersion is not happening as we had expected. While we do not expect any further deterioration in air quality in the next two to three days, we can’t say air quality will improve. Winds were calm during the evening for the last 4 to 5 days. So even though the contribution from crop fires to air pollution isn’t as high now air quality has deteriorated due to lack of dispersion,” said Vijay Soni, a scientist at the air pollution division of India Meteorological Department (IMD).Delhi, Agra, Bulandshahr, Bahadurgarh, Ballabgarh, Bhiwadi, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Lucknow, Karnal and other north-western towns also recorded poor air on Sunday.Night or minimum temperature is also likely to rise as moisture laden, warmer winds enter the north-western region from Monday, added Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre.“Harvesting has only started now in Punjab. It will peak next week when crop fires will also rise. We have been saying for a long time that in the absence of a direct subsidy crop fires will continue because a subsidy on the straw management machinery is not enough for small farmers,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, Bharatiya Kisan Union general secretary, Punjab.Also Read: Monsoon withdrawal delayed till October 20: IMDMeanwhile, the Supreme Court in an order dated October 7 issued notices to Centre and north-western states on the issue of crop stubble burning. SC directed Tushar Mehta, solicitor general appearing on behalf of the Centre to file replies to an application on the issue. SC has also summoned chief secretaries of Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab and Haryana on the next date of hearing. One of the prayers of the applicant, Vikrant Tongad is to formulate a mechanism wherein an incentive of Rs 100 per quintal would be part of the total minimum support price which can be withheld until farmer can assure that there is no stubble fire in his farm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nw-india-could-get-a-brief-breather-from-dirty-air-due-to-changing-winds/story-lIsyreWCOCdrmzmBEw2iHJ.html
