14-10-2020||India||Accused in alleged acid attack on 3 UP sisters in Gonda arrested||A 19-year-old who is suspected to have thrown an acid-like caustic fluid on three Dalit sisters, aged 8, 12, and 17, in Gonda district early on Tuesday, was arrested after being shot in the right leg during an exchange of fire with the police on Tuesday midnight, the police said on Wednesday morning.The arrest of Ashish Chaurasiya alias Chottu led to a protest against the police action by local traders and residents of Paska town area. They blamed the police for framing Chaurasiya in the case and injuring him in a ‘fake encounter’ due to pressure from senior officers to solve the case.Chaurasiya’s mother Laxmi Chaurasiya demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the case.The suspect was arrested a few hours after chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked for tough action against those responsible for the act.Gonda additional superintendent of police (ASP) Mahendra Kumar rejected the allegations and claimed two of the three girls had told the police that they had seen Chaurasiya escaping from the house after throwing the acid-like liquid on them. He said the two girls even told the police that the suspect was wearing a green shirt at the time of the incident.The ASP said the suspect had confessed to committing the crime during interrogation and his call detail records showed that he made 281 calls to the elder sister in a week. He said the calls were made even at odd hours and the suspect had become desperate after coming to know that her marriage had been fixed.Kumar said the suspect had been ‘troubling’ the eldest sister for quite some time and forcing her to talk to him. The suspect lived near the girls’ house in Paska town, he alleged.Police exchanged fire with the suspect near Baikunth Nath College on the Colonelganj-Hujurpur road when he was returning to Gonda from his sister’s place in Bahraich. He said the suspect’s motorcycle skidded when he tried to flee after spotting the police team.The accused opened fire on the police team, following which the police fired back, the ASP claimed. He said the police team recovered a country-made firearm and cartridges from the suspect’s possession. The suspect suffered a bullet wound in the right leg, he said.During the day, hundreds of traders and locals gathered in protest at the Paska town market, which has around 50 shops. A Paska resident and local leader Azad Singh said the traders kept the market closed, demanding an unbiased investigation in the case.Earlier on Tuesday, the suspect had allegedly attacked the three sisters with an acid-like caustic fluid.The eldest sister suffered major injuries with 30% burns on her face, eyes and chest, while the other two sustained minor injuries with 5% and 7% burns on their arms, respectively.The sisters were attacked when they were sleeping in a room on the second floor of the house. The attacker is believed to have climbed up the two floors to throw the chemical at them from the open window.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accused-in-alleged-acid-attack-on-3-up-sisters-in-gonda-arrested/story-BaT3fAEocEAp9wBkEdJrPI.html
14-10-2020||India||Baseless, irrelevant attack on creative expression: India’s top Ad bodies support Tanishq||The jewelry brand Tanishq took down its advertisement about a Muslim family preparing for a baby shower for their Hindu daughter-in-law after it received criticism on social media. A decision which was not welcomed by many.Calls to boycott the company over the advertisement took over social media with some accusing the brand of promoting “Love Jihad”.The ad, which was put up with the tagline: “A beautiful confluence of two different religions, traditions and cultures”, was taken down minutes after it went live. The brand even withdrew the advertisement from television channels after outrage. In a statement on Tuesday, Tanishq said it withdrew the ad due to “hurt sentiments, and the well-being of our employees, partners and store staff”.Several people criticised the jewelry brand’s withdrawal of advertisement, saying that the company was succumbing to extremists. “Its capitulation points to the pervasive atmosphere of fear and intimidation that some have unleashed in the country,” Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said.Now India’s top advertising bodies, The Advertising Club has come out in support of the brand and said that the advertisement does not break any “ethical standards, is not derogatory to any person, organisation or religion and done not hurt any national sentiment.”“Such baseless and irrelevant attack on creative expression is extremely concerning and we together stand by the team of Tanishq and against such aggression,” it said in a statement on Wednesday.“After review by our internal team consisting of multi-sectoral experts, we have come to a clear consensus that the advertisement breaks no ethical standards, is not derogatory to any person, organisaton or religion and done not hurt any national sentiment,” the statement read.“In continuance with its tradition, the Advertising Club upholds the primacy of creative freedom as a fundamental right of the Marketing and Advertising-fraternity and hence disapprove of the approach to stymie that freedom,” it further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baseless-irrelevant-attack-on-creative-expression-india-s-top-ad-bodies-support-tanishq/story-rF8ehFA8BtPdquSeA6BGjM.html
14-10-2020||India||Iconic Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s health improves, he tests Covid-19 negative||Veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s health has improved and he is believed to be more stable than Tuesday, his daughter has said. The octogenarian actor also tested Covid-19 negative on Wednesday, doctors treating him confirmed. Chatterjee had to be hospitalized after he tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. “My father is slightly more stable today (Wednesday). He is 1% better than yesterday (Tuesday) and I’m happy with that. Some more tests have been conducted today and we’ll get the results tomorrow or later,” Poulami Bose, the actor’s daughter, posted on a social networking platform late on Wednesday evening. The thespian was removed from BI-PAP support on Tuesday and doctors were not considering invasive ventilation, Bose had said on Tuesday. One of the most celebrated actors in Bengal, Chatterjee has received many awards and honours including the Padma Bhushan, the Dadasaheb Phalke Award, National Awards and Sangeet Natak Akademi Tagore Ratna. He is best known for his collaboration with another legend of Bengali cinema-- Oscar-winning director Satyajit Ray and the Feluda films. On Tuesday, Bose had, however, objected to the circulation of pictures, taken without their permission at the hospital where Chatterjee is being treated for coronavirus. In a Facebook post, Bose said that the family is ‘extremely upset’ about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iconic-bengali-actor-soumitra-chatterjee-s-health-improves-stable-now-says-daughter/story-1greSSN8nuvEemsCHQyVyI.html
14-10-2020||India||Yogi govt eases procedure of life certificate submission for senior citizens||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed to simplify the procedure of submission of life certificates for senior citizens.Adityanath has asked the finance department to develop the online submission procedure and publicise it in the interest of the pensioners of the state.The chief minister said that the pensioners are the senior citizens and they have to face difficulties going to banks, treasuries and offices to submit their life certificates in the month of November. He said that through this facility they may submit the certificate from home or common facility centres to receive their pension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-govt-eases-procedure-of-life-certificate-submission-for-senior-citizens/story-5iQE1gN1K9YA436LD0OSzI.html
14-10-2020||India||10,000 ineligible names to be deleted from final NRC list in Assam||Around 10,000 names will be deleted from the final NRC in Assam as many “ineligible persons” and their descendants were included in the list, according to a directive issued by its state coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma and officials in the know of the decision.Sarma wrote to all the Deputy Commissioners and District Registrar of Citizen Registration (DRCR) on Tuesday, directing them to issue speaking orders for the deletion of such names.“...as per the reports received from your end through Webform, some names of ineligible persons belonging to the categories of DF (declared foreigners)/DV (‘D’ voters)/PFT (pending in Foreigners Tribunals) along with their descendants have found entry to the NRC,” he said.Sarma directed the district officials to issue orders for deletion of such names from the NRC as per Clause 4(6) of the Schedule under the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003 after “specifically ascertaining the identity of the person”.Explaining the rule and some other relevant clauses, Sarma pointed out that the authorities concerned can verify and include or exclude any name at any time before the publication of the final NRC.Though the final National Register of Citizens for Assam was made public in August last year, it is yet to be notified by the Registrar General of India, leaving the historic and controversial document without any official validity.“You are, therefore, requested to submit the list of such persons who are not eligible for having their names in the NRC along with speaking order justifying reasons for each cases for necessary action for deletion of such names,” Sarma said in the letter.A software application for submission of the reviewed results of such persons along with mechanism for uploading of the scanned freshly written speaking orders will be rolled out shortly, he added.“The verification would mandatorily require the correct identity of the person so that no ambiguity arises in future as far as identification of the person is concerned,” the letter to the districts said.Though the letter did not mention how many people will be excluded, persons in the know of the development said that around 10,000 people have been identified whose names were “wrongly included” in the final NRC and will now be excluded.“This is a mix of all communities. The figure looks a bit big because it includes the descendants of the persons from the three categories mentioned in the letter,” a source said.The final NRC was released on August 31 last year, excluding the names of 19,06,657 persons. A total of 3,11,21,004 names were included out of 3,30,27,661 applicants.After the publication of the final NRC, almost all stakeholders and political parties criticised it as a faulty document, alleging exclusion of indigenous people and the inclusion of illegal immigrants.On August 31 this year, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said in the Assembly that the Assam government had submitted an affidavit in the Supreme Court for re-verification of 20 per cent names in districts bordering Bangladesh and 10 per cent in the rest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-000-ineligible-names-to-be-deleted-from-final-nrc-list-in-assam/story-Vi4mVs00TlgL3lsJ3bXW6N.html
14-10-2020||India||Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh Yadav tests positive for Covid-19||Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh Yadav on Wednesday tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, the party’s official Twitter handle said.The Samajwadi Party patriarch has no symptoms of coronavirus, the party said.“Samajwadi Party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav has tested positive for Covid-19, and is being monitored by doctors. As of now, he has no Covid symptoms,” Samajwadi Party tweeted in Hindi.According to sources, his wife Sadhna Yadav has also tested positive.The minister along with his wife has been admitted to Medanta hospital in Gurgaon for treatment. Mulayam Singh Yadav’s son, the former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Akhilesh Yadav, informed that the minister’s health is stable.“The honourable minister’s health is stable. Today, after testing positive for coronavirus, he was admitted in Medanta, Gurgaon for his treatment and recovery. We are in constantly keeping an eye on his health and are in contact with senior doctors. We will keep informing you all about his health from time to time,” Akhilesh Yadav said in a tweet. माननीय नेताजी का स्वास्थ्य स्थिर है. आज कोरोना पॉज़िटिव होने पर गुड़गाँव के मेदांता में उन्हें स्वास्थ्य-लाभ के लिए भर्ती कराया था. हम वरिष्ठ डॉक्टरों के निरंतर संपर्क में हैं और समय-समय पर सूचित करते रहेंगे.Earlier in August, the Samajwadi Party leader was admitted to Medanta hospital in Lucknow after he complained of constipation and stomach ache.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samajwadi-party-leader-mulayam-singh-yadav-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-DBsmpsYsbSiUepsgk7Be9J.html
14-10-2020||India||Tripura BJP MLAs meet JP Nadda, play down reports of revolt against CM Biplab Deb||A delegation of BJP MLAs from Tripura camping in New Delhi for some days, met the party’s national president JP Nadda on Tuesday amid reports of a brewing rebellion in the state against chief minister Biplab Deb.The delegation of four MLAs said they discussed the political and party organizational affairs of the state and played down reports of a campaign against the chief minister. “We have informed our top leader about the political and our party’s organizational affairs. We are not here to complain against anyone,” BJP legislator Ramprasad Paul who was present at the meeting told a local TV channel of Tripura. He said that though there are about 11 legislators had come to Delhi, only four of them went to meet Nadda due to Covid-19 situation. Paul could not be reached over phone for further details of the meeting.Earlier, a BJP legislator fuelled speculation of a revolt against chief minister Deb by saying that despite MLAs backing the party’s ideology, neither the government nor the party was moving in the right direction.“All the pre-poll promises, mentioned in the party’s Vision Document, were made to be fulfilled. These should be reflected in action, but we are far from reality. We want to highlight to the top leaders about all what is happening in the state,” said the legislator over the phone on Sunday.Although he did not specifically say that the group of legislators wants Deb to be removed from the chief minister’s post, he underlined that he should be friendlier with party legislators.“We will highlight the developments in Tripura. The rest will be decided by the top leaders if they want to intervene in this issue,” the legislator said.The BJP has 36 MLAs in the 60-memer Assembly in Tripura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-bjp-mlas-meet-jp-nadda-play-down-reports-of-revolt-against-cm-biplab-deb/story-Z95OjVJPqsOGkgwaSpNUXK.html
14-10-2020||India||Centre committed to provide all possible assistance to rain-hit Andhra Pradesh, Telangana: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday assured people that Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is closely monitoring the situation in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in the wake of unprecedented torrential rains. As many as seventeen people have died in Hyderabad in rain-related incidents, following intense rainfall. Another three people died in a house collapse incident in Telangana’s Nagarkurnool district. Apart from Telangana, incessant rainfall have also wreaked havoc in Andhra Pradesh, where the downpour resulted in 10 deaths. “MHA is closely monitoring the situation in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in the wake of heavy rainfalls. Modi government is committed to provide all possible assistance to the people of both the states in this hour of need. My thoughts and prayers are with those affected,” Shah wrote on Twitter. MHA is closely monitoring the situation in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in the wake of heavy rainfalls. Modi government is committed to provide all possible assistance to the people of both the states in this hour of need. My thoughts and prayers are with those affected.Both the states are struggling with waterlogging issues on roads and in several low-lying areas.Chairman of Telangana power transmission corporation D Prabhakar Rao had earlier assured that all requited steps were being taken to prevent collapse of the electricity grid. K T Rama Rao, Telangana minister for municipal administration and urban development had said that around 40 relief camps were set up where food and water was being arranged for nearly 80,000 people affected by the rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-committed-to-provide-all-possible-assistance-to-rain-hit-andhra-pradesh-telangana-says-amit-shah/story-laMSmjdN1VbVzOxt6t5nGO.html
14-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand civic agency staff tranquilize a bull after it attacks local BJP leader||Uttarakhand civic authorities in Kumaon tranquilized a bull and caught it on Wednesday, a day after it attacked a BJP leader and injured him in the region. The 52-year-old BJP leader, Mahesh Khulbe, who is a member of the BJP’s state working committee, had to be hospitalised for treatment after his arm was fractured in the incident. The bull has been sent to the local cow shelter. The bull had also attacked other people in Haldwani and complaints regarding the attacks were made to the officials at the Haldwani municipal corporation, who assured of forming a team to tackle such incidents. The bull attacked Khulbe in Shanti Nagar area of Haldwani when he was returning home after purchasing milk from the nearby market on Tuesday. Mahesh Khulbe said he was bringing milk from the nearby dairy when suddenly, a bull ran towards him. “I was terror-stricken. It was a huge bull. I ran for my life and jumped into an empty plot, which had a boundary around it. While jumping, I fell down and fractured my left arm. When I stood up, the bull again rushed towards me and hit me,” he said. “I have complained regarding this bull to Dr. Jogendra Rautela, mayor Haldwani-Kathgodam Municipal Corporation and DM Nainital,” he added. Dr. Manoj Kandpal, city health officer of Haldwani Kathgodam Municipal Corporation said, “We sent employees to track the bull, who have caught it after tranquilizing it. The bull has been taken to a cow shelter. Apart from this, we will form a joint team of animal husbandry department and municipal corporation personnel to deal with such incidents.” There are many stray animals roaming in Haldwani city. This is not the first such incident. Earlier too a bull had attacked one PS Dhami, a resident of Siddharth City on Rampur road in Haldwani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-civic-agency-staff-tranquilize-a-bull-after-it-attacks-local-bjp-leader/story-37OXZiuMsB4pfu4dHwK77K.html
14-10-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine tracker: Bharat Biotech’s new strategy, Russia’s nod to 2nd vaccine. All you need to know||Johnson & Johnson’s sudden pause in the ongoing trial of Covid-19 has dashed the world’s hope for an early Covid-19 vaccine a little bit. The company has not revealed much details about the unexplained illness that one of the participant showed after receiving the shot. While it is examining what went wrong, here are other Covid-19 vaccine developments across the globe.Bharat Biotech’s new strategyIndia’s Bharat Biotech, which is producing an indigenous vaccine in collaboration with ICMR, is reportedly speeding up its trial. It has halved the size of the phase 2 clinical trial, reports said. Instead of 750 participants, it will now test the vaccine on 380 volunteers so that it can speedily move to phase 3. Oxford vaccine phase 3 trial results by DecemberThe results of phase three of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine could be available by November-end or early December.Dr Reddy’s applies again for Sputnik’s trial in IndiaDr Reddy’s Laboratories has reapplied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), which struck down its earlier proposal, seeking permission to conduct combined phases 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the Russian COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India.Russia approves second vaccineRussia has granted regulatory approval to a second Covid-19 vaccine, President Vladimir Putin said at a government meeting broadcast on state television on Wednesday. This comes at a time when Russia is reeling under a second wave, despite being the first country to have announced a vaccine.China plans to inoculate studentsReports said China National Biotec Group Co, which is a subsidiary of state-owned Sinopharm Group Co, is in talks with the Chinese government about giving experimental vaccines to students who will be going to foreign countries for studies. UK mulling challenge studiesSeveral support groups in the United Kingdom are pushing for challenge studies where people would be infected with Covid-19 virus to help researchers find out a vaccine. Though no major pharma company has shown interests to carry out such studies, several volunteers are up for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-tracker-bharat-biotech-s-new-strategy-russia-s-nod-to-2nd-vaccine-all-you-need-to-know/story-zGxDPLfYjEdbGZG3CCU98M.html
14-10-2020||India||Bengal governor calls Balwinder Singh victim of human rights violation||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said Wednesday evening that Balwidner Singh, the Sikh man whose turban fell off when he was arrested for carrying a pistol at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) agitation in Howrah on October 8, is a victim of human rights violation. Balwinder Singh’s wife Karamjit Kaur and son Harshveer Singh flew down to Kolkata with Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa. They met the governor at Raj Bhawan and appealed for help after meeting police officials in Howrah. Balwinder Singh is now in the custody of the Howrah district police and facing charges under several sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Indian Arms Act. He was charged with carrying a pistol the licence for which is invalid in West Bengal. The state BJP leadership earlier said that he works for a private security agency and was deployed to provide security to one of its leaders. “Karamjit Kaur wife & son Harshveer #balwindersingh alongwith delegation @mssirsa called on me. It was a difficult moment for me to face his Wife and Son pleading for justice. I earnestly appeal @MamataOfficial to undo injustice #Balvindrasingh . @WBPolice @HomeBengal justice,” tweeted Dhankhar. “On issues of violation of human rights State must be with victim rather than with perpetrators. Time @MamataOfficial to rise to occasion to undo injustice @WBPolice @HomeBengal & take immediate remedial steps #Balvindersingh. Sensitive stance would be wholesome for society,” he wrote. Kaur said, “My husband comes from a family of soldiers who served the country. I appeal to the people of West Bengal, who are our friends, and chief minister Mamata Banerjee to do justice and release my husband,” Sirsa, who is a Shiromani Akali Dal leader, has challenged the allegation that Balwinder’s arms licence is not valid in West Bengal. On Wednesday he submitted Singh’s flight documents to the governor and said Singh carried the firearm from Delhi to Kolkata with valid documents and an ‘all-India’ licence. “How can a man who served the army and fought in the Kargil War be treated like a terrorist? He has been charged under 15 sections,” said Sirsa. Taking on the chief minister, the governor on Wednesday released a letter he wrote to her on October 11 after talking to her over the phone. The letter said that he wanted to talk about Balwinder Singh, the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manish Shukla on October 4 and other issues related to law and order in the state but the chief minister accused him of being partisan. “Surely Chief Minister and her colleagues, in government and party, calling the Governor an agent of a particular party (and what not), as is the case, is not only derogatory for the office of the Governor, but quite self-demeaning, stooping too low to be completely avoidable. So is the accusatory tone towards the Governor,” said the letter. “On October 8, all witnessed extensive breaches of basic and affirmed rights of the people. Enormity of violations generated wide spread consternation, reaction and wrath in the public when state apparatus unleashed virtual reign of terror with barbaric insensitivity. What happened graduate to the worst crimes in a civilised society governed by the Rule of Law. What happened to a Sikh has sent shock waves beyond the State. As per details in public domain, he was insultingly beaten, dragged and his turban disrespectfully treated in full public view by unstoppable police personnel,” Dhankhar wrote in the letter. Reacting to this, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “The BJP moves on its own strength. It does not need any support from the Raj Bhawan or any political party.” “The Mamata Banerjee government should apologize for hurting the sentiments of the Sikh community,” said GhoshTMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy said, “Sikhs and Bengalis have always lived in harmony like brothers. No Sikh organisation in Bengal has raised this issue because everyone knows that it is an isolated incident and the turban came off during scuffling. The police have already explained that. Left with no other issue, the BJP is trying to use it to gain some political mileage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-calls-balwinder-singh-victim-of-human-rights-violation/story-xFJj3q8gPIrj0JS3qW3o7M.html
14-10-2020||India||Odisha youth dies by suicide after testing positive for Covid-19||Fearing social stigma, a 20-year-old man from Odisha’s Nabarangpur district died by suicide on Tuesday evening after testing positive for Covid-19.Narendra Bisoi of Badamasigaon village in Nabarangpur district had undergone a RT-PCR test along with his friends at the Community Health Centre at Sanamasigan. As Narendra’s reports were positive on Tuesday, the health department officials asked him to remain in home isolation since he had developed mild symptoms of the disease.Sub-inspector of Kodinga police station, Latika Mohapatra said shortly after informing his family members about his test result, Bisoi gulped a bottle of pesticide on Tuesday evening. Although his family members took him to the Nabarangpur district headquarters hospital, doctors there declared him dead.The family members registered a case at Kodinga police station after which his body was sent for an autopsy.Nabarangpur has so far reported 4,542 Covid-19 cases of which 495 people are still under treatment. The district has reported eight Covid-19 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-youth-dies-by-suicide-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19/story-hQwKcT2VbFGQRnD1w1rhVM.html
14-10-2020||India||‘15-year-old raped by 2 for over 20 days in Odisha’s Cuttack’: Police||A 15-year-old girl has been rescued after two men allegedly gang-raped her for 22 days in Cuttack city, said police, adding that the accused also filmed the incident and had threatened the girl. Cuttack deputy commissioner of police Prateek Singh said one person in the case has been arrested. Hunt for his accomplice is on, said police.“We have launched a manhunt for the other accused. A team has been constituted to nab the second accused,” said Singh.Police said a minor girl from Jagatsinghpur district, a Std IX student, had come to stay with her elder sister and brother-in-law in Professorpada area of Cuttack city about three weeks ago unable to bear the torture of his father. However, her brother-in-law did not want to keep her in his home for long and asked her to go back to Jagatsinghpur, said police.Slamming the government, opposition BJP on Wednesday launched a scathing attack, asking how can the ruling BJD claim support of women voters when they are not safe. “Crime against women is on the rise in the state. The Class-IX girl student who was gang-raped for 22 days is from Tirtol, how will the government face the people during the forthcoming bypoll? How come the police were unaware of the incident? What was the police doing,” asked state BJP leader Lekhashree Samantsinghar.“State Women Commission chief speaks up when it suits BJD’s political purpose. Similarly, the women and child development minister, home minister and chief minister who make tall claims about women safety are completely silent,” she added.On September 20, while waiting for a bus at OMP square in Cuttack, a youth named Santosh Behera approached her and promised to bring her to Badambadi bus stand by giving false assurances, said police. As it was getting dark, the police added, the girl was anxious to return to Jagatsinghpur but Behera instead took her to a farmhouse of his friend Raka near Gatiroutpatna on the pretext of taking her home.“The youth along with his associate Raka sexually abused the girl at the farm for 22 days. They also recorded the video of the incident and threatened to kill her or post the video on social media if she attempted to escape or dared to report the matter,” said a police official of Chauliaganj police station. A case under sections 376 D( gang rape), 376 A (causing death to victim) and section 34 (common intention) of the IPC and section 6 of Pocso Act have been lodged against the accused at Chauliaganj police station.Police accidentally rescued her on October 12 evening after receiving a tip-off about a sex racket in the area when they found her in the farmhouse. The girl was then handed to the District Childline for counselling.“The mental and physical condition of the victim is not good. She is very much scared. In her statement before the District Child Protection Officer, she has narrated about her ordeal. We have contacted the Childline in Jagatsinghpur district for informing her family there. We are also trying to contact her elder sister in Cuttack,” said coordinator of Cuttack childline Narayan Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-year-old-raped-by-2-for-over-20-days-in-odisha-s-cuttack-police/story-LIMdERB2fpKZ3eoL2y1o9K.html
14-10-2020||India||India, Portugal explore possibilities for post-Covid-19 cooperation||India and Portugal on Wednesday reviewed bilateral relations and explored the possibilities for cooperation in the post-Covid-19 scenario during a virtual meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Portuguese counterpart Augusto Santos Silva. Both countries “reaffirmed their commitment to reformed multilateralism and agreed to maintain close contact and coordination on regional and global issues with particular reference to India’s presence in the United Nations Security Council from 2021”, said a statement from the external affairs ministry. “Co-chaired a productive ministerial review with FM Augusto Santos Silva @nestrangeiro_pt of Portugal. Discussed deepening economic cooperation, migration & mobility and shared maritime interests. Reaffirmed our common commitment to multilateralism,” Jaishankar said in a tweet. The two leaders made a detailed review of bilateral ties, including the cooperation between the two countries during the Covid-19 pandemic and the possibilities of cooperation in the post-Covid scenario, the statement said. The two ministers also agreed that the momentum in ties will be maintained, particularly in new areas of cooperation such as migration and mobility partnership, defence cooperation, and deepening of economic ties. India has focussed on working with European countries in recent years to work out better arrangements for the mobility of its skilled professionals. They also discussed relations between India and the European Union (EU) and agreed to work closely for the next India-EU27 leaders’ meeting during Portugal’s presidency of the grouping in 2021. Portugal Prime Minister Antonio Costa has already issued an invitation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for this meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-portugal-explore-possibilities-for-post-covid-19-cooperation/story-9OUepKYfH7sP8bwiUVEWOI.html
14-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 20 killed as heavy rains lash Hyderabad and suburbs, 10 die in Andhra and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.20 killed as heavy rains lash Hyderabad and suburbs, 10 die in AndhraUnprecedented torrential rain that wreaked havoc in Hyderabad and its suburbs in the last 24 hours claimed at least 17 lives and threw normal life out of gear. Read moreIndia roasts Imran Khan adviser’s claim of New Delhi’s outreach to PakIndia has not reached out to Pakistan, directly or via intermediaries, to resume dialogue between the two countries, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday, dismissing claims by Imran Khan’s top security adviser Moeed W Yusuf that New Delhi had sent a quiet message that reflected what he called, “a desire for conversation”. Read moreMaharashtra relaxes Covid-19 curbs, allows graded metro rail ops from ThursdayMetro rail operations in Maharashtra will start from Thursday in a graded manner under its mission ‘begin again’ amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The metro rail operations will resume following fresh guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government on Wednesday. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘You do not go in with just Plan A,’ CSK CEO comments on mid-season transfer talksIPL 2020: CSK need to shore up their batting order as they have looked precarious in pressure situations. The middle-order is not firing consistently and due to that CSK have faced a lot trouble during chasing. Read moreSanjay Dutt talks about cancer diagnosis in new video: ‘This is a recent scar in my life, but I will beat it’Sanjay Dutt, who was diagnosed with stage four lung cancer earlier this year, is determined to beat it. In a new video shared by hairstylist Aalim Hakim on Instagram, the actor said that he is already back at work and promised to beat cancer soon. Read moreApple ProRAW: What it means, who can use it and when it is coming to iPhone 12 ProThis feature, as mentioned during the launch, won’t be available in iPhone 12 Pro and iPhone 12 Pro Max at the time of their release but will surely be coming later this year. Read moreWatch: World War II bomb explodes underwater in Poland, no injuries||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-20-killed-as-heavy-rains-lash-hyderabad-and-suburbs-10-die-in-andhra-and-all-the-latest-news/story-JIgHxI8vd4TPUE5zpGK3AO.html
14-10-2020||India||‘Common man’s Diwali in your hands’: SC’s nudge to Centre on loan relief||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that the Government should implement “at the earliest” the waiver on compounded interest on loans of up to Rs 2 crore under the RBI moratorium scheme as the borrower cannot be expected to keep waiting for a month, adding that the common man’s Diwali is in the government’s hands.“The Common man’s Diwali is in your hands,” the top court told the Centre.The Centre had stated in an affidavit last Saturday that the government may require time till November 15 to come out with a formal scheme announcing the waiver on compound interest.Taking strong objection to such tactics by the Centre, the three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said, “What you have decided must percolate down to the beneficiaries. You announced a waiver on compounded interest on October 2 but no direction has been issued to the banks. Despite your decision, the common man is worried about being charged interest on interest by banks. Why should it take you so long to work out modalities, you seem to be simply delaying the whole thing.”Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who represented the Centre, informed the court that the waiver on compounded interest has been issued on loans up to Rs 2 crore for eight categories of beneficiaries. These include loans given to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), personal loans offered on account of housing, education, consumer durables, auto, consumption, personal loan to professionals, and credit card dues.Mehta said, “When the Centre has stated in the affidavit that the decision will be implemented, it will be done. The outer limit is November 15 but we intend to do it much before that. We have taken the decision seeing the plight of the common man. We do not stand to gain anyway by delaying it any further.”The bench, also comprising Justices RS Reddy and MR Shah, replied, “There is difference in ‘will be implemented’ and ‘being implemented’. Once you have taken a decision it must be implemented at the earliest. We do not agree that such a long time is needed for such a small decision.”“The modalities to be followed by the lending institutions will be formulated in a scheme which will be a part of an Office Memorandum (O.M). Considering the complexities of different categories of borrowers and their different terms and conditions, such a scheme will be issued by way of an Office Memorandum on or before November 15.” the Centre said last week. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Indian Banks Association (IBA), a consortium of over 200 banks, assured the court that whatever the Centre has decided will be implemented.“The numbers are large of the eight categories of beneficiaries who will benefit from the scheme. Our problem is we cannot do anything without a circular issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI),” he said. The bench wondered why the modalities were not worked out before the Centre made the announcement of the waiver before the court. “The lending institutions will be required to take suitable steps for implementing the decision of waiver of interest on interest [compounded interest] in the respective accounts of the eligible borrowers within one month from the aforesaid O.M, subsequent to which the lending institution will approach the Central Government for reimbursement,” said the governmentThe court posted the matter to November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/common-man-s-diwali-in-your-hands-sc-s-nudge-to-centre-on-loan-relief/story-1ntdJZjOGmAFOocVxeB7dP.html
14-10-2020||India||PM Modi assures Andhra, Telangana CMs of help after heavy rains cause loss of lives, damage||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao and Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday after the two southern states were hit by heavy rains and assured them of all possible support and assistance from the Centre in the rescue and relief work.In a tweet, the prime minister said, “Spoke to @TelanganaCMO KCR Garu and AP CM @ysjagan Garu regarding the situation in Telangana and AP respectively due to heavy rainfall. Assured all possible support and assistance from the Centre in rescue & relief work. My thoughts are with those affected due to the heavy rains.”Unprecedented torrential rain that wreaked havoc in Hyderabad and its suburbs in the last 24 hours claimed at least 17 lives and threw normal life out of gear.In other areas in Telangana, another three people died in a house collapse incident in Nagarkurnool district. In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, too, heavy rains resulted in the death of 10 people in different parts of the state.As many as nine people including three children were killed and four others injured in two separate incidents of wall collapse at Bandlaguda in the old city of Hyderabad late on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-assures-andhra-telangana-cms-of-help-after-heavy-rains-cause-loss-of-lives-damage/story-JMlgw72ypJLvXaJtPCWkaL.html
14-10-2020||India||Aligarh district administration orders probe after blast in toy factory kills 4||Four people including one of the owners of a toy pistol making factory that operated out of a house in Aligarh were killed and a dozen others were injured after a gas cylinder exploded Tuesday evening, completely destroying the building, police said.Work was in full swing with Diwali round the corner. “The incident occurred in Mohalla Khatikaan under Delhi Gate police station of Aligarh on Tuesday evening. Initially it was believed that the explosion was caused by a gas cylinder but the actual reason is being investigated by the city magistrate,” said superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek. “The root cause was basically a cylinder which burst. About 10 people were trapped in the debris of houses where this factory was running. The city magistrate has been asked to conduct an enquiry and submit his report within 15 days to determine the exact reason and suggest measures so that no such incident happens in future,” said Chandra Bhushan Singh, district magistrate of Aligarh . The blast occurred in a house owned by one Surendra Bheelware whose nephews Manoj and Sanjay ran the factory of plastic toys. Houses nearby were also damaged in the blast. Manoj (38) was among those killed in the blast.The other three were identified as Vicky alias Vishal (32), Abhishek (26) and Pankaj. The injured were admitted to JN Medical College of Aligarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aligarh-district-administration-orders-probe-after-blast-in-toy-factory-kills-4/story-bqXeVXKS80diePCNJTx4lJ.html
14-10-2020||India||74-year-old man presumed dead and kept in freezer, rescued a day later in Tamil Nadu||A 74-year-old resident of Salem in Tamil Nadu who was presumed dead and kept in a freezer was rescued a day later on Tuesday after he was found to be alive, police said Wednesday.Balasubramanyam Kumar had been ailing for the last couple of months with age related diseases and had been living with his 70-year old younger brother Sarvanan at Kandhampatti village in Salem district.According to Sooramangalam police station officials when Sarvanan tried to wake up his elder brother Kumar on Monday evening, he did not respond despite several attempts. Seeing no response from Kumar, Sarvanan ‘presumed’ that his brother who had been ailing was dead and asked a funeral service company to supply a freezer box and called several relatives to inform them about last rites planned for the next day.However, when employees of the funeral service company came to collect back the freezer on Tuesday before the funeral, they saw that Kumar’s hands were moving and raised an alarm. But Sarvanan claimed that this was due to ‘fits’ that his brother had and said the movement must have been due to the ‘soul not having left the body.’After the police were informed, they immediately shifted Kumar to the nearby government hospital where he is said to be recovering. A Sooramangalam police station official claimed that ‘it looks like it has not been done deliberately and the 70-year-old younger brother Sarvanan also does not seem to have all his wits about him.”The police have registered a case under IPC section 287 (conduct endangering human life) and sec 336 (endangering personal safety of others) and are investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/74-year-old-man-presumed-dead-and-kept-in-freezer-rescued-a-day-later-in-tamil-nadu/story-B7KMhskyEWBrfpPB3OLKsI.html
14-10-2020||India||20 killed as heavy rains lash Hyderabad and suburbs, 10 die in Andhra||Unprecedented torrential rain that wreaked havoc in Hyderabad and its suburbs in the last 24 hours claimed at least 17 lives and threw normal life out of gear. In other areas in Telangana, another three people died in a house collapse incident in Nagarkurnool district. In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, too, heavy rains resulted in the death of 10 people in different parts of the state. As many as nine people including three children were killed and four others injured in two separate incidents of wall collapse at Bandlaguda in the old city of Hyderabad late on Tuesday. ALSO READ | Extremely heavy rainfall, landslide warning for parts of India’s west coastAssistant Commissioner of Police, Falaknuma, MA Majeed confirmed to Hindustan Times that eight people died when huge granite slabs of a compound wall and a few boulders fell on around 10 houses in Mohammadia Hills at Bandlaguda at around 11 pm. One more person died in another wall collapse incident at Phool Bagh Colony, in the same locality. “Four people sustained serious injuries and are undergoing treatment at Owaisi Hospital,” the ACP said. Also Watch | Telangana rains: 15 dead; 2-day holiday; SDRF deployed | Latest updates The GHMC Disaster Management Wing personnel with the assistance of the local police and residents pulled out the bodies from the debris. Several teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were also pressed into service to help the GHMC to remove the debris and check if there were any survivors. All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi, who visited Bandlaguda area to supervise the rescue operations, tweeted that nine people were killed in the various wall collapse incidents. In Gagan Pahad area on the Hyderabad-Bengaluru national highway, three members of a family died in another incident of house collapse. At Ibrahimpatnam, on the outskirts of the city, a woman and her 15-year-old daughter died after the roof of their old house collapsed on them. A physician died of electrocution, when he was trying to drain out water from his clinic in Banjara Hills on Wednesday morning. There were reports of two people getting washed away in flash floods at Mylardevpally in Falaknuma area, but there was no confirmation from the police. ALSO READ | Osmania University postpones exams following heavy rainsAt Kummera village of Nagarkurnool district, three people of the same family died when the roof their old house collapsed on them when they were asleep in the early hours of Wednesday. Two others managed to escape with minor injuries, the police said. Capital city Hyderabad received unprecedented rainfall in the last 24 hours. The intensity of the rainfall increased after 6 pm and went on battering the city all through the night. According to a bulletin from the State Disaster Management Authority, Singapore township area on the outskirts of city received the maximum of 30.6 cm of rain in a span of 12 hours till 10 pm. The South Hastinapuram area received 28.3 cm of rain till 1 am. The other areas of the city reported rainfall ranging from 11.5 cm to 20.5 cm. Water level in Hussain Sagar Lake in the middle of the city crossed the full tank level on Tuesday evening and started overflowing on to the city roads. At 6 pm, the water level at Hussain Sagar was recorded at 513.59 meters against the FTL of 513.41 m. Several low-lying areas in Begum Bazar, Khairatabad, Begumpet, Tolichowki, Shaikpet, Mehdipatnam, Cherlapally, Mallapur, Moula Ali were completely submerged. Storm water entered several residential apartments in Somajiguda, Errum Manzil, Khairatabad and Vijayanagar Colony. For rescue and relief measures, the disaster response force teams of the GHMC were pressed into service to rescue people in the water-logged areas of Ameerpet, Nagole, Abids, Mehdipatnam, Forum Mall, Goshamahal, CM camp office, Dilsukhnagar, Miyapur Metro station, ECIL, Secunderabad and other places. The National Disaster Response Force teams also plunged into action and rescued 74 people from the low-lying areas of Bandangpet area. At Chandrayangutta area, an Indian Army helicopter was pressed into service to air-lift people from the submerged places. At several places like Nadeem Colony, the GHMC deployed boats to bring out people from their water-logged houses. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar, who had a telephonic conversation with chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, instructed the authorities to be on high alert for the next two days and ensure that rescue operations were taken up on war footing. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation commissioner Lokesh Kumar appealed to the people not to venture out of their houses unless there was an emergency. Making a statement in the state legislative council, minister for municipal administration and urban development K T Rama Rao said as many as 40 relief camps were set up where food and water was being arranged for nearly 80,000 people. Meanwhile, chairman of Telangana power transmission corporation D Prabhakar Rao said all steps were being taken to prevent collapse of the electricity grid due to sudden drop in the demand. All thermal power stations were backed down and only hydel power generation was going on, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-killed-as-heavy-rains-lash-hyderabad-and-suburbs-10-die-in-andhra/story-3TcUtJCUR0s3ta6wS78LgP.html
14-10-2020||India||India, Pakistan in war of words over Kashmir, terror at Commonwealth meet||India on Wednesday criticised Pakistan for raising issues such as Kashmir at the virtual Commonwealth foreign ministers’ meeting, saying it is a “globally acknowledged promoter of state-sponsored terrorism” that masquerades as a victim of the menace. The remarks were part of a statement delivered by Vikas Swarup, secretary (West) in the external affairs ministry, who participated in the meeting on behalf of external affairs minister S Jaishankar. Both countries didn’t name each other in their respective statements though it was clear who they were referring to. Pakistan raised the issue of India’s alleged sponsorship of terror activities aimed against Islamabad, and described Jammu and Kashmir as a “disputed territory”. Swarup said it was unfortunate that the Commonwealth meeting was “misused by one of our South Asian member states to pursue its own bigoted, ill-conceived, narrow and unilateral agenda on a multilateral platform”. He added, “When we heard them rant about a South Asian state, we were left wondering why it was describing itself? And not surprisingly it came from a globally acknowledged promoter of state-sponsored terrorism masquerading as an alleged victim of the same.” In his speech, Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said, “While the world remains preoccupied with pandemic, a state in South Asia is targeting its religious minority groups in order to foment division and hatred… It has transgressed rights and freedoms of millions and fanned hyper nationalism to engineer illegal demographic change in a disputed territory and sowed racial tensions.” Swarup accused Pakistan of bringing “genocide to South Asia 39 years back, when it killed its own people”, and said: “This is also the same country that has the dubious distinction of becoming synonymous with the phrase ‘epicentre of terrorism’ and hosting the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the United Nations.” Swarup said the “only dispute left” in Kashmir, which Pakistan described as a “disputed territory”, is “its own illegal occupation of certain parts, which sooner or later, it would have to vacate”. “For such a country to hypocritically preach about religious minority groups elsewhere, while trampling upon the rights of its own indigenous minorities, was indeed most regrettable, and a blatant misuse of this august platform,” he added. Swarup also spoke of India’s role in helping other countries counter the Covid-19 pandemic, saying: “As we move towards development of a Covid-19 vaccine, India (which accounts for 60% of global vaccine production) has already committed its vaccine production and delivery capacity to help the world in fighting this crisis.” In keeping with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s commitment at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) in 2018, India has opened a “Commonwealth Sub Window” of $50 Million to provide grants to member states for projects related to SDG implementation and climate change. In its first year of existence, this fund has approved 11 projects in nine Commonwealth countries, including the development of a climate early warning system in seven Pacific Island countries. India has also more than doubled its support to the Commonwealth Small States Offices Program in New York, from $100,000 to $250,000, and Geneva, from $80,000 to $150,000, to support the engagement of small island developing states with global bodies such as the UN and WTO, Swarup said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pakistan-in-war-of-words-over-kashmir-terror-at-commonwealth-meet/story-JTsItaGdpAJIhv36G6hCzI.html
14-10-2020||India||Delhi-Katra Vande Bharat, Chandigarh-Delhi Shatabdi: List of new trains available from October 15||With more relaxations being allowed across the country from October 15, the railways will also increase the number of trains keeping the festive season in mind. Schools, cinema halls, swimming pools are also partially opening in the country — depending on concerning state government’s decision — from tomorrow.Here is a list of trains starting from October 15Delhi-Katra Vande Bharat ExpressUnion Minister Jitendra Singh has earlier announced the resumption of the Delhi-Katra Vande Bharat Express from October 15. This will come as a relief for pilgrims planning to visit Vaishno devi during Navratri. “As follow-up to discussion with Railway Minister Piyush Goyal two days back, the Ministry of Railways has announced resumption of Vande Bharat Express from New Delhi to Katra from October 15. A huge relief and exciting information for pilgrims on the eve of Navratras,” the minister wrote on Twitter.Chandigarh-Delhi Shatabdi ExpressThe Northern Railways has decided to restart Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express via Chandigarh from October 15 in view of the upcoming festival season. The train will depart from the New Delhi railway station at 7:40am and reach Chandigarh at 11:05am. On the return journey, it will depart from Chandigarh at 6:20pm and reach New Delhi at 9:55pm.Special 200 festival trainsThese trains will be running between October 15 and November 30. These festival special trains will be operated at a speed of 55kmph and the fares applicable will be those of special trains. Railways started operations of 15 pairs Rajdhani-like special trains connecting Delhi with different parts of the country on May 12 and 100 pairs of long-distance trains on June 1. It also started 80 trains additionally on September 12.Mumbai localThe Western Railway has decided to run additional 194 special services, including 10 AC trains, from October 15. With this, the number of suburban trains running in Mumbai will be 700. Out of the increased 194 new services, 49 services will be during morning peak hours and another 49 will be during evening peak hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-katra-vande-bharat-chandigarh-delhi-shatabdi-list-of-trains-resuming-from-october-15/story-hXe5OhSMmhVfAM3Hl3VY5K.html
14-10-2020||India||Bring something concrete, common man’s Diwali in govt’s hand: SC on loan relief||The Supreme Court on Wednesday denied the Central government’s request seeking one month’s time to implement the interest waiver on loans of up to Rs 2 crore and observed that it is not fair on the government’s part to delay the implementation of its decision.A three-judge bench of the apex court, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta what the Centre has done for the implementation of its notification for giving relief to borrowers.“Have you (Centre) done anything? Not fair on the Centre’s part to take a month to implement the decision,” the bench said, to which Mehta responded by saying that it will take some time to implement the decision and sought one month’s time for the same.“Please, see the plight of common people, when you have already decided to help. Diwali is now in your hands. Common man’s Diwali is in government’s hand,” the bench observed while denying the request and asked the Centre to bring something concrete.The matter was slated to come up for further hearing before the bench on November 2.One of the petitioners in the case, lawyer Vishal Tiwari submitted before the apex court that the banks are acting on their own discretion and added that they do not care for any orders or instructions and that there should be some interim orders.Tiwari said he has filed written submissions in the matter and said the court should consider that, along with the consolidated affidavit filed by the Reserve Bank of India on October 9.The RBI had submitted that extending the loan moratorium, which was announced to cope with the economic fallout of Covid-19, by another six months can impact the credit behaviour of borrowers and increase the risks of delinquencies post resumption of scheduled payments.The top court was hearing two petitions -- Gajender Sharma and Vishal Tiwari -- seeking an extension of the moratorium period on repayment of loans and to waive off the interest on the repayment of the loan amount keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bring-something-concrete-common-man-s-diwali-in-govt-s-hand-supreme-court-on-loan-relief/story-lg1doI4naTgOb2QaxbnS3I.html
14-10-2020||India||Sabarimala temple to open from October 16: All you need to know||After lockdown, Sabarimala temple will open for pujas for five days from October 16 during Malayalam month of Thulam, the Travancore Devasom Board (TDB) which runs the hill shrine said. The temple was closed for devotees on March 18, a week before the first lockdown was put into place. In June there were plans to open the shrine but it was deferred after many organizations and the chief priest of the temple opposed it.There are certain SOPs and guidelines which have been put in place to be followed to enter the temple.1. Only 250 people will be allowed for darshan per day.2. Online booking will be done on first come first served basis. 3. Only registered devotees will be allowed to enter the temple.4. All pilgrims will have to carry Covid-19 negative certificates obtained 48 hours before reaching Pambha, the base camp, and those arriving without certificates will have to undergo a test and wait for its results||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-temple-to-open-from-october-16-all-you-need-to-know/story-fRUfrJwlLJ0xusWqKCRk3O.html
14-10-2020||India||Indian Army chief General Naravane to visit Nepal in November||Indian Army chief General MM Naravane is set to travel to Nepal next month, the first high-level visit between the two countries since a border row hit ties earlier this year. Nepal’s defence ministry announced on Wednesday that Naravane will visit in November. “The visit was approved by the government of Nepal on February 3, 2020 but was postponed due to [the Covid-19] lockdown in both the countries,” it said in a statement. In keeping with a long-standing convention between the armies of the two countries, Nepal’s President Vidya Devi Bhandari will “confer the honorary rank of general of the Nepali Army to General Naravane in an investiture ceremony during this visit”, the statement said. Though the statement didn’t give the dates for the trip, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the Indian Army chief is expected to be in Nepal during November 3-5. India and Nepal have traditionally had strong defence and security ties, with regular exchanges and training programmes. Nearly 30,000 Gurkhas serve in seven regiments of the Indian Army. Naravane’s visit will provide an opportunity for the two sides to push defence and security cooperation after bilateral relations were affected by a border row that erupted in May. At the time, Nepal objected to the opening of a new road to Lipulekh region on the border with Tibet by India’s defence minister Rajnath Singh. Nepal then issued a new map that showed Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, all controlled by India, as part of Nepalese territory, exacerbating the row. Soon after the row began, Naravane said Nepal’s protest against the border road was at the behest of “someone else” – a veiled reference to China. The comments irked the Nepalese leadership, and defence minister Ishwar Pokhrel had said they “hurt the sentiments of the Nepali Gurkha army personnel who lay down their lives to protect India”. India rejected Nepal’s claims on Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura and said the matter should be addressed through dialogue. However, talks are yet to be scheduled between the two sides. In August, the two sides held a meeting of their oversight mechanism that oversees India-funded development projects and agreed to speed up work on bilateral projects, including infrastructure schemes and cross-border rail links. This was seen as the first effort by the two countries to set their relations back on an even keel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-chief-general-naravane-to-visit-nepal-in-november/story-luEndRskSk29QQAQkJnwoM.html
14-10-2020||India||IAS officer grilled in Kerala gold smuggling case moves HC for anticipatory bail||Senior Indian Administrative Service officer M Sivasankar, who was Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s secretary, moved the Kerala High Court for anticipatory bail on Wednesday after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) summoned him yet again in connection with the gold smuggling case.He was suspended in July after his alleged link with one of the main accused in the gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh came to light.In his plea for anticipatory bail, he contended that he has been questioned for more than 90 hours by different central agencies and they failed to detect any anomalies. He said he was fully cooperating with the investigation. The officer claimed that agencies were under pressure to arrest him to satisfy some vested interests. The plea will be taken up on Thursday. There are reports the ED will file a case against him for money laundering. During investigation it found that he had made several foreign trips and in some of them official permission was not sought. He was reportedly also aware of the questionable integrity of Swapna Suresh but went out of the way to help her.The smuggling case came to light on July 5 after 30 kg of gold was seized from a consignment for the UAE consulate. P Sarith Kumar, a former employee of the consulate who came to receive it, was arrested by the Customs department. Two other suspects, Swapna Suresh and Sandip Nair were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru five days later. Sivasankar was suspended after his alleged links with Suresh surfaced. A multi-agency team headed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is probing the case and 30 people have been arrested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ias-officer-grilled-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-moves-hc-for-anticipatory-bail/story-1D3XfVLr35fTdbpeVejnLM.html
14-10-2020||India||Govt always open for discussion with farmers on new farm laws: Prakash Javadekar||The government is always open for discussion with farmers on new farm laws, union minister Prakash Javadekar said amid farmer bodies from Punjab boycotting a meeting, convened in the national capital, demanding minister-level talks. About 29 organisations representing farmers boycotted the meeting, saying there was no minister present to hear their concerns. They protested outside Krishi Bhavan and tore copies of new farm laws. When asked about this, Javadekar said Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar have already held one round of discussion with farmer organisations on this issue. “If someone wants more (discussion), we are always open (to) meet everyone. But Tomarji has an engagement today, therefore he has gone. When he will get free, he is meeting all. There is no problem in this,” Information and Broadcasting Minister Javadekar told the media after the Cabinet meeting. It may be noted that farmers in Punjab and Haryana and other states are protesting against new farm laws which they feel will lead to procurement in the hands of corporates and the end of minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-always-open-for-discussion-with-farmers-on-new-farm-laws-prakash-javadekar/story-XlMTml50bDvlw7d32L37aI.html
14-10-2020||India||Fines, FIRS fail to check stubble burning in west UP as AQI plunges||The incidents of burning farm waste that includes stubble had almost doubled in west UP in the past few days, despite hefty fines and police cases against farmers, officials said Wednesday.According to the satellite data of Fire Information for Resource Management System (FIRMS) of NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration), which is also used by the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), more than 150 incidents of farm fires were recorded in West UP districts in the past 24 hours. UPPCB uses this data to keep an eye on stubble burning and alert respective district administrations.The FIRMS showed active fires concentrated in Punjab and Haryana and dispersed fires in west UP district of Bulandshahr, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Bijnor, Saharanpur, Etawah and Firozabad etc in the past 24 hours.VK Singh, chief engineer at UPPCB said, “The satellite data is shared with the respective district administrations to alert them about the incidents of stubble burning. It also helps us in keeping a better vigil.” The board is working in tandem with district authorities to prevent stubble burning. The officials reach out to farmers to dissuade them from burning their stubble and also impose fine or lodge FIR in case of non-compliance. Almost 50 farmers have been slapped with a total Rs 1.28 lakh fine in the past four days in nine districts of the state.At least a dozen FIRs have also been registered against farmers for burning stubble.While the government officials assert that they are doing everything to prevent stubble burning, farmer groups believe that the efforts are not practical enough. “The government wants us to remove the stubble instead of burning it. Doing this is not economically viable so we are forced to burn it,” said Deepak Rana, a farmer of Khutar in Shahjahanpur.Meanwhile the effect of stubble burning is reflected in the worsening air quality in the region. On Tuesday, more than 14 districts of west UP recorded an average AQI (Air quality index) of more than 200 which is considered poor and has serious impact on health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fines-firs-fail-to-check-stubble-burning-in-west-up-as-aqi-plunges/story-5l9ux9cFTgL4oahQjnMXZN.html
14-10-2020||India||‘Will ensure security of Hathras family, witnesses’: UP to Supreme Court||The Uttar Pradesh government told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that it is committed to ensure complete security of the family members of the Hathras gang rape victim and witnesses in the case, and placed before the court the steps taken by it to ensure the same.A three-fold protection mechanism, comprising armed constabulary component, civil police department and CCTV cameras and lights, has been deployed at the victim’s village entrance, house and surroundings, a compliance affidavit filed before the top court by the Yogi Adityanath government said.“The state government has deployed adequate forces to ensure protection of the victim’s family. The government of Uttar Pradesh is committed to provide complete security to the victim’s family and witnesses to ensure free and fair investigation,” the affidavit said.Further, personal security gunners have been provided for the security of the victim’s father, mother, brothers, sister-in-law and grandmother, it added.“The entire security staff deployed at the village has been strictly instructed to ensure that there is no intrusion into the privacy of the victim’s family and witnesses and that they are free to move and meet people they want,” it was submitted.The affidavit also stated that the victim’s brother had informed the additional superintendent of police that they have engaged two lawyers on behalf of their family as private advocates in the matter.The affidavit was filed pursuant to an order passed by the Supreme Court on October 6, seeking details of the security being provided by the state government to the victim’s family and witnesses.The order was passed by the apex court on a plea by a social activist, Satyama Dubey and two lawyers, Vishal Thakre and Rudra Pratap Yadav, alleging failure on the part of Uttar Pradesh authorities in dealing with the matter and seeking a CBI probe into the incident in which a 19-year old Dalit woman from Hathras was gang-raped and murdered allegedly by so called upper caste men on September 14.The victim had breathed her last on September 29. The manner in which her body was cremated by the state authorities in the dead of the night against the wishes of the family had led to outrage across the country.The UP government has maintained that it was forced to do so in order to avert an extraordinary law and order problem posed by protesters and political parties.The state in an earlier affidavit filed on October 5 had stated that it is in agreement with the prayer for a CBI probe but said that such a probe should be monitored by the top court. The CBI is currently probing the matter. In its affidavit on Wednesday, the UP government requested that a direction be issued to the CBI to submit fortnightly status reports on the investigation to the state government which can then be filed by DGP of UP before the Supreme Court.Meanwhile, an intervention application was file before the Supreme Court by an NGO, Munnokka Samudaya Samrakshana Munnani (Forward Community Welfare Front) based out of Kerala praying that guidelines be issued to ensure that when such crimes are reported, it should be first ascertained whether or not such crime is indeed the outcome of caste-based discrimination before portraying it as one.“It becomes imperative that the random use of caste in the reporting of crimes even when the caste of the involved parties is of no relevance, only helps to vilify and malign entire sections of people leaving them with no legal remedy and needs to be checked,” the application said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-ensure-security-of-hathras-family-witnesses-up-to-supreme-court/story-fMhdGRRTDyPqkhIvKJzJtL.html
14-10-2020||India||Over 200% hike in daily Covid-19 cases in Kerala in a month||While a few months ago, Kerala was an example of what to do to effectively manage the Covid-19 pandemic, in the last one month it has become an example of what not to do, as contradicting the national trend of active cases gradually dropping, Kerala is reporting a sharp spike of daily number of Covid-19 cases for the past few days. It has even surpassed Maharashtra as far as daily cases are concerned. Recently, the Tripura High Court has cited the example of Kerala’s Onam festival and asked the authorities to be cautious ahead of festivities in October. Karnataka is also considering Onam an example of what not to do in Dasara.The first confirmed Covid-19 case in India was reported in Kerala on January 30. It took 203 days to breach the 50,000-mark in total Covid cases as the state managed to rein in the spread of the infection with stringent surveillance. However, the next 50,000 was reached within the next 23 days. And on October 13, Kerala’s Covid-19 tally crossed the three lakh-markThe ongoing spike started in September. While in early September, the state was reporting a spike of near 2, 000 cases, last week Kerala reported a single-day spike of 11,755 cases.What happened in last one month?Onam: Onam was celebrated from the last week of August to September first week. Though social distancing norms were in place and people were asked to celebrate Onam in their houses, over 100 per cent jump in daily cases were reported after Onam.Massive political protests: The state saw several political protests in August and September. For example, three young political leaders who led protests against minister KT Jaleel in September tested positive. The minister has been accused of distributing Quran brought in diplomatic baggage from the UAE and seeking aid from the Consulate during Ramadan.Unlock: Like the rest of the country, Kerala has relaxed many restrictions adhering to the protocols of unlocking. The state is now open to tourists as well. Kerala health minister KK Shailaja earlier said the situation in the state is not grim as the mortality rate is low. “The ultimate aim is to reduce the mortality rate. We could contain cases when there was lockdown. But now measures are eased. We can’t blame the government for easing restrictions because people need to work and earn or else they will starve to death. But people need to follow all precautions,” the minister had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-200-hike-in-active-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-in-a-month/story-vS0htAwfADhD5FuyW6ruoJ.html
14-10-2020||India||Railway Protection Force puts out new Covid-19 norms for travellers ahead of festivals||With the festive season round the corner, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) has issued fresh guidelines for travellers on Wednesday so that they can travel safely to their destinations amid the Covid-19 pandemic.As more and more people are likely to travel during the upcoming festive season, the RPF has cautioned travellers that any negligence which may lead to the spread of the viral infection will be deemed as interference with passenger facilites provided by the railway administration. Any action or gesture on the part of railway passengers which may endanger the safety of other passengers is likely to be dealt with sternly by the Railways.Passengers who ignore Covid-19 health protocols either on board a train or in any railway station will be punished with imprisonment or fine or both, the Railway Protection Force said in a statement.Not wearing a mask or wearing a mask improperly, not maintaining proper social distance or arriving at a railway station or boarding a train after having tested Covid-19 positive will be deemed as serious negligence by the RPF.If a passenger boards a train after giving samples for testing of the viral infection and has not yet received the result of the test, he will be considered an offender. Similarly, if passengers’ board trains after having been denied permission to travel by the health team based at the railway station that too will attract a penalty.Spitting or deliberate ejection of body fluid or body waste in public areas and. other activities which may create unclean or unhygienic conditions or lead to the spread of Covid-19 and hamper safety in railway stations and trains will also be dealt with severely by the Railways. Passengers who do not follow the fresh set of guidelines while travelling during the festive season will be punished with imprisonment or penalties or both under section 145, 153 and 154 of the Railway Act, 1989.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-protection-force-puts-out-new-covid-19-norms-for-travellers-ahead-of-festivals/story-TnPczCKh1nizXvzEvpTWOM.html
14-10-2020||India||Maharashtra relaxes Covid-19 curbs, allows graded metro rail ops from Thursday||Metro rail operations in Maharashtra will start from Thursday in a graded manner under its mission ‘begin again’ amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The metro rail operations will resume following fresh guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government on Wednesday.But despite increasing pressure from all quarters including a letter-war between the chief minister and Maharashtra governor, the state government has not issued any guidelines on reopening places of worship so far.In Maharashtra, Mumbai has one metro line, while metro corridors are operational in Nagpur and Pune. According to the guidelines issued by state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, Metro operations will start from October 15, in a graded manner. The standard operating procedure for the operations to start will be issued by the urban development department, the guidelines said. School, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will continue to remain shut till October 31. In an attempt to push economic activities, the state has allowed Business to Business (B2B) exhibitions, locals markets and shops and markets to remain open for two additional hours from 9 am to 9 pm. Local weekly bazaars, including that of animals, will be allowed to operate from October 15, 2020.The guidelines said that shops and markets will be given two additional hours to operate with an aim to reduce crowding. Currently in Mumbai, shops are open between 9 am to 7 pm.The state has also allowed reopening all government and public libraries from October 15 with all necessary Covid-19 precautions. Several delegations met political parties including Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray to get the state to reopen libraries.The state government has also decided to do away with stamping of passengers arriving at domestic airports and at railway stations. However, they will be checked for Covid-19 symptoms and will have to adhere to all Covid-19 norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-relaxes-covid-19-curbs-allows-graded-metro-rail-ops-from-thursday/story-99c8ly8MoFcJsrJ4olVy2I.html
14-10-2020||India||Farm leaders walk out of talks called by Centre, demand minister’s presence||A delegation of protesting farmers’ leaders from Punjab invited for talks by Union agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal walked out of the meeting, demanding the presence of farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar, according to an umbrella platform representing them. The Union government had invited at least 31 farmers’ organisations and their leaders from Punjab for talks in the national capital, the second attempt in a month to reach out to farmers protesting a set of laws enacted by Parliament to liberalise agricultural markets. Watch: Farmers walk out of Centre’s meeting over absence of minister “The meeting was an effort to try and create a false impression that the central government is engaging with farmers, when in fact it is going all out to roll out and enforce the black anti-farmer laws,” the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said in a statement. The farmers’ delegation demanded the presence of agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and tore up copies of the laws. “First, the government should be ready to review and if necessary, repeal the three laws. Second, the government should be ready to consider legislating the minimum support price as a legal right and deal with input cost, food security and other issues,” the AIKSCC statement said. Avik Saha, convenor of the AIKSCC, said the meeting with the agriculture secretary “did not meet any of these criteria” as the secretary could not repeal, amend or enact new laws. “Rather his job is to implement the laws made by the government so he is the wrong person for the right discussion,” Saha said. A one-line statement released by the ministry on the meeting said the farmers’ delegation presented a memorandum to agriculture secretary addressed to the Union agriculture minister. The memorandum demanded repeal of the recent laws enacted to deregulate farm markets. Farmers have blocked roads and railway tracks since September 24 in a protest against legislations they fear could pave the way for the government to stop buying cereals at guaranteed prices (minimum support prices or MSP), leaving them vulnerable to exploitation by private players. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defending the laws, has called the new measures “historic”. He has publicly said that while the laws give farmers options to sell their produce to private buyers, the government would continue to purchase staples such as rice and wheat at MSPs. The laws seek to end local monopolies of regulated markets known as agricultural produce marketing committees or APMCs by opening up to private competition. These assurances have done little to satisfy millions of farmers in Punjab, Haryana and western parts of Uttar Pradesh. Big farmer groups, who usually produce substantial surpluses, fear deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before. The reforms are a crucial test for the Narendra Modi government’s ability to push through structural reforms in the country’s antiquated agriculture sector, which supports nearly half of all Indians, while mollifying especially large farmers in the food bowl states, who are an influential voting bloc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-leaders-walk-out-of-talks-called-by-centre-demand-minister-s-presence/story-HKQqu3pghXbWhqF0BkUXUO.html
14-10-2020||India||Indian economy in tatters, colossal downfall in pursuit of PM Modi’s 5 trillion dream: Abhishek Banerjee||Senior TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee on Wednesday said the country’s economy is in “tatters”, and described IMF’s projections of Bangladesh surpassing India in terms of per capita GDP as “our colossal downfall” in pursuit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “5 trillion dream”.Abhishek, who is an MP and also president of TMC youth congress, posted a news clip on his Twitter handle to take a dig at the Union government.“Indian Economy in tatters, as even Bangladesh is set to overtake us in Per Capita GDP as per @IMFNews’s World Economic Outlook. Listen carefully, it’s not their resurgence, but our colossal downfall, in pursuit of @narendramodi Ji’s 5 Trillion dream!,” Abhishek, the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, said.The PM has set a goal of making India a USD 5-trillion economy by 2024.The International Monetary Fund had said on Tuesday said the Indian economy, severely hit by the coronavirus pandemic, is projected to contract by a massive 10.3 per cent this year.India however, is likely to bounce back with an impressive 8.8 per cent growth rate in 2021, thus regaining the position of the fastest-growing emerging economy, surpassing China’s projected growth rate of 8.2 per cent, the IMF said in its latest World Economic Outlook report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-economy-in-tatters-colossal-downfall-in-pursuit-of-pm-modi-s-5-trillion-dream-abhishek-banerjee/story-Xu4bktnAkN64oyyBjTJAtO.html
14-10-2020||India||Padma Shri awardee and renowned Kuchipudi exponent Shobha Naidu passes away at 64||Renowned Kuchipudi dancer, Dr Shobha Naidu (64), passed away at a private hospital after prolonged illness in the early hours of Wednesday, her family members said. Her husband Arjun Rao, a retired IAS officer, said she had been suffering from a neurological problem for a long time. She was admitted to the hospital a few days ago, when her condition worsened. She breathed her last at around 1.30 am. Born in 1956 at Anakapalle in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam district, Shobha Naidu had been one of the prominent exponents of Kuchipudi dance in the country. A disciple of Kuchipudi maestro Vempati Chinna Satyam, she had started giving stage performance at a very young age. Naidu toured across the country and abroad to stage Kuchipudi dance programmes. Particularly, she mastered the programme – Bhama Kalapam, wherein she used to play the role of Satyabhama, wife of Lord Krishna. She also choreographed several dance dramas. She extensively toured the US, UK, Dubai, Turley, Hongkong, Mexico, Venezuela and Cuba to give stage performances of Kuchipudi dance. Naidu was awarded the civilian honour of Padma Shri in 2001. She also won several other awards like Nritya Choodamani and Sangeet Natak Akademi award. She also served as the principal of the 40-year-old Kuchipudi Art Academy, Hyderabad and trained more than 1,500 students from India and abroad. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao expressed shock over the demise of Shobha Naidu. He said she was an outstanding exponent of the Kuchipudi dance form and conveyed his condolences to members of the bereaved family. Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy and leader of opposition N Chandrababu Naidu also condoled the death of Shobha Naidu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/padma-shri-awardee-and-renowned-kuchipudi-exponent-shobha-naidu-passes-away-at-64/story-xCv9j5HNAWFpDxnjjxrwpO.html
14-10-2020||India||‘Can change things’: Mehbooba Mufti to Farooq, Omar Abdullah after home visit||National Conference leaders Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah on Wednesday visited Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti at her residence and invited her for a meeting of all the major regional political parties of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday.The development follows the J&K administration’s decision day before to end the detention of Mehbooba Mufti, who had been under arrest since August 5 last year when the Centre scrapped the J&K’s special status.Dressed in her trademark green color, Mehbooba Mufti spent the day at her Gupkar residence meeting her party leaders and supporters who had come from various parts of the valley.“My father and I called on Mehbooba Mufti Sahiba this afternoon to enquire about her well-being after her release from detention. She has kindly accepted Farooq Sb’s invitation to join a meeting of the GupkarDeclaration signatories’ tomorrow afternoon (Thursday),” Omar tweeted.“Today our visit was without any political motive and we wanted to know her well being... In the meeting tomorrow, the present political situation will be reviewed and what will be the future agenda of the Gupkar Declaration signatories in one view, that will also be discussed,” Omar told reporters outside Mufti’s residence. Gupkar Declaration is a joint effort of all the regional mainstream political parties – the National Conference, the Peoples Democratic Party, the Peoples Conference, the Awami National Conference and the CPI (M) - of Jammu and Kashmir to fight for the special status of the erstwhile state.After the meet, Mehbooba Mufti was hopeful that together they could change things.“It was nice of you & Farooq sahab to come home. It gave me courage listening to him. I am sure together we all can change things for the better,” Mufti responded to Omar Abdullah.Later in the day, Peoples’ Conference chairman Sajad Lone called on the PDP chief.Mufti has already sent a terse message to Delhi just an hour after her release. Mufti said that people will have to continue struggling for the resolution of Kashmir issue and whatever was snatched by Delhi on August 5 will have to be taken back.“I have become free today after more than a year. During this time the black decision of August 5, 2019, black day, would always pain my heart and soul. And I realise that the people of J&K would have the same feeling. Nobody among us can forget the day’s robbery and humiliation,” she said in the 1.23 min audio.“Now we all will have to reiterate that whatever Delhi Darbar, unconstitutionally and undemocratically, snatched away from us will have to be taken back,” she said. On August 4, 2019, a day before the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370 by the central government and the detention of all the political leaders, a group of prominent politicians of J&K met in Srinagar at Gupkar and issued a joint statement vowing to defend the “identity, autonomy and special status of Jammu & Kashmir against all attacks and onslaughts whatsoever”. The statement has since then come to be known as the Gupkar Declaration.A year after the development on August 22, 2020, the six political parties of the erstwhile state again issued a statement and announced to carry forward the Gupkar Declaration.It was the first such joint statement signed by mainstream parties after the revocation of Article 370 and splitting the region into two union territories which hinted at launching a joint struggle for restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status.“We all reiterate that we are bound, wholly, by the contents of the Gupkar declaration and will unwaveringly adhere to it. We are committed to strive for the restoration of Articles 370 and 35A, the Constitution of J&K and the restoration of the State and any division of the State is unacceptable to us. We unanimously reiterate that there can be ‘nothing about us without us’,” the joint statement had said.Nearly all of Kashmir’s mainstream political leaders were detained hours before the central government nullified Article 370 of the Constitution, which accorded special status to the region, and bifurcated the state into two union territories – Jammu and Kashmir with a legislature and Ladakh without one.Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah, the two other former chief ministers, were released on March 13 and March 24, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nice-of-you-to-come-home-mehbooba-mufti-to-farooq-omar-abdullah/story-rYSEa9klyXYzX7TcdRA9VJ.html
14-10-2020||India||Human-leopard conflict rises in Uttarakhand, over 10 people killed in 2 months||With the onset of winter, man-leopard conflict is again on the rise in Uttarakhand. In the past two months, over ten people have been killed in leopard attacks across the state.On Tuesday evening a maneater leopard was shot dead in Tehri Garhwal district where it had killed two children. The spotted big cat was shot by a hunter engaged by the forest department. Manmohan Bisht, sub-divisional forest officer of Narendra division in the district said that it was a six-year-old male leopard that was shot. “In a week’s span, the leopard had killed two children and even attacked a group of villagers after which we wrote to the state forest department asking to declare it as a ‘man-eater’. We got permission on Monday after which it was shot late on Tuesday evening,” said Bisht. He said that the carcass of the leopard was recovered from forests late at night itself and sent for a post-mortem examination on Wednesday morning. According to the state forest department’s records, 75 leopards have been declared dangerous to human life (or declared as ‘man-eaters’) this year till August. Last year, 55 leopards were declared dangerous to human life. This year so far, five maneater leopards have been killed by hunters engaged by the state forest department. Last year in October, two maneater leopards were killed in Uttarakhand within one week. A maneater leopard that had killed two children in Pauri, was killed by hunter Azhar Khan. Another hunter, Joy Hukil, shot dead another maneater leopard that created terror in some areas of Pithoragarh district. The leopard had killed a woman in Pithoragarh’s Papdeo village on September 3 last year. The conflict between leopards and people in the hills in Uttarakhand has been a major problem, especially during winter months when such attacks increase. According to experts the conflict is likely to increase due to rising human and leopard population, habitat interference, presence of easy food like small domestic animals and children, changes in the availability of food in the forests, habitat fragmentation and increasing intrusion of humans into forest areas. S Sathyakumar, senior scientist from Wildlife Institute of India (WII) Dehradun said in winters it is easier for the leopard to hide as the days are short and light is less, but there is no proven study that leopard attacks increase during winters. The increasing man-leopard conflict in the state often leads to protests by villagers whenever anyone, especially a child, is killed in a leopard attack. In June 2018, angry villagers in Harinagari area of Bageshwar set a forest on fire after a leopard killed a seven-year-old boy. The boy’s half-eaten body was found in the nearby forest area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/human-leopard-conflict-rises-in-uttarakhand-over-10-people-killed-in-last-months/story-p9N6fnX31b6szpOL7rKdxK.html
14-10-2020||India||Fire breaks out at chemical factory in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad city, 17 fire tenders on spot||A fire broke out at a chemical factory in Tulip Estate of Gujarat’s Ahmedabad city on Wednesday. At present there seventeen fire tenders trying to douse the fire, according to ANI. No casualty has been yet reported. More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-chemical-factory-in-gujarat-s-ahmedabad-city-17-fire-tenders-on-spot/story-NqNvL0Q3rPVqyeLFe98GoI.html
14-10-2020||India||Telangana revenue official nabbed accepting bribe of Rs 1.10 crore, dies by suicide in jail||A former block revenue officer (tehsildar) of Telangana, who was recently arrested after being caught red-handed by the Anti-Corruption Bureau authorities while accepting a bribe of Rs 1.10 crore, died by suicide in judicial remand in the early hours of Wednesday.His body was found hanging from the window grill of his barracks in Chanchalguda Jail in Hyderabad with a towel tied around his neck, at around 4.30 am. The jail guards, who noticed him hanging, alerted the higher officials of the prisons department. “We brought him down and immediately shifted him to the state-run Osmania Hospital, where he was declared brought dead,” a senior jail official, who refused to be quoted, said. The Dabeerpura police booked a case of suspicious death and are investigating the matter. On August 14, the revenue official working at Keesara block in Medchal-Malkajgiri district was caught red-handed by the ACB allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 1.10 crore in cash from a property dealer for settling a dispute pertaining to 19.39 acres of agricultural land at Rampally Dayara village. The ACB sleuths formally arrested him the following day along with three others, including a real estate broker and the property dealer. The authorities also recovered unaccounted cash of Rs 28 lakh, besides Rs 8 lakh accounted for cash and gold ornaments weighing 1.5 kg, from his residence. According to the ACB authorities, it was the largest amount of cash ever seized by the ACB from any official in the state till date. They also confiscated several land documents from the possession of the revenue official. He was later remanded to judicial custody. Subsequently, the police interrogated him twice in connection with the alleged bribe. Earlier in June, the husband of a woman tehsildar also died by suicide weeks after she was arrested by the ACB in a graft case. If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918 Roshni Foundation (Secundrabad) Contact Nos: 040-66202001, 040-66202000 ONE LIFE: Contact No: 78930 78930, SEVA: Contact No: 09441778290.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-revenue-official-nabbed-accepting-bribe-of-rs-1-10-crore-dies-by-suicide-in-jail/story-Vm2SGbvx0mhrIandh7gyaJ.html
14-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: IMD’s air quality models capture spike in air pollution in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.IMD’s improved air quality models capture air pollution spike in DelhiThe air quality forecast models for Delhi and the rest of India have improved according to India Meteorological Department, which will lead to better forecasts this year and identification of air pollution hot spots. Read more here.Covid-19 tests in India cross 9 crore: Health MinistryThe total number of tests for detection of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has crossed nine crore in India, while the cumulative positivity rate is 8.04% and is on a continuous decline, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. Read more here.IPL 2020: ‘The wait is over,’ Chris Gayle set to play against Royal Challengers BangaloreKings XI Punjab are set to receive a massive boost ahead of their next match in the IPL 2020, and that goes by the name of Chris Gayle, who has dropped a big hint that he will play his team’s next match, against Royal Challengers Bangalore on Thursday. Gayle, who is yet to play a game this year, was hit by a stomach bug due to which he had to spend a few days in the hospital. But the ‘Universe Boss’ is back and his return couldn’t come at a better time for a struggling KXIP. Read more here.Mercedes-Benz India back to pre-Covid levels after strong Q3 sales showingMercedes-Benz India has reported a shift to top gear on the back of a strong Q3 sales performance here which has helped it reach pre-Covid levels. Buoyed by positive demand which is also helped by the upcoming festive season, Mercedes on Wednesday informed it has scripted a V-shaped recovery of sales. Read more here.DUET UG Results 2020: NTA declares Delhi University entrance exam results, here’s direct linkDUET UG Results 2020:The National Testing Agency (NTA) on Wednesday declared the Delhi University Entrance Test (DUET) undergraduate result 2020 on its official website at nta.ac.in. The DUET-UG 2020 was conducted from September 6 to 11.Candidates who have taken the examination can download their scorecard online. Read more here.Hrithik Roshan pens encouraging note for specially-abled people ahead of White Cane Safety Day 2020To help the visually impaired and the specially-abled community, Udan Foundation held a fundraiser event ahead of the White Cane Safety Day 2020 on October 15 and their campaign was backed by Bollywood hunk Hrithik Roshan. Penning words of encouragement, Hrithik shared a video by Udan that raises awareness and works towards the welfare of the specially-abled people. Read more here.VIRAL: Anand Mahindra shares ‘off-road’ application of Bolero. It involves booksAnand Mahindra’s Twitter account is a hit among his followers. From asking people to caption quirky pictures to sharing inspiring stories, his varied tweets never fail to create a stir among people. Case in point, his latest tweet involving a Bolero, a vehicle designed by his company, and its ’noble off-road’ application. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-imd-s-air-quality-models-capture-spike-in-air-pollution-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-JQklUYRiMfZjLvgM29FTgK.html
14-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt to import 1 lakh liquid oxygen to meet any shortage during winters||The Union Health Ministry has initiated the process of importing liquid oxygen as part of its preparedness to meet any unforeseen shortage during the winters when the country may witness an increase in Covid-19 cases leading to a rise in demand for oxygen. HLL Lifecare Limited, a public sector undertaking, has floated a global tender on Wednesday on behalf of the Health Ministry for procuring one lakh metric tonne of liquid oxygen. The oxygen is being procured for various central and state government hospitals. The entire exercise of importing and then distributing the medical oxygen is estimated to cost Rs 600-700 crore, official sources said. As on Tuesday, around 3.97 per cent of the Covid-19 patients were on oxygen support, 2.46 per cent were in ICU beds which are again with oxygen support and 0.40 pc on ventilator support. In March, before the country went into a lockdown, the country had a manufacturing capacity of around 6,400 metric tonne of oxygen per day, of which around 1,000 metric tonne was being used for medical purposes daily while the rest was utilised by industries, sources said. “Industries have opened up following unlock procedures and as on September 30, the country’s daily capacity of oxygen production is around 7,000 metric tonne, of which around 3,094 metric tonne is being used for both COVID and non-Covid patients and is just enough to meet the demands,” a source said. “So this one lakh metric tonne of liquid oxygen which is being planned to be procured from foreign countries would create a one month buffer in case demand rises further during the winter season,” the source explained. The issue was discussed at a meeting held by the Cabinet Secretary on October 10, following which it was decided to import liquid oxygen. Even though India is witnessing a declining trend in daily new Covid-19 cases, experts fear that the upcoming festive season and following winter months may see a spike in coronavirus infections. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has urged people to observe Covid-19-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, hand hygiene, maintaining respiratory etiquette and staying away from congregations, citing the possibility of increased novel coronavirus transmission during winters. “These viruses are known to thrive better in the cold weather and low humidity conditions. In view of these, it would not be wrong to assume that the winter season may see increased rates of transmission of the novel coronavirus in the Indian context too,” he said. In September, when cases were increasing, the Health Ministry had repeatedly advised states to ensure adequate oxygen availability in all healthcare facilities and unrestricted intra as well as inter-state movement of oxygen. States were also asked to ensure facility wise/hospital wise oxygen inventory management and advance planning for timely replenishment so that there are no stockouts. India’s Covid-19 caseload rose to 72,39,389 on Wednesday, while the death toll due to the disease was 1,10,586.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-govt-to-import-1-lakh-liquid-oxygen-to-meet-any-shortage-during-winters/story-hVl1CxkTT51ajw0euMYG4M.html
14-10-2020||India||India roasts Imran Khan adviser’s claim of New Delhi’s outreach to Pak||India has not reached out to Pakistan, directly or via intermediaries, to resume dialogue between the two countries, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday, dismissing claims by Imran Khan’s top security adviser Moeed W Yusuf that New Delhi had sent a quiet message that reflected what he called, “a desire for conversation”.“It’s fiction,” a top government functionary told Hindustan Times on condition of anonymity, pointing that a formal response to Moeed Yusuf’s claim would come from the external affairs ministry spokesperson in due course.Officials added that New Delhi’s stand on holding any conversation with Pakistan had been consistent and was preconditioned on Islamabad taking concrete steps to build an atmosphere free from the shadow of terror and violence. This would require Pakistan to pull the plug on the terrorist training camps that operate across the border and crack down on the hundreds of terrorists operating from its territory.A senior official said any effort to suggest that India is ready to hold dialogue with Pakistan before it delivers on its obligation to create a conducive environment is not just “mischievous but also a pipe dream”.Also Read: Pakistan’s 39-yr-old NSA a key player in army’s Gilgit move that suits ChinaIt is as outrageous as his effort in the same interview to link India to the 2014 terrorist assault on an army school in Peshawar, the official added. The Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan, backed by Pak’s deep state, had claimed responsibility for the attack that killed over 130 children.In an interview, Moeed W Yusuf, Prime Minister Imran Khan’s special assistant on National Security Division and Strategic Planning, had indicated that Pakistan was lukewarm to India’s overtures and wanted India to first fulfil four conditions including rolling back the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and release of political prisoners in the Kashmir valley, a term that Islamabad often uses to include terrorists as well.Pakistan watchers said that Moeed Yusuf’s claims appear to be aimed at obfuscation of the facts on ground.Also Read: Imran Khan faces pushback over Gilgit-Baltistan move. China ties his hands | AnalysisIn New Delhi, the 39-year-old adviser to Imran Khan - he also doubles as Pakistan’s national security adviser - is seen to be playing China’s game on the Gilgit-Baltistan (GB) in the occupied Northern Areas. Pakistan has incorporated the disputed region as one of Pakistan’s five provinces at China’s behest. China has poured millions of dollars into this region for the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor to build an alternative supply route to the choked Malacca Strait, the shipping channel between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean.A Pakistan watcher said Yusuf is believed to have worked closely with the Pakistan army and the Inter-Services Intelligence long before he was handpicked by Imran Khan to be his adviser. Yusuf was earlier at the US Institute of Peace where he had cultivated an image of being an advocate of Indo-Pak peace and resolution of the Kashmir issue and entrenched himself in the establishment in Washington.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-a-2-word-rebuttal-to-imran-khan-s-nsa-claim-says-it-is-fiction/story-lKIaPsMznr9u1xwD8yqKOP.html
14-10-2020||India||Unlock 5: Maharashtra allows metro, business exhibitions, weekly markets from October 15||A day after a bitter war of words broke out between Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over the reopening of the religious places in the state, the Maharashtra government allowed metro to resume operations in a graded manner from October 15. Business-to-business exhibitions will also be allowed in the state from Thursday. With necessary Covid-19 precautions, government and public libraries will be allowed to function. Shops and markets will remain open from 9am to 9pm. Local weekly markets, including that of animals, will be allowed from tomorrow. However, no decision on temples has been taken yet.Also Read: Covid-19: Religious places, gyms on Maharashtra priority list for unlocking, cinema halls may have to waitOutside domestic passengers coming to Maharashtra either by flights or trains will not be stamped upon their arrival from October 15. The Maha Vikas Aghadi-led Maharashtra government is following its own unlocking pattern as the state has the highest number of Covid-19 cases. Long after restaurants were open in other states, Maharashtra allowed restaurants and bars to function from October 5. Religious places, cinema halls, swimming pools are not yet open in the state. However, Mumbai local trains are on track and with increased capacity. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari raised question over Thackeray’s religious beliefs and asked whether he had become ‘secular’ that he is not allowing temples to reopen in the state. On Wednesday, BJP workers, priests staged a protest in front of the Shirdi temple, demanding immediate reopening of all religious places of the state. Allowed to function in Maharashtra1. Local trains, metro trains2. Inter-state trains, road travel, domestic flights3. Restaurants, bars4. Local markets5. Industries in Mumbai Metropolitan region6. Libraries7. Business-to-business exhibitionsNot allowed yet1. Religious places2. Gyms3. Swimming pools4. Schools, colleges, educational institutions5. Cinema halls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-5-maharashtra-allows-metro-business-exhibitions-weekly-markets-from-october-15/story-NtaTOm9ReJEmJfdcMqbh7H.html
14-10-2020||India||School reopening from October 15: What states have decided so far||Unlock 5 guidelines permit reopening of schools from October 15 in every state but as the Centre asked state governments to take a final decision regarding school reopening, several states are eying at a later date to reopen schools. A few states resumed classes from September 21, as advised by the Centre earlier.Here’s everything you need to knowWhere schools are reopening from October 15Punjab: The Punjab government has decided to reopen schools and coaching institutions from October 15 in a graded manner. Students of only classes 9-12 are permitted to attend schools with parental consent and without making attendance compulsoryGurugram: Physical classroom sessions for students of classes 9 to 12 of government schools will resume from October 15. Regular classes will be conducted for three hours, from 9am to noon. Consent letter is not required since classes will be held regularly. Haryana partially reopened schools on September 21. Colleges and universities were reopened from September 26.Where schools are reopening from October 19Uttar Pradesh government has decided to reopen schools from the beginning of the next week — October 19. Schools in Noida, Ghaziabad are also likely to open from October 19.Why most of the states are not reopening schools nowDelhi, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala are some of the states that are not opening schools now. There is no proved correlation between reopening of schools and a spike in Covid-19 cases. However, several teachers and students have reportedly been found Covid-19 positive in states where schools reopened. After Assam reopened all educational institutions, a number of teachers and non-teaching staff of Dimoria college in Kamrup district were tested positive. Karnataka has declared a midterm holiday from October 12 to 30 suspending even online classes. “I’ve learnt through the media that many teachers are contracting Covid-19 infection. Keeping in mind the health of teachers and students, I’ve directed senior officials to issue an order declaring a midterm holiday from October 12 to 30,” Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said.Chandigarh is not reopening schools now as parents are not on board with the decision of reopening schools. Many states have festival holidays in October which explains why they are not willing to reopen schools for a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-reopening-from-october-15-not-all-states-are-reopening-schools-from-tomorrow-here-s-why/story-RZdSk1saijIfWVEPXEHbWK.html
14-10-2020||India||5 arrested for alleged gang rape of 14-year-old girl in Jharkhand’s Gumla district||A fifth standard student was allegedly kidnapped gang raped on Saturday by five persons, including three minors who also thrashed and threatened the girl’s family in a village in Jharkhand’s Gumla district, around 150 km from capital Ranchi, police said on Wednesday. The police arrested all the five accused on Monday. Two were sent to jail while two sent to a remand home. “One person, who was injured in a clash between victim and families of the accused, was sent to hospital for treatment,” said officer in-charge of Chainpur police station Sudama Ram said. The main accused in the crime, Iliyas Minz is also an accused in a murder case and is currently out of jail on bail, police said. Ram said the medical test of the 14-year-old survivor has been conducted but the result is still awaited. “The girl’s statement under Section 164 of the CrPC will be recorded today. She would also be presented before the child welfare committee today,” he said. The police officer said the family alleged that the girl was kidnapped by five village youths on Saturday evening and they raped her in turn. “The accused threatened the girl with dire consequences if she opened her mouth before anyone. The girl returned home on Sunday. When her mother repeatedly asked her where she had been the whole night, she narrated her woes,” Ram said. The survivor’s family approached the Panchayat and a meeting was called to take a decision. “When accused came to know about the proposed meeting, they barged into our house and thrashed us. My wife and 24-year-old elder son were injured badly. The accused were also planning to set our house on fire,” the 50-year-old father of the survivor said. On Monday, two brothers and an uncle of the survivor went to the accused and thrashed two of them badly with sharp weapons, police said. “The three persons have also been sent to jail on charges of violating laws,” Ram said. He said police were not informed about the crime till Monday. “The report came to us on Monday night when tension grew between the accused and victim’s families,” he said. Since the survivor’s village is affected by Maoists, police reached the spot after taking all precautions. “All the accused were arrested on Monday night and they were sent to jail and remand home on Tuesday,” he said. The police are camping in the village to prevent any untoward incident. The girl’s father said they were living in fear. “The incident has shocked my daughter. We are contemplating to send her to any NGO for counseling. We are in fear that villagers might humiliate us over the incident,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-arrested-for-alleged-gang-rape-of-14-year-old-girl-in-jharkhand-s-gumla-district/story-bYmi5Lu5eC19ZuV6rMmM2O.html
14-10-2020||India||No mob attack on Tanishq store in Gujarat: Police||The police in Gujarat rubbished reports of attack on a store of jewellery brand Tanishq in Kutch district. Reports had surfaced earlier in the day that angry with an inter-faith advertisement released by the brand, some people attacked the store in Gandhidham.The reports started making rounds after a picture of an apology note put up by a showroom of Tanishq went viral on the internet. “We apologise to Hindu community of Kutch on the shameful advertisement of Tanishq,” the handwritten note purportedly read.Reports also claimed that the store manager was forced to write the letter.“No such attack has taken place,” said Mayur Patil, Superintendent of Police, Kutch-East, as quoted by news agency PTI.The note was put up on the store’s door on October 12, and has since been removed, PTI further quoted police officials as saying.The Tanishq ad, which received a lot of criticism on social media after its release, showed a Muslim family celebrating a baby shower of their Hindu daughter-in-law. The jewellery brand withdrew the ad after receiving massive backlash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tanishq-ad-controversy-no-mob-attack-on-tanishq-store-in-gujarat-police/story-PDtxFLPIq1xfZqwpr5YybL.html
14-10-2020||India||2 terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in J-K’s Shopian||Two unidentified terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, a police official said. Security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Chakura area of Shopian district following information about the presence of terrorists there, he said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after terrorists opened fire at security forces’ positions. He said the two terrorists have been killed in the operation. The identity and group affiliation of the slain terrorists were being ascertained.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-j-k-s-shopian/story-95oDrHVOtIMyqYDcBHuVqO.html
14-10-2020||India||Left is right, says Chief Minister Vijayan after Kerala Congress (Mani) ditches UDF to join LDF||With just six months to go for the assembly election in Kerala, the state witnessed a political realignment on Wednesday after the Kerala Congress (Mani) faction crossed over to the ruling Left Democratic Front. Party chairman Jose K Mani also announced his resignation from the Rajya Sabha. He had won the seat with the support of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) two years ago. The party is severing its ties with the UDF after 38 years. But the UDF has asked the party to quit Kottayam Lok Sabha seat and two MLA seats which it won with the help of the opposition alliance. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan welcomed the new ally and said it will strengthen secular and democratic forces in the state. “It shows the Left is right in Kerala,” he said. The entry of the Kerala Congress, a predominantly Christian party will help the LDF in the central Travancore area that is considered a UDF bastion, political observers said. “We have been suffering in the UDF camp for some time. Congress leaders repeatedly ill-treated us and openly supported our archrival P J Joseph who used all opportunities to discredit our party. Our entry into the LDF is without any condition,” said Jose K Mani in Kottayam while announcing the decision. The Mani faction has a single Lok Saha MP – Thomas Chazhikadan from Kottayam while Jose K Mani was a Rajya Sabha MP . It also has two legislators in the Kerala assembly. The Kerala Congress (Mani) split into two after the death of its founder K M Mani in 2019 but both groups remained in the UDF camp.The party split last year after KM Mani’s son Jose K Mani became the chairman of the party ignoring senior leader P J Joseph’s claim to the post. But the Congress brokered peace between two factions for some time. At one point when Mani was alive he was ready to cross over to the LDF camp but it was thwarted by the CPI, second big partner in the LDF. The BJP which is desperate to get a foothold in Kerala, also tried to woo Jose K Mani but he finally chose the LDF. There are reports that one of the party legislators will be given a cabinet berth in the Vijayan cabinet. “It is a political betrayal. The party will have to quit all seats it won with UDF support. Left hounded K M Mani when he was alive and now his son is taking the party to that camp,” said UDF convenor M M Hassan. He said it would not affect the opposition alliance. His rival P J Joseph, a former minister, said Jose K Mani’s exit was on the cards and it will only strengthen the UDF. Most of the popular leaders of the party are still with the Joseph camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/left-is-right-says-chief-minister-vijayan-after-kerala-congress-mani-ditches-udf-to-join-ldf/story-x9rsq0xK6aKDvaGOqMbIFK.html
14-10-2020||India||Covid-19: 77% new cases in last 24 hours reported from these 10 states||Kerala had surpassed Maharashtra in the number of daily Covid-19 infections last week. The streak remains unbroken as health ministry data reveals Kerala tops the list of 10 states/Union Territories that are reporting maximum number of cases. The first confirmed Covid-19 case in India was reported in Kerala on January 30. Subsequently, the state managed to rein in the spread of the infection with stringent surveillance. However, for the past few weeks, Kerala numbers have again become a cause of worry. Also Read: Overconfidence, low testing rate to blame for Covid-19 spike in Kerala, say expertsIn the last 24 hours, Kerala reported 8,764 new infections; Maharashtra reported 8,522 new cases. Close to them is Karnataka with 8,191 cases. Health ministry data has revealed that 77 per cent of the new cases being reported in the last 24 hours are concentrated in only 10 states and Union territories. Apart from Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, the list includes Tamil Nadu (4,666), Andhra Pradesh (4,622), West Bengal (3,631), Delhi (3,036), Uttar Pradesh (2,957), Chhattisgarh (2,619) and Odisha (2,275). However, as far as fatalities are concerned, Kerala is better placed than the rest. Out of 730 fatalities reported in the past 24 hours, Kerala reported only 21, while the number in Maharashtra is 187, in Karnataka 87, West Bengal 62, Tamil Nadu 57 and Delhi 45.Last week, Kerala reported 11,755 cases — the highest ever single-day spike. Kerala health minister KK Shailaja earlier said the situation in the state is not grim as the mortality rate is low. “The ultimate aim is to reduce the mortality rate. We could contain cases when there was lockdown. But now measures are eased. We can’t blame the government for easing restrictions because people need to work and earn or else they will starve to death. But people need to follow all precautions,” the minister said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-77-new-cases-in-last-24-hours-reported-from-these-10-states/story-3KeNdXGh5OJwaiuNChHZsK.html
14-10-2020||India||Covid-19 tests in India cross 9 crore: Health Ministry||The total number of tests for detection of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has crossed nine crore in India, while the cumulative positivity rate is 8.04% and is on a continuous decline, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday.“Very high countrywide testing on a sustained basis has also resulted in bringing down the national Covid-19 positivity rate. This indicates that the rate of spread of infection is being effectively contained. Twenty states and UTs have a positivity rate less than the national average. The cumulative positivity rate is 8.04 per cent and is on a continuous decline,” the ministry said.India has been registering more new recoveries than the new cases consistently in the recent days.  As a result, the active cases are steadily declining and stand at 8,26,876 as on date and comprise only 11.42% of the total caseload of the country, the ministry highlighted.The health ministry said higher testing across wide regions leads to early identification of positive cases, prompt tracking through efficient surveillance and tracing, and timely and effective treatment in homes/facilities and in hospitals for the severe cases, adding that these measures in tandem eventually lead to lower mortality rate.A total of 74,632 Covid-19 cases have recovered and discharged in a span of 24 hours whereas 63,509 new infections were reported during the same period, according to Union health ministry dashboard.  “Higher number of recoveries has aided the national Recovery Rate to further improve to 87.05%. The total recoveries have surged to 63,01,927 and exceed active cases of Covid-19 by 54,75,051.  Also, 79 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs --- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, and Delhi,” the ministry said.Maharashtra continues to contribute the maximum with more than 15,000 single day recoveries.The ministry said that 77% of the 63,509 new infections registered in a span of 24 hours are from 10 states and UTs --Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnatala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha.Kerala with 8,764 new cases has outnumbered Maharashtra (8,522) with the highest number of new reported cases.Top three contributing states, Kerala, Maharashtra and Karnataka, reported more than 8,000 cases followed by Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, both contributing more than 4,000 cases each.Also, 730 case Covid-19 fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours. Of these, nearly 80 per cent are concentrated in ten states and Union Territories.“More than 25% of new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra (187 deaths).  India has demonstrated an exponential increase in the number of Covid-19 cumulative tests since January 2020.  The country’s testing capacities have multiplied manifold with more than 1900 labs across the country and with collaborative efforts of the Centre and state and UT governments. More than 15 lakh samples can be tested every day,” the ministry said.Progressive expansion in testing infrastructure has played a crucial role in the steep rise of testing numbers, it added.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tests-in-india-cross-9-crore-health-ministry/story-VRce3sK9xoD1yQFaaqy1gP.html
14-10-2020||India||Law student asked to explain volte-face in Chinmayanand case, faces perjury charge||The woman law student, who disowned her allegation of sexual harassment levelled against former union minister Chinmayanand before a special MP/MLA court in Lucknow on Tuesday, could face charges for perjury. Deposing before the court of special judge Pawan Kumar Rai through her lawyer, the law student denied having ever accused Chinmayanand of sexual harassment, making prosecution move an application seeking action against her for perjury or lying before the court. The prosecution’s application for proceedings of perjury, after the law student’s turnaround in court, has been moved under Section 340 of the CrPC. Special judge Rai ordered the law student to file her reply by October 15, the next date of hearing. The sexual harassment case came to light in August last year when the woman, who was studying law, went missing from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh. Later, she released videos alleging rape and sexual harassment by the former union minister. The former union minister is the president of the managing committee of Swami Shukdevanand post-graduate college, Shahjahanpur, where the woman studied law. Also Read: Law student goes back on rape charge against Chinmayanand in courtThe state government formed a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the matter. The SIT lodged an FIR against the former minister under Section 376-C of the IPC, an offence pertaining to the abuse of one’s position by a person in authority to “induce or seduce” a woman under his charge to have “sexual intercourse not amounting to the offence of rape.” The SIT also implicated the law student for extortion.Also Read: Sexual offenders cannot access victim’s statement before probe is complete: SCChinmayanand and the law student were arrested and sent to jail in September last year.In February this year, the Allahabad high court granted bail to Chinmayanand, whose trust runs the Shahjahanpur Law College. The woman also secured bail and is currently out of jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-student-asked-to-explain-volte-face-in-chinmayanand-case-faces-perjury-charge/story-bFEKurv5aAHayFtJlFwzvK.html
14-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Oxford vaccine phase 3 trial results to be out by December||The results of phase three of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine could be available by November-end or early December, the Niti Aayog announced on Tuesday.“Serum is conducting Phase-3 trials as part of international trials in India, and the progress is on track. Results are expected by November or early December,” Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul said.Meanwhile, vaccine candidates by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech International Ltd are currently undergoing Phase 2 clinical trials in the country, and results for these are expected to be out by early November, he added.As vaccine trials are going on in full swing, arrangements are being made by the government for procurement, storage and distribution of the vaccine.“We have a main expert committee for vaccines, and there are also multiple sub-committees that have been formed to look at various aspects and stages of vaccine procurement and distribution. They are currently into mapping cold storage facilities both in the government and private sector,” said Rajesh Bhushan, health secretary, Government of India.With the onset of winter and the upcoming festival season, there is a possibility of spike in Covid-19 cases in the country, Paul said, adding that despite the current decline in infections, one has to take all necessary precautions to prevent its spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-oxford-vaccine-phase-3-trial-results-to-be-out-by-december/story-L39OFTqjc6HUHFCpQb1heJ.html
14-10-2020||India||Israel aligned with PM Modi’s ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’, ‘Make in India’ vision: Israeli envoy||Hailing the selection by the Indian government of an Israeli firm for electronics manufacturing in India, Israeli Ambassador Ron Malka has said the development signifies his country’s alignment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ and ‘Make in India’ vision. The Ministry of Electronics and Information and Technology (MeitY) has approved 16 eligible applicants under the Production Linked Incentive Scheme (PLI). The PLI for Large Scale Electronics Manufacturing extends an incentive of 4 per cent to 6 per cent on incremental sales (over the base year) of goods under target segments that are manufactured in India to eligible companies, for a period of five years subsequent to the base year (FY2019-20). Welcoming the development, Malka tweeted, “Delighted that NeoLync, an Israeli company is a part of UTL-NeoLync that was selected by the Indian government for electronics manufacturing in India, an important addition to the list of  Israeli companies already actively participating in @PMOIndia’s Make In India, export and Atmanirbhar Bharat vision.” Speaking to PTI about the selection of the firm, which has 49 per cent Israeli stake, said this shows how much his country is aligned with the Indian vision not only on the government to government basis but also business to business. It also aligns with the vision of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ because this will make India and Israel self-reliant in these areas of communication and advanced communication, he said. “Israel and India don’t compete with each other, they complete each other,” he said. Under the mobile phone (domestic companies) segment, Indian companies including Lava, Bhagwati (Micromax), Padget Electronics, UTL Neolyncs and Optiemus Electronics are approved by MeitY. These companies are expected to expand their manufacturing operations in a significant manner and grow into national champion companies in mobile phone production, a ministry statement had said. Six companies are approved under the Specified Electronic Components Segment and they are AT&S, Ascent Circuits, Visicon, Walsin, Sahasra, and Neolync, it said. Over the next 5 years, the approved companies under the PLI Scheme are expected to lead to total production worth more than Rs 10.5 lakh crore and it would entail exports worth an estimated amount of Rs 6.5 lakh crore. The companies approved under the scheme will bring additional investment in electronics manufacturing to the tune of Rs 11,000 crore, while they will generate more than two lakh direct employment opportunities in the next 5 years along with the creation of additional indirect employment of nearly 3 times the direct employment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/israel-aligned-with-pm-modi-s-aatmanirbhar-bharat-make-in-india-vision-israeli-envoy/story-9jBVH9NB3y2jKlppjOlgnM.html
14-10-2020||India||6 armed robbers loot Rs 20 lakh from UCO bank branch in Odisha’s Balasore||Six motorcycle-borne armed robbers looted Rs 20 lakh from a bank in Odisha’s Balasore district Tuesday afternoon in the second such incident in less than a month, police said.Police officials said five robbers entered the UCO Bank in branch Chowki area of Bhograi block of Balasore district at 2 pm and threatened the bank staffers with guns while another waited outside. ”The robbers terrorised the 20 bank employees with guns and sharp weapons and looted cash and gold jewelries worth Rs 20 lakh,” Jaleswar sub divisional police officer Ankita Kumbhar said. After committing the crime they fled from the spot. The branch manager then informed the police who said efforts are on to identify the miscreants on the basis of CCTV footage.This is the second bank robbery in less than a month. Last week, Odisha police had arrested a 25-year-old readymade clothes seller of Bhubaneswar who had robbed two banks of Rs 12 lakh using toy and real guns to recoup the losses he suffered during the pandemic. In another case, police in Cuttack city on Tuesday arrested a youth who made an unsuccessful bid to rob an SBI ATM after cutting it open with a gas cutter. A sensor alerted bank officials who called the police. The man was nabbed before he could decamp with the Rs 20.6 lakh in the machine, Cuttack DCP Prateek Singh said.On Sunday, miscreants had looted Rs 28 lakh from an ATM of Punjab National Bank in Bhubaneswar after cutting it open with a gas cutter machine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-armed-robbers-loot-rs-20-lakh-from-uco-bank-branch-in-odisha-s-balasore/story-Bxzp6RvK3fIzTlPLnOFWxJ.html
14-10-2020||India||‘Male members to be questioned’: CBI again summons Hathras gang-rape victim’s brother||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is investigating the Hathras incident has re-summoned the father and the two brothers of the victim for questioning on Wednesday.They were questioned by the CBI team on Tuesday as well.Speaking to ANI, SDM Anjali Gangwar, who has been assigned to look after the victim’s family, said that male members of the victim family will be questioned in the temporary office set up by the CBI team in Hathras.Also Read: Hathras case: Not satisfied with govt version on cremation, says high court“The male members of the victim family will be questioned today in Hathras, they will go to a temporary office set up by the CBI in Hathras. Female members will be questioned at home by CBI officials. We are ensuring that they will not be troubled during the process. The CBI is investigating the case. They have their own set of procedures. The family has no issues in the process of investigations,” Gangwar said.The family members of the victim demanded that the accused should be transferred to another jail from Aligarh.“My husband was with the CBI yesterday on the incident spot. The CBI took away the slippers, ashes, and other things of the victim. We demand that the accused should be sent to another jail from Aligarh. They are not afraid. They are living there like they are staying at their home,” said sister-in-law of the victim.“The government and administration should shift accused from Aligarh jail. We are co-operating with CBI. We are not afraid,” the victim’s brother said.Also Read: 4-year-old allegedly raped in Hathras, month after gang-rape of Dalit womanThe CBI has set up the office of the Deputy Director of Agriculture as its camp office in Hathras.As a part of the agency’s ongoing investigation, the CBI team on Tuesday collected samples from the spot where the victim of the alleged gang-rape was cremated on September 30.A 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped and severely injured in Hathras on September 14. She succumbed to her injuries at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 29 and when her mortal remains were taken to her native place, the UP Police and administration allegedly cremated her body forcefully without the family’s consent or their presence, in the dead of the night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-re-summons-father-brothers-of-hathras-gang-rape-victim/story-9m9WrY31n8by7PMjSZnAHP.html
14-10-2020||India||Manipur students’ body asks private schools not to collect 30% fees for lockdown period||The All Manipur Students Union (AMSU) on Tuesday reiterated its demand to revoke the government order allowing private schools to collect 30% of the monthly fees from the students from April this year.At a press conference, AMSU’s Human Resource Development secretary Bruce Pebam said that the union has taken clear stand that private schools should not collect the monthly fees from the students because each and every sector struggled very hard during the lockdown which was imposed late March to prevent the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.On October 5, the state education department in an order directed all private schools and government-aided schools to collect 30% of the monthly fees from the students starting from April 2020. It also directed that teachers and staff of the schools be paid 50% of their salaries.Alleging that issuance of such an order to collect school fees from students’ of private schools for the lockdown period is illogical, Pebam said, “We have made our stand very firm that during this lockdown period, the salary of private schools teachers should be managed by the school committee and government.”He also claimed that earlier the government had asked the private schools to submit the detailed fee structures. “But so far 50% of private schools have failed to do so.” The AMSU claims there are 1,200 private schools in the state.“We want the Manipur government to accept the conditions put forward by the AMSU in the interest of the public and students community in particular,” he said. “We also want private school teachers who are always deprived of their rights to come out and demand their genuine rights from the school authorities.”On the report of collecting monthly fees by some private schools, the AMSU leader appealed to them not to collect the fees until an amicable solution is found about the issue involving all stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-students-body-asks-private-schools-not-to-collect-30-fees-for-lockdown-period/story-9STYgu3Riok6WUDeJ3ZIrK.html
14-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Kerala Congress (M) ends ties with UDF and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala Congress (M) faction decides to walk out of UDF, ends decades old tiesThe rift in Kerala’s United Democratic Front (UDF) came out in the open on Wednesday when the faction led by Jose K Mani announced its departure. Mani, the Kerala Congress (M) chief, also announced his resignation from Rajya Sabha and joining the ruling Left Democratic Front or LDF. Read moreExtremely heavy rainfall, landslide warning for parts of India’s west coastThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has released a warning for extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) in several places along the west coast including Madhya Maharashtra, Goa, Konkan and parts of coastal Karnataka on Wednesday. Read moreUS resets ties with Bangladesh, to seek India’s view on neighbourhoodUS deputy secretary of state Stephen Biegun has told the Indian government that Washington will be consulting it more on its neighbouring countries, as he takes a key step towards resetting ties with Bangladesh at a meeting with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Wednesday. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘He plays spinners well and can give us 15-45 runs,’ MS Dhoni names CSK’s ‘complete cricketer’Chennai Super Kings returned to winning ways on Tuesday, defeating Sunrisers Hyderabad by 20 runs and staying alive in the IPL 2020. While there were several individual contributions from their players, one that stands out is Sam Curran’s 31 off 21 balls as opener. Read moreBlindfolded Martial Arts Master from Andhra Pradesh smashes coconuts placed around student, bags recordA clip by Guiness World Records (GWR) shows a record made by Martial Arts Master P Prabhakar Reddy and his student Boyilla Rakesh. Chances are this video, which involves smashing a lot of coconuts, will leave you with scarily fascinated. Read moreVolkswagen Taos unveiled: Is this compact SUV the right option in India?Volkswagen Taos has been officially unveiled in the US with car maker betting big on SUVs of all shapes and sizes to catch the wind in the sails of bigger vehicles here. Read more‘China will own US if sleepy guy wins’: Trump slams Biden at Pennsylvania rallyUS President Donald Trump slammed his opponent Joe Biden during his rally at Johnstown, Pennsylvania. “This election is a simple choice,” said the US President. “If Biden wins, China wins. All these other countries win. We get ripped off by everybody. If we win, you win, Pennsylvania wins, and America wins. Very simple,” he said. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-kerala-congress-m-ends-ties-with-udf-and-all-the-latest-news/story-piE62DoOA1vuFUokYupaXK.html
14-10-2020||India||Glenmark introduces cheaper drug for lung fibrosis in India||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, a research-led, global integrated drug company, has launched Nindanib, a medicine for the treatment of pulmonary fibrosis (PF), which causes scarring of lungs, in India, the company announced on Wednesday.PF is also one of the long-term complications that patients, who have recovered from coronavirus disease (Covid-19), are likely to suffer from, according to doctors. It is a respiratory health condition that leads to thickening and scarring of lungs. It causes an acute difficulty in breathing and also reduces a patient’s longevity up to five years after the diagnosis. Also Read: Covid-19: ICMR studying reinfections; identifies 3 cases“Glenmark is a leader in the area of respiratory condition. It has been among the first to launch the branded generic version at an affordable cost for the treatment of PF in India. This will provide patients a far more cost-effective treatment option. It will also enable doctors to treat a wider patient population in the country,” said the company in a statement.“…priced at Rs 4,500 (for 100 milligrams) and Rs 5,400 (150 mg) per month is available at 5% of the cost, as compared to the innovator brand in India,” it added.Nintedanib is approved by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for the treatment of Idiopathic (unknown cause) PF (IPF). IPF is a progressive disease, which gets worse over time. Patients suffering from IPF need to start their treatment at the earliest and persist with it in a bid to arrest the disease progression. A lower monthly cost is the key to ensure patients adhere to prescribed lines of treatment over a long term.IPF affects around 120 Indians per million population, and patients suffering from the health condition are at a higher risk developing severe respiratory conditions, if they afflicted with SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, the company said.Nintedanib has been studied extensively in various controlled clinical trials that have established its efficacy and safety profile. In a recently published INBUILD trial, Nintedanib showed significantly lower annual rate of decline in FVC (forced vital capacity) – a measure of the condition of lungs – among patients suffering from progressive fibrosing interstitial lung diseases.Two clinical trials are being rolled out to study the efficacy and safety of Nintedanib to treat Covid-19 patients, who are suffering from IPF and are moderately to critically ill.The average survival rate of IPF patients is poor and up to 30% live at least five years after diagnosis. In India, IPF typically affects men above the age of 65, and most live up to five years, if the disease is left untreated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glenmark-introduces-cheaper-drug-for-lung-fibrosis-in-india/story-VxEgkjZLXCXStkBsVlDKbM.html
14-10-2020||India||Released from alcohol rehab, Mumbai man beheads 80-year-old grandmom: Police||A 24-year-old man beheaded his 80-year-old grandmother residing at Cosma Colony near Mount Mary in Mumbai’s Bandra (West) on Monday night, sat beside her body before being arrested on Tuesday morning, police said. According to Bandra police officials, the accused identified as Christopher Pereira was addicted to alcohol and was admitted to a rehab centre in Thane since the last one and half years. On Monday evening, he was discharged from the rehab centre and returned home to his grandmother Rosy Ganesh Rao.The murder came to light at around 10 am on Tuesday when his cousin Abigail Dias went to see her grandmother. When Dias opened the door, she saw that her grandmother’s head was separated from the torso, and Christopher told her that he had killed her. Abigail then called 100 and informed police officials about the murder, following which a team of Bandra police officials reached the spot and arrested the accused. Christopher’s parents are in Goa and they have been informed about the murder, police officials said.“We have registered a case under 302 (Murder) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the accused is in police’s custody. The exact timing of murder and motive behind the brutal murder is still under investigation,” Abhishek Trimukhe, Deputy Commissioner of police (DCP) zone IX said,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/released-from-alcohol-rehab-mumbai-man-beheads-80-year-old-grandmom-police/story-HvxlkT76iI7MqEg5QLJxXK.html
14-10-2020||India||DRDO chief says India can have complete missile system in 4-5 years||Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) chief G Satheesh Reddy on Wednesday expressed hope that within the next 4-5 years, the agency can help the Indian armed forces by developing a complete missile system.Speaking to ANI, Reddy said, “It will take probably about 4-5 years for us to work on all these things and realise a complete missile system, working for some good amount of range.”WATCH: India test fires anti-radiation missile Rudram-1 l All you need to knowIndia has tested 10 missiles in the last two months with indigenously developed Rudram-1 being the latest. Rudram-1 is an anti-radiation missile that can detect enemy radars and specifically target them which helps in breaking down the first wave of resistance and creating space for more damage.Also Read: India test-fires 10 missiles in 35 days. It is not a coincidenceAlong with Rudram, the DRDO has also tested extended-range BrahMos missile, supersonic missile-assisted release of torpedo anti-submarine warfare, hypersonic nuclear-capable Shaurya and hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV).These missile tests come at a time when India is engaged in a bitter row with China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The DRDO chief said that the organisation can now accommodate the needs of the armed forces. He said, “We are now able to develop any type of missile system that the armed forces want.”The assurance made by the DRDO chief also reflects that the defence sector is also focussing on developing indigenous weapons systems giving the Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) drive a push.Reddy also pointed out that the missiles are a part of DRDO’s effort to develop modern weapons for the armed forces when they are engaged in a conflict with China. He said, “DRDO has been working on many weapon systems. Even during the Covid-19 period, scientists have been continuously working on that. All have matured and hence whenever a system is ready, we are going further developmental trials.”He further added, “The maturity level of many technologies is such that we had very successful flights.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-chief-says-india-can-have-complete-missile-system-in-4-5-years/story-rbH4aZJyKZw0vSgQ40n3OP.html
14-10-2020||India||Extremely heavy rainfall, landslide warning for parts of India’s west coast||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has released a warning for extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) in several places along the west coast including Madhya Maharashtra, Goa, Konkan and parts of coastal Karnataka on Wednesday.The deep depression which formed over west central Bay of Bengal crossed Andhra Pradesh coast close to Kakinada during early Tuesday morning continued to move west north-westwards across Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and north interior Karnataka. There was extremely heavy rain in parts of Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday.Hyderabad recorded 192 mm rain on Tuesday which is the highest ever October rain recorded in over 100 years. The all-time record for Hyderabad in October was 117.1 mm on October 6, 1903, according to IMD.Also Read: Heavy rains lash Hyderabad, waterlogging and traffic jams reported in many areasOn Wednesday, M Mohapatra, IMD director general, said the depression is weakening. “We are expecting it to move further west north-westwards and weaken into a well-marked low-pressure area during the next 24 hours. But it will eventually immerse into eastern parts of Arabian Sea off Maharashtra coast around morning of October 16,” he said, adding that the system is likely to gain energy from the sea and there is possibility of further intensification into a depression in the next 24 hours.“We are expecting extremely heavy rainfall especially over Maharashtra today [Wednesday] including Madhya Maharashtra, Goa, Konkan and coastal Karnataka,” he added. IMD has warned of inundation in low-lying areas, traffic disruption and landslides in the ghat areas of Konkan and Karnataka.Wind speed will increase over eastern Arabian Sea from October 16 onwards, so fishermen have been advised against venturing into north-eastern Arabian Sea.The withdrawal line of monsoon continues to pass through Faizabad, Fatehpur, Nowgong, Rajgarh, Ratlam, Vallabh, Vidyanagar, Porbandar. It will resume withdrawal only after the low-pressure systems have subsided and rains stop scientists said.Normally monsoon withdraws from the country by October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extremely-heavy-rain-landslide-warning-for-parts-of-india-s-west-coast/story-7gWSesY9xCOozT6AOT7QFI.html
14-10-2020||India||Kerala Congress (M) faction decides to walk out of UDF, ends decades old ties||The rift in the United Democratic Front (UDF) came out in the open on Wednesday when the faction led by Jose K Mani announced its departure. Mani, the Kerala Congress (M) chief, also announced his resignation from Rajya Sabha and joining the ruling Left Democratic Front or LDF.The KC(M) faction is leaving the UDF after 38 years. Mani was elected to the Upper House of Parliament with the support of the UDF.His faction was sulking for some time after the UDF sided with his rival faction led by PJ Joseph. The party split into two after the death of party chairman KM Mani last year.Announcing the decision, Mani said at a press conference that the party suffered badly in the UDF camp. He also claimed that the politics in Kerala will undergo much changes after this decision.However, the Lok Sabha member of KC(M) from Kottayam, Thomas Chazikadan, won’t resign.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has welcomed the decision of KC(M). He said it will strengthen democratic and secular forces in the state.Kerala Congress is predominantly a Christian party with strong base in central Travancore and the LDF is eyeing minority votes with the new alignment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-congress-m-faction-decides-to-walk-out-of-udf-ends-decades-old-ties/story-blqZER342N4UW2rFtZpwlI.html
14-10-2020||India||Ahead of Bihar Assembly polls, Sharad Yadav’s daughter set to join Congress||Ahead of Bihar Assembly polls, Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) chief Sharad Yadav’s daughter Subhashini Raj Rao will join Congress in the national capital on Wednesday.She will also contest in the forthcoming Bihar polls.Congress, CPI, CPM are part of the “Mahagathbandhan” (grand alliance) under the leadership of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD).Upendra Kushwaha’s RLSP has quit Mahagathbandhan and forged an alliance with BSP. Hindustan Avam Morcha (HAM) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi has joined NDA. The huge setback has been given by Mukesh Sahni from Vikasheel Insan Party (VIP) who announced his disassociation from Mahagathbandhan in a live Press Conference in Patna.In the NDA alliance, the Lok Janshakti Party(LJP) will not contest seats where BJP will be contesting. However, it will fight against Janata Dal (United). Both JDU and LJP are in a pre-poll alliance with the BJP.Bihar with 243 Assembly seats will go to polls in three phases: October 28, November 3 and November 7. The results will be declared on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bihar-assembly-polls-sharad-yadav-s-daughter-set-to-join-congress/story-PxRGnBEL5RbWqm0YIm7TSP.html
14-10-2020||India||More RTIs disposed of during lockdown, says minister; experts disagree||Right to Information (RTI) cases recorded a higher disposal rate between March and September this year, while the country was in lockdown, than the corresponding period last year, said Union minister of state, personnel, public grievances, pensions Jitendra Singh on Tuesday.Singh shared this during a press briefing on the completion of 15 years of the RTI Act, which came into force on October 12, 2005. “Between March and September 2019, 76.49% of RTI cases were disposed of. During the same period this year, the disposal rate went up to as much as 93.98 %. Last year, out of 11,716 registered cases, 8,962 were disposed of. This year, 8,015 cases were disposed of out of the total of 8,528,” said Singh. Also read: Key posts vacant as RTI law completes 15 years“The Central Information Commission (CIC) has worked assiduously even during the lockdown period and despite the challenges of the pandemic, higher disposal of cases became possible due to extensive use of e-office and latest use of technological tools for facilitating the hearings in the commission,” he added. Singh’s comments come in wake of criticism by RTI activists who allege that the government is trying to curb transparency.The CIC hasn’t had a chief ever since Bimal Julka retired two months ago. This is the fifth time the commission has been headless since 2014, experts said.Meanwhile, experts did not quite agree with the government figures. “First of all, the Press Information Bureau release has disclosed percentages, not dates,” said Venkatesh Nayak from the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), an organisation working towards greater transparency in governance. “Moreover, an RTI filed with the Central government doesn’t give month-wise data. I myself have had authorities saying that they just can’t respond to the queries or they have to be transferred to appellate authorities. First they delay, then decline,” he added. According to transparency activist Lokesh Batra, on the website of Central Information Commission, over 22,000 cases were registered last year. “State Information Commissions have not even been functioning,” he said. “They did try their best, whether they did better, the data will tell. CIC started virtual hearings in lockdown period. Bimal Julka did make an effort. To me, the point is, that during lockdown disposing of more is a good initiative. But as an activist, I also got stuck during the lockdown and couldn’t find certain case files.” On August 18, HT had reported that the working of the state information commissions (SICs) dropped from 80% in June to 44% in July, a survey by the CHRI has found. The survey was conducted by contacting each of 28 SICs across the country and tracking their websites. The first survey (in April) had found that none of the SICs was working, but during the second survey (in May) 12 SICs had opened their offices. However, only eight were conducting hearings. According to its third rapid telephonic survey, the SICs that had started attending to litigants in June had stopped by July. Out of the 29 information commissions, nearly 80% (23 ) had resumed hearings during Unlock1.0 starting on June 1. The CIC began functioning in mid-April. The survey also found that the SICs of Bihar, Goa, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh continue to function without a chief information commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-rtis-disposed-of-during-lockdown-says-minister-critics-disagree/story-vslZWrKjNLylTXyaDDCowM.html
14-10-2020||India||New commanders’ message for strategic 14 & 16 Corps is to be combat ready||Amid a protracted Sino-India stand-off in eastern Ladakh and spike in ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) south of Pir Panjal, two strategic corps of the Indian Army—Leh based Fire & Fury Corps (14 Corps) and Nagrota based White Knight Corps (16 Corps) witnessed a change of guard. Lt Gen PGK Menon took over the command of ‘Fire & Fury Corps’ from Lt Gen Harinder Singh on Tuesday. “The General Officer has had a distinguished career in the Indian Army, tenating a number of important command and staff appointments. He is also The Colonel of the Sikh Regiment. The officer commanded a Rashtriya Rifles unit in Kashmir valley, an Infantry Brigade along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir and an Infantry Division in the Eastern Sector. Prior to assuming Command of Fire & Fury Corps, he was tenating the appointment of Director General Recruiting at New Delhi,” said a Defence spokesman. In his farewell message, Lt Gen Harinder Singh conveyed his gratitude and deep appreciation to all ranks of the ‘Fire & Fury Corps’ for their professionalism and steadfast dedication in the service of the nation, even in the most hostile terrain, weather and altitude challenges faced by any Army in the world. On taking over, Lt Gen PGK Menon exhorted all ranks of ‘Fire & Fury Corps’ to continue to discharge their duties with the same commitment and zeal and always be prepared to deal with any threat to national security. He urged them to continue to keep ‘Nation First’ in all their endeavours. Lt Gen M V Suchindra Kumar took over command of the White Knight Corps from Lt Gen Harsha Gupta. “Lt Gen Harsha Gupta on relinquishing the command of the White Knight Corps laid wreath for the brave soldiers, who have made supreme sacrifice for the nation, at Ashwamedh Shaurya Sthal at Nagrota Military Station and called upon all ranks to continue on the path to strive for excellence,” said the Defence spokesman . Also Read: India scoffs at China’s new excuse for Ladakh stand-off, cites 3 reasonsOn assuming command of the White Knight Corps, Lt Gen M V Suchindra Kumar said that it was an honour to command such an elite formation with a rich history of J&K. He exhorted all ranks to continue working with utmost zeal and enthusiasm and always remain combat ready to thwart the nefarious designs of India’s adversaries and inimical forces while being in complete synergy with civil administration and paramilitary forces, he added. White Knight Corps is the first line of defence along the LoC south of Pir Panjal range. Also Read: Parliament panel to visit Ladakh on October 28-29 amid India-China standoff Right from Akhnoor in Jammu district to the twin border districts of Rajouri and Poonch, 16 Corps has the operational responsibility for the nearly 300 km long de-facto border with Pakistan. Amid Sino-India stand-off in eastern Ladakh since April this year, Pakistan has intensified ceasefire violations along the LoC in Jammu region. On the other hand Indian Army anticipates a “hot” winter and a long haul along the LAC in Ladakh this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-commanders-message-for-strategic-14-16-corps-is-to-put-nation-1st/story-ZSHMeUXDPBi8Ve6beDXuSK.html
14-10-2020||India||India has one of the lowest Covid-19 cases, deaths per million: Health ministry||India may have the second highest number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, but the country has one of the lowest deaths per million in the world, Union health ministry said.It posted a tweet on Wednesday morning which listed the number of Covid-19 fatalities per million in India and other countries of the world. At 79, India has the lowest deaths per million among countries with highest caseload. Brazil leads the list with 706 deaths per million. The global average is 138, and India is below that, the health ministry data showed.In another graph posted in the same tweet, the ministry showed India has one of the lowest cases per million in the world. The global average, according to the health ministry chart, is 4,794; India has 5,199 Covid-19 cases per million. Brazil has the highest number of cases per million (23,911) followed by the United States (23,072). #IndiaFightsCoronaIndia continues to report one of the lowest cases per million & lowest deaths per million in the world.India's recoveries are the highest in the world. pic.twitter.com/3n6CDfa6hbThe health ministry also said that India’s recovery rate is highest in the world.The ministry’s tweet comes on a day when India recorded a marginal increase (a little over 8,000) in the number of new Covid-19 cases. India’s caseload rose to 72,39,389 with 63,509 infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 63 lakh, the health ministry dashboard showed on Wednesday morning.The recovery rate stands at 87.05 per cent.The coronavirus death toll climbed to 1,10,586 with the virus claiming 730 lives in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.For six days in a row the active cases of COVID-19 remained below 9 lakh.There are 8,26,876 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 11.42 per cent of the total caseload, while the recoveries have surged to 63,01,927, the data stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-one-of-the-lowest-covid-19-cases-and-deaths-per-million-health-ministry/story-XztEQ36GlVRNRPBUiFkEeL.html
14-10-2020||India||People will continue struggling for resolution of Kashmir: Mehbooba Mufti’s message after release||Even as the congratulatory messages continue to pour in over her release, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti has issued a terse message to Delhi.Just hours after her release, Mufti , in an audio message, said that the people will have to continue struggling for the resolution of Kashmir issue and whatever was snatched by Delhi on August 5, 2019 will have to be taken back.“I have become free today after more than a year. During this time the black decision of August 5, 2019, black day, would always pain my heart and soul. And I realise that the people of J&K would have the same feeling. Nobody among us can forget the day’s robbery and humiliation,” she said in the 1 minute 23 second audio message.“Now we all will have to reiterate that whatever Delhi Darbar, unconstitutionally and undemocratically, snatched away from us will have to be taken back,” she said.Also Read: Mehbooba Mufti released after 14 months in detentionMufti was released on Tuesday evening, over 14 months after she was detained following the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5, 2019. Mufti, 61, is the last of Jammu and Kashmir’s mainstream political leaders to have been set free after the constitutional changes split the region into two Union territories.Her party leaders said that she will address a press conference on Friday.Mufti also said that the struggle for a Kashmir resolution will continue.“Also we will have to carry on our struggle for the resolution of the Kashmir issue for which thousands gave their lives. I agree this path is not easy but I am hopeful that our resolve will help us in this,” she said.She also demanded the release of all those who have been jailed like her. “Now that I have been released I also demand the release of the people of Jammu and Kashmir who have been jailed in different prisons of the country,” she said.‘Episode of tyranny is over’As Mufti took control of her twitter handle, she continued to get congratulatory messages.MKStalin, president of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), tweeted on Wednesday morning that the democratic process must be reinstated in J&K.“I’m pleased to hear that @MehboobaMufti has been released from detention after 14 months. I urge the Govt to release all other political detainees as well. The democratic processes, which have been suspended during this time, must also be reinstated,” he wrote.I'm pleased to hear that @MehboobaMufti has been released from detention after 14 months. I urge the Govt to release all other political detainees as well. The democratic processes, which have been suspended during this time, must also be reinstated.Congress leader Salman Anees Soz wrote that the episode of tyranny was over. “This episode of tyranny is over. The goal was to intimidate Kashmiri mainstream leaders. But, as all of India is discovering, Kashmir is a laboratory where the limits of authoritarianism are being tested.I am happy for @MehboobaMufti and family though. All the best!,” he said.This episode of tyranny is over. The goal was to intimidate Kashmiri mainstream leaders. But, as all of India is discovering, Kashmir is a laboratory where the limits of authoritarianism are being tested.I am happy for @MehboobaMufti and family though. All the best! https://t.co/jgpMSnXYssFormer J&K chief minister and senior congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad tweeted: “Thank God at last @MehboobaMufti has been released after more than15 months. This detention like that of Farooq sahib&@OmarAbdullah was unique one in our country, where the govt. ordered detention themselves don’t know reason and crime committed by these 3 leaders. Jai ho democracy ki”.I’m pleased to hear that @MehboobaMufti Sahiba has been released after more than a year in detention. Her continued detention was a travesty & was against the basic tenets of democracy. Welcome out Mehbooba.On Tuesday, National Conference vice-president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah also welcomed her release. “I’m pleased to hear that @MehboobaMufti Sahiba has been released after more than a year in detention. Her continued detention was a travesty & was against the basic tenets of democracy. Welcome out Mehbooba,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/people-will-continue-struggling-for-resolution-of-kashmir-mehbooba-mufti-s-message-after-release/story-djtpsd66uwgjQa7p6g9bMJ.html
14-10-2020||India||Covid-19: ICMR studying reinfections; identifies 3 cases||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which is studying reinfection among coronavirus (Covid-19) cases, has identified three to date that are being looked into, said Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general (D-G), ICMR, on Tuesday. “We are studying the reinfection cases. So far, three such cases have been reported; two from Mumbai and one from Ahmedabad. There are various cut-off days that are being referred to for reinfection. Though the public is going by up to 110 days, we are taking 100 as the cut-off period because the antibodies last until then,” said Dr Bhargava. Also read: Nevada man experienced severe symptoms during second bout of illnessA recent study, which is published in the journal Lancet Infectious Diseases, has found that reinfection could occur in Covid-19 patients, and the symptoms would likely to be more severe following the relapse of the viral infection. “The World Health Organisation (WHO) has documented about two dozen cases of Covid-19 reinfection. We have established telephonic contact with the three cases of reinfection as part of our study. They are being looked into,” he added. On Sunday, Union minister for health and family welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan had also said that the ICMR had set up a committee of experts to study reported cases of reinfection among Covid-19 patients. “The ICMR has commissioned a study to look into the cases of reinfection in the country. However, their results are still awaited,” the minister had said while responding to queries from the public on social media as part of the fifth episode of his Sunday Samvaad programme. Dr Bhargava said though SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, was found to be mutating, the changes were negligible.“They will have no impact on the effectiveness of the Covid-19 vaccine that is under various stages of development in several countries around the world. Major changes, which will have a bearing on vaccine efficacy, take up to 15 years and are called antigenic shifts. A minor antigenic drift is being reported,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-icmr-studying-reinfections-identifies-3-cases/story-hdFhBbPgGPeHc55TjWIuUP.html
14-10-2020||India||‘Need to provide wild animals food as per diet chart’: Assam minister on row over beef in zoos||Assam minister for forest and environment Parimal Suklabaidya on Wednesday requested those protesting against feeding beef to wild animals living inside the zoo to not create an uproar over the issue.Speaking to ANI, Suklabaidya said, “They can’t survive on mutton or pork alone. They could’ve been given buffalo meat instead of beef but we don’t have many buffaloes in Assam. We float tenders to get beef, buffalo meat, mutton, pork.”The minister said that he understood the need for increasing the cattle population, but highlighted that the wildlife population also needs to be healthy. “Their demand is fair up to an extent, that our cattle population should increase. But if we’ve to keep our wildlife alive and healthy, we’ll have to provide them food as per their diet chart,” said Suklabaidya.BJP leader from Assam Satya Ranjan Borah had held a demonstration outside the Assam state zoo demanding that the practise of feeding animals inside the zoo be stopped. According to PTI, they had also stopped a van carrying beef from entering the zoo during their demonstration on Monday.He also warned the zoo authorities and the government of Assam that if they do not comply with the demand they have to “face consequences”.Suklabaidya asked people to not create an uproar over the issue. He said, “Have spoken with a few scientists on the possibility and consequences of providing the animals, meat other than beef. There is no use of creating an uproar over the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-provide-wild-animals-food-as-per-diet-chart-assam-minister-on-row-over-beef-in-zoos/story-n55vl3E0ghHtv5rYxgQcuJ.html
14-10-2020||India||India crosses 7.2 million Covid-19 case mark with 63,509 new infections as cases rise marginally from a day ago||India’s Covid-19 tally on Wednesday crossed the 7.2 million case mark, as the country recorded 63,509 new infections in the last 24 hours, as per the Union health ministry’s dashboard.(Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)This latest rise in cases is a marginal increase from Tuesday’s spike of 55,342 as the country continues to report a relatively lesser number of infections per day.(Also read: Delhi’s cinema halls to reopen from tomorrow)However, despite the latest rise, the number of active cases in the country are still below the nine lakh mark, at 826,876 or 11.69% of the total number of cases. The number of discharged cases, meanwhile, rose to 6,301,927 with 74,632 new recoveries in the last 24 hours, more than the number of new cases.The current death toll stands at 110,856 with 730 new fatalities in this period. Recoveries and deaths contribute 86.78% and 1.53% of the total number of cases respectively.These latest figures come a day before the country starts reopening further, as cinema halls, schools, entertainment parks and swimming pools are set to open across the country with strict Covid-19 protocols in place. On September 30, in its guidelines for the fifth and current phase of the nationwide unlock, the Union home ministry had given permission for these places to reopen from October 15.India continues to be the second worst-hit country, after the United States and is ahead of Brazil. However, it also has the highest number of recovered cases in the world, contributing to over 20% of global recoveries, a fact that the health ministry has frequently highlighted in its press briefings over the last few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-7-2-million-covid-19-case-mark-with-63-509-new-infections-as-cases-rise-marginally-from-a-day-ago/story-vTZ75UPjS8FYqI272bNOUP.html
14-10-2020||India||India demolishes China’s new excuse for Ladakh stand-off in 3 points||India has rejected Chinese contention that its border infrastructure upgrade along the 3,488 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) is the crux of on-going military tensions, saying the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has already built and continues to construct roads and communication network on its side of the border.“First, the bridges inaugurated by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday are away from the LAC and would facilitate civilian movement and access apart from military logistics. Second, China has never raised the issue of India’s infra upgrade at the on-going military-diplomatic talks. Third, what about the road, bridges, optical fibres, solar-heated huts and missile deployments of the PLA close to the LAC. India is only building infra on its side of the LAC and for that we do not need Chinese permission,” said a senior official.Also Read: India building border infra, deploying military root cause of tension: ChinaAccording to military commanders, the PLA has drawn optical fibre for secure communication at contested Gogra-Hot Springs, used heavy-lift cranes to drop solar heated containers as accommodation for forward troops on north bank of Pangong Tso and have built a hospital in the depth area to cater to high-altitude sickness and medical problems associated with rarefied atmosphere. Also Watch | Ladakh: China provokes day after LAC meet as India exposes Pak joint ‘mission’However, according to China watchers, the reason why PLA is concerned about Indian infrastructure upgrade in Ladakh is that it could pose a military threat to the multi-billion China Pakistan Economic Corridor, or CPEC, to Pakistan that passes via Khunjerab Pass and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. It is understood that the Chinese have conveyed their concerns over CPEC to its all-weather ally Pakistan as India has very strongly objected to Beijing exploiting the ecologically sensitive Gilgit-Baltistan area and PoK.Also Read: China doubled its air bases, air defences and heliports near LAC in three yearsThe increased Indian military capacity and capability on the LAC also prevents the PLA from nibbling into East Ladakh in pursuance of its maximalist 1959 cartographical claim line.The fact is that in 1976, the China Study Group headed by the then Cabinet Secretary had defined 65 patrolling points as limits for Indian Army on the Ladakh LAC. As these patrolling points were well within Indian perception of LAC, the PLA through tremendous border upgrades tried to turn these limits as Indian border. This was pointed out to the UPA regime by former foreign secretary Shyam Saran when, as the National Security Advisory Board chairman, he advocated that Indian troops must patrol up to at least the limits defined by CSG.Over the years, China has pressurised India not only on the border but has also been condescending enough to ask New Delhi to maintain its non-aligned position and not get close to the United States. Beijing, on its part, believes that it belongs to a different league and has blocked India from becoming a member of Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG), UN Security Council and even helped Pakistan to unsuccessfully try to get Indian engineers involved in Afghan reconstruction as global terrorists under 1267 UNSC resolution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-scoffs-at-china-s-new-excuse-for-ladakh-stand-off-cites-3-reasons/story-nxF7hqdlgxZ6xmwEknJJHL.html
14-10-2020||India||Lake sediment study gives clues to glacier health and Indus valley civilisation||The westerlies play a bigger role than the Indian monsoon in controlling rain, snow and glacier health in the Western Himalayas, a new study has found.A team of scientists from the School of Environmental Sciences at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) have analysed lake sediments from Chandratal lake in Himachal Pradesh to understand what has been determining glacial retreat, or in some cases glacial advance, in the western Himalayas.The results, published in Nature journal last month, indicate that summer monsoon dominated precipitation 21% of the time, whereas the mid-latitude westerlies dominated precipitation 79% of the time and hence have been the main source of moisture during the last 1,100 years.Also Read: AQI enters red zone, all eyes on farm firesGlaciers are vulnerable to the impact of climate change, which can lead to several changes in water availability in the region. Understanding past moisture source for rain and snowfall over the Himalayan glaciers can also help understand how climate change will impact them in the future, authors of the study said.Normally, studies on a glacier’s life cycle are conducted based on ice cores. “Obtaining ice core from the region is difficult and where it has been obtained it hasn’t given much information. So we have retrieved sediments from Chandratal to understand what may have happened. We know now that the monsoon impact has weakened and it’s not bringing as much rain in the northwestern region as it used to be . Climate change has also impacted the westerlies or western disturbances with more cases of extremely heavy rain or snow being recorded. Such changes will impact moisture availability and hence could affect the glacier dynamics and its retreat ,” explained AL Ramanathan, professor, JNU.India Meteorological Department (IMD) defines western disturbances as a cyclonic circulation/trough in the mid and lower tropospheric levels or as a low-pressure area which occurs in middle latitude westerlies and originates over the Mediterranean Sea, Caspian Sea, Black Sea and moves eastwards across north India.Also Read: Climate change spurs doubling of disasters since 2000: UNA ministry of earth sciences (MoES) report released last year titled Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region suggested that there is a significant rising trend in western disturbances and rain extremes. But rain extremes don’t necessarily mean availability of more water or ice, Ramanathan said, as they are not evenly distributed.Ramanathan said the sediment core records from Chandratal are a very useful tool for archaeologists and paleoclimatologists who are studying the fall of the Harappan civilisation. Some scientists believe that the Harappan civilisation fell due to drying of rivers. “Reconstruction of the dynamics of moisture source changes during the Holocene is of great importance to get an insight into societal development (e.g Indus civilisation) and future climate changes,” he added.“We haven’t conducted any studies on moisture sources but there is a general understanding that the westerlies could have more influence and this study quantifies that. It is difficult to say how the changing pattern of western disturbances will impact glacier health because there may not be a change in precipitation but timing of snowfall or rain is most important. If that changes we can see greater retreat of glaciers,” said Anil Kulkarni, Distinguished Scientist, Divecha Centre for Climate Change, Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lake-sediment-study-gives-clues-to-glacier-health-and-indus-valley-civilisation/story-B1VPPQy3SXuxEESHsZoBlL.html
14-10-2020||India||‘Possibility of sabotage can’t be ruled out’: Maharashtra minister on power outage||Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut has said that the possibility of sabotage can’t be ruled out in the power outage incident in Mumbai on October 12.“The possibility of foul play/sabotage can’t be denied in the power outage incident of Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai on Monday,” Raut said in a tweet in Marathi. सोमवार दिनांक 12.10.20 रोजी मुंबई, नवी मुंबई व ठाणे येथील संपूर्ण वीज पुरवठा खंडित होण्यामागे घातपाताची शक्यता नाकारता येत नाही.A grid failure had resulted in massive power outages in Mumbai and its suburban areas on Monday, stopping trains on tracks, hampering those working from home and hitting the stuttering economic activity hard.The outages were attributed to tripping at a sub-station of state-run transmission company MSETCL.It took two hours for the power supply to resume for essential services; other pockets started getting power in a phase-wise manner.A spokesperson of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company (MSEDCL) said on Tuesday evening that power supply is not a constraint anymore, and electricity supply in Mumbai has been completely restored.While the consumers served by BEST, Adani Electricity Mumbai and Tata Power were the earliest to get supply, those in north-eastern suburbs of Mulund and Bhandup, and adjoining cities of Thane and Navi Mumbai got power only past midnight.Some pockets served by MSEDCL reported power cuts even on Tuesday, but the spokesman said those were due to localised issues, voltage fluctuations and in some cases because of road works as well.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered an enquiry into the incident, which happened when one of the lines was undergoing planned maintenance.The city had last seen a massive power outage in June 2018.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/possibility-of-sabotage-can-t-be-ruled-out-maharashtra-minister-on-mumbai-power-outage/story-5z8yLShKliQVf24KGoFt9M.html
14-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Month after Dalit teenager’s rape, minor raped by relative in Hathras and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.4-year-old allegedly raped in Hathras, month after gang-rape of Dalit womanThe incident comes a month after a 19-year-old was allegedly gang-raped by four men in Hathras. She was rushed to a hospital in Aligarh, but shifted to Delhi for want of better medical care. Read more here. Hyderabad rains latest updates: City lashed by torrential rain, death toll climbs to 13At least 13 people died in Telangana - nine of them in a wall collapse in Hyderabad - after heavy rainfall lashed several parts of the state. Four others were critically injured in the wall collapse incident in Bandlaguda area of the city. Read more here. Covid-19 reinfection: Nevada man experienced severe symptoms during second bout of illnessResearchers believe that the man was infected with two distinct types of Sars-Cov-2. Dr. Mark Pandori, one of the researchers while speaking to JournalPioneer said, “We don’t necessarily have a system that’s well designed to find reinfection cases. It very well might be very rare. But it very well might not be as rare as we think. Read more here. IPL 2020: Wide or not wide? MS Dhoni’s look of anger forces umpire Paul Reiffel to change his decision, David Warner fumesThe IPL 2020 match between Chennai Super Kings and Sunrisers Hyderabad generated controversy with MS Dhoni and on-field umpire Paul Reiffel at the centre of it. Read more here. Apple launches 4 new iPhone 12 models and they’ll be available in India starting October 30Apple’s new iPhone 12 models are priced starting from Rs 69,900 in India and the iPhone 12 and the iPhone 12 Pro are going to be available here from October 30. Read more here. What’s not so serious but can still ruin your day? People on Reddit answerIf you thought you’re the only one who goes through this, don’t worry. Turns out several people have similar experiences and have shared in this Reddit post. Read more here. WATCH | IPL 2020: Chennai Super Kings beat Sunrisers Hyderabad by 20 runs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-month-after-dalit-teenager-s-rape-minor-raped-by-relative-in-hathras-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZIktkRApSQLLSE4yWzDpyJ.html
14-10-2020||India||15-year-old Dalit girl ends life after ‘rape’, police ‘inaction’ in Bundelkhand||A 15-year-old Dalit girl at Chitrakoot, in Bundelkhand region in Uttar Pradesh allegedly died by suicide in her house on Tuesday morning, days after she was found bound and gagged in a plants’ nursery in the district, and the police did not act on the complaint of her mother, who had spotted three men leaving the spot where the girl was found, the girl’s mother said.After the death of the girl, police registered an FIR of rape, abetment to suicide, wrongful restraining and under the charges in section 3/4 of POCSO Act.Circle officer (CO), City, Rajnish Yadav denied police inaction and claimed that the family did not file a complaint earlier.However, the mother of the deceased said she had visited the police post in-charge of Sarraiya area and had informed him about the condition in which the girl was found on October 8 and that she had seen three men leaving the site.The girl was found dead by her younger brother on Tuesday morning, when other family members had gone out. The brother informed his parents.Also Read: 4-year-old allegedly raped in Hathras, month after gang-rape of Dalit womanThe victim’s mother said the girl was depressed since October 8, when she had suddenly gone missing and was found in the nursery with her hands and legs tied and mouth gagged. She also saw three men, who had their faces covered, leaving the nursery.“Apparently, they had lured her and indulged in a wrong act,” she said in the FIR on Tuesday. Some villagers have told the police that they had seen the three men consuming liquor close to the nursery. The mother told the police on Tuesday that she had informed the Sarraiya area police post in-charge but he did not take any action. Also Read: Hathras case: Not satisfied with govt version on cremation, says high courtInspector general (IG) of police, Chitrakoot, K Satyanarayan, said the police post in-charge has been suspended for dereliction of duty. “One person identified as Kishan has been taken into custody,” police said. District magistrate Sheshmani Pandey met the family and assured them all possible help.Police said the victim’s post mortem had been conducted by a panel of four doctors, three of them being women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-year-old-dalit-girl-ends-life-after-rape-police-inaction-in-bundelkhand/story-NgfZbZz0tCa3WY0sq6HLcM.html
14-10-2020||India||Ayush ministry launches raw drug repository for medicinal plant cultivation||Ayush (Ayurveda Yoga and Naturopathy Unani Sidda Homoeopathy) minister Shripad Yesso Naik has inaugurated the Regional Raw Drug Repository (RRDR) for Ayush systems of medicine at the National Institute of Siddha in Tamil Nadu.According to ministry officials, the repository will play an important role in medicinal plant cultivation. As a step in this direction, the ministry of Ayush, through the National Medicinal Plants Board, initiated the establishment of the National Raw Drug Repository and Regional Raw Drug repositories. NMPB has identified National Institute of Siddha as the lead Institute with the Regional Research Institute of Unani Medicine, Chennai, and the Siddha Central Research Institute, Chennai, as collaborating institutes. Also Read: Government body claims cow dung chip reduces radiation from mobile handsetsThis RRDR would play a role in collection, documentation, and authentication of raw drugs collected from the agro-climatic region, that is, the Southern Plateau Region, according to a statement from the Ayush ministry.“We in India are fortunate to have systems of medicine which date back more than 3,000 years and have deep-rooted societal acceptance. Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and systems of medicine are accessible to a large segment of our population, including those living in remote and interior areas. Medicinal plants form the major resource base of our indigenous health care traditions. Their relevance has grown substantially in the current pandemic scenario, thanks to their disease preventive effects,” the Ayush ministry statement read.“Though most of our raw drugs are commonly available, there is a lack of scientific documentation which makes research on these medicines very difficult. This also reduces the chances of commercial exploitation of these medicines. Easy availability of authentic scientific date of the raw drugs will promote the research on the medicines belonging to Ayush system which will lead to further propagation of these systems,” the statement further read.The country has more than 9,000 manufacturing units for Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homeopathy medicine.Also Read: ‘Ayurveda has holistic approach’: Harsh Vardhan on Ayush-based Covid-19 treatmentHowever, the quality of medicines produced by these units critically depends upon the manufacturing process followed as well as the quality of raw material. The government has made it mandatory for all manufacturing units to adhere to the Good Manufacturing Practices as notified under Schedule T of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940.However, since over 90% of the formulations under these systems of medicine are plant-based, it is critical to ensure the sustained availability of quality raw material.“This RRDR will not only act as collection centre of raw drugs available and used in the southern region but also as an accredited reference library for the authentication of raw drugs and establish standard protocols and keys for authentication of raw drug used in the herbal industries,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayush-ministry-launches-raw-drug-repository-for-quality-medicinal-plant-cultivation/story-j2jy3sGM6P5q0lmhg4V2BJ.html
14-10-2020||India||‘Black day, black decision’: Mehbooba Mufti tweets message after her release||Shortly after being released from detention on Tuesday, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti posted a message on Twitter saying her party’s struggle against Centre’s decision to abrogate Article 370 of the Constitution will continue.In the audio message, she also called the scrapping of the Article a “black decision taken on a black day”.“I am released after more than a year. During my time in detention, the black decision of the black day in August 2019 continued to attack my heart,” Mufti said in the audio clip posted with a black plaque.“I feel this must have been the condition of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. None of us can forget the insult of that day. Now we will have to decide that whatever the Delhi Durbar took away from us through illegal means on August 5 last year, we will have to get it back,” she further said in the clip.“We will have to continue our struggle for the Kashmir issue for which thousands of our people have laid their lives. I know the way ahead is not easy, but our resolve will help us tread the path,” Mufti added. After being released from fourteen long months of illegal detention, a small message for my people. pic.twitter.com/gIfrf82ThwShe was put under detention on August 5 last year along with National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah and other leaders following the abrogation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. While Abdullah was released in March this year, Mufti continued to be under detention after Public Safety Act (PSA) was extended.She was finally released on Tuesday after the administration revoked the PSA charges against her.The PDP chief’s release comes ahead of the expiry of the deadline set by Supreme Court, which had been approached by her daughter Iltija Mufti with a habeas corpus petition challenging her “illegal” detention. The top court had on September 29 given the administration of Jammu and Kashmir till October 14 to explain how long they intended to keep Mufti in custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-day-black-decision-mehbooba-mufti-tweets-message-after-her-release/story-1nZtmNR05JnN2brbkvat5O.html
14-10-2020||India||4-year-old allegedly raped in Hathras, month after gang-rape of Dalit woman||A four-year-old was allegedly raped by her relative in Sasni, in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, on Tuesday.The police said that the accused has been arrested. “A case has been registered,” news agency ANI quoted Circle Officer Ruchi Gupta as saying.The incident comes a month after a 19-year-old was allegedly gang-raped by four men in Hathras. She was rushed to a hospital in Aligarh, but shifted to Delhi for want of better medical care.The woman succumbed to her injuries in hospital days later.The incident triggered protests across the country, and the Allahabad high court had taken suo motu cognizance of it. It held a hearing on Monday where it lashed out at the police and district administration for cremating the woman’s body at night.The court said that the act was an “infringement” of her human rights, adding that the victim was at least entitled to decent cremation in accordance with her religious customs and rituals which essentially are to be performed by her family.The state government, meanwhile, recommended the probe to be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The request was accepted by the Union home ministry and CBI took over the investigation.On Tuesday, a team of the agency visited the spot in Hathras where the victim of the alleged gang-rape was cremated on September 30. Samples were collected from the spot as a part of the agency’s ongoing investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-year-old-allegedly-raped-in-hathras-month-after-gang-rape-of-dalit-woman/story-9ffdbZv6MkBCdnHBNoVIcP.html
14-10-2020||India||Why Assam is shutting down madrassas, Sanskrit schools||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Assam and state education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that a notification regarding shutting down of all state-run madrassas will be issued in November. Around 100 Sanskrit tols will also be shut down in the state, he added.“All State-run madrassas will be converted into regular schools or in certain cases teachers will be transferred to state-run schools and madrassas will be shut down. A notification will be released in November,” he said.Madrassas are educational institutions where the Quran and the Islamic sacred law is taught along with mathematics, grammar, poetry and history. According to a report published on the academic and research website The Conversation, the Indian government reports that 4 percent of Muslim students attend madrassas in the country full-time.In BJP-led Assam government’s bid not to spend money on religious institutions, it has taken the decision to convert madrassas into regular schools or transfer their teachers to other schools and shut them down.“In my opinion, teaching of Quran can’t happen at the cost of government money. If we have to do so then we should also teach both the Bible and Bhagavad Gita. So, we want to bring uniformity and stop this practice,” the minister told news agency ANI.There are 614 recognised madrassas in Assam, according to State Madrassa Education Board (SMEB). As many as 400 out of these are high madrassas,112 are junior high madrassas and the remaining 102 are senior madrassas, the SMEB website said.Out of total recognized madrassas, 57 are for girls, 3 are for boys and 554 are co-educational.Seventeen madrassas are running under Urdu medium, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-assam-is-shutting-down-madrassas-sanskrit-schools/story-fln6pZWuRcea4Bm5uCVALJ.html
14-10-2020||India||Law student goes back on rape charge against Chinmayanand in court||The woman law student who had accused former Union minister Chinmayanand of sexually exploiting her disowned statement before a special MP-MLA court in Lucknow on Tuesday.The LLM student categorically denied that she had levelled any allegation against the former Union minister as the prosecution had charged.Angered at this, the prosecution immediately moved an application under Section 340 of the CrPC, seeking action against her for perjury.Judge P K Rai directed his office to register the application and asked the prosecution to furnish a copy of the application to the victim and the accused.The court fixed October 15 for hearing on the application.The Allahabad High Court in February this year granted bail to Chinmayanand, whose trust runs the Shahjahanpur law college where the woman studied.He was lodged in the jail following a case filed against him by the law student and was arrested in September last year.The case was registered under Section 376-C of the IPC, an offence pertaining to the abuse of one’s position by a person in authority to “induce or seduce” a woman under his charge to have “sexual intercourse not amounting to the offence of rape”.Chinmayanand (72) also faced charges under Sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 354-D (stalking) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/student-goes-back-on-rape-charge-in-court/story-JQAdFGdUHqQqWfgknWZ37J.html
14-10-2020||India||India, China agree to continue talks to resolve border tension||India and China have agreed to continue their dialogue to arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for early disengagement in the eastern Ladakh theatre, the two sides said in a joint press statement on Tuesday, a day after the seventh round of talks between senior military commanders at Chushul.The two sides said they had a better understanding of each other’s position in the sensitive sector after the latest round of talks, even as the border row is in its sixth month and efforts to disengage and de-escalate have made no breakthrough. The talks on Monday lasted more than 12 hours.“The two sides had a sincere, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in the western Sector of India-China border areas. They were of the view that these discussions were positive, constructive and had enhanced understanding of each other’s positions,” said the statement.India and China have deployed more than 50,000 soldiers each along with advanced weapons and systems in the eastern Ladakh theatre. Even as talks at military and diplomatic levels are on, the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army have made preparations for a long haul in the sector.The statement said both sides “agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels” to resolve the border row.“Both sides agreed to earnestly implement the important understandings reached by the leaders of the two countries, not to turn differences into disputes, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquility in the border areas,” the statement added.Monday’s talks took place weeks after China hardened its position and asserted that it recognises the 1959 LAC, which has never been accepted by India. China’s hardened stance has dimmed hopes for an early resolution of the border row.This was the last round of military talks to be led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, who on Tuesday handed over the charge of the Leh-based 14 Corps to Lieutenant General PGK Menon. In his farewell message, Singh conveyed his gratitude and appreciation to all ranks of the ‘Fire & Fury Corps’ for their professionalism and steadfast dedication in the most hostile terrain, weather and altitude challenges faced by any army in the world, an army spokesperson said.Menon asked the men under his command to discharge their duties with the same commitment and zeal, and always be prepared to deal with any threat to national security, the spokesperson said.The sixth round of military talks was held on September 21 when Indian negotiators firmly demanded comprehensive disengagement in all friction areas and restoration of status quo ante of early April as the only approach towards de-escalation. On the other hand, China asked India to withdraw its soldiers from strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to reduce friction.Former director general of military operations Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd) said India was negotiating with the Chinese from a position of strength after occupying heights of operational importance on the southern bank of Pangong Tso and there was no need to hurry things up. “It’s a game of patience now. With the heights under our control, we have greater leverage to resolve the row in a way that is advantageous for us,” Bhatia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-agree-to-continue-talks-to-resolve-border-tension/story-XfmUqDSjT0cCWE4VCisdSN.html
14-10-2020||India||Tanishq drops ad after online trolling||Titan Limited-owned jewellery brand Tanishq removed its new campaign ‘Ekatvam’ (Oneness) from all media platforms, a day after being viciously trolled on Twitter for “glorifying” love jihad. The 45-second ad featured a Muslim family celebrating a baby shower ceremony for pregnant daughter-in-law.In a statement, the company said: “This film has stimulated divergent & severe reactions, contrary to its very objective. We’re deeply saddened with inadvertent stirring of emotions & withdraw this film keeping in mind hurt sentiments & well being of our employees.”Those who slammed the ad released on 9 October said it glorified love jihad, a term coined by Hindu extremist groups to refer to an alleged campaign by Muslims to convert Hindu girls in the guise of love.The brand was also criticised for promoting fake secular sentiment while hurting the feelings of a particular religious community.People tweeted with the hashtag #BoycottTanishq calling for a ban on the advertisement and a boycott of the jewellery brand.A section of Twitter users also supported Tanishq, lauding its effort to highlight the beauty of interfaith marriages and upholding the true idea of India. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted that “If Hindu-Muslim ‘ekatvam’ irks them so much, why don’t they boycott the longest surviving symbol of Hindu-Muslim unity in the world -- India?” From attacking stereotypes to celebrating the spirit of emancipated young Indian woman, Tanishq advertising has always been progressive and bold. Advertising experts believe the new campaign is line with the brand’s core method of communicating with consumers.The ad has depicted a confluence of two religions using a family ‘godh bharai’ or baby shower as a backdrop, according to Sambit Mohanty, creative head (south), McCann Worldgroup India. The adverse reaction is unwarranted as the ad does not show anything harmful or insidious, he said.“Rather, it portrays a picture of harmony, love and genuine affection, which is the idea of India. That said, religion is an extremely touchy topic these days and brands usually stay away from such narratives. Though it isn’t wrong, it’s very bold of Tanishq to have tried something like this.”There is not one thing that is wrong in the campaign, said Naresh Gupta, co-founder and chief strategy officer, Bang In The Middle. The whole play of relationship is perfectly well-crafted. “It’s sad that Tanishq bowed down to a few trolls and bigots. For me, it’s one of the best ads of 2020,” he noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tanishq-drops-ad-after-online-trolling/story-tWaPU97mi79lWfl3XjZ85O.html
14-10-2020||India||MJ Akbar versus Priya Ramani: Case shifted to district and sessions court||Stating that his courtroom was not the competent court of jurisdiction, Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (ACMM) Vishal Pahuja transferred Monday the criminal defamation suit filed by former union minister MJ Akbar against journalist Priya Ramani, to the court of the principal district and sessions judge.The trial in the two-year-old case was in its final stages, and both sides presented their concluding arguments. Citing a 2016 SC case, Ashwani Kumar Upadhyay versus Union of India and another, which pertained to the creation of special courts to fast track cases against MPs and MLAs, the ACMM said special courts including his own were designated for trial of cases against MP/MLAs. “As the pre-sent matter is not filed against MP/MLA, hence, cannot be tried by this court and needs to be transferred to the Competent Court of Jurisdiction,” it said.Directing that the complete file of the Akbar versus Ramani case be sent to the principal district and sessions judge, the ACMM said that “further appropriate orders” could be expected on Wednesday. Akbar filed a defamation suit in 2018 after Ramani made an allegation of sexual misconduct against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mj-akbar-versus-priya-ramani-case-shifted-to-district-and-sessions-court/story-9mKB0GTI2xuGzP3PGfRcaL.html
14-10-2020||India||Paddy purchase up, other crops sell below MSP||The government has bought over 4 million tonnes of paddy from nearly 350,000 farmers, who have been paid minimum support price (MSP) of ₹8,032 crore until October 11 since procurement of crops began on September 24. The quantity procured so far is 33% higher than the corresponding period last year, according to data cited by the farm ministry.While the procurement of the kharif (monsoon crop) staple is continuing robustly, farmers in Punjab and Haryana continue to protest against a set of laws enacted by Parliament to deregulate agricultural markets, which they fear will weaken the MSP system, whereby farm produce is bought by the government at assured prices.The Centre would also procure pulses, oilseeds and copra at MSP beyond the quantity approved so far from any state where the market rate falls below MSP under its price support scheme, the agriculture ministry said in a statement on Monday.Despite this, several summer-sown crops, such as soybean and maize, are selling below minimum prices set by the government because the government procures too little of non-cereals.The government “continues to procure kharif 2020-21 crops at its MSP from farmers as per its existing MSP schemes” and procurement is “going on smoothly”, the farm ministry statement said, pointing to the higher procurement trend.Until October 11, the government through its food agencies has additionally procured 606.56 tonnes of two pulses — moong and urad — with an MSP value of ₹4.36 croreThe government has also approved requests from 10 states to procure 3.7 million tonnes of pulses and oilseeds. These states are Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana, Gujarat, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh.The government has also sanctioned procurement of 100,000 tonnes of copra, a perennial crop, from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala.Crops such as soybean, ragi, maize and cotton, are selling up to 30% below MSPs, data from Agmarknet, the agriculture ministry’s portal that tracks prices in mandis or wholesale markets, shows.Poor returns from crops have been a lingering problem for farmers, especially during episodes of gluts, such as now. MSPs, which are fixed at 50% over cost for nearly two dozen crops, don’t necessarily lead to higher farm incomes as the government’s procurement at MSP rates is largely restricted to wheat and rice. For most other crops, farmers are mostly price takers, meaning they are forced to accept whatever the markets dictate.“Nudging the private sector towards triggering a market-clearing price that is closer or equal to MSP will depend on the extent of government’s procurement,” economist Abhijit Sen said.For commodities such as pulses and oilseeds, the government’s procurement is insufficient to improve market rates. For instance, the nearly 3.7 million tonnes of pulses and oilseeds they government has approved for procurement at MSP is less than 15% of the total production -- too small a quantity to make a difference in prices offered by private entities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paddy-purchase-up-other-crops-sell-below-msp/story-N8TGqQ0DmXiyAWZhPDj7vN.html
14-10-2020||India||Govt body says cow dung can curb radiation||The chief of a federal body on animal husbandry has unveiled a chip made of cow dung, claiming it reduces radiation from mobile handsets. Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog chairman Vallabhbhai Kathiria showcased the chip while launching “Kamdhenu Deepawali Abhiyan”, a campaign to promote cow dung products.“Cow dung is anti-radiation. If you bring this home and place it in (on) your phone, it (the phone) will become radiation-free,” Kathiria said, showcasing the product at a press conference on Monday.The Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog is a body under the ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying, set up by the Narendra Modi government for “conservation, protection and development of cows and their progeny”, according to its website. Kathiria said the chips are not certified by any scientific body but have been tested in laboratories. “You can test its effectiveness in any laboratory and even in colleges,” he said. Over 500 ‘gaushalas’, or cow shelters, are making these chips, he said.Scientists say that rigorous scientific tests, including peer review, would be necessary to demonstrate qualities like radiation absorption capacity of cow-dung. “I don’t know anything about this, but any claim needs to pass rigourous scientific tests based on facts, whether it is a cow-dung chip or a corona vaccine,” said Samir Brahmachari, a biophysicist and former director-general of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research.The cow is revered by many Hindus, and some believe its by-products, such as urine, promotes health and well-being. Some uses of cow dung have been scientifically proven.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-body-says-cow-dung-can-curb-radiation/story-9ct9gwY6jNv6k4jCd4fVVO.html
14-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Phase-2 vaccine trial results by early Nov||The Phase-2 clinical trial results to determine the safety profile of India’s two indigenously developed vaccine candidates against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are expected by early November, senior health officials said on Tuesday.Vaccine candidates by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech International Ltd — Covaxin — and Cadila Health — ZyCovD — are currently undergoing Phase-2 clinical trials in the country, said Dr VK Paul, chairman of the Covid-19 empowered group looking after vaccines, on Tuesday.“By early November, we should get to know the Phase-2 trial results for both the vaccine candidates,” said Paul, during the health ministry’s weekly briefing on Covid-19.Bharat Biotech’s inactivated whole virus candidate vaccine (BBV152) for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is developed using the virus isolate provided by ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune.The characterisation of the vaccine candidate has been undertaken at ICMR-NIV.The Phase-3 trial results of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate, which Serum Institute of India (SII) will be manufacturing for them in India, will also be known either by November end or early December this year.“Serum is conducting Phase-3 trials as part of international trials in India, and the progress is on track. Results are expected by November or early December,” said Paul.The Union government, meanwhile, is making arrangements for procurement, storage and distribution of the vaccine, as and when it is ready for use.“We have a main expert committee for vaccines, and there are also multiple sub-committees that have been formed to look at various aspects and stages of vaccine procurement and distribution. They are currently into mapping cold storage facilities both in the government and private sector,” said Rajesh Bhushan, health secretary, Government of India.While three vaccine candidates are in advance stages of testing in India, according to the department of biotechnology and department of science and technology, at least 30 vaccine candidates have been supported by the government that are currently in different stages of development.Responding to a question on extending financial support to vaccine manufacturers, Bhushan said through the department of biotechnology, the government is providing direct financial assistance to designated vaccine manufacturers to assist in research and development activities, which currently include pre-clinical trials, and in the future, may be extended for clinical trials also.Experts, however, stressed that social factors such as hand hygiene and wearing masks will remain crucial even if a vaccine is mass produced.“While it is good to have a vaccine but we must realise that no vaccine has 100% efficacy, especially the ones meant to prevent from respiratory illnesses. The flu vaccine that is available currently is also has the efficacy of about 50%, which is why it is important to observe Covid-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing a mask, maintaining hand hygiene and observing physical distancing,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-phase-2-vaccine-trial-results-by-early-nov/story-1kHNln1z8yJ6wDgtXdP0zK.html
14-10-2020||India||Delhiwale: Dreams of a tea stall lady||At 55, Parvati’s life is as hectic as it was 16 years ago, when she and her husband set up her tea stall, here by the roadside in Gurugram’s Civil Lines.“I have always been busy,” she says over a cup of chai, during a lull in the afternoon. Parvati is in her stall, beside the counter, her husband is sitting on a bench. The stall is protected from the sun by an awning of canvas, the surface of which is speckled with shadows of tree leaves. Parvati shows the sight through the phone screen that connects her to this reporter via WhatsApp video.Everyday Parvati gets up at 5am. “So does my husband,” she notes. They live nearby, in what she calls a jhuggi. “We built it together... it has a roof of cement and walls of brick.” It is a single room dwelling. “We have a TV, a cooler, but we don’t have a bed... we spend money wisely.” At night the couple sleeps on a dhurrie they spread out on the floor. “Sometimes, during the rains, snakes enter.”Parvati is not scared of them; her village in West Bengal’s Murshidabad is thickly green and snakes are common there. Her husband grew up in the same village “and I remember we used to play together as children... but our marriage was arranged by our parents.”The couple raised their four daughters in Gurugram. Since the time the last of them left the nest, Parvati does all the cooking by herself. “While I prepare lunch in the morning, my husband goes out to get chai and fen from a stall… That’s our breakfast.”They open their stall at 8am. Parvati sits by the counter, often listening to songs on the radio, “or I think of my daughters... they all are married and live with their families in Bengal.”Parvati and her husband set aside ₹40,000 for visiting their daughters last April. “We hadn’t met the girls for more than a year... but coronavirus arrived, trains stopped running and we finished half of that amount during the lockdown, while out of business.” The other crisis that followed was the loss of the mobile phone “without which it was impossible to talk to children.” They had to spend another ₹5,000 on getting a new phone.The tea stall reopened after the lockdown and “we manage to save about ₹300 everyday.”They shut down the stall by 5pm. At home, while her husband watches serials on TV, Parvati cooks dinner. “We are Bengalis, we daily eat fish and rice (she laughs), except for Tuesday when we have only (vegetarian) subzi.”Lights are switched off by 10pm. “I’ve grown old, but I continue to have dreams,” confesses Parvati. “I want my husband to remain healthy and I want to visit our daughters as soon as coronavirus gets over and all trains start to run.”She now poses for a portrait, with her husband holding the mobile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-dreams-of-a-tea-stall-lady/story-zdCm8OXA0CN66AnhLJcvGJ.html
14-10-2020||India||Hathras case: Not satisfied with govt version on cremation, says high court||Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to forcibly cremate a Dalit gang rape victim in the middle of the night was a violation of human rights and reasons given by the Hathras district administration to deny her family a chance to conduct her last rites were not satisfactory, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has said.The observation was part of an order — made public on Tuesday — by the division bench of justices Pankaj Mithal and Rajan Roy who recorded statements of the victim’s family and government officials on Monday. In the order, the judges said district magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar could not satisfy them about the observance of last rites. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was cremated against her family’s wishes at 2.30am on September 30. “We do not at this stage find any good reason on behalf of the administration (Hathras) as to why they could not hand over the body to the family members for some time, say for even half an hour, to enable them to perform their rituals at home and thereafter to cremate it either in the night or next day,” said the court. The judges said they will focus on two things: Possible violation of rights of the victim and her family, and larger issues involved in the context of such rights. “This action of the state authorities, though in the name of law and order situation, is prima facie an infringement upon the human rights of the victim and her family,” the court observed. The court also found the decision to cremate the victim was taken at the local level.Human rights In the order, the court focused on the rights of last rites and traditional rituals accorded to the kin of the deceased. “Sensitivities of the people, which the Constitution recognizes as fundamental rights such as a right to decent burial/cremation as per traditions and customs followed by the family, have to be respected,” said the court. ‘Ganga jal’ In court, the mother of the victim broke down while saying she was not allowed to see her daughter’s face. The victim’s brother and aunt said the authorities acted in a high-handed manner. Laxkar said an effort was made to give the incident a political colour and the cremation was done at night for law-and-order considerations. He claimed the victim’s father consented to the cremation and it was done with full honour. “A proper pyre was laid. In the cremation, the kerosene was not used and probably, the cans which may be appearing in some of the videos were those carrying Ganges Water (Ganga Jal),” he told the court, as per the order.Rape chargeThe court also took up the controversy surrounding the gang rape of the victim. Additional director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar and others had cited the forensic report — which found no presence of semen — to deny that the victim was raped.The court asked Kumar if it was proper for anyone not directly connected with the investigation to comment on any evidence relating to the offence. “We also asked him as to whether he was aware of the amendments in law relating to definition of rape w.e.f 2013 and that mere absence of semen during forensic examination, though a factor for consideration, would not by itself be conclusive as to whether rape had been committed or not, if there are other admissible evidence. He said that he was aware of the same,” the order said.Transfer of officialsAwanish Kumar Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home), told the court that the state made no effort to hush the incident up and was willing to cooperate. But the court took note of suspension of Vikrant Vir, who was Hathras superintendent of police. The judges asked Awasthi why only Vir was suspended while the district magistrate — who ordered the cremation — was allowed to continue. “He could not give any satisfactory reply in this regard, as to why the two officers had been treated differently. We then asked him as to whether, it is proper and/or fair to allow the district magistrate to continue at Hathras in the facts of the present case specially as the investigation and these proceedings relating to the very incident in which he had a role to play, are pending. Sri Awasthi stated that the Government will look into this aspect of the matter and take a decision,” the order read.The court has summoned Vir for the next hearing.Interim order In its order, the court directed the following: ask Awasthi to come out with a draft policy so that proper guidelines may be laid to avoid incidents of this kind in future, ensure the safety and security of the victim’s kin, inquiry or investigation be kept confidential, bar any officer not directly connected with the investigation from making any statement in public, and request the media and political parties to not disturb social harmony or infringe upon the rights of the victim’s family and that of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-not-satisfied-with-govt-version-on-cremation-says-high-court/story-ZcqLGecc4rX2L9PPeQpMLN.html
14-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Johnson & Johnson has paused the trial of its vaccine candidate for the coronavirus after an unexplained illness in one of the participants, although it wasn’t immediately clear whether the person was part of the test (or experimental group) which receives the shot, or the control group which doesn’t (people in this group usually receive a placebo).The news was broken by Stat News, which also broke the news of the pause in the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine trial back in September.What now?The Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), an independent panel comprising at least three external experts who have no financial links with either the study or the company conducting it — it is considered good practice to, apart from medical experts, have someone who specialises in the ethics of medical trials, and a person who understands data, as part of this board — will now have to look at the case, and decide what to do next. In any trial, the DSMB is responsible for the safety of participants.Stat News, citing J&J, made the distinction between a pause and a hold. “J&J emphasised... the difference between a study pause and a clinical hold, which is a formal regulatory action that can last much longer. The vaccine study is not currently under a clinical hold. J&J said that while it normally communicates clinical holds to the public, it does not usually inform the public of study pauses.”The AstraZeneca study restarted a few days after it was paused.Such pauses, and even holds, are common in the vaccine development process. But this isn’t just any ordinary vaccine. It is a vaccine for the coronavirus disease, which has infected 38 million and killed almost 1.1 million people around the world since the beginning of the year. There are 8.35 million active cases of Covid-19 as this column is being written, and at the current fatality rate of closed cases, at least 300,000 of them can be expected to succumb to the viral disease. All of this has made the process of finding a vaccine for Covid-19 a very public one, with unprecedented attention being paid to every small development. Most newsrooms, including Hindustan Times, have a vaccine tracker (both – a piece of content, and a very real person keeping an eye on all vaccines). HT’s for instance, shows that there are 29 vaccine candidates in early or Phase 1 trials, another 14 in Phase 2 trials, and 11 in large Phase 3 trials. It also shows that five have been approved for emergency, limited, or early use. The J&J vaccine was in a Phase 3 trial involving 60,000 participants.Interestingly, most companies, including J&J, have released to the public extensive details of their clinical testing protocol — another unprecedented move in the history of vaccine development. J&J is also one of nine companies whose CEOs have signed a pledge to ensure they will “uphold the integrity of the scientific process as they work towards potential global regulatory filings and approvals” — a promise that came amidst fears that the political establishment in several countries could arm-twist companies into rushing vaccines into the market or for regulatory approval before their safety was established beyond doubt (and in vaccines, safety is even more important than efficacy).J&J was matter-of-fact about the pause, as it should be. “Adverse effects — illnesses, accidents, etc — even those that are serious, are an expected part of any clinical study, especially large studies,” it said in a statement. It is likely that the company will release more information about the patient’s illness over the next few days.J&J’s is a so-called vector vaccine, which means it uses a viral vector — in its case a modified virus that causes cold — to carry genetic material from Sars-CoV-2 into the human body so as to engineer an immune response. The company’s vaccine candidate seemed to have an edge over others — the viral vector being used is the same used in the company’s already approved Ebola vaccine — and also came with some advantages over the others: it needs refrigeration, not freezing; and it is a single-shot vaccine unlike many of the other candidates which are double shots.Still, the pause is a good sign — it means that due process is being followed. As it should be.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-FohVo4BTe9faOWAmL5jXaJ.html
14-10-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti released after 14 months in detention||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti was released on Tuesday, more than 14 months after being detained along with several other top leaders of the state hours ahead of the Centre’s move to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in 2019.Mufti, who became the first woman chief minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir in 2016, was detained along with other former CMs Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah and other regional leaders as the Centre moved to bifurcate the state into two Union Territories and effectively scrap Article 370 on August 5.“After more than a year of detention, our party president Mehbooba Mufti released today,” said Najmu Saqib, PDP spokesperson. J&K government spokesperson Rohit Kansal earlier announced the decision about the release on Twitter. Mufti’s party said that she was likely to address a press conference on Friday. The deputy commissioner ordered that Public Safety Act charges against her be revoked with immediate effect. Her detention period was extended for a period of three months on July 31 this year.The former CM was first detained from her official residence and lodged at Cheshmashahi huts. She was moved to a government building close to the MLA hostel, where other detainees were held, in November. In April this year, she was shifted to her official residence at Fairview on Gupkar Road.Mufti’s release came two weeks after the Supreme Court asked the Jammu and Kashmir administration if the former chief minister’s detention under PSA can be extended beyond a year and, if so, “how long do you propose to extend it?” The bench fixed the next date of hearing on Thursday. Iltija Mufti, Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter who has been handling her mother’s Twitter handle since the detention, expressed her gratitude to those who supported her. “As Ms Mufti’s illegal detention finally comes to an end, Id like to thank everybody who supported me in these tough times. I owe a debt of gratitude to you all. This is Iltija signing off. May allah protect you,” she wrote.Iltija Mufti moved the Supreme Court in September, seeking to modify her petition challenging her mother’s continued detention under the Public Safety Act (PSA from February 5 and two subsequent extensions).Mufti was initially put under preventive detention under Section 107 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and then just before her detention was to expire in February 2020, the government invoked the Public Safety Act on February 5. This law empowers authorities to hold any person from three months to two years without any trial.The administration extended her detention by three months on July 31, 2020, even as it released People’s Conference chief Sajjad Gani Lone.Nearly all of Kashmir’s mainstream political leaders were detained hours before the central government nullified Article 370 of the Constitution, which accorded special status to the region, and bifurcated the state into two Union Territories – Jammu and Kashmir with a legislature and Ladakh without one.Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah, two other former chief ministers, were released on March 13 and March 24, 2020 respectively after their detentions. Mufti’s released on Tuesday was widely welcomed.“I’m pleased to hear that MehboobaMufti Sahiba has been released after more than a year in detention. Her continued detention was a travesty & was against the basic tenets of democracy. Welcome out Mehbooba,” NC vice-president Omar Abdullah said on Twitter.Peoples’ Conference chairman Sajad Lone said: “MehboobaMufti has apparently been released. Great news. She has been through a very tough time. Wishing her all the best.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-released-after-14-months-in-detention/story-Ht1GSTCOnlUQ7EGy7CBX2L.html
14-10-2020||India||AQI enters red zone, all eyes on farm fires||Delhi residents woke up to a hazy Tuesday morning as the air quality index (AQI) slipped to “very poor” for the first time this season amid increased farm fires in Punjab and Haryana, and local factors such as low wind speed and accumulating pollutants, sparking widespread calls for pre-emptive measures against a crisis that has become routine as winter approaches.According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) recordings, Delhi’s average 24-hour air quality index (AQI) at 4pm settled at 300 — in the “poor” zone. However, until 2pm, the hourly AQI average was well above 300. An AQI between 0 and 50 is classified “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. Nasa’s satellite imagery showed a large cluster of fires near Amritsar and Firozpur in Punjab and Patiala, Ambala and Kaithal in Haryana. Experts said relief is not on the horizon and the situation will likely become worse in the coming days.“In Delhi, the development of strong surface level inversion and sudden local calm surface wind conditions led to a low ventilation coefficient and accumulation of pollutants near the surface… AQI is likely in the very poor to poor category for the next two days. An increase in stubble burning fires observed yesterday around Punjab, Haryana, and neighbouring border regions with SAFAR synergized fire count estimated as 675 on 12th October but, the transport wind direction is not favourable and hence only marginal stubble contribution in PM2.5 is expected,” the Centre-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said. This means that the wind speeds were not strong enough to facilitate the dispersion of pollution particles accumulated near the surface, leading to a spike in levels. On Tuesday, the prominent pollutant in most of the monitoring stations in Delhi was PM10 (particulate matter with diameter lower than 10 micrometres), which is primarily dust.At 7am, Delhi’s hourly average AQI was 298, and it progressively slipped to reach 306 at 10am and then deteriorated further to reach 318 by noon. At 5pm, several stations such as Shadipur, ITO, Mathura Road, Pusa, Nehru Nagar, Dwarka Sector-8, Ashok Vihar, Jahangirpuri, Rohini, Mundka and Bawana continued to remain in the red zone. The average PM10 level rose from 252ug/m3 at 7am to 300ug/m3 at 1pm, before it finally started reducing marginally to reach 293.2ug/m3 at 5pm.As pollution levels rose, both the chief minister and deputy chief minister spoke up about the issue of stubble burning, which has been a political flashpoint between Delhi and neighbouring Punjab and Haryana.CM Arvind Kejriwal said state governments should stop blaming each other and work together to find a solution to the issue of stubble burning. He said that while farmers of neighbouring states and people of Delhi were bearing the brunt of stubble burning, “governments have shut their eyes”. “State governments should stop blaming each other. We have to work together to find a solution to the issue… All agencies and governments need to take it seriously now,” he told reporters in Hiranki village in Narela, where the spraying of Pusa bio-decomposer solution started on Tuesday. The solution, experts say, can turn the stubble into manure in 15 to 20 days and, therefore, can result in the reduction of stubble burning.Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, meanwhile, appealed to the Centre to play a “crucial role” in controlling pollution in north India and curb stubble burning.The period between mid-October and Diwali is considered critical in the battle against air pollution because while smoke from farm fires in nearby states drifts into the National Capital Region, the use of firecrackers on the day of the festival exacerbates the micropollutants. The air also becomes still and heavy with the weather turning cold, creating a toxic mix in an environment already polluted by emissions from vehicles, road and construction dust, and industrial emissions.Pollution levels usually remain in the severe category in this period, with the AQI varying between 300 and 500. The level of PM2.5 and PM10 particles reaches at least five to six times above the safe limits of 60μg/m3 and 100μg/m3. PM2.5 are ultrafine particles which stick deep inside the lungs and take the heaviest toll on human health.“Pollution, especially the smoke from stubble burning, is not Delhi’s problem alone. It is an issue that is affecting entire north India. We (Delhi government) have been working throughout the year to control pollution levels in Delhi but unfortunately, the central government did not do anything to resolve the issue of farm fires. They sat idly for the entire year,” Sisodia said. “We say it again and again that it is not just Delhi which is affected by pollution but whole of north India,” he said. “Pollution plus corona has become lethal for people. Pollution, especially that related to stubble burning, is not an issue for Delhi alone, it is for entire north India,” Sisodia said.He also took a dig at the pollution monitoring body, Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, or Epca, accusing them of not overseeing the coordinating among other states to control the farm fires.Following Sisodia’s remark, a spokesperson of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change said: “Central government believes in working to end pollution. The central government has taken various anti-air pollution initiatives in the last six years. To control stubble burning, machines for stubble cutting worth ₹1,400 crore has been provided to Punjab and Haryana farmers, which has resulted in a reduction of about 15% and 20% pollution from stubble burning, respectively.” Bhure Lal, Epca chairperson, said that the monitoring body has been in touch with the state governments of Punjab and Haryana for nearly a month since the first signs of early burnings were spotted through satellite imagery. A senior scientist at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that Delhi on Tuesday received easterly winds with a speed of 6-8kmph. “Around afternoon, for some time, the wind speed improved a little because of which the air quality managed to remain in the poor zone and not slip to the very poor zone. The situation will be similar on Wednesday and Thursday; there is no significant improvement. From October 16, we are expecting that the air quality will start improving,” the scientist said. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy) at the Centre for Science and Environment, said that this is the third year of Delhi with the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), which states clearly the role of all agencies when the pollution levels start deteriorating. “The action taken by the agencies round the year will now determine the winter pollution levels. The action taken now is only going to be like firefighting. The emergency action at this time of the year will not give us very visible results. Delhi has done quite a lot but a lot more needs to be done,” Roychowdhury said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aqi-enters-red-zone-all-eyes-on-farm-fires/story-Bq7zpyORHUvA80qKCuoRhK.html
14-10-2020||India||Door still open for states, says govt on GST dues row||The Union government is willing to engage with dissenting states that have not accepted either of the options offered to make up for the gap in GST compensation, a top finance ministry functionary said on a day the Centre permitted 20 states to borrow ₹68,825 crore from the market to bridge the shortfall, and the finance ministers of some of the dissenting states indicated that they would go to the Supreme Court or demand an independent dispute resolution mechanism.The finance ministry functionary, who asked not to be named, added that while the government will discuss any workable proposal the nine states bring at the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council with an open mind, it cannot stop 22 other states from borrowing from the market against their future compensation cess dues. Maharashtra has already secured the Union finance ministry’s approval for a loan of ₹15,394 crore. Thus far, including Maharashtra, 20 states have been granted clearance to borrow, an official statement said. Two more of the dissenting states have also indicated their willingness to borrow, a finance ministry official with direct knowledge of the matter said on condition of anonymity. But Kerala finance minister Thomas Issac said the Centre cannot postpone the payment of compensation indefinitely, and should take the loan to pay the states, as per its statutory obligation. The minister said he is in touch with his counterparts and they can move the Supreme Court if the Centre forces states to borrow from a special window facilitated by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).The controversy surrounds a GST compensation shortfall of ₹2.35 lakh crore. In August, the Centre gave two options to the states — borrow ₹97,000 crore from a special window facilitated by the central bank or ₹2.35 lakh from the market. It also proposed extending the compensation cess on luxury and sin goods to repay the borrowing. At a subsequent meeting of the GST Council, the amount in the first option was raised to ₹1.1 lakh crore. The states have enough headroom to borrow, the finance ministry official said: “Only five months are left [in the financial year], but none of them have crossed even the 3% [of gross state domestic product (GSDP)] limit despite the fact that they can borrow up to 5% of their [GSDP]. Their borrowing is fully protected as both principal and interests are repaid through compensation cess that will continue till their debt obligations are fully met.” Thus far, the 20 states that have chosen Option 1 are: Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Sikkim, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand.A minister from one of the dissenting states said on condition of anonymity that a consensus would be “ideal”. “The FM [Nirmala Sitharaman] is also willing to discuss the matter, which is the best way as legal option is not always prudent.” The Union finance minister is the chairperson of the apex federal body, GST Council. Finance ministers of states are its members and conventionally they strive to take decisions on the basis of a consensus. Jharkhnad finance minister Rameshwar Oran, too, said he was hopeful of consensus emerging in the GST Council on the issue. Isaac was more critical, though: “What it (the Centre) is doing is nothing but betrayal. If payment of compensation is delayed further we will take legal recourse after talking to other states.” Telangana finance minister T Harish Rao said it was unfortunate that “for the first time, the Centre has taken a unilateral decision without considering the views of states”. “We lodged our serious protest with finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman,” Rao said. “Whether we should take to legal recourse or there is any other option to get more funds from the Centre would be decided after the high-level meeting with the chief minister.” Chhattisgarh finance minister TS Singh Deo said it is sad that the Centre wants to abandon the states during this stressful economic time by not taking up the responsibility of taking the loan which is fully protected by the extended GST cess collected beyond June 2022. Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said that he suggested setting up a group of ministers to resolve the dispute between the states and the Centre arising out of recommendation of the GST council, but there was no response to his suggestion. “We are close to causing irreparable damage to One-Nation-One-Tax concept that is the soul of the (GST) law,” he added. Delhi deputy chief minister, Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, said the central government owes ₹16,000 crore as GST compensation to the Delhi government and has not paid this money leading to the government struggling to pay salaries even to our teachers and doctors. “The central government should be largehearted and help us. But, is only giving excuses and finding ways to stop allocation of funds to Delhi.” West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra, who has been the biggest critic of the Centre’s two options, said the Centre should respect cooperative federalism using its “brute” majority and said all options are available to them, including taking legal recourse. On Tuesday, Mitra briefed chief minister Mamata Banerjee about the meeting and the Trinamool Congress, in a statement, said the CM will take decision on next course of action.Pratik Jain, partner and leader, Indirect Tax, at PwC India, said: “It’s clear that Centre now wants to focus on option 1 only and nudge the remaining States to take a view in the matter. One would hope that GST council will resolve the issue with consensus over the next few days, though possibility of this going to court cannot be ruled out.” Sunil Kumar, DGM at tax consultancy firm Taxmann, said: “As consensus has not been achieved on the issue, the go-ahead given to 20 States to borrow money under option 1 may impact persuasively on the future functioning of the GST Council.”(State bureaus and PTI contributed to this report)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/door-still-open-for-states-says-govt-on-gst-dues-row/story-zBcQhBeqd6LWilKptLXDBJ.html
14-10-2020||India||60 per cent of rural India can’t afford nutritious diets||The cost of a recommended diet (CoRD) in India in 2011 (the most recent year for which expenditure and consumption data is available) was ₹45.1 and ₹51.3 for women and men, according to a paper published this month in the Food Policy journal — numbers that, according to the paper’s authors, Kalyani Raghunathan, an economist at the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), and others were almost 1.6 times the commonly used World Bank poverty line of $1.9 a day in Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) terms.Worse still, according to the paper, in real terms, CoRD increased more than 3.5 times for both men and women between 2001 and 2011. To be sure, real earnings increased at a faster pace, especially for men, during this period.The paper highlights an important fact: freedom from poverty, even food security — the way in which it is defined by the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) — do not guarantee nutrition security. As a result, while India achieved a rapid reduction in poverty in the 2000s, a majority of its rural population was unable to afford nutritional diets and nutritional poverty was significantly higher in India than what is captured by commonly used poverty measures.Also read: To get health right, India must focus on nutritionFor its calculation of a nutritionally adequate diet in rural India, the paper used the definition used by the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN).Nutrition insecurity significantly higher than poverty Only 22.5% Indians were poor, if one were to take the World Bank’s $1.9 per day poverty line in PPP terms, in 2011. This share was 24.8% in rural India. The share of Indian population considered food insecure by the FAO in 2011-12 was even lower, just 16.3%. The FAO measure essentially looks at calorie adequacy and therefore does not take into account other nutritional requirements. However, 63.3% of people in rural India could not afford what the paper describes as the Cost of a Recommended Diet (CoRD). This share increases to 76.2% if one were to assume that a third of their spending would go on non-food items.  Milk, vegetables are the key burden on nutritious diet budgets, not cereals NIN has laid out dietary guidelines which specify the required intake of food items under the broad categories of cereals, proteins (pulses, meat, fish and eggs), dairy, fruits, vegetables, dark green leafy vegetables and oil and fats. The paper has estimated CoRD by looking at the cost of the cheapest food items in each of these groups across India’s 380 rural districts, calculating the price of the nutritionally adequate food basket and then checking its affordability with expected earnings of men and women. The authors estimate CoRD to be Rs 45.1 and Rs 51.3 for women and men in 2011. The paper also gives a break up (by cost) of a nutritionally adequate diet and almost half of the cost is on account of dairy products and vegetables. The composition of CoRD, when compared with the weights in rural Consumer Price Index (CPI) food basket shows that the latter overestimates the importance of cereals and proteins at the cost of dairy products, fruits and vegetables. Another interesting finding of the paper is that not only have food prices increased between 2001 and 2011, which is expected, but so has their volatility.  Also read | Covid-19: Nearly 60 million of India’s poor most vulnerable, says Oxford study Monsoon worsens nutritional insecurity in India A key metric which the paper tracks is the ratio of CoRD and wage earnings, which is a good measure of affordability of nutritious diets. Affordability of nutritious diets worsens as the ratio becomes higher. The authors find that nutritional insecurity peaks in the country during the monsoon months, and is the highest in July. This is driven by an increase in CoRD, which seems to be a result of sharp rise in vegetable prices. Wages are mostly constant throughout the year, the paper finds.  Economic Survey’s Thalinomics does not capture nutritional inadequacy in India While the authors list out limitations to their findings such as validity of data used, difficulties of accounting for consumer preferences in calculating CoRD, non-food expenditure, impact of government schemes etc. they express confidence that the central conclusions continue to be robust. They also find issues with the Thalinomics discussion in this year’s Economic Survey, which concluded that affordability of vegetarian thalis improved 29% from 2006-07 to 2019-20 while that for non-vegetarian thalis improved by 18%. The Economic Survey’s methodology excluded dairy, fruits and dark green leafy vegetables, often the most expensive food items, the authors note. They also find an issue with industrial wages being used to compare affordability while nutritional insecurity is the biggest problem among unskilled workers. Because India does not have a consumption survey after 2011-12, estimates of nutritional insecurity cannot be calculated after this period. However, given the fact that the economy has been in a prolonged slowdown even before the pandmeic and rural wage growth has been weak, the situation could have worsened, Raghunathan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-per-cent-of-rural-india-can-t-afford-nutritious-diets/story-DR4GAYIgwkrFwxwFj1Q2sI.html
14-10-2020||India||Odisha’s new Lokayukta rules that protect identity of officials sparks row||In a move that has evoked protests from activists; the Odisha government has asked the office of Lokayukta, the quasi-judicial anti-corruption authority to protect the identity of any public servant against whom a complaint is lodged till the conclusion of the investigation.The General Administration department of the Odisha government which notified the Odisha Lokayukta (procedure of filing of complaint) Rules, 2020 this month has made it clear that while processing a complaint, the Lokayukta has to protect the identity of the public servant against whom a complaint is being lodged till the conclusion of the inquiry.However, the rules say that the complainant himself can reveal his identity to any other office or authority while making a complaint to the Lokayukta.The government also empowered the Lokayukta to dispose of a complaint where the contents of the complaint are illegible, vague, ambiguous, trivial or frivolous. “If the Lokayukta is satisfied that there exists a case for an inquiry against the public servant including any person or institution, notice will be served on such public servant, person or institution calling for explanation in 45 days,” the rules said.The new rules drew protests from anti-corruption activists of the state who alleged that the rules have been formed to protect the IAS officers some of whom are currently facing probe by Lokayukta. Former member of Transparency International India’s board, Biswajit Mohanty wondered how the Lokayukta Act can override the RTI Act. “Once the name of a public official is disclosed under the RTI Act, how can the office of Lokayukta keep the name under wraps? While instituting vigilance cases against officials, the government also discloses the names of the official before completing investigation. In that case the government should not disclose the name of any corrupt official till investigation is over. Now nobody will know who is being investigated,” Mohanty said.Prominent RTI activist Pradip Pradhan too questioned the framing of the rules saying it was meant to protect certain officials against whom cases were lodged before the Lokayukta over alleged irregularities in purchase of PPE kit. “It’s no secret why the rules were framed after we lodged cases with Lokayukta against a few IAS officials alleging a scam in procurement of masks and PPE kits for Covid-19 warriors. What is the problem in disclosing the identity of the person against whom an allegation has been made,” asked Pradhan. He said the rules will be challenged in the High Court.Pradhan also said that the new rules would make it difficult for a common man to lodge a complaint as one has to file a notarized affidavit as per a given format. “To get a notarized affidavit, one has to go to court and spend few hundred Rupees. The state government could have asked the complainant to give a self declaration instead of self-affidavit thing,” he said.However, former president of Orissa High Court Bar Association, Surya Mishra said the rules protecting the identity of the official seemed to be a reasonable one. “The rule says it’s not absolute bar. It’s a temporary protection because prima facie a person who holds power or position should not be identified to be guilty before he is found as such. I think it’s a reasonable protection which can be given though under criminal law no such protection is given to anyone,” Mishra said.As per the new rules, a complaint to the Lokayukta can be made electronically, by post or in person. But if the complaint is filed electronically, then the hard copy needs to be submitted to the Lokayukta within a period of15 days from the date of filing.Odisha, last year commissioned its first Lokayukta under the Odisha Lokayukta Act, 2014 with the appointment of a former judge of the Gauhati High Court as its chairperson and 3 others as members.Recently, the office of Lokayukta had suggested to the Naveen Patnaik government to bring the directorate of vigilance under its control to enhance the trust and credibility of its office. Though set up a little more than a year ago, the office of the Lokayukta is yet to have an investigation agency of its own and currently has to entrust the investigation to other agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-new-lokayukta-rules-that-protect-identity-of-officials-sparks-row/story-TfHguEraYjUfVSRkP0dW0K.html
14-10-2020||India||Assam man arrested for raping 14-year-old daughter for last two years||The police in Assam’s Guwahati have arrested a 41-year-old man on charges of raping his 14-year-old daughter for the past two years. According to the police, the incident came to light on Monday after the girl’s mother lodged a complaint with the Geetanagar police station accusing her husband of sexually assaulting the teenager. “The girl’s mother is in the process of seeking divorce from her husband and stays separately. The victim stays with her father and other relatives,” said Dipul Boro, officer-in-charge of Geetanagar police station. “According to the complaint, the accused has been assaulting his daughter for the past two years. The intensity of the attacks increased in the past few months. The girl, who was having irregular menstruation, first told one of her aunts about the assaults who in turn informed the mother,” he added. Based on the complaint, the accused was arrested on Monday. He is stated to have admitted to the crime. The accused was produced in a city court on Tuesday and remanded to 14 days judicial custody. The police have lodged a case of rape under provisions of IPC and the POCSO Act and are conducting further examination. A medical examination of the girl has been conducted and its report is awaited. According to a report released by the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) released last month, Assam recorded the highest rate of crimes against women in 2019 at 117.8 per lakh population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-man-arrested-for-raping-14-year-old-daughter-for-last-two-years/story-NU57sRlsOm94iOHPEpz1uM.html
14-10-2020||India||With spike in Covid-19 cases, BSF begins awareness campaign in Tripura’s border areas||With a spurt in Covid-19 cases, the Border Security Force (BSF) has undertaken an awareness campaign about the disease among people living in the bordering areas of Tripura in order to contain spread of the disease. A BSF official, on condition of anonymity, said that they are creating awareness about the importance of wearing facemasks, maintaining social distance and washing hands regularly.“Since the lockdown period, we have distributed free ration along with facemasks, medicines and other related items to people living in the bordering areas. This is a continuous process. Besides distribution, we have now started to make people realize how they can avoid being infected by the disease through maintaining Covid-19 protocols,” said the official.“ ..BSF personnel at HQ Salbagan #Agartala took #Pledge to create awareness for containing #Coronavirus spread through appropriate #Behaviour of #COVID19 Protocols..,” BSF Tripura tweeted recently.Tripura shares 856 kilometer long international border with neighbouring Bangladesh. The state recorded a total of 28,461 Covid-19 cases, as per the latest health report, and among them, over 300 BSF personnel including few women and children from their camps tested positive with the virus since May. At present, nearly 35 are yet to recover. There is no fatality among the BSF.“Besides telling people about Covid-19 protocols, we have even given examples of some Covid-19 patients among the BSF battalions including children who have recovered after following these protocols,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-spike-in-covid-19-cases-bsf-begins-awareness-campaign-in-tripura-s-border-areas/story-tW6dFCNUugObyrCYkX23zN.html
14-10-2020||India||Karnataka BJP gives ticket to Congress defector Munirathna for RR Nagar assembly by-poll||After days of suspense, the Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday finally gave the party ticket to Munirathna for the R R Nagar assembly by-poll in Karnataka and to another party newbie Rajesh Gowda for the Sira assembly seat.Munirathna, a film producer turned politician had defected from the Congress and helped topple the Congress-JDS coalition government in Karnataka helping BJP to come to power. The saffron party decided to give the ticket to Munirathna after the Supreme Court dismissed a 2018 petition, on Tuesday afternoon, by the then defeated BJP candidate Tulasi Muniraju Gowda.The BJP candidate had accused Munirathna of electoral irregularities and sought that his election be squashed. There was also resentment within the local BJP- RSS workers on giving a ticket to the Congress defector. But with the Supreme Court clearing his earlier victory, the path was cleared for Munirathna.In Sira, the other assembly seat which is facing by-polls due to the death of incumbent JDS MLA B Satyanarayana - due to Covid-19, BJP has given the ticket to Rajesh Gowda who joined the party only 10 days ago. Rajesh Gowda’s father is a Congress stalwart C P Mudalagiryappa who has thrice been elected to Lok Sabha.While Congress has nominated former minister T B Jayachandra as its candidate from Sira, it has given the RR Nagar ticket to H Kusuma the daughter of former JDS leader Hanumantharayappa. JDS meanwhile has fielded Ammajamma the widow of Satyanarayana as its candidate in Sira and is yet to announce its nominee for RR Nagar.The last day of nominations is on October 16 and voting will be held on November 3 with results being declared on November 10. Though the outcome of the by-polls is unlikely to affect the ruling party - as BJP with 117 members in the 225 member assembly enjoys a clear majority - all the three parties are taking this as a prestige battle.For the ruling BJP which has never won either seat it would be an opportunity to expand its base, for the Congress under new KPCC chief D K Shivakumar it is an opportunity to prove a point that it can win again in the state. JDS is fighting to retain relevance in state politics as a key third player.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bjp-gives-ticket-to-congress-defector-munirathna-for-rr-nagar-assembly-by-poll/story-NIxQLh2d5kyZx7luoaoggL.html
14-10-2020||India||NSCN (IM) reaffirms flag and constitution demand for Naga peace deal||The National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) on Tuesday strongly reiterated that it would not accept any kind of piecemeal solution short of Naga national flag and Yehzabo (constitution).“We have stood our ground on these two non-negotiable issues and we shall continue to stand till the last man standing,” said NSCN (I-M) chairman Q Tuccu in a statement. Stating that the Naga people cannot be lured into accepting “highly attractive economic packages at the expense of our exalted position with sovereign rights”, Tuccu asserted that the Nagas have to prove their worth by upholding their flag and Yehzabo.“Our joint struggle, with Naga people from all walks of life including civil societies, churches, bureaucrats, politicians etc., for over seven decades is to live in dignity. Peace should be given a new meaning. It is now or never,” he stated.Appreciating the contributions of the Naga people towards the Naga cause, the NSCN (IM) leader urged all to give their concerted efforts till their rightful destination is reached.The NSCN (I-M) and the Government of India are engaged in political negotiations for more than 20 years to resolve the Indo-Naga political issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nscn-im-reaffirms-flag-and-constitution-demand-for-naga-peace-deal/story-vBQD3P0pVss0120QwfXVfK.html
14-10-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape case: Petition filed in Supreme Court||A group of women and queer persons from marginalised communities moved the Supreme Court on Tuesday, seeking to be a part of the top court’s proceedings in the Hathras gang rape and murder case and asking the top court to issue directions to secure the right of the 19-year-old victim’s family.The petitions – filed by 11 members of Dalit, Bahujan, Adivasi and Vimukta (denotified tribes) communities --- requested the top court to issue directions to transfer all cases in the matter from Uttar Pradesh to a special court in Delhi to ensure fair trial, set up an SC-monitored special investigation team, restrain the authorities from conducting polygraph tests on the victim’s family and relatives, secure their rights and strictly implement the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities Act)The petition may be heard on Thursday.“The applicants herein are women, and queer persons who are activists, academics and journalists belonging to Dalit- Bahujan Adivasi- Vimukta (DBAV) communities. They collectively possess field experience and analytical data which and above all personal struggles that provide insights into caste- based atrocities faced by Dalits especially the Dalit women and limitations to speedy and fair access to the criminal justice system to Dalit girls and women in India,” read the petition.Last week, a three-judge bench of the apex court heard a public interest litigation seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe and observed that the gang rape and murder in Hathras district was a horrible and extraordinary incident. The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, directed the state government to place on record the steps taken to ensure protection of witnesses. The top court also asked the state to ascertain whether the family engaged a lawyer and sought details of the scope of proceedings relating to the incident before the Allahabad high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-petition-filed-in-top-court/story-tSTEDKEGiMAgPJZxLazlhI.html
14-10-2020||India||Azam Khan, family get bail in fake birth certificate case||The Allahabad high court on Tuesday granted bail to Samajwadi Party MP from Rampur Azam Khan, his wife Tazeen Fatma and son Abdullah Azam Khan in a case related to them obtaining a fake birth certificate for Abdullah.Abdullah Azam Khan and his mother may be released immediately, but Azam Khan will only be released after the trial court record records a statement by the complainant in the case, said the court.Justice Siddharth passed the order on a bail applications filed by Azam Khan, his wife and son. The three had surrendered in February before a Rampur court after their bail applications in connection with the case related to the alleged fake birth certificate of Abdullah were rejected.Last year, a first information report (FIR) was lodged by a person identified as Akash Saxena at the Ganj police station of Rampur, alleging that Azam Khan and Tazeen Fatima had got two birth certificates issued from two places— one dated January 28, 2012, from Nagar Palika Parishad, Rampur, and a second dated April 21, 2015, from Nagar Nigam, Lucknow -- relating to the birth of their son.According to the bail applicants, the offence of obtaining a fake birth certificate would not go beyond the purview of Section 23 of the Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969, which provides that any information given for the purpose of being inserted in a register of births and deaths, which is known or believed by the person giving such information to be false, shall be punished with fine that may extend to Rs 50.The state government opposed the bail application on grounds that the fake birth certificate was used by Abdullah Azam Khan to contest state elections, that his parents had helped him in obtaining the document, and if released on bail, may influence witnesses in the case.In another case, the Allahabad high court on Tuesday granted bail to Abdullah Azam Khan and his mother for allegedly getting allotment of state land by cheating. The property was allotted to them in March 2014 after their bid of Rs 1,200 per month was found to be the highest.Justice Siddharth allowed the bail application of Abdullah and her mother and directed the trial court to decide the case soon, preferably within a year.The counsel for the petitioners argued that Fatma took the property on rent on the presumption that the property belonged to the Zila Sahkari Vikas Sangh, Rampur, and was not aware of the fact that it belonged to the district administration.“Even if it is accepted that the property belonging to the state has been let out by Zila Sahkari Vikas Sangh, Rampur to the applicant illegally, then the termination of tenancy was the only remedy,” argued the counsel.The state government counsel argued that Azam Khan, who was then a minister of the state government, used government machinery to create forged documents for extending undue gains to his wife and son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/azam-family-get-bail-in-fake-birth-certificate-case/story-7tcAkiBc6AU1Wa0aIWednM.html
14-10-2020||India||Students who missed JEE due to Covid-19 to get a chance in 2021||Students who failed to appear for the Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced), JEE (Advanced), for admission to top engineering schools this year because of Covid-19 restrictions will be allowed to take the exam directly next year without having to pass the qualifying test, the Joint Admission Board (JAB) of the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) decided on Tuesday.The board took the decision at an emergency meeting held virtually. To address the concerns of JEE candidates who failed to appear in the exam after registering for it, they will be allowed to take JEE (Advanced) in 2021 without having to take and pass JEE (Main), IIT-Delhi said in a statement.Around 9, 000 students who had registered for JEE (Advanced), but did not appear for it will benefit from the decision, a one-time measure.This relaxation of existing eligibility criteria will be in addition to a proportionate relaxation of the age bar.The JAB decided that these candidates would be considered in addition to and not as part of the total number of candidates who would qualify from JEE (Main) 2021 for appearing in JEE (Advanced) 2021.On October 5, the results of the JEE (Advanced) were declared.A total 150,838 candidates appeared in both papers 1 and 2 in JEE (Advanced) 2020. Of these. 43,204 candidates qualified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/students-who-missed-jee-due-to-covid-to-get-a-chance-in-2021/story-ndHRViKJwotNsm502uDaoO.html
14-10-2020||India||NIA charges 8 accused with Maoist conspiracy||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has laid out damning charges of Maoist conspiracy, receiving funds and recruiting cadre for left-wing extremist groups and inculcating sympathies among university students, against prominent activists and academics arrested in connection with the 2018 Bhima Koregaon caste clashes.The NIA claimed Delhi University professor Hany Babu Musaliyarveetil Tharayil, charge-sheeted last week along with seven other people in the case, inculcated sympathies for Maoists among students in Delhi, especially Dalit students. In a 10,000-page charge sheet – filed last week and reviewed by HT on Tuesday – the agency said Babu had with him documents pertaining to “mass mobility, analysis of cities like Mumbai, Surat from political, geological, socio-economical, religious profile as if done to see the potential of making inroads for Maoists”. Some documents mentioned methods for mastering of secret works, instructions of central committee of Maoists on work required to be done in urban areas; guidelines for work in working classes, finances, information literature related to a weapon, bomb, mortar as well as company drill of PLGA (People’s Liberation Guerilla Army), the charge sheet said. He was also in touch with a secretary – Paikhomba Meitei - of a Manipur-based banned outfit Kangleipak Communist Party- Military Council (KCP-MC), NIA adds Asserting that Babu was an active member of CPI (Maoist), the charge sheet added that he organised an event for the release of Delhi University professor GN Saibaba under the banner of ‘committee for the defence and release of G N Saibaba’. Saibaba is currently in jail on charges of alleged Maoist links. Babu’s wife, Jenny Rowena, denied the allegations.“I don’t think he even knows about any of these things. It’s good that they have filed a charge sheet because now we can fight the charges in the court of law. As far as his role in G N Saibaba committee is concerned, it’s in public domain. And the documents which they took away this year, they were always there. Why didn’t they take the same earlier? If there was something secret in documents recovered from him, wouldn’t we have destroyed it?” Last Friday, the NIA filed the charge sheet against eight persons. They are: academics Anand Teltumbde and Hany Babul; activist Gautam Navlakha; activist Father Stan Swamy; three members of Leftist cultural group Kabir Kala Manch - Jyoti Raghoba Jagtap, Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor; and secretary of Maharashtra State Committee of the CPI (Maoist) Milind Teltumbde, who is said to be on the run. The case pertains to the violence that broke out in the village of Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018 during a celebration of a British-era war by Dalits, and left one person dead. The NIA has claimed that event held on December 31, 2017 in Pune called the Elgaar Parishad was used by Maoists to plan and fuel the violence. In all, 16 people have been arrested in connection with the case.On 83-year-old activist Father Stan Swamy, arrested last week, the charge sheet said he received Rs 8 lakh from an individual identified as “Comrade Mohan” for spreading the activities of CPI (Maoist). Several documents recovered from his place, which are part of charge sheet, allegedly included “an underground handbook, letter between cadres for using encryption, mini-manual of urban guerilla, the constitution of CPI Maoist, documents related to the status of PLGA in excel sheet, document on strategy and tactics”. In one of the letters seized from him, it is allegedly stated that Maoists were keeping an eye on the strategy of the Union home ministry pertaining to operations against them. According to NIA, this letter suggested that after the arrest of Telugu poet Varavara Rao (in November 2018 in connection with the same case) – referred to as ‘VV’ in the letter -- Maoists’ Central Committee felt they had no leader of equal experience, a situation that could lead to further splintering among the cadre, especially those working at an all-India level. “If we don’t take immediate measures, the new comrades who wish to join the party may become skeptical of our sincerity and ability to fight the fascist political powers in India,” the letter allegedly recovered from Swamy read. This letter is now part of the charge sheet. Another letter allegedly recovered from Swamy – dated July 2017 and written in Telugu, according to NIA -- forms the basis of the Elgar Parishad programme on December 31 that year as it talked about organising an event under the leadership of activist Sudhir Dhawale --- who is also behind bars -- to further the agenda of CPI (Maoist). Ranchi-based food rights activist Siraj Dutta said, “Father Stan Swamy has been working for the rights of Adivasis for decades. It’s all to harass him.” On the role of Navlakha, the NIA charge sheet said that his job was “to unite the intellectuals against the government” in urban areas to defeat it both physically and otherwise”.“Navlakha participated in fact finding committee (for Maoists’ work in urban areas); assigned task for recruitment of cadres for the guerilla activities of CPI (Maoist) and knew about the young activists in Delhi, Mumbai and Chhattisgarh who were ready to join and serve the Maoist revolution”, the charge sheet said. NIA said Navlakha allegedly visited Dandakaranya – a densely forested area in Bastar in Chhattisgarh that is largely controlled by Maoists - with Swedish author Jan Myrdal, known for his Marxist-Leninist ideology.Yug Chaudhry, Navlakha’s lawyer, denied the charges. “Yes, he has gone to the jungle for academic purposes. He has met the Maoists and written a book about Naxalism. It’s not a crime to study Naxalism.” As first reported by HT in July, the NIA charge sheet also mentioned that Navlakha met a senior official of the Pakistani spy agency ISI, through Ghulam Nabi Fai, a US-based Pakistan-bankrolled Kashmiri separatist who was arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in 2011. From Navlakha, the NIA allegedly recovered strategic documents of Maoists, critical secret communications with underground senior leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-charges-8-accused-with-maoist-conspiracy/story-L1uvtzTRSeZlduW9Lm3DnK.html
14-10-2020||India||Pakistan PM’s adviser says India has sent a message with ‘desire for conversation’||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s adviser on national security issues has contended that India has indicated a desire for talks even as he set several conditions for a dialogue, including the rollback of several changes made in Jammu and Kashmir. Moeed Yusuf, special assistant to Khan on national security and strategic policy planning, said India has sent a message to Pakistan with “a desire for conversation” but refused to give details. Among the conditions set by Yusuf for a dialogue with India is release of political prisoners in Jammu and Kashmir, making Kashmiris a party to talks, ending restrictions in the region, rescinding the domicile law that allows non-Kashmiris to settle in the region, and stopping alleged human rights abuses. He also said the changes in Jammu and Kashmir are “not an internal matter”, and are “a matter for the UN”. Yusuf made the remarks in an interview with journalist Karan Thapar for the news portal The Wire, the first by a Pakistani official since India scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August 2019 and split it into two union territories. Yusuf said the two sides “must sit down like adults” for talks and contended the two key issues are Kashmir and terror. “I want to talk about both,” he said, adding that Pakistan “stands for peace and we want to move forward”. There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Yusuf’s comments. It is extremely rare for Pakistani officials to talk on foreign policy issues such as relations with India without getting the go-ahead from the military establishment, which plays a key role in guiding ties with the US and India. Yusuf is considered to be close to the security establishment. Last month, Yusuf had created a flutter after he joined a virtual meeting of national security advisers of member states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) with a map that inaccurately depicted the borders of India and Pakistan. India’s NSA Ajit Doval walked out of the meeting in protest and the matter did now go down well with Russia, which hosted the meeting. On the issue of Kulbhushan Jadhav, the former Indian Navy officer sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court for alleged involvement in spying, Yusuf contended there was evidence linking him to subversive activities. On the matter of India asking that Jadhav be represented by an Indian lawyer or a Queen’s Counsel to file an appeal against his death sentence, Yusuf said there is no law to allow an Indian lawyer to argue a case in a Pakistani court. He also refused to accept that Pakistan has denied India unimpeded and unconditional consular access to Jadhav. Asked about Pakistan’s repeated refusal to act against terrorists who target India from Pakistani soil and the failure to prosecute the seven men accused of involvement in the 2008 Mumbai attacks, Yusuf blamed India for “deliberately delaying sending evidence and witnesses” for the trial so that it can keep the issue alive and use it to run down Pakistan in front of the world community. Speaking about Prime Minister Khan’s silence on the persecution of Uyghurs in China’s Xinjiang region while accusing India of “genocide” in Kashmir, Yusuf said this was “a false equivalence”. He said the Uyghurs were a “non-issue” as he was 100% satisfied that they were being treated properly by China. Yusuf also accused India of being involved in backing terror within Pakistan, and said the Indian embassy in Kabul had given $1 million to the Pakistani Taliban in 2019 to help the group merge with four other militant groups. However, he was unable to name all four groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-pm-s-adviser-says-india-has-sent-a-message-with-desire-for-conversation/story-FQr67HVg4KjHDrP0GjgtzM.html
14-10-2020||India||FAC to decide if coal mines can start mining before obtaining forest clearance||The Environment Ministry’s Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) is dealing with three contentious policy issues which could have far reaching impacts on forest management. One of them is whether coal mines involving both forest and non-forest land can start mining in the latter before obtaining a forest clearance.Two other policy issues that were discussed at the September 21 meeting are: if a zoo can be considered a “forestry activity” and the definition of “permanent structures” under eco-tourism facilities which will attract provisions of the forest conservation act.Also read: 680 projects in protected areas given wildlife clearance in 5 yearsThe FAC hasn’t taken a decision on these policy issues yet. “FAC considered the policy issues and decided that Forest Conservation division of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) may have some more deliberation on the issues involving concerned divisions of the ministry, after which same may be placed before FAC with appropriate recommendation for analysis and decision,” the minutes of the meeting state.“We don’t know what will be the impact of starting mining in non-forest land on the adjoining forest land. Personally, I think taking a general or blanket decision on all such coal mines is not recommended. It should be decided on a case by case basis depending on how much forest area is involved,” said a senior environment ministry official on condition of anonymity. He added that no decisions had been taken yet on whether a zoo can be considered a forestry activity and definition of permanent structures in forests. No permanent structures are allowed to be raised in forest areas under the forest conservation act.The process of auctioning 38 coal blocks is underway, out of which many mines involve large tracts of forest areas. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the auction of 41 mines for commercial mining on June 18. He had said the market for coal is open now and that the auction will help turn the Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity.But the list of 41 mines had suggested several of them are located in biodiversity rich forest areas in central India, including a few in one of the largest contiguous stretches of dense forests called Hasdeo Arand spanning 170,000 ha. Following opposition from Chhattisgarh government, the ministry of mines had agreed in August that it will exclude five mines in Hasdeo Arand region from the auction.The description of mines up for auction on MSTC website shows several do not have required forest clearance and are in the midst of protected forests. There are several coal blocks in biodiversity rich forest land in Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh that are still up for auction. For example, Chakla block has 55% forest cover and acts as drainage for major rivers like Damodar and Bakri. Jharkhand’s Choritand Tilaya also has forests in 50% of the area; Seregarha block is 40% forest. Madhya Pradesh’s Gotitoria East coal block is 80% forest and acts as drainage for Sitarewa river.“Any change in the procedure for forest clearances, including that of prior approvals will require a legal amendment through the Parliament. The FAC is only an advisory body. However, the bigger concern this throws up is that such a possibility is even being considered. Initiating mining operations without ascertaining impacts, viability and ensuring recognition of existing rights is not just legally flawed but does not have social or environmental legitimacy,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fac-to-decide-if-coal-mines-can-start-mining-before-obtaining-forest-clearance/story-VAcCNL5RHzyfynhEdXxlyO.html
