15-10-2020||India||Deaths climb to 14 in Ujjain hooch tragedy; Shivraj Chouhan orders SIT probe||Death toll in the illicit hooch tragedy that took place in Ujjain district, 190 Kms west of Bhopal, went up to 14 on Thursday with seven more bodies recovered from certain localities in the town, prompting chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to order a probe by a special investigation team (SIT) and superintendent of police of the district to suspend four police personnel, said police and state government communique. The deceased, most of whom were labourers and some beggars, were found in different localities of the city in the past 36 hours since Wednesday morning. Police found a common link in most of the deaths - consumption of ‘potali’ or ‘ginger liquor’ as called in the local market. Two of the victims who died during treatment on Wednesday evening told the police that they had purchased it from Kaharwadi area in Ujjain, according to police. Eight of the deceased who were identified are: Shankarlal, 40, a resident of Piploda Bagla village; Vijay alias Krishna, 45, from Nagda town; Babloo Yadav, 40, from Dani gate locality; Badrilal, 65, from Chhatri Chowk Sarai; Dinesh Joshi, 45, from Ankpat area; Peer Shah, 45, from Begum Bagh locality; and Ratan Malviya from Jharda village, all in Ujjain district, and Rakesh, a resident of Harda district. The police personnel suspended include Kharakuan police station in charge ML Meena, sub-inspector Niranjan Sharma and constables Sheikh Anwar and Nawaz Sharif for not taking action against sale of illicit hooch in their area, said a press release from superintendent of police, Ujjain Manoj Singh. Police booked three persons in connection with the crime under sections 328 (Causing hurt by means of poison, etc, with intent to commit an offence), 304 (Culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 34 (Act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 49-A (Penalty for import etc. of liquor unfit for human consumption or for altering or attempting to alter denatured spirituous preparation) of Madhya Pradesh Excise Act, according to police. Confirming recovery of 14 dead bodies in the past two days Ujjain’s inspector general (IG) of police Rakesh Gupta said, “Ten of the deaths are linked with illicit hooch. We will be able to comment on the remaining deaths only after receiving the post-mortem reports.” He said, “During the investigation, police found that the accused had been making intoxicant named ‘potali’ by using methanol (methyl alcohol) in a multilevel parking of Ujjain Municipal Corporation (UMC) in the Chhatri Chowk area for the past one month. They are the prime accused in the case as all the deceased were reportedly consumed the Potali made by them. Police are trying to nab them.” City superintendent of police (CSP) Rajnish Kashyap said, “Of the three accused booked - Yunus, Sikandar and Gabbar - all residents of Ujjain, Yunus was arrested from Indore while a manhunt has been launched to arrest the two others. Also, in a joint drive with administration more than 550 litres of illicit liquor was seized and FIRs were lodged against 71 persons in the district.” He said, “The post-mortem reports concerning many of the deceased received so far stated ‘suspected toxic poisoning’. Those unidentified so far are elderly people and said to be beggars. ” “In a joint operation with police, district administration sealed a shop where a spirit- methanol- was found in a large quantity in Chhatri Bazar area. The joint team of police and administration conducted raids at more than six other places, where Potali was being made illegally by people,” said Asheesh Kumar, collector Ujjain. (With input from Anand Nigam in Ujjain)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deaths-climb-to-14-in-ujjain-hooch-tragedy-shivraj-chouhan-orders-sit-probe/story-QTs0n7hjK1JvzYQwU51HOM.html
15-10-2020||India||Asan Conservation Reserve becomes Uttarakhand’s first Ramsar site||Asan Conservation Reserve has become Uttarakhand’s first Ramsar site, making it a ‘Wetland of International Importance’, announced the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. The Reserve is located on the banks of Yamuna river near Dehradun district in Garhwal region of the Himalayan state. “Ramsar declares Asan Conservation Reserve as a site of international importance. With this, the number of Ramsar sites in India goes up to 38, the highest in South Asia and Uttarakhand gets its first Ramsar site,” tweeted the environment ministry.Manju Pandey, joint secretary in the environment ministry, also confirmed the development and said that Asan Conservation Reserve has become Uttarakhand’s first Ramsar site. “Asan Conservation Reserve cleared five out of the nine criteria needed to be declared as a Ramsar site and get identified as a Wetland of International Importance,” said Pandey. It cleared the category on species and ecological communities, one on water-birds and another on fish. Deep Chandra Arya, divisional forest officer (DFO) of Chakrata forest division, which is home to Asan Conservation Reserve, said, “The certificate was given on July 21, 2020 by the Secretary General, Convention on Wetlands but it was officially announced by the union environment ministry on Thursday as certain queries had been pending and were being fulfilled.” “Asan is home to many rare and endangered species like the Ruddy Shelduck, Red Crested Pochard, among others. Many endangered birds are found here and some even migrate to the Reserve, making it an ecologically important site,” added Arya. Ramsar Convention on Wetlands is an intergovernmental treaty adopted on February 2, 1971 in the Iranian city of Ramsar, on the southern shore of the Caspian Sea. The name of the Convention is usually written “Convention on Wetlands’’. The Convention on Wetlands came into force for India on February 1, 1982. Those wetlands which are of international importance are declared as Ramsar sites. Spread across 4.44 sq km area in Dehradun district on the banks of Yamuna river, Asan receives about 40 migratory species, including Rudy Shelduck, Common coot, Gadwall, Kingfisher, Indian cormorant, Baer’s pochard, Northern pintail, Bar-headed goose. The criteria cleared by Asan Conservation Reserve to get Ramsar site tag include that it supports vulnerable, endangered, or critically endangered species, it supports populations of plant and/or animal species important for maintaining the biological diversity, it supports plant and/or animal species at a critical stage in their life cycles and it is an important source of food for fishes, spawning ground, nursery and/or migration path on which fish stocks, either within the wetland or elsewhere, depend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asan-conservation-reserve-becomes-uttarakhand-s-first-ramsar-site/story-cDnNE6eCzPYTLvbGr3zk7N.html
15-10-2020||India||Cop, brother of Assam Chief Secy arrested in police recruitment scam||A senior police officer who is suspected to have played a key role in the Assam Police job recruitment scam was arrested on Thursday, police said. Kumar Sanjit Krishna, who was serving as the superintendent of police (SP) of Karimganj district till his transfer on Sunday, was arrested by the criminal investigation department (CID). “Kumar Sanjit Krishna has been arrested by CID today (Thursday) evening in connection with CID PS case no 21/2020. He would be produced in competent court tomorrow (Friday),” said a brief statement issued by Assam Police. Krishna, who was transferred as SP of foreigners’ regional registration office (FRRO) in Barpeta district, is the younger brother of Assam’s chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna. Police officials were questioning Krishna and few of his close associates since Monday, but he suddenly disappeared from his official residence in Guwahati on Tuesday night only to resurface on Thursday. The written exam to select 597 sub-inspectors (SI) to Assam Police was cancelled on September 20 after the question paper was leaked. The exam will now be held on November 22. Police officials had conducted searches at Krishna’s residences in Guwahati and Silchar on Wednesday and reportedly unearthed several incriminating documents. The police officer is reported to have clicked photos of the question paper prior to the exam and gave them to other accused in the scam. On Tuesday, chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna had written on social media that the law would take its course and his name should not be dragged in as his brother “is a mature, independent individual in a different profession”. The police have so far arrested over 50 people in connection with the case including a retired IPS officer PK Dutta and a ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Diban Deka (who has since been expelled from the party). Dutta and Deka are suspected to have fleeced many candidates for the SI post by assuring them jobs in lieu of cash. Deka is alleged to have procured the question paper ahead of the written test. Police have recovered nearly Rs 6 cr rupees, allegedly collected from candidates for posts of sub-inspectors by the accused, after conducting raids at several places in the past few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ips-officer-brother-of-assam-chief-secy-arrested-in-police-recruitment-scam/story-kHVWhwYeu3JPBJLv3vYpKI.html
15-10-2020||India||Delhi pollution: What AAP government has done so far in 2020||During the 2020 Delhi Assembly election Arvind Kejirwal-led Aam Aadmi Party promised two-third reduction in Delhi’s pollution. While the lockdown from March 25 to combat the spread of Covid-19 resulted in some marked difference in the capital city’s pollution level, after unlocking, the air quality started worsening and in the last two weeks, it hovered between ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ categories.Here is what the AAP government has done so far to handle the air pollution challenge through their campaign ‘Yuddh Pradhushan Ke Virudh’ (war against pollution):1. The Delhi government has launched a ‘Green War Room’ which will be the centre for collaboration of different agencies that will work together to tackle air pollution. 2. Arvind Kejriwal announced the launch of a mobile app called ‘Green Delhi’ in order to increase public participation and awareness. 3. Delhi Pollution Control Committee has banned electricity generator sets of all capacities (diesel, petrol, kerosene) from October 15, except for essential or emergency services. This comes under Graded Response Action Plan, a set of anti-pollution restrictions that include pre-emptive measures to stop the air quality from deteriorating to emergency levels.4. The Delhi government will also be coordinating with the neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab in order to ensure that alternatives to stubble burning are found.5. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is also focussing on increasing the green cover in Delhi with a plan called the ‘Tree Policy’, which will focus not only on preserving the existing tree cover but also on transplantation of new trees in order to increase the green cover. 6. To ensure strict adherence to the rules, the Delhi Government has decided to impose heavy fines on those who are found violating the anti-pollution guidelines.7. Okhla Phase II, Dwarka, Ashok Vihar, Bawana, Narela, Mundka, Punjabi Bagh, Wazirpur, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar, RK Puram and Jahangirpuri have been deemed as pollution hotspots by the Delhi government. 8. On Thursday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal launched a new anti-pollution campaign under which people will be encouraged to switch off the engines of their vehicles while waiting at traffic signals.People are advised to wear face masks as it helps to protects from Covid-19 and also reduces exposure to air pollution significantly. People must also avoid outdoor exercise during peak pollution hours and children and people aged over 60 must avoid venturing out. Patients with chronic lung diseases must take extra precautions during this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-pollution-what-aap-government-has-done-so-far-in-2020/story-xN38We42pO6sZZfDl0cnDL.html
15-10-2020||India||Need to focus on roadmap for solution of Naga political issue, says CM Neiphiu Rio||Nagaland’s oldest and largest rebel group, the NSCN (IM) which is also the dominant group in the peace talks recently reiterated that it would not accept any kind of piecemeal solution short of Naga national flag and Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-focus-on-roadmap-for-solution-of-naga-political-issue-says-cm-neiphiu-rio/story-2ItqI6RjdRDh3sWKnvDY3K.html
15-10-2020||India||Bihar polls: Mahagathbandhan releases its list of candidates for 243 seats. Check full list here||The grand alliance or Mahagathbandhan comprising Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and Left parties on Thursday declared candidates on all 243 assembly seats going to elections in Bihar. The alliance’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav is contesting from Raghopur assembly constituency. Actor-turned-politician Shatrughan Sinha’s son Luv Sinha is the Congress candidate from Bankipore.Sharad Yadav’s daughter Subhashini Yadav will contest as Congress candidate from Bihariganj seat. The RJD will contest 144 seats, Congress 70 and Left parties have been allotted 29 seats. Out of the Left Front’s share, the maximum was allotted to CPI-ML, which will field candidates on 19 seats. The CPI(M) and CPI will contest from 4 and 6 constituencies, respectively. Check full list here: Mahagathbandhan including RJD, Congress and left parties releases its list of candidates for all 243 Assembly seats in Bihar.#BiharElections pic.twitter.com/ljB7MuzZDpEarlier, Congress announced its second list of candidates for the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar. The list released on Thursday includes candidates for 49 assembly segments. In its first list, the Congress had covered 21 assembly segments. The elections for 243 Assembly seats will be held in three phases – for 71 seats on October 28, for 94 seats on November 3, and remaining 78 on November 7. The results will be announced on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-polls-mahagathbandhan-releases-its-list-of-candidates-for-243-seats-check-full-list-here/story-vUDuJI5ljKODFTyedfRxuO.html
15-10-2020||India||CBI questions family members of 4 accused in Hathras rape case||A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team on Thursday questioned the family members of the four accused in the Hathras gang rape case. For the questioning, the investigators visited the village of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who died in a Delhi hospital on September 29, a fortnight after she was allegedly gang- raped and brutalised in Hathras on September 14.On Thursday, tight police security was seen at the homes of the accused - identified as Sandeep, Ravi, Ramu and Luvkush - who are lodged in the Aligarh jail. The CBI team questioned the relatives of Luvkush Sikarwar for over three hours. Before heading for the victim’s village in Hathras, two CBI officials visited the Chandpa police station on Thursday morning. The family members of the accused declined to give any details to the media about the questions posed by the CBI to them.On Wednesday, the premier agency had questioned the victim’s father and two brothers for six hours. The questioning began at the CBI’s camp office in Hathras at 11 am and continued till 5 pm. Hathras sub-divisional magistrate Anjali Gangwar said, “The male members of the victim’s family were called to the camp office of CBI and were taken there under full security.” The agency’s camp office has been set up at the office of the deputy director (agriculture) in Hathras town.Earlier, Seema Pahuja, who is heading the CBI team, met the female members of the victim’s family on Tuesday. A 15-member CBI team had inspected the crime scene on Tuesday and called the victim’s brother there. The victim’s mother and aunt were also called to the spot later in the day. The CBI team also visited the site where the victim was cremated at 2.30 am on September 30 even as her family protested. The family had alleged that they could not even see their daughter’s face for the last time. The victim’s relatives have also requested the authorities to shift the four accused from the Aligarh jail to another prison far away. The sub-divisional magistrate responded by saying, “Such a decision can be taken at the government level, if a demand is made.”About Wednesday’s questioning, the victim’s brother told the news agency ANI, “They questioned my father, brother, and me separately. The accused should also be questioned. They asked us where we were during the incident and how we got to know about it.”Asked if he was satisfied with the CBI probe, he said: “Santusht tabhi honge jab yeh sab clear ho jayega (I will be satisfied once there is justice).”The victim’s father said the CBI team behaved well with him. “They give me time to rest during the questioning. They behaved well with us. They also provided me food,” he said.The 19-year-old Dalit woman had named the four accused before her death. The incident had sparked protests across the country.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-questions-family-members-of-4-accused-in-hathras-rape-case/story-YNxX8atV1evgkKJbzFlHiI.html
15-10-2020||India||Heavy rain claims 27 lives across western Maharashtra, Solapur worst-hit||Heavy rain claimed at least 27 lives in separate incidents in various parts of Western Maharashtra since Wednesday, an official from Divisional Commissionerate in Pune said on Thursday.Torrential rainfall in most parts of Western Maharashtra resulted in flood-like situations in many districts as dams and small reservoirs were filled to the brim. According to Pratap Jadhav, deputy divisional commissioner for Pune division, Solapur was one of the worst affected districts in the current spell of rain.“A total of 27 people have died due to rain-related incidents in Solapur, Sangli and Pune districts. Of these 27 casualties, 14 are from Solapur district, 9 from Sangli and 4 from Pune district,” said Jadhav.According to the administration, six of the 14 casualties in Solapur were due to a wall collapse on the banks of Chandrabhaga in temple town Pandharpur. The district received 138 mm rainfall on Wednesday forcing authorities to release 1.4 lakh cusecs of water by Thursday afternoon.“The rest of the casualties in Solapur were related to flood-like situations,” said Jadhav.He said that in Pune, four people died after getting swept away in a swollen stream in Daund tehsil, while one is still missing.He added that nine deaths in Sangli district are also related to rain-induced accidents.“As per the preliminary information, around 20,000 people have been shifted to safer places in Solapur, Sangli and Pune,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-claims-27-lives-across-western-maharashtra-solapur-worst-hit/story-UNMQwlJyvmM4RfaDZG0qKJ.html
15-10-2020||India||2 Trinamool leaders appear before Bengal CID in BJP leader’s murder probe||The outgoing chairman of Barrackpore municipality, Uttam Das, and his counterpart in Titagarh municipality, Prashanta Choudhury, appeared before the West Bengal Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on Thursday in connection with the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manish Shukla. The 39-year-old leader was gunned down on BT Road at Titagarh in North 24 Parganas district on the night of October 4. The two senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders were however not questioned. Their personal appearance was recorded at an office of the Barrackpore police and they left after 30 minutes. An officer aware of the development said on condition of anonymity that Das and Choudhury’s name were put in the First Information Report (FIR) on the basis of a complaint filed by the victim’s father Chandramani Shukla.The two TMC leaders had denied the allegation after the murder, saying the BJP’s Barrackpore Lok Sabha MP Arjun Singh accused them because they built up movements to stop the BJP from making further inroads in the district before the 2019 assembly election. “There was an internal squabble in the district BJP unit,” said Das. Dismissing this, Singh said, “Calling the two TMC leaders was an eyewash. The government is shielding the real killers of Shukla. Only a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) can reveal the truth.”Singh and Shukla both left the Trinamool and joined the BJP in 2018 and 2019, respectively. Singh made news by defeating TMC’s sitting MP Dinesh Trivedi in the Barrackpore Lok Sabha seat in 2019. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya also demanded a CBI probe on Thursday, alleging that the hitmen came from Bangladesh.“People involved in trans-border smuggling are directly involved in Shukla’s murder,” he said.The Barrackpore court on Thursday issued an order to produce Subodh Singh, a convict lodged at Nalanda Jail in Bihar. He is a prime suspect in this case. A few days ago, a CID team went to Bihar to interrogate him. It is suspected that though Singh is lodged in jail he made phone calls to the shooters. The CID team wanted to bring Singh to Kolkata for interrogation but the Bihar Police turned down the request. Singh is involved in dacoities and murders in several states, including Bengal. Last Thursday, the CID arrested Subodh Yadav, a resident of Barrackpore. This was the fourth arrest since early October 6. Three suspects, Muhammad Khurram, Sheikh Gulab and Muhammad Nasir Khan were arrested earlier. A day after the murder, the West Bengal Police said personal enmity could have led to the killing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-trinamool-leaders-appear-before-bengal-cid-in-bjp-leader-s-murder-probe/story-4PQAtNn5vAQTvY25eDEA2N.html
15-10-2020||India||India expected to have Covid-19 vaccine in next few months: Harsh Vardhan||India is expected to have a Covid-19 vaccine in a few months and the country should be in the process of delivering it to people in the next six months, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said.  He made the comments at the Annual General Meeting of Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) and St. John’s Ambulance. “We are very much into the vaccine development process...in the next few months at the most we should have a vaccine and in the next six months we should be in the process of delivering the vaccine to the people of India,” he said. Vardhan said to fight against Covid-19 the social vaccine of maintaining a distance of six feet should be followed, along with regular washing of hands and wearing of masks and face covers, especially in public places. “Maintaining a distance of six feet, regular washing of hands and wearing of masks/face covers, especially in public places can save lives along with livelihood, which has been the ultimate goal of government,” he said. He said this potent social vaccine can stop the disease and it also forms the foundation of the ‘Jan Andolan’ against Covid-19. Vardhan said IRCS, through its blood centres, has gone out of its way to ensure that there is no shortage of blood for the people in need. “Innovative ways of promotion of voluntary blood donation coupled with dedicated efforts of the staff, managers and volunteers have resulted into the 24/7 operations of blood services across the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-expected-to-have-covid-19-vaccine-in-next-few-months-harsh-vardhan/story-7gUvELbhEoyAcGbFTwZovJ.html
15-10-2020||India||BJP leader allegedly shoots man dead in presence of officials, Adityanath suspends SDM, cop||A man was shot dead, allegedly by a BJP leader, and six others were injured in firing and brick-batting during an open meeting convened for the allocation of two fair price shops in Ballia district of eastern Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, police said. A police officer said the incident took place in the presence of the sub divisional magistrate (SDM) and the circle officer in the panchayat bhavan at Durjanpur village under the Revati police station limits, about 150 km east of Varanasi.In a statement, the UP government said chief minister Adityanath has taken cognizance of the Ballia incident and directed that the SDM, CO and the police personnel on the spot be suspended immediately and the strictest action be taken against the accused. The role of the officers would be investigated and, if they were found responsible (for the incident), criminal proceedings would be initiated, the statement added.Superintendent of police (Ballia) Devendranath Dubey, said one Dheerendra Pratap Singh opened fire and the bullet hit Jaiprakash Pal. Pal was rushed to hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival. Dheerendra Pratap Singh was associated with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), locals claimed and a BJP leader confirmed it.Singh is the Ballia district unit president of the BJP’s Sainik Prakosht (servicemen’s cell), according to BJP MLA Surendra Singh, who represents Bairia constituency in Ballia. The BJP MLA described the incident as ‘a casualty’ and said the law will take its own course.An officer said the injured were admitted to the government hospital at Sonbarsa in Ballia. Heavy police force has been deployed in the village as a precautionary measure.Police said the meeting was held for the allocation of two fair price shops at Durjanpur and Hanumanganj villages. Two women self-help groups, Maa Shayar Jagdamba and Shivshakti Sahayata Samuh, had applied for the right to operate the shops. In the meeting, it was decided that voting will be held to determine the allocation of the shops.Police said SDM Suresh Kumar Pal and CO Chandrakesh Singh arranged for only people with Aadhaar or other valid identity cards to participate in the voting. But the meeting turned chaotic as even those without the ID cards insisted on voting. The meeting was then cancelled by the Bairia block development officer.Police said both the parties shouted slogans against the administration and one person opened fire.A case was registered against eight people by name and 25 others who were unidentified following a complaint by the deceased’s brother Chandrama Pal.The injured include Narendra Singh, 45, Aradhna Singh, 45, Dharmendra Singh, 40, Rajendra Singh, 45 and two others. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-allegedly-shoots-man-dead-in-presence-of-officials-adityanath-suspends-sdm-cop/story-szDZq9xvKEpX7LlS2tBUSN.html
15-10-2020||India||‘If agreements aren’t honoured...:’ Jaishankar explains stand-off with China||India on Thursday called on China to work for complete disengagement at friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) while rejecting Beijing’s contention that infrastructure development and troop deployments by New Delhi were the root causes of tensions at the border. The external affairs ministry dismissed China’s stance on not recognising Arunachal Pradesh state and the union territory of Ladakh, saying both regions are an integral part of India and Beijing has no locus standi to comment on such internal matters. The remarks by external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava reflected the stalemate in efforts to end the standoff in Ladakh sector, which has entered its sixth month, and the lack of progress in disengagement of troops at friction points after several rounds of diplomatic and military talks. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, participating in the Bloomberg India Economic Forum online, made it clear that New Delhi wasn’t to blame for the tensions. Acknowledging the gravity of the situation, he pointed out that India and China had built their relationship and expanded cooperation over the past 30 years “predicated on peace and tranquillity along the border”. “If that underlying peace and tranquillity is disturbed, if the agreements which the two sides signed are not honoured, then clearly that is the primary cause of the disruption,” Jaishankar said. He added: “If you disturb the foundation of this relationship, you cannot be impervious to the fact that it will have consequences...that problem...was not created on our side.” China’s foreign ministry had on Monday cited India’s infrastructure development and troop deployments as the root causes of tensions. It also said India should refrain from actions that could escalate the situation. But Srivastava said India was creating infrastructure that improved the lives of its people. “The government gives careful and specific attention to improvement of infrastructure for the development of border areas in order to facilitate economic development of these areas, as also to meet India’s strategic and security requirements,” he said. Peace and tranquillity can be restored by “scrupulously observing all relevant agreements” on border management, he added. Responding to China’s contention that it doesn’t recognise Arunachal Pradesh and the union territory of Ladakh, Srivastava said both regions are an integral and inalienable part of India. “China has no locus standi to comment on India’s internal matters. We hope that countries will not comment on India’s internal matters, as much as they expect the same of others,” he said. Srivastava described troop disengagement as a complex process requiring redeployments by each side towards their regular posts along the LAC, and indicated there would be more talks to take this process forward. “To achieve this, the two sides will maintain the current momentum of communications based on the guidance of our leadership to not turn differences into disputes and work towards a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement in all the friction areas along the LAC and restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas,” he said. Jaishankar also told the Bloomberg India Economic Forum that the talks between military commanders and diplomats were a “work in progress”. He said: “What is going on is something confidential between us and the Chinese and we will wait to see how this plays out.” A key issue was whether a rising China and a rising India could find equilibrium, and the situation on the border is an expression of “the inability to meet that challenge”, he said. Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash described the situation on the LAC as a battle of wits, with both sides waiting to see who would blink first. “The Chinese are playing chicken, since they staged a misadventure with the expectation of quickly fulfilling the objective of grabbing some land but were surprised by the Indian response,” he said. “They have hit the pause button after they realised it wasn’t going to be an easy ride. It is a battle of nerves as the Chinese have upped the psychological warfare. They are also watching other developments, such as the outcome of the US election,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-a-work-in-progress-s-jaishankar-on-india-china-border-row/story-clSMPBz4JKEdpCHK0xjtNJ.html
15-10-2020||India||NCB conducts pan-India drug raids, says ‘Mumbai major drugs destination’||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) conducted raids over the past few weeks against drug suppliers at several locations across India. During the pan-India drugs bust, Mumbai emerged as major destination for drugs, the agency said on Thursday.The anti-drugs agency conducted massive operations against drug traffickers on possible hideouts of the suppliers all across India after identifying their modus operandi and whereabouts. The NCB, in synchronised operations at Mumbai and its connections with rest of India, has made various seizures. The agency also made several arrests during the raids carried out across the country.During raids, contraband worth crores were seized by the NCB. In Mumbai alone, the anti-drugs agency seized 1kg of cocaine, over 29kg of MDA, 2kg of P.C.P (Phencyclidine), 70 gms of Mephedrone. The NCB also confiscated 70 gms of Mephedrone from Andheri West. Vasai and Palghar near Mumbai emerged as major hot-spots for drugs trafficking.One Nigerian national was also arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau in the case of distribution of drugs. Cocaine amounting to 4 gms, originated from a South American country, was recovered from him. The NCB suspects that the Nigerian national was delivering the drugs in Mumbai’s Pali Hill, Bandra, Andheri, Juhu and Khar areas. In a separate drug bust, the anti-drugs agency confiscated 56 kg of hashish from Jammu whose main receiver was arrested from Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-conducts-pan-india-drug-raids-says-mumbai-major-drugs-destination/story-VVMhK8QdDWJfLsMTD66yzI.html
15-10-2020||India||High test positivity rate continues to dog Kerala as Covid-19 cases mount||Kerala’s Covid-19 test positivity rate (TPR) rose to 15.53% on Thursday after 7,789 new cases were added to the pandemic’s tally, latest statistics released by the state health ministry show.The national TPR is 8.2% while Kerala’s is almost double of it. With 23 fatalities on Thursday, the death toll in the state went up to 1,089.Though fresh cases of Covid-19 are going up sharply the state’s mortality rate is lowest in the country at 0.34% against the national average of 1.6%, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan.“We have managed to contain the death rate considerably. That shows the strength of our health system. We are taking all steps to lower the caseload,” he said.The CM acknowledged that infection among children and elderly was really worrying. But he rejected reports that most of the hospitals were facing shortage of beds and ventilators. “Such ill-founded reports will only trigger panic. We are monitoring the situation well,” he said. With 7789 fresh cases, Kerala’s Covid-19 tally stood at 3,17,929 out of which 2,15,419 have recovered. There are now 94,517 active cases in the state. Two districts, Kozhikkode and Ernakulam have reported more than 1200 cases. The CM said Sabarimala hill temple will be opened for monthly pooja on Friday and strict curbs will be in force. He said devotees with Covid-negative certificate and in proper health condition will be allowed to trek to the hilltop. Since doctors have warned that masks will hinder proper breathing during steep trekking, Vijayan said masks will not be made mandatory but social distancing will be in force. Vijayan also said houseboats will also be allowed to operate from Sunday with restrictions. The tourism industry had taken a big hit during the lockdown and many operators said they need funding to bounce back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-test-positivity-rate-continues-to-dog-kerala-as-covid-19-cases-mount/story-Ex052grpWCJFt6JALuURPO.html
15-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Normalcy limps back to rain-battered Telangana and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rain-battered Telangana limps back to normal, KCR asks PM Modi for reliefAs rain-battered Telangana began returning to normal, the state government on Thursday announced that as many as 50 people, including 11 in Hyderabad, died in the last 48 hours and there was massive damage to properties and crops across the state. Read moreIndia, China engaged in ‘confidential’ talks to resolve border standoff, says JaishankarIndia and China are engaged in talks to resolve the border standoff and what is going on is “something confidential” between the two sides, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday. Read moreMilind Soman-Ankita Konwar enjoy a ‘delicious autumn’ in the US and these travel pictures are proofThere is something about the fiery autumn that rekindles passion and lovebirds Milind Soman and Ankita Konwar seem to be making the most of the season during their US vacation. Be it trekking the New Jersey hills or checking into the Met Museum and Empire State Building at New York, the duo’s travel diaries only leave us weak-knees with a yearn for a similar getaway and this mid-week was no different. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Not many understand the emotion’ - Virat Kohli after historic achievement in T20s for Royal Challengers BangaloreRoyal Challengers Bangalore captain Virat Kohli created history in the IPL 2020 match against Kings XI Punjab at Sharjah on Thursday. Kohli became the first cricketer to play 200 matches for a single team in T20 cricket. Read moreThe Trial of the Chicago 7 movie review: Aaron Sorkin’s stupendous Netflix film delivers 5 star entertainment, it’s timely and terrificFrighteningly relevant, featuring terrific performances and dialogue that you can dance to, Netflix’s The Trial of the Chicago 7 finds writer-director Aaron Sorkin in top form. Read moreHuman pretends to put dog on a diet. What he does next has people in splitsPeople these days are taking up different challenges involving their pets. Among them is one in which a human pretends to put their dog on a diet to see how they react. This person tried the challenge with their doggo and how it turned out has people laughing out loud. Read moreWatch: Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti at all-party meet in J&KNational Conference president Farooq Abdullah convened a meeting at his residence on Thursday for chalking out the future course of action on ‘Gupkar Declaration’ with regard to the special status of Jammu and Kashmir which was revoked by the Centre last year. Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, who was released from detention after 14 months on Tuesday, also attended the meeting. Earlier on Wednesday, Farooq and Omar visited Mufti’s residence post her release. The National Conference leaders went to check on the PDP chief who was released after 14 months. Farooq had invited Mehbooba Mufti for an all party meeting during his visit. Watch the full video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-normalcy-limps-back-to-rain-battered-telangana-and-all-the-latest-news/story-RJJ0txINlyZsB985G3GQOJ.html
15-10-2020||India||Back on fitness track!||two months after getting unlocked, gyms are now looking up...As the lockdown restrictions are getting eased, people are returning to old spaces including gyms, restaurants, cinema and more. Places themselves have not changed but today we are entirely norm-bound like never before. It has been two months since when gyms were allowed to operate but it’s only now that they have started looking up amid the new normal.Dev Yoga Studio’s is all set to reopen his training centre. “We are excited to be back in the real world now. Since months we taking online classes to help my trainees to stay fit and keep their immune system in shape. Though online classes took my studio across the world, I’m glad that we back. The gain out all this is a large number of people have realized the importance of exercising and keeping fit,” shared Dev Mani Tiwari.Many of these changes may remain for some time says Sajid Ahmed Qureshi, trainer and owner of Fusion Fitness. “Thermal screening, entry of limited number of people and regular sanitisation of equipment — these are some of the precautions that are being followed by us at our gyms since we have resumed operations. Life has changed drastically and we all in this business are reeling under financial crunch too. It will take another two months to get back on our feet. Also, many of our clients have fallen behind due to lack of practice now that’s another challenge for trainers.”A regular gym goer and fitness freak, Rajkumar Saini, “Gyms were closed and we were locked in our homes. I decided that I will not lose the kind of fitness I have attained in all these months so I did my best. But, after all these months, we required getting back on track and thankfully gyms are functional. I went back to my trainer and I’m glad that slowly all is getting back to normal.” With members now re-joining, Fitness Habit gym is expanding to maintain social distancing. “For now, we have stopped aerobics. We are adding a new floor where we will have aerobics, yoga and include cross-fit workouts. For now, we have staggered timings to maintain distancing besides other precautions. Also, we have extended the membership for closure period due to the lockdown,” said Sashwat Kesarwani. Only nine to ten people are being allowed for an hour. Clients have been asked to carry their own water bottle, towel, mask and gloves, shares, Mayank of Fit 7 Lucknow. “We as gym owners and trainers are literally on toes as everything is at stake for us. We have to save business and lives as well. I have acquired a sanitizing machine just to keep things virus free after each session be it aerobics, cardio or yoga. Also, for people at home I suggest to continue doing light breathing exercises and take homemade immunity boosters,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/back-on-fitness-track/story-f2o8MU9BUcbI1KeN8acUMP.html
15-10-2020||India||‘Struggle makes us value our journey…’||Actor Shagun Pandey feels his extensive travelling across the country in limited resources has helped him methodically carving his characters.“I was born to act and that’s the biggest reality of my life. I have done plays for my school, college and state government organisations. Whatever I am today, I have polished my craft with raw and practical learning because I never had that kind of finances to afford big acting colleges,” said the ‘Tujhse Hai Raabta,’ actor. Being an actor didn’t come easy for Shagun. “I believe struggle should be part of everybody’s journey. As, the amount of efforts we put to shape our lives the more we learn to value it. I remember those days when I had no money to even commute in and around Mumbai, had no permanent place to reside but I never gave up on my dreams. Work that came my way was demanding too! Then I got to play a character that was physically challenged in ‘Badho Bahu.’ Nobody was ready to take up that role but I took as a challenge and that character made me stand out for the makers.”The suave actor is currently seen in the daily ‘Shubhaarambh.’ “I’m seen portraying Mihir Doshi, who is in love with the female protagonist and I am very excited to be part of the show that has kept viewers engaged all this time,” said Shagun who was one of the finalists at the reality show ‘Splitsvilla-11’ and daily soap ‘Shaadi ke Siyape.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/struggle-makes-us-value-our-journey/story-hbMPwMDEVwvNMxzGYvsvBN.html
15-10-2020||India||10 accused in Kerala gold smuggling case get bail||A National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Kochi on Thursday granted bail to 10 accused in the Kerala gold smuggling but two of the main accused -Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair – will remain in jail.The multi-agency probe headed by the NIA had arrested 30 people in connection with the smuggling of 30 kg gold from a diplomatic consignment for the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.The Customs department which had seized the gold on July 5, had earlier invoked Cofeopsa (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act) against Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair to prevent their bail. An accused charged with Cofeposa can be kept in preventive custody up to a year. Cofeposa is usually invoked on habitual offenders who pose a threat to the country’s economy. The accused moved the court saying they were under custody for more than three months and they committed only an economic offence. But the NIA opposed their plea saying the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act was invoked against them. But the court said UAPA cannot be imposed on all accused and some of them were eligible for bail as they have completed 90 days in jail.Also read: Gold smuggling case suspect claims ‘vested interests’ seek his arrest, gets reprieve While opposing the bail plea on Wednesday, the NIA had told the court that it suspected that some of the accused were in touch with the gang of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim and they visited Tanzania several times where the he has a strong network. In Delhi, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan citied the NIA’s contention of a D Company link to the smuggling case and sought the resignation of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.“We want the CM to resign as everything happened right under his nose. His secretary was helping some of the accused. The main accused even said she visited the CM’s official residence several times. When his office is under investigation how can he continue in his office?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-accused-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-get-bail/story-2cvkL4zHZFqW2Orgh83jzJ.html
15-10-2020||India||Bengaluru riots: Congress leader seeks colleague’s suspension, Shivakumar denies||Congress legislator Akhanda Srinivas Murthy, whose house was burnt by a rioting mob in Bengaluru in August, on Thursday publicly demanded the suspension of his party colleague and former Bengaluru Mayor Sampath Raj, who has been named by the police as a key instigator of the violence. However, the state unit chief DK Shivakumar said that no such action would be taken.The Central Crime Branch of Bengaluru police, which is investigating the riots, had said in its interim chargesheet that riots was caused by internal rivalry in the Congress party and had named Sampath Raj, who is a sitting corporator, as well as Congress corporator Abdul Zakir apart from 58 others as some of the key players who instigated the violence.The riots in DJ Halli and KG Halli allegedly started after Murthy’s estranged nephew responded to a social media post viewed as offensive to Muslims. In the violence that followed, three people were killed and more than a hundred injured in the DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits on August 11 and 12.The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is also investigating the case, had questioned two Congress MLAs - Zameer Ahmed Khan and Rizwan Arshad - regarding the riots. DK Shivakumar said that the chargesheet by the Bengaluru police naming Congress corporators as key players was politically motivated and timed just ahead of the two bypolls scheduled in the state.Accusing the police of acting as puppets of the ruling BJP, Shivakumar said that there was an effort to defame the Congress party. “No Congressman was involved (in the riots). We will fight this out both politically and legally.”The ruling BJP has accused the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and the Congress of being behind the riots. Responding to a question on whether any action would be taken with regard to Murthy’s demand for suspension of Sampat Raj, Shivakumar said, “No. That maybe his (Murthy’s) political agenda, we are not going to suspend anyone.” On whether the party would stand behind Murthy, a Dalit MLA, Shivakumar said that “the party would stand behind all Congressmen”.Deputy CM Ashwath Narayan said this only showed the internecine strife within the Congress. “Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy himself has said that his political rivals within the party were trying to finish him off. The police and NIA are investigating the matter and truth will eventually come out,” said Narayan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-riots-congress-leader-seeks-colleague-s-suspension-shivakumar-denies/story-IDw1LajttjswU250Jh0DsM.html
15-10-2020||India||India, China engaged in ‘confidential’ talks to resolve border standoff, says Jaishankar||India and China are engaged in talks to resolve the border standoff and what is going on is “something confidential” between the two sides, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday. “Discussions are on; what is going on is something confidential between us and the Chinese,” the minister said as he was speaking at Bloomberg India Economic Forum. “There is not very much that I am in a position to say in public. I certainly do not want to prejudge it,” he added.India and China have finished the seventh round of talks between senior military commanders on October 12. Both sides have agreed to continue with the dialogue process to arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for early disengagement in eastern Ladakh, the two sides said in a joint press statement.“The two sides had a sincere, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in the western Sector of India-China border areas. They were of the view that these discussions were positive, constructive and had enhanced understanding of each other’s positions,” said the statement.On the situation in Tibet as well as developments along the LAC, Jaishankar said, “I do not think we should get into other issues which frankly has nothing to do with the situation currently in Ladakh.” He said relations between India and China improved following signing of a series of agreements since 1993 on maintaining peace and tranquillity along the border.“For the last 30 years, we have built a relationship predicated on peace and tranquillity along the border,” he said. Jaishankar said if peace and tranquillity is not ensured and the agreements signed are not honoured, then that is the “primary cause of disruption”. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-engaged-in-confidential-talks-to-resolve-border-standoff-says-jaishankar/story-ZvIxiCYQsEbIfTR3vvQEAI.html
15-10-2020||India||Rain-battered Telangana limps back to normal, KCR asks PM Modi for relief||As rain-battered Telangana began returning to normal, the state government on Thursday announced that as many as 50 people, including 11 in Hyderabad, died in the last 48 hours and there was massive damage to properties and crops across the state. Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao, who held a high-level meeting with the officials to review the situation, announced the payment of ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased. KCR, as the chief minister is known, also wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting that the Centre release an amount of Rs 1,350 crore for immediate rehabilitation and relief works in the areas ravaged by heavy rain and flash floods in the last two days. He declared that the tentative loss incurred by the state due to the unprecedented rains was to the tune of Rs 5,000 crore. “According to estimates, standing crops in 7.35 lakh acres were inundated in floods. Assuming that at least 50 per cent of these crops were completely damaged, the loss would be around Rs 2,000 crore,” he said. The officials told the chief minister at the review meeting that the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation received 31 cm of rain in a single day on Tuesday, which was the highest after 1916. “This has resulted in inundation of several areas in and around Hyderabad, especially those in the catchment areas of various tanks. In all, 20,540 houses in 144 colonies were under the grip of rain water, affecting 35,000 families,” the officials told KCR. While 14 houses were completely damaged, 65 houses suffered partial damages in Hyderabad, particularly in L B Nagar, Charminar, Secunderabad and Khairatabad zones. “There were heavy damages to city roads at 445 places and national highways at six locations. The GHMC has set up relief centres 72 places where more than one lakh people were provided shelter, food and drinking water,” the officials said. Apart from the GHMC areas, the rain and floods caused destruction in 30 towns across Telangana, inundating 238 colonies and disrupting connectivity to 150 places. As many as 127 irrigation tanks breached causing a loss of around Rs 50 crore to the irrigation department. Similarly, there was massive damage to the road network in the state. There were damages to 475 panchayat roads and 112 state roads. In all, there was a loss of Rs 295 crore to panchayat roads, Rs 184 crore to the state roads and Rs 11 crore to national highways, the officials told the chief minister. The chief minister instructed that relief and rehabilitation steps be taken on war-footing to provide succour to the affected people. He asked the officials to provide essential commodities and blankets to each affected family. He announced immediate release of Rs 5 crore to the GHMC to take up relief works. KCR said those who had lost houses completely in the flash floods would be sanctioned new houses and those whose houses were partially damaged would be extended financial assistance for their repair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-battered-telangana-returns-to-normal-kcr-asks-pm-modi-for-relief/story-WegYXgylDMVj0AJxQN18IL.html
15-10-2020||India||Schools in Punjab to open from October 19, number of students, class hours restricted||The Punjab government has decided to allow schools to reopen outside containment zones from October 19, Monday. Only students of classes 9 to 12 will be allowed to attend physical classes while online classes will continue as usual.After the Centre in its latest reopening guideline asked states to decided on a date of reopening schools, the Punjab government gave a go-ahead to reopen schools after seven months since they were shut in March when the nationwide lockdown was announced. It was decided that schools will open after October 15, but the date was not announced. Education minister Vijay Inder Singla has earlier said that once the SOP prepared by the department gets approval by the health department, the date will be announced.“In the first phase, schools will be opened for class 9 to 12. Students have to take written permission from their parents to attend the classes. If a student does not want to attend physical classes, he can continue online classes from their home. They will not be forced, they will have an option,” he added.Schools in Uttar Pradesh will also reopen from October 19. Classes will be held in shifts and all necessary protocols including social distancing and proper sanitisation of premises will have to be followed by schools, the state government announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-in-punjab-to-open-from-october-19-number-of-students-class-hours-restricted/story-7I2W6C5auUnGAqslNavQJJ.html
15-10-2020||India||SOPs issued for cultural events: Artistes, crew need Covid-negative certificate||The Culture Ministry on Thursday released a new set of guidelines for organising cultural programmes with adequate safety measures, making it mandatory for artistes and crew to furnish a valid Covid-negative test certificate, barring entry of visitors and patrons without masks and allowing seating on only 50% seats for the audience.The Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) are to be followed by the management of theatres and host institutions as well as the entertainment or creative agencies, artistes, crew or any other person who hire an auditorium or any other open/closed space for cultural events.The ministry in its release said digital no-contact transactions should be preferred to issue, verify, or pay for tickets, and contact details of all customers should be taken at the time of booking of tickets to facilitate contact-tracing. No cultural activity should be allowed in containment zones. “It is advisable for all external artistes and crew members, including those engaged in providing lighting, sound, make-up, costume etc. to present a valid COVID negative test result to relevant authorities at the host institution. The test should have been conducted within 7 days prior to the event. Management/creative agency may provide a mobile testing unit at the venue if feasible,” it said.The ministry added that it is advised to keep use of props to the minimal and avoid procurement of any new equipment than already designated in the premises. “Production houses must ensure that minimum crew visits the premises. It is advisable that trials and fittings related to costumes be done at the artist’s residence. Nuances such as look test may be shared over video,” it said.For viewers, the guidelines said, wearing masks is mandatory and physical distancing of at least 6 feet is to be followed at all times.For the organisers, the SOP included sanitization of venue before and after the event, availability of hand sanitizers, preferably in the touch-free mode, at entry and exit points as well as common areas within the premises.“Adequate dustbins must be provided at key points, with specially marked dustbins for proper disposal of masks, gloves or other equipment, especially those used by cleaning staff. vi. Respiratory etiquettes to be strictly followed. This involves strict practice of covering one’s mouth and nose while coughing/sneezing with a tissue/handkerchief/flexed elbow and disposing off used tissues properly. Self-monitoring of health by all and reporting any illness at the earliest to state and district helpline. Spitting shall be strictly prohibited,” the order stated.The SOP also said that no one will be allowed to enter the premises without wearing masks and advised all artistes to carry their own food to the venue.“Strictly no entry without a mask. Visitors, patrons and audience members must wear proper masks covering the nose and mouth at all times. Management should identify and check any visitors who flout this basic rule and in case of non-cooperation, they should ask the visitor /patron/audience member to leave the venue. Thermal screening of all visitors/staff must be carried out at all entry points. Only asymptomatic individuals shall be allowed to enter the premises,” it said.The SOPs also include guidelines for air-conditioning/cooling and stated that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30°C and relative humidity should be in the range of 40-70%.While the offices of cultural institutions are in operation, these SOPs are a go ahead for them to begin cultural events in their premises, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sops-issued-for-cultural-events-artistes-crew-need-covid-negative-certificate/story-DSD7e65PHM5cEksaGQfzFM.html
15-10-2020||India||Priest in Rajasthan’s Karauli who was set ablaze had bought petrol an hour earlier, say police||The Rajasthan police claimed on Thursday that the priest in Karauli district who died after being allegedly set ablaze, had purchased petrol in a plastic bottle from a fuel station in Sapotara town, an hour before he was attacked.However, the investigators are yet to reach any conclusion.In his dying declaration on October 8, the priest, Babulal Vaishnav, had told the police that five people poured petrol on him before setting him on fire. According to him, one of the accused wanted to grab 15-bigha land at Bukna village, which was the temple property.A police official on condition of anonymity said, “In the CCTV footage obtained from a petrol pump located in Sapotra town, which is about 4.5 km away from the (crime) spot, the 50-year-old victim is seen purchasing petrol in a plastic bottle at 9.15 am on the day of the incident.”After that the victim reached Karada Ki Dongri in Bukna village, where his house is located, he said. “However, this fact is not enough to prove who immolated the priest,” the official added.Another police official said, “We are yet to find any eyewitness in this case.”The victim, in his dying declaration, said that the accused - Kailash, Shankar, Namo, Kishan and Ramlakhan – poured petrol on him around 10 am on October 7 and set him on fire. A few unknown villagers had rushed towards him but he fell unconscious. When he opened his eyes, he was in hospital, the priest told the police.The police official said, “In our investigation one thing is clear that there is no caste conflict between communities. Some leaders, locals and even some media persons tried to create a conflict between two communities, but in his dying declaration the victim said that when his land was encroached, the panchayat members, who gave the decision in his favour, are from the community of the accused,” the police official said.ML Lather, director general of police (crime), who also holds the additional charge of director general of police, said that a police team is stationed in Karauli district. “It is too early to make a comment or reveal anything related to any evidence in this case as it may hamper the investigation,” he said.When Lala, the victim’s nephew, was asked about the petrol that his uncle bought, he said, “My uncle in his dying declaration said that he was set on fire by the named accused. Police investigation will reveal the truth.”On the caste conflict, he said that people from all communities were with his family over their demands. “The villagers extended us their full support,” he said.The alleged killing of the priest had snowballed into a political row with the Opposition attacking the state government. In a tweet, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje had said that the killing of the priest in Sapotara did not evoke government response. “We cannot express enough grief over it,” she said.After facing flak, chief minister Ashok Gehlot had tweeted: “The murder of Babulal Vaishnav in Sapotara, Karauli, is extremely unfortunate and condemnable; civil society has no place for such acts. The state government is with the bereaved family in this sad time. The main accused has been arrested and action continues. The culprits shall not be spared.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priest-in-rajasthan-s-karauli-who-was-set-ablaze-had-bought-petrol-an-hour-earlier-say-police/story-gXUbo9qCRXqEd8MyCJIgOJ.html
15-10-2020||India||Zoji La tunnel to give more teeth to Indian army in Ladakh, says Kargil DC||The 14.15 km long Zoji La (pass) tunnel which will connect Sonmarg to Drass will not only ease physical connectivity of the strategic Ladakh region with rest of India throughout the year but will also help add more teeth to the Indian Army, a top official in Kargil said Thursday. Work began on the Drass side of the tunnel on Thursday with Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari initiating the first blasting of the tunnel. The tunnel assumes significance in the light of India’s standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. “It was a long pending demand of the people of Ladakh. It will be a strategic tunnel that will connect Ladakh with the rest of India 24x7,” Kargil district commissioner Baseer-ul-Haq Choudhary said.“Obviously, it is going to be a major achievement for us. The tunnel will not only provide physical connectivity to the region but will also establish an emotional connect with the rest of India,” he added. The district commissioner said with this tunnel employment opportunities will open up for the people of Ladakh and supply of essential commodities will also be maintained round the year. “Ladakh being a tourist destination, this tunnel will give immense impetus to tourism, especially winter tourism like ice hockey, skiing and other activities,” he said. Choudhary also said that from the defence point of view, the tunnel will add more teeth to the Indian security forces in the region and in turn strengthen national security. “It will be of great importance to the defence forces of the country. This project shall bring to fruition 70 years of overwhelming public demand of Ladakh region,” he said. After infrastructure development and finance company IL&FS went bust, the project that was allotted to it in May 2018 was stopped in July 2018, and the contract was terminated in January 2019 by the National Highways & Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL). The project was re-awarded to Megha Engineering & Infrastructure LTD (MEIL).In February, Gadkari reviewed the whole project in detail and the project was approved afresh on May 23. The construction period is now six years. The total integrated cost of the project including Zoji La tunnel and approaches up to Z-Morh tunnel works out to Rs 10,643 crores. The tunnel is being constructed at an altitude of about 3,000 metres under Zoji La pass which connects Srinagar to Leh through Drass and Kargil but remains open for only six months in a year. Heavy snow forces the closure of the road for six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zoji-la-tunnel-to-give-more-teeth-to-indian-army-in-ladakh-says-kargil-dc/story-GQ1WevqupGbqiIG4h5Q1nI.html
15-10-2020||India||Telangana rains: CM KCR writes to PM Modi, urges Centre to release Rs 1,350 crore for relief work||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday said the state has suffered losses of Rs 5,000 crore due to the heavy rainfall and flash floods and has urged the Centre to release Rs 1,350 crore immediately to support the relief and rehabilitation works in process. Rao also held a high-level review meeting in Hyderabad to take stock of flood situation in the state. The chief minister has also written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Incessant rain wreaked havoc in Telangana and its neighbouring areas on Tuesday and Wednesday. The excessive rains flooded the state’s capital Hyderabad, the home of major IT companies.  PM Modi, in a telephonic conversation with CM Rao, assured the state that all possible support and help in relief and rescue operations. “Spoke to @TelanganaCMO KCR Garu and AP CM @ysjagan Garu regarding the situation in Telangana and AP respectively due to heavy rainfall. Assured all possible support and assistance from the Centre in rescue & relief work. My thoughts are with those affected due to the heavy rains,” PM Modi said in a tweet.As many as nine people were killed when a wall collapsed on them in Hyderabad and 10 others died from electrocution and drowning caused by intense rains, according to AFP. Many stranded people were evacuated from different parts of Telangana and rushed to safety spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-rains-cm-k-chandrasekhar-rao-writes-to-pm-modi-urges-centre-to-release-rs-1-350-crore-for-relief-work/story-byB98b50OnZd0uLPXrCy2M.html
15-10-2020||India||Few months after unlock, Taj Mahal covered in dust, poisonous gases||A few days after ‘unlock’ the Taj Mahal in Agra is surrounded by clouds of dust and poisonous gases due to air pollution and construction work being done in the nearby areas. “The city is in a terrible state due to rising air pollution. People are facing severe breathing issues but the administration is not paying any heed to the situation. There is growing dust in the air, which is spoiling the monument as well as human health,” Ashish Singh, local resident, told ANI.Taj Mahal is among the Seven Wonders of the world.“Agra stands at the ninth position on the most polluted cities in India. There is construction going on everywhere. We’re facing a lot of breathing issues because of the rising pollution,” said Gaurav Gupta, another resident. Syeed Munnwar Ali, Chairman, National Memorial Safety Committee spoke about how the administration plans to curb down rising pollution and damage to the Taj Mahal. “We have initiated plantation drives across Agra to induce fresh oxygen in the air and lower the pollution level. We have instructed all construction sites so that they reduce dust and dirt emanating from those sites,” Ali told ANI.He further added, “To protect the Taj Mahal, 100 electronic buses will soon be introduced, which will be driven in the 20 meters radius of the monument. These buses will not emit any harmful gases and protect the white marble from diminishing due to pollutants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/few-months-after-unlock-taj-mahal-covered-in-dust-poisonous-gases/story-RtH4gZJtgyCAf6wuST6mSI.html
15-10-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti, other J&K political parties team up for Article 370||Political parties in Jammu and Kashmir have formed an alliance to restore the special status that existed in the state before the abolition of Article 370 of the Constitution, National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah said on Thursday during a media briefing. On the issue, the alliance will also hold talks with stakeholders.The formation of all-party alliance took place at a meeting held at the National Conference chief’s residence to discuss ‘Gupkar Declaration’. Last year on August 5, the Centre scrapped the Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. “We have named this alliance as People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. Our battle is a constitutional battle, we want the government of India to return to the people of the State the rights they held before 5th August 2019,” said National Conference president, as quoted by ANI.‘Gupkar Declaration’ is a joint effort of all the regional mainstream political parties of Jammu and Kashmir – the National Conference, the Peoples Democratic Party, the Peoples Conference, the Awami National Conference and the CPI (M) - to fight for the state’s special status.The two-hour-long meeting was attended by Mufti, Peoples Conference chairman Sajad Lone, CPIM leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami and Peoples Movement leader Javaid Mir. Omar Abdullah, vice president of National Conference and other senior leaders of the party were also present at the meeting.Farooq Abdullah said the alliance also seeks a dialogue between all stakeholders for resolution of the issue pertaining to Jammu and Kashmir. “We will be informing you about the future course of action in due course,” the Jammu and Kashmir’s NC president added.On Wednesday, NC leaders Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah had visited PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti at her residence. Mufti, who had been under arrest since August 5 last year when the Centre scrapped the J&K’s special status, was released from her detention recently.The NC president, at today’s meeting, called Mufti’s 14 months of detention “completely illegal and unjustified”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-rights-before-august-5-2019-to-be-restored-in-j-k-says-farooq-abdullah-as-he-announces-alliance-with-mehbooba-mufti/story-DSNGPFjXKQO5vTUdYHmGgP.html
15-10-2020||India||PM Modi reviews vaccine development progress, asks to focus on cost-effective solutions||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a review meeting to assess the progress of research and vaccine development ecosystem to fight Covid-19. Be it testing, vaccine and medication, the solution has to be cost-effective, easily available and scalable, the Prime Minister said. The meeting was attended by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, NITI Aayog member (health), principal scientific advisor, senior scientists, and other officials.The meeting comes as three vaccines are at present under trial in India. Bharat Biotech, which is developing an indigenous vaccine in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is conducting its second phase trial, the results of which are expected soon. Also Read: Healthy young people may have to wait till 2022 for Covid-19 vaccine, says WHOLauding the efforts of the Indian vaccine developers and manufacturers, the PM said that the government is committed to facilitate and support all these efforts. But India has to cater to the world as well, the PM said.As the vaccine trials are going on, the health ministry has started addressing aspects like vaccine storage, distribution, prioritisation etc. Under the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 that is chaired by Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, there are subgroups looking into these various aspects of vaccine development, procurement and distribution, including one that looks at cold chain requirements.The Centre has begun identifying both government and private facilities to create hubs for vaccine storage. The focus is on maintaining cold storage as most vaccines require to be stored and distributed at a fixed temperature, failing which the vaccine becomes ineffective.The Prime Minister during his Thursday’s meet took stock of health ministry’s distribution and delivery mechanism for vaccines.India has about 27,000 vaccine storage centres across all 700 plus districts that are connected through eVIN; with at least 50,000 temperature loggers to monitor storage temperatures as accurately as possible for at least 40,000 frontline workers to manage logistics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-vaccine-development-progress-asks-to-focus-on-cost-effective-solutions/story-vQffk3iHDOs9NCfUlH4SDL.html
15-10-2020||India||India pummels Imran Khan’s adviser for fictional claim, then a parting shot||India on Thursday rubbished claims by an aide to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan that New Delhi had sent messages for talks, saying Islamabad’s support for terrorism and the Pakistani leadership’s hate speech were not conducive to normal relations. Moeed Yusuf, special assistant to Khan on national security and strategic policy, had said in an interview with the Indian media that New Delhi had sent messages to Islamabad with “a desire for conversation” but declined to give details. He also set pre-conditions for any dialogue, including the release of political prisoners in Kashmir and making Kashmiris party to potential talks. Also Read: India roasts Imran Khan adviser’s claim of New Delhi’s outreach to PakExternal affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava dismissed Yusuf’s claims during a weekly news briefing, saying: “As regards the purported message, let me make it clear that no such message was sent from our side.” Srivastava described Yusuf’s comments on India’s internal matters as an effort by Pakistan to “divert attention from domestic failures of the present government and mislead its domestic constituents by pulling India into headlines on a daily basis”. He asked Yusuf to “restrict his advice to [Pakistan’s] establishment and not to comment on India’s domestic policy”. He added, “The statements made by him are contrary to facts on the ground, misleading and fictitious.” India has consistently linked any talks with Pakistan to the issue of Islamabad ending support for terror groups operating from its soil. The two sides have not held any structured dialogue since the 2008 Mumbai attacks, which were carried out by the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba, though there have been sporadic contacts between the leaders of the two sides in the years since then. Ties received a boost when Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a surprise visit to Lahore in December 2015 while returning to India from a trip to Afghanistan. The two sides agreed at the time to launch a “comprehensive dialogue” but these efforts were put on the backburner after a terror attack on the Pathankot airbase in January 2016. Srivastava reiterated India’s accusation that Pakistan “continues to support, aid and abet cross-border terrorism against India” and that it has been resorting to unprovoked ceasefire violations along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir to support terrorist infiltration. “The Pakistani leadership continues to indulge in inappropriate, provocative and hate speech against India. Such support to terrorism against India and use of derogatory and abusive language are not conducive to normal neighbourly relations,” he said. During the interview, Yusuf blamed India for “deliberately delaying sending evidence and witnesses” for the trial of the seven men accused of involvement in the Mumbai attacks so that it can use the issue to run down Pakistan in front of the world community. He also levelled several allegations against India, including the funding of the Pakistani Taliban and having a hand in a terror attack on an army school in Peshawar in 2014, but didn’t offer any concrete evidence to back up these claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-message-was-sent-india-on-pak-official-s-claim-about-talks/story-gtpcWbnannAg1G8xRI0e5L.html
15-10-2020||India||China has no locus standi to comment on Ladakh, Arunachal: Centre||Reacting sharply to China’s remark that it does not recognise the Ladakh Union Territory and Arunachal Pradesh, the ministry of external affairs on Thursday said China has no locus standi to comment on India’s internal matters. “The union territories of Ladakh, Jammu & Kashmir have been, are and would remain an integral part of India. China has no locus standi to comment on India’s internal matters,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said.“Arunachal Pradesh is also an integral part of India. This fact has also been clearly conveyed to the Chinese side on several occasions, including at the highest level,” Srivastava added.Also Read: India building border infra, deploying military root cause of tension: ChinaDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday inaugurated as many as 44 bridges in border areas of Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir. About 30 of the 44 bridges commissioned are on the route to the LAC from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh.Reacting to this, Zhao Lijian, spokesman for China’s Foreign Ministry, said border infrastructure development is “the root cause for tension between the two sides”. “First I want to make it clear that China does not recognise the Ladakh Union Territory illegally set up by the Indian side and the Arunachal Pradesh. We stand against the development of infrastructure facilities aimed at military contention along the border area,” said the Chinese spokesperson.“We stand against the development of infrastructure facilities aimed at military contention along the border area. Based on the two sides’ consensus, neither should take actions along the border that might escalate the situation that is to avoid undermining the two sides’ efforts to ease the situation,” Zhao added.Talking about infrastructure development in border areas, Srivastava on Thursday said the government is focused on creating infrastructure for improving livelihood, economic welfare of people. “Government gives specific attention to development of border areas for economic development and to meet India’s security,strategic requirements,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-has-no-locus-standi-to-comment-on-ladakh-arunachal-centre/story-hrgZroMwth9lNX9q6rc0QM.html
15-10-2020||India||Man set ablaze by unknown assailants in Goa succumbs to injuries||A man who was set ablaze by unknown assailants while on a walk through the village of Salvador do Mundo on Wednesday afternoon succumbed to his injuries on Thursday morning, police said. The victim, identified as Vilas Methar (40), was doused with petrol and set on fire. He was rushed to hospital in a critical condition but succumbed to his injuries this morning. His attackers whose identities are yet to be established remain at large with police saying that they are investigating the case. “What happened yesterday, in which a man was set ablaze after being drenched with oil (petrol) is highly condemnable, people are now afraid. Whoever has done this needs to be found out and there needs to be a conclusion to this case. This is I think the first time that such an incident has happened in Goa,” local MLA Rohan Khaunte said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant in a tweet late Wednesday night had termed the incident ‘heinous’ and vowed to bring the assailants to justice. “I have directed Goa Police to take strong action against the attackers in the dreadful incident… Such heinous crime is intolerable and will be dealt with an iron hand,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-set-ablaze-by-unknown-assailants-in-goa-succumbs-to-injuries/story-KSblIDnCH3QK8JN5FXpHbM.html
15-10-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath monitors progress as UP revives 2 dying rivers, 19 left||The Uttar Pradesh government has embarked upon bringing 21 rivers, considered dead or endangered, back to life. The plan involves two other aspects. One is that some 12 lakh people, mostly the migrant workers who returned during the lockdown, get employment through this endeavour. The other important aspect is that the revived rivers would be linked to increase irrigation facilities. Two of the rivers, Mandakini (which finds mention in the epic Ramayana) and Tamsa have been rejuvenated and work is on to revive the remaining 19, including Tedhi, Manorama, Pandu, Varuna, Sasur, Khadedi, Sai, Aril, Morva, Naad, Karnavati, Baan, Sot, Kaali, Poorvi, Daadhi, Eshan, Boodhi Ganga and Gomti, which pass through 39 districts of the state. For example, Aril passes through Rohilkhand region and Sai through Unnao-Hardoi-Lucknow but over the years these rivers nearly went dead. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the brain behind the plan, is personally monitoring the revival of these rivers. “Every river or water source has its bio- diversity. It is essential to maintain environmental balance. Besides maintaining water level of the land masses, a river also supports livelihood of people,” the chief minister said in a statement. “The death of a river deprives us of many such benefits for a healthy and prosperous generation. It is imperative to have rivers flowing naturally along the land masses,” he said. In March 2017, the chief minister had said revival and linking of the UP rivers was a priority as it would have a positive impact on agriculture. The state’s rural development department was working in close coordination with the Jal Shakti ministry. A state level committee headed by principal secretary, rural development, has been set up for time bound completion of work on each of the 19 rivers. The efforts are also aimed at giving employment to migrant workers - 40 lakh of whom returned during the lockdown enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus. “With the ongoing restoration of rivers more than 12 lakh job opportunities have been created for the local labour force,” said Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh. “They are working wholeheartedly as the rivers are still considered sacred in the rural hinterland; a massive plantation drive is on for protection of the environment and creating more job opportunities,” he said. In Kanpur, the work is on to revive two rivers Pandu and Eshan. A Chennai-based company has been roped in to clear the Pandu river through bioremediation technology, which involves using living organisms like microbes and bacteria to remove contaminants, pollutants and toxins from water. At the same time, four drains carrying industrial and domestic waste are being tapped. RK Singh, chief engineer, Kanpur Municipal Corporation, said the company would start treating the water at the origin point from November before it gets into the river. At present 140 MLD of waste was getting into the river from the four drains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-monitors-progress-as-up-revives-2-dying-rivers-19-left/story-qmvaSna1xu5AAPyTrppUVN.html
15-10-2020||India||President Kovind holds telephonic conversation with President of Turkmenistan||President of India Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday held a telephonic conversation with the President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov.The leaders acknowledged the warm and cordial relations between the two countries underpinned by historical and civilizational links. They lauded the sustained momentum of cooperation in diverse areas, particularly in the pharmaceutical sector, said a release issued by Rashtrapati Bhavan.Both leaders agreed upon the immense potential that exists in trade and economic spheres and noted the success of joint collaboration between Indian and Turkmen companies, it added.Kovind thanked Berdimuhamedov for the pleasantries exchanged and for his personal commitment to strengthening bilateral relations with India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/president-kovind-holds-telephonic-conversation-with-president-of-turkmenistan/story-Ijc1GbVgtiHfKLr51oBlDN.html
15-10-2020||India||Arunachal Pradesh re-opens for tourists: Here are the SOPs to be followed||As Arunachal Pradesh reopened on Thursday for tourists, chief minister Pema Khandu has requested to follow the ‘new normal’ Standard Operating Procedure (SOPs). “Arunachal Pradesh opens today to welcome tourists. Get mesmerised by its beauty and rejuvenated by the purity of its nature. Those who dreamt- its time to explore...! Tourists visiting Arunachal Pradesh are requested to follow the new normal SOP,” Khandu tweeted. Here are the SOPs to be followed:1. Only pre-booked package tours, exclusively through local tours operators of the state will be allowed to operate. All tourist transport and ground handling services, including pick up/drop, will be through authorised local travel agents/tour operators2. Protocol for local tour operator: All tourists should possess a valid Covid-19 negative certificate (RTPCRor True NAT test) from ICMR designated laboratory/facility, not more than 72 hours prior to the date of arrival, a government notification read. 3. All tourists and accompanying drivers and guides of the tour from outside the state should adhere to Covid-19 inter-state traveller testing protocol issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Arunachal Pradesh.4. Tourists should strictly observe social distancing norms with a physical distance of two meters per person. Family groups can stay together if they ensure that they are at least two meters away from other individuals or family groups.5. Tourists should wear a protective face mask while within the premises of any tourists destination. All payments should be done through digital modes, wherever possible. Use of the Aarogya Setu app is mandatory for tourists, tour guides and drivers.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-pradesh-re-opens-for-tourists-here-are-the-sops-to-be-followed/story-HIz24VwAyNh65KXtRzWk6I.html
15-10-2020||India||Legendary Malayalam poet and Jnanpith winner Akkitham dies at 94||Malayalam poet and Jnanpith winner Akkitham Achuthan Namboodiri died of age-related ailments at a private hospital in Thrissur on Thursday, his family members said. He was 94. A freedom fighter, Vedic scholar, journalist, social reformer, poet and writer all rolled into one, he authored 40 books and remained a colossus in the literary and social world for more than eight decades. Akkitham was conferred with the highest literary award of the country Jnanpith at a special function held at his house at Kumaranellur in Palakkad district of Kerala on September 24.He was honoured with Padma Shri in 2017 and was also the recipient of many other awards. His masterpiece ‘Irupatham Noottandinte Ithihasam’ (Epic of the 20th Century) is considered as one of the best literary works in Malayalam. One of the couplets in the book “Velicham dukkam annu Unni, thamas allo sukhapradam” (Worldly Knowledge Is Pain, My Child, Ignorance Is Bliss In This World”) is on the lips of even youngsters in the state. He was one of the writers who brought modernism in Malayalam literature. His literary works sparkled with values of humanity and brotherhood. Born in a conservative family in Kumaranellur village in Palakkad in 1926, Akkitham he was attracted to the freedom movement at a young age. He wrote his first poem at the age of eight on the walls of a temple in his village. He once said that one of the biggest regrets of life was that he could not meet his idol Mahatma Gandhi. But he remained a true Gandhian throughout his life. In the company of V T Bhattathiripad, a social reformer and writer and EMS Namboodripad, Marxist legend and former CM, he fought against social evils in upper caste societies like child marriage, promoted wedding of widows, community feasting and women’s education. Closely associated with the Communist movement he later distanced from the ideology after ‘Calcutta Thesis’ that called for a popular uprising and revolution. Later some of the liberal writers and a section of the party also dubbed him a camp follower of Sangh Parivar. But in one of the interviews he had said he was neither a Communist nor a RSS supporter, but a follower of humanity and brotherhood. When playback singer K J Yesudas was denied entry into Guruvayur Sreekrishna temple because he is a Christian, Akkitham was on the forefront to criticise it. “His song is waking up the God every day, why can’t he be allowed,” he had said. Akkitham also worked with All India Radio from where he retired in 1985. Both Akkitham and M T Vasudevan Nair, master storyteller and another Jnanpith laureate, belong to the same village and were thick friends. “He was an epitome of virtues. I lost my elder brother who guided me well,” Nair condoled the writer’s death. “A writer of rare integrity, he was a bridge between tradition and modernity in literature,” said writer and social activist Prof M N Karassery. Governor Arif Mohammad Khan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also paid tributes to the poet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/legendary-malayalam-poet-and-jnanpith-winner-akkitham-dies-at-94/story-ioonJ2WwgiB1AqsxeeLBjO.html
15-10-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Investigation is still going on, says CBI||In the wake of reports that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has finished its probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the probe agency on Thursday confirmed that the probe is still going on.“Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) continues to investigate the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. There are certain speculative reports in media that the CBI has reached a conclusion. It may be reiterated that these reports are speculative and erroneous,” the agency said issuing a statement.Various reports claimed that the Special Investigation Team, which was looking into the case, has wrapped up the investigation process and is going to submit the report soon. It has also been rumoured that the probe agency did not find any “foul play” in the actor’s death. The actor was found dead in his Mumbai residence on June 14. Mumbai Police, which said the actor died by suicide, was carrying out the initial investigation of the case. In August, the Supreme Court ordered a CBI probe into the case. The CBI approached the forensic department of the AIIMS for a second opinion on Rajput’s autopsy. The forensic team has submitted its report to the CBI and has reportedly asserted that there was no mark to prove that it was not a suicide. Several agencies are parallelly probing into the case: CBI is probing the ‘suicide’ case, while Enforcement Directorate is probing a money-laundering angle and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is probing a drugs-related angle. As several Bollywood stars were summoned by the NCB, Rajput’s family lawyer Vikas Singh alleged that the investigation has been derailed. At that time too, CBI issued a statement saying all angles of this case are being probed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-investigation-is-still-going-on-says-cbi/story-KkkViSWTAPt9fG9JOjdxhM.html
15-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India approaches Pakistan court for release of four prisoners and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India approaches Pakistan court for release of four prisonersThe Indian mission in Pakistan has approached the Islamabad high court seeking the release of four Indian prisoners who were convicted by military courts and have completed their sentences. Read moreChina Prez Xi Jinping pushes limits, not just with neighbours but at home too | AnalysisPresident Xi is expected to get the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) central committee to sign off on a new set of regulations that will let President Xi dictate the agenda for meetings of the party’s top panels. Read moreCovid-19 vaccine: Healthy young people may have to wait till 2022, says WHOThe wait for Covid-19 vaccine may get longer for young population who are in sound health, World Health Organization’s chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan has said at a social media event of WHO. Read moreIPL 2020: Underperforming Kings XI Punjab have task cut out against Virat Kohli’s Royal Challengers BangaloreKings XI Punjab’s only win of the campaign so far has come against Royal Challengers Bangalore, when the two teams had met in Dubai. KXIP were dominant with bat and ball in that match, but have failed to win any of their 5 matches since. Read moreSania Mirza-Izhaan and Arjun Rampal-Arik’s awwdorable camaraderie rains cuteness alert on the InternetWalk of fame: Sania Mirza’s son Izhaan Mirza Malik and Arjun Rampal’s toddler Arik Rampal are already stealing the thunder of their celebrity parents and these adorable pictures are all we need to brush aside mid-week blues. Read moreKia Seltos Anniversary Edition launched in India at ₹13.75 lakhKia Seltos Anniversary Edition was officially launched in India at ₹13.75 lakh (ex showroom) on Thursday.Seltos Anniversary Edition is available in the HTX trim and celebrates the success of Kia’s debut product in the country which was first launched back in 2019.Read moreAmid Tanishq ad row people tweet stories of interfaith marriages. They’re beautifulAmid the row, there were some who shared real life stories of interfaith couples. While some shared images, others crafted the beautiful stories through words. Read moreWatch | ‘Staying in denial won’t help’: Kejriwal on Javadekar’s Delhi pollution claim||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-approaches-pakistan-court-for-release-of-four-prisoners-and-all-the-latest-news/story-d7v2qB6dSY3LwYl9Qt0I0J.html
15-10-2020||India||Supreme Court issues notice to Centre on PIL to regulate OTT platforms||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought the Centre’s response on a Public Interest Litigation( PIL) for regulating Over-the-top(OTT) platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime by an autonomous body.A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notices to the Central Government, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MoI&B) and Internet and Mobile Association of India(IAMAI).“We will issue notice,” the apex court said while hearing the plea filed by advocates Shashank Shekhar Jha and Apurva Arhatia seeking a proper board/institution /association for the monitoring and management of content on different OTT/Streaming and digital media platforms.  “With cinemas theatres unlikely to open anytime soon in the country, OTT/Streaming and different digital media platforms have surely given a way out for film makers and artists to release their content without being worried about getting clearance certificates for their films and series from the censor board,” the plea said.At present, however, there is no law or autonomous body to monitor and manage these digital contents and it is made available to the public at large without any filter or screening, it said.“Lack of legislation governing OTT/Streaming Platforms is becoming evident with each passing day and every new case that is filed on these grounds.  “The Government is facing heat to fill this lacuna with regulations from the public and the Judiciary; still the relevant government departments have not done anything significant to regularise these OTT/Streaming Platforms,” the plea said.None of the OTT/Streaming platforms including Netflix, Amazon Prime, Zee5, and Hotstar have signed the self-regulation provided by Ministry of Information and Broadcasting since February 2020, it added.The ministry had earlier told the top court in a separate case that there is a need to regulate digital media and that the court may first appoint a committee of persons as amicus before laying down guidelines with respect to the regulation of hate speech in media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-centre-on-pil-to-regulate-ott-platforms/story-iOJ2Xkf8LLcf6tSnPIQWWM.html
15-10-2020||India||India approaches Pakistan court for release of four prisoners||The Indian mission in Pakistan has approached the Islamabad high court seeking the release of four Indian prisoners who were convicted by military courts and have completed their sentences. The writ petition—which was filed in the high court by Aparna Ray, first secretary in the Indian mission, through three Pakistani advocates—identified the prisoners as Birju Dung Dung, Vigyan Kumar, Satish Bhog and Sonu Singh and said they were currently being held in jails in Lahore and Karachi. All the prisoners have served the sentences given to them by field general courts martial of the Pakistani military—Dung in 2007, Singh in 2012, Kumar in 2014 and Bhog in 2015, the petition said. Also Read: India, Pakistan in war of words over Kashmir, terror at Commonwealth meetThe petition, which named Pakistan’s foreign and interior secretaries as respondents, said the prisoners were arrested by the Pakistani military and charged under the Pakistan Army Act and Official Secrets Act. It further said the prisoners had contended that they hadn’t committed any offence and “the entire proceedings initiated from the arrest till culmination in the ultimate conviction are an abuse of the process of law”. The petition also pointed out that Pakistan’s Constitution states that no person “shall be deprived of life or liberty in accordance with the law” and asked the high court to facilitate the release of the prisoners. The Indian mission noted in the petition that it had formally written to Pakistan’s Foreign Office on May 18 to remind authorities that the matter of releasing these four prisoners had been taken up through 31 notes verbale or unsigned diplomatic correspondence between October 2019 and May 2020. The communication stated that the nationality of the prisoners too had been confirmed. Also Read: Pakistan PM’s aide faces criticism for linking India to 2014 Peshawar school attack“The esteemed ministry is requested that these four confirmed Indian prisoners may kindly be released and repatriated at the earliest,” the communication had said. India and Pakistan currently have hundreds of each other’s nationals in their jails, a majority of them fishermen arrested for straying across the maritime boundary. Work on identifying and releasing these prisoners through a joint judicial commission has been hit by the troubled bilateral relations in recent years. Besides exchanging lists of prisoners on two occasions every year, the two sides have not been able to make headway on proposed measures to speed up the release and repatriation of prisoners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-approaches-pakistan-court-for-release-of-four-prisoners/story-jCvhGCKggVIxJ4bse24EkO.html
15-10-2020||India||Assam NRC list: The eligibility issue and other latest developments||Assam’s National Register of Citizens (NRC) coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma on Wednesday said that ineligible names will be deleted from the final list. Sarma’s letter to all the Deputy Commissioners and District Registrar of Citizen Registration (DRCR) did not mention how many people will be excluded but people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI that around 10,000 people will be excluded.Sarma said in the letter, “...as per the reports received from your end through Webform, some names of ineligible persons belonging to the categories of DF (declared foreigners)/DV (’D’ voters)/PFT (pending in Foreigners Tribunals) along with their descendants have found entry to the NRC.”Chief minister Sarabananda Sonowal had earlier this month said that the government is committed to fulfil all clauses of the Assam Accord, including Clause 6, and publication of a flawless NRC, according to PTI.Here is everything you need to know about the massive government exercise:■The NRC is an exercise to verify citizenship in India. But despite being released in August last year, it still remains to be notified by the Registrar General of India.■The final NRC list excluded close to 20 lakh people. A total of 3.1 crore names were included out of 3.3 crore applicants.■After the publication of the final NRC, almost all stakeholders and political parties criticised it as a faulty document, alleging exclusion of indigenous people and the inclusion of illegal immigrants.■On August 31, 2020, a year after the final list was published, parliamentary affairs minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said in the Assembly that the Assam government had submitted an affidavit in the Supreme Court for re-verification of 20 per cent names in districts bordering Bangladesh and 10 per cent in the rest.■Organisations like the All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) and the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) will be looking forward to it after Sonowal’s promise of fulfilling all clauses of the Assam Accord.■The Assam Accord was signed in the year 1985 which ended half a decade long, violent anti-immigrant movement in the state, which borders Bangladesh and was also among the states which saw a huge influx of Bengali refugees, both Hindus and Muslims, following the liberation of Bangladesh in 1971. Assam had also taken in refugees before 1971 after India’s independence.■The Clause 6 of the Assam Accord states that, “Constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards shall be provided to protect, preserve and promote the culture, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people.”■The coronavirus pandemic has also affected the process of sending out rejection orders to people who have been excluded from the list. The rejection order can be challenged 120 days after it has been issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-nrc-list-the-eligibility-issue-and-other-latest-developments/story-cPjwwWUJLVDqGFbMDO1JJM.html
15-10-2020||India||India’s coronavirus doubling time improves: Health ministry||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Thursday said the doubling time of coronavirus (Covid-19) has improved from 25.5 days in mid-August to nearly 73 days now. The doubling time for coronavirus is the number of days it takes for the cases count to double.“India has come a long way from registering a doubling rate of 25.5 days in mid August to now registering a doubling rate of nearly 73 days (72.8 days),” the health ministry said in a statement.On Thursday, India’s tally of coronavirus cases jumped to 73.07 lakh with the country registering 67,735 fresh cases in last 24 hours. As 63,83,441 people recovered from the virus, India’s recovery rate reached 87.35 per cent. “Higher number of single-day recoveries is also reflected in the continuous increase in the national recovery rate, which has crossed 87 per cent,” the health ministry said.India’s Covid-19 cases count touched 73,07,097 on Thursday. With 680 deaths reported due to coronavirus in last 24 hours, the coronavirus death toll climbed to 1,11,266.The health ministry praised states and UTs (Union territory)for their collaborative action taken against Covid-19 under the Centre’s strategy of comprehensive and high country wide testingAround ten states and UTs account for 79 per cent of the new recovered coronavirus cases. Maharashtra has contributed over 19,000 to the single-day recoveries followed by Karnataka with more than 8,000 recoveries, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-coronavirus-doubling-time-improves-health-ministry/story-Z34bC3VWxh0DOqsA3nrLVL.html
15-10-2020||India||UP CM launches ‘hath dhona, roke corona’ on Global Handwashing Day||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday launched ‘hath dhona, roke corona’ campaign on the occasion of Global Handwashing Day.He stressed that common habits of personal hygiene like washing hands can keep coronavirus infection at bay and help people lead a healthy and disease-free life.“Washing hand is an important part of behaviour through which we can save ourselves from different kinds of diseases. In corona times, washing hands is especially important as there is no medicine for this pandemic and precaution and alertness is the only way to check it,” said Yogi Adityanath. Noting that the world observes October 15 as Global Handwashing Day, Adityanath expressed happiness that this programme is being taken forward in the state.Exuding confidence that all the people would connect with the help of programmes launched under the campaign and will make personal hygiene a part of their daily routine, the chief minister said washing hand is important in breaking the chain of coronavirus infection.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-launches-hath-dhona-roke-corona-on-global-handwashing-day/story-drl1M43ChVVXlagXNn8BPM.html
15-10-2020||India||Nitin Gadkari launches blasting process for Zojila tunnel construction work||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday launched the first blasting for construction related work at the 14.15 km Zojila tunnel.One of the longest in Asia, the tunnel will provide all-year connectivity between Srinagar valley and Leh. The project holds strategic significance as Zojila Pass is situated at an altitude of 11,578 feet on the Srinagar-Kargil-Leh National Highway and remains closed during winters due to heavy snowfall. Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister Gadkari termed it a moment of pride for India and said the re-modelling of the project will result in savings to the tune of Rs 4,000 crore to the public exchequer without any compromise on safety, security and quality. It involves construction of a 14.15-km long tunnel at an altitude of about 3,000 m under Zojila pass (presently motorable only for six months in a year) on NH-1 connecting Srinagar and Leh through Drass and Kargil. “This tunnel when completed will be a landmark achievement in the history of modern India. It will also be of great importance to the Defence of the country, in view of the fact that massive military activities along our borders in Ladakh, Gilgit and Baltistan regions are taking place,” a government press release said. Zojila Tunnel project shall bring to fruition, 30 years of overwhelming public demand of Kargil, Drass and Ladakh region, the statement said and added that the project will make the travel on Srinagar-Kargil-Leh Section of NH-1 free from avalanches, would enhance safety and would reduce the travel time from more than 3 hours to 15 minutes. The project was re-awarded this year to Megha Engineering & Infrastructure Ltd (MEIL) which had emerged as the lowest bidder quoting Rs 4,509.5 crore for the project. The other two bidders in the race were Larsen & Toubro and Ircon International JV. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in May 2018, had laid the foundation stone for the Rs 6,800 crore project, billed as Asia’s longest bi-directional tunnel, in Jammu and Kashmir.However, the National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (NHIDCL) on January 15, 2019 terminated the contract awarded to troubled IL&FS group company -- IL&FS Transportation -- after it abandoned the project citing financial problems. “The construction cost of Zojila tunnel was earlier worked out at Rs 6,575.85 crore and after considering the escalation @ 5 per cent per annum and the total capital cost of the project as Rs 8,308 crore by NHIDCL. Thus, the total integrated cost of the project including Zojila tunnel and approaches up to Z- Morh tunnel works out to Rs 10,643 crores,” Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said. Compared to the present cost of the integrated project, based on the tender received at Rs 4,509.5 crore, the total capital cost of the project would be Rs 6,808.63 crore, it added. “Thus, after re-modelling of the project and reaping the benefit of integrated project management by segregating the egress tunnel & utilizing the excavated rock material in construction of approaches, generated from tunnel boring, resulted in an anticipated saving of Rs 3,835 crore,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-launches-blasting-process-for-zojila-tunnel-construction-work/story-XcDJpQ3OxvlLue9P0FWETN.html
15-10-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Healthy young people may have to wait till 2022, says WHO||The wait for Covid-19 vaccine may get longer for young population who are in sound health, World Health Organization’s chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan has said at a social media event of WHO. “Most people agree, it’s starting with health care workers, and front-line workers, but even there, you need to define which of them are at highest risk, and then the elderly, and so on,” Swaminathan said. “There will be a lot of guidance coming out, but I think an average person, a healthy young person might have to wait until 2022 to get a vaccine,” she added.Also Read: Govt chalks out plan for storage of Covid-19 vaccineThe question as to which demography will be given priority after an effective vaccine gets approved is as debatable as when the wait for a vaccine will finally end. Addressing both the questions, the chief scientist of WHO said by 2021, there will be at least one safe and effective vaccine. But it will be available in “limited quantities” and hence vulnerable people will be prioritised. “People tend to think that on the first of January or the first of April, I’m going to get the vaccine, and then things will be back to normal.It’s not going to work like that,” Swaminathan said. Countries like China and Russia which have been administering its population with vaccine shots are also following vaccine prioritisation pattern. Reports said China vaccinated its army in July and is now immunising government officials, store staff apart from health care professionals. It is also mulling vaccinating students who are headed abroad for studies. Russia prioritised journalists in vaccination apart from frontline health workers.In India, a high-level committee will chart out the prioritisation process. “Prioritisation of groups to be vaccinated shall be based on key considerations like occupational hazards, risk of exposure to the infection, overall health etc.,” Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has recently said. The states have been asked to submit lists of priority population groups that need to receive vaccine first -- doctors, nurses, sanitation staff, ASHA workers, surveillance officers etc. of both private and government sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-healthy-young-people-may-have-to-wait-till-2022-says-who/story-AlVS7dBVEdefO3LFmtiqIJ.html
15-10-2020||India||Ujjain hooch tragedy toll rises to 11 after 4 more labourers die||The death toll in the hooch tragedy in Ujjain rose to 11 after four more labourers were found dead on Thursday morning, the Madhya Pradesh police said.Police have arrested 10 people while authorities suspended four policemen including a police station in-charge, a sub-inspector and two constables, officials said.The state government ordered an investigation by a special investigation team (SIT) into the tragedy after instructions from chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, according to an official communique. Those suspended policemen include Kharakuan police station in charge ML Meena and sub-inspector Niranjan Sharma. Seven people, most of them labourers, were found dead in different localities of Ujjain on Wednesday. At least six of them had drunk an intoxicant called potali, Ujjain’s city superintendent of police (CSP), Rajnish Kashyap said. On Wednesday morning, two labourers were found dead in Kharakuan police circle while two others died during treatment in the district hospital in the evening, police said. The two who died in the hospital told the police that they had purchased ‘potali’ (also known as ginger liquor in the local areas) from a person in Kaharawadi area and that many of labourers used to frequent the locality for cheap liquor that cost between Rs 20 to Rs 50 per ‘potali’. Two of the four dead found on Thursday morning were identified as Ratan Malviya, a resident of Jharda village in Ujjain and Rakesh, a resident of Harda district. Their bodies were found in Narsingh ghat and Dhaba Road areas, police said. “All these 11 deaths are suspected to be linked to consumption of illicit hooch given the manner in which they have died. However, we have preserved viscera and a forensic examination of the same will establish the exact cause of death,” chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Ujjain Mahavir Khandelwal said. “There is a possibility of more such deaths if there were more labourers who consumed the same hooch,” he said.Confirming the arrest of 10 people in connection with sale of the illicit hooch Ujjain’s superintendent of police (SP), Manoj Singh said, “Some of the deaths are linked with consumption of ginger liquor. However, the exact cause of deaths can be known after post-mortem. Four police personnel have been suspended.” Taking a dig at the BJP government, state Congress president Kamal Nath said, “There are complaints regarding liquor mafia’s operation in several districts of the state. They have no fear of the law as there is no Congress government now. We had launched an operation against all kinds of mafia across the state. The BJP government is engaged in bypolls and the law and order situation in the state is deteriorating by the day.”The BJP said the government has acted promptly by forming an SIT.“The state government has already ordered an SIT investigation and several accused have been arrested in a prompt action. The Congress should desist from playing politics on such a sensitive issue like deaths of labourers,” BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai said. (With input from Anand Nigam in Ujjain)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ujjain-hooch-tragedy-toll-rises-to-11-after-4-more-labourers-die/story-UtoE5T4mjMVL48l1JF6jAI.html
15-10-2020||India||First elephant radio-collared in Uttarakhand with eye on Maha Kumbh 2021||A 35-year-old male elephant was radio-collared in Uttarakhand on Thursday for the first time in the state’s history to monitor its movements ahead of Maha Kumbh 2021, informed forest officials. JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest department said the purpose of radio-collaring the pachyderm was to prevent man-animal conflict during the Maha Kumbh next year.“The state forest department along with a team from Wildlife institute of India has successfully radio-collared a male tusker in Dassowal area of Rasiyabud range in Haridwar forest division. We will now monitor the movement of this tusker with the aim of preventing man-animal conflict during the 2021 Maha Kumbh,” said Suhag.Earlier this month, Uttarakhand government had received permission from the Central government to radio-collar ten elephants and study their movement, as they usually stray in areas of human habitation. The Jumbo population has increased in the state and so have man-elephant conflicts. In June, according to the elephant census conducted earlier this year, the numbers of the elephants in the state had reached 2,026. In 2012, there were 1,559 elephants, while in 2017 there were 1,839 elephants in the state. Neeraj Sharma, divisional forest officer for Haridwar forest division, said in the past three months, ten elephants have been identified for radio-collaring after continuous monitoring.“One such elephant was radio collared on Thursday in the presence of senior scientists from WII and veterinarians from the state forest department. The state forest department will now get hourly updates of the movement of the elephant and this will not only help us prevent man-elephant conflicts during Maha Kumbh but we will also be able to check if the elephant is moving near agricultural fields and will move it from there on time,” said Sharma. Last September, the Rajaji Tiger Reserve landscape in the state was chosen as the pilot area for a project on man-wildlife conflict mitigation launched by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC). The forest officials had started their preparations for Maha Kumbh 2021 since last November, when man-animal hotspots were identified and geo-tagged. Response teams at multiple levels were formed and a geo-tagged map was prepared by the Haridwar forest division by collating information on all the conflict incidents over the past two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-elephant-radio-collared-in-uttarakhand-with-eye-on-maha-kumbh-2021/story-oX0w0fhijYCJuvbNZcNLDN.html
15-10-2020||India||Gold smuggling accused linked with Dawood: Oppn demands Kerala CM’s resignation||Leaders of the opposition parties in Kerala on Thursday slammed chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday told a special court in Kochi about the link between the gang of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim and the accused in the gold smuggling case. Kerala’s BJP chief K Surendran accused the government of shielding the smugglers and demanded that the chief minister resign as he has “lost moral rights to continue.” “The relationship of the accused in the gold smuggling case with D company and ISIS has been established,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Congress’ Ramesh Chennithala called the news shocking and said it was the biggest crime that has happened in the state. He too accused the Vijayan government of “supporting” the accused. “Unfortunately, the state government was supporting the culprits. NIA will unearth details of this crime,” he told ANI. The accused in the gold smuggling case had challenged the provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), arguing that smuggling comes under economic offence and no terror angle was involved in the case. The NIA countered the claim saying some of the accused in the case have links with anti-national forces. They visited Tanzania several times where the underworld don has an extensive network, the agency told the court. It further said that accused No 5 KT Ramees and accused No 13 M Sharafuddin had visited Tanzania a number of times and met Dawood’s contact Feroze ‘Oasis’ to discuss ways to smuggle firearms into the country.Ramees was earlier caught with smuggled revolvers at the Kozhikode airport but he later got away, saying he was a member of the shooting association and remitted fine. Another arrested in the case Muhamad Ali was accused of chopping off the palm of a college teacher who prepared a controversial question paper. He was later acquitted in 2015. He had close links with some of the fundamentalist outfits conspiring against the country, according to NIA. This first smuggling case in which the anti-terror law was invoked surfaced on July 5 after 30 kg of gold was seized by the customs from a package camouflaged as diplomatic consignment marked to the UAE consulate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-smuggling-accused-linked-with-dawood-opposition-demands-kerala-cm-s-resignation/story-4JFczasEidJAQgsvNI6pPL.html
15-10-2020||India||‘What did Delhi people do in last 15 days?’ Delhi versus Centre on pollution||Union environment minister Prakash Javedekar on Thursday said only four per cent of Delhi’s pollution owes to stubble burning and the rest comes from local factors like dust, construction, biomass burning etc. Javadekar’s comment which blames Delhi for its pollution level sparked off a debate as Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai pointed out that the air quality index in the capital city — which encounters severe pollution problems every year during the onset of winter — was normal 15 days ago. What Delhi people did in the last 15 days to have led to the worsening air quality, the minister asked the Centre. “It seems the Centre has become spokesperson of states where stubble burning takes place and is competing with Delhi. We are taking measures to fight pollution in Delhi and want cooperation from the Centre on source of pollution outside Delhi,” Rai said.“The Union Environment Minister today said that stubble burning contributes only 4% to pollution in Delhi. Air Quality Index was normal 15 days ago, I want to ask him as to what people of Delhi did in 15 days which led to this kind of situation,” Rai said attributing the rising pollution level of the capital city to stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana.The gains of lockdown started diminishing in the last two weeks as air quality of Delhi started to feature in ‘poor’ category. On Thursday at 11.10am, the air quality index was 315, which falls under ‘very poor’ category. On Wednesday, the overall air quality index was 276 in the “poor” category.The AAP-led Delhi government has been taking a slew of measures to mitigate the impact of rising pollution levels. On Wednesday, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee banned the use of fuel-powered generators from October 15 under the Graded Response Action Plan, which is a set of anti-pollution restrictions that include pre-emptive measures to stop the air quality from deteriorating to emergency levels. Grap also includes severe steps like a ban on trucks, odd-even road restrictions, curbs on construction work, and an advisory to shut schools. On Thursday, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal launched a new anti-pollution campaign under which people will be encouraged to switch engines of their vehicles off while waiting at traffic signals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-did-delhi-people-do-in-last-15-days-delhi-versus-centre-on-pollution/story-ofWLOgm5lwFG8jloQUzGSI.html
15-10-2020||India||Two arrested over alleged rape of minor in Cuttack: Police||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by two men for over 22 days in Cuttack, the police informed. The two accused in the case have been arrested by the police on Tuesday.“In Chauliaganj Police Station, a case was filed u/s376 DA,376(2)(n) IPC,6 POCSO Act, against both accused- Santosh Behera and Rakesh Rout. They have been arrested,” Sudhanshu Sarangi, Commissioner of Police Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, informed in an official statement.According to DCP Cuttack, Prateek Singh, “After getting information from locals about a girl being held by two men, police rescued the minor from a poultry farm under Chauliaganj police limits in Cuttack district on 13th October and produced her before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC)”During investigations, the girl revealed that after a fight with her parents she had run away from home. She was later lured by a youth on the pretext of taking her back home. She alleged that the accused and his associate abused her sexually at a poultry farm for 22 days, the police said. Further investigation in the case is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-arrested-over-alleged-rape-of-minor-in-cuttack-police/story-0jtxbWlpYMXBKm4EBBYihK.html
15-10-2020||India||Movie theatres in Bengaluru to resume operations from Friday: Know about the guidelines||Most theatres in Bengaluru did not open for public on Thursday and preferred to wait for a day in anticipation of the weekend crowd on Friday.After six months of closure due to the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Centre allowed cinema halls to open from Thursday as part of Unlock 5.0.“We are starting only on Friday. So far as I know, all the cinema halls are going to open on Friday as per the decision taken by the cinema hall owners and managers at a meeting on Wednesday,” Prakash, the manager of Veeresh Theatre on Magadi Road told PTI.Meanwhile, the Karnataka government issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on Thursday for cinema halls.1. Movie theatres in containment zones will not open.2. There should be a mandatory distance of six feet between each person and people have to wear masks all the time.3. The theatre authorities will have to arrange hand sanitisers and thermal screening of movie-goers before letting them in.4. The guidelines asked people to follow the general protocol while sneezing and coughing.5. The theatre owners have been directed to maintain sufficient time gap between the screening of two movies in the same hall.6. They have been instructed not to allow more than 50 per cent viewers of the total capacity.7. The government has asked the theatre owners to prefer payment through netbanking for selling tickets and eatables inside the theatre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/movie-theatres-in-bengaluru-to-resume-operations-from-friday-know-about-the-guidelines/story-pn0FZrCqQem46fHCMzSZFN.html
15-10-2020||India||Supreme Court reserves order on plea seeking top court monitored probe in Hathras case||The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved its order on petitions seeking court monitored probe into the alleged gangrape of a Dalit girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district last month. A three-judge bench headed by CJI SA Bobde indicated that the monitoring would be by Allahabad High Court. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the court that it had no objections to the trial being monitored by any court but objected to interventions by activist Teesta Setalvad. The victim’s lawyer Seema Kushwaha demanded the trial to be shifted to Delhi and that status reports of investigation be submitted to the apex court. When a host of other lawyers and organisations poured in with their suggestions, the bench remarked, “We don’t need the assistance of the whole world in this matter.”The accused were represented before the court by senior advocate Sidharth Luthra who objected to investigation records being put out in the media in order to influence trial. The top court directed him to approach the concerned court in UP. The petition seeking Supreme Court-monitored probe and investigation by CBI was filed by one Satyama Dubey. The UP government had upfront agreed for CBI probe monitored by the apex court. During pendency of this case in Supreme Court, the UP government recommended a CBI probe. On October 10, the CBI began its probe into the case. The Allahabad HC is separately hearing a suo moto petition on the hurried cremation of the victim by state officials in the dead of night without allowing family to even see her face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-reserves-order-on-plea-seeking-top-court-monitored-probe-in-hathras-case/story-SIgBHLAY3RVObXNQcSxH4H.html
15-10-2020||India||Ensure all official meetings begin with messages on Covid-19 precautions: Govt to all depts||All central government departments have been asked to ensure that official meetings begin with messages on Covid-19 precautions so as to sensitise officers and staff about the pandemic, according to a Personnel Ministry order.The government has issued several instructions to contain the spread of the coronavirus, it said.“In continuation, it has since been decided that all central government offices shall ensure that every meeting commences with messages on Covid-19 related precautions, so as to sensitise officers and staff about the pandemic,” said the order issued on Wednesday. The messages may be focused on creating awareness relating to wearing of masks, physical distancing, hand hygiene and strict adherence to Standard Operating Procedures issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-all-official-meetings-begin-with-messages-on-covid-19-precautions-govt-to-all-depts/story-38jjAEvhWWNm5FXzcKmUMJ.html
15-10-2020||India||Abhishek Banerjee, Prashant Kishor hit the road to stop infighting in TMC||Troubled by infighting among district leaders of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), the party’s youth wing president and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, and election strategist Prashant Kishor have been travelling together since Monday to iron out differences in the ranks ahead of the crucial assembly polls due in six months. Though infighting is not new in the TMC, the current phase has its roots in the induction of younger faces in district committees after a reshuffle in July on Kishor’s recommendations. The structural changes have made many old-timers insecure. Banerjee and Kishor discreetly held meetings with leaders from five north Bengal districts at a hotel near the Tenzing Norgay bus terminus in Siliguri on Monday and Tuesday. The districts are Darjeeling, Alipurduar, South Dinajpur, Cooch Behar and Malda. On Wednesday, a similar meeting was held, though not so discreetly, with legislators, MPs and officer bearers from Hooghly district at Kishor’s office on Camac Street in the heart of Kolkata. TMC’s Bengal unit president Subrata Bakshi was also present. Some of the legislators and TMC office bearers who were summoned to the Siliguri hotel said on condition of anonymity that Banerjee and Kishor – the two have been working in close coordination with each other since 2019 – met some leaders individually while the rest were called in groups. Among the attendees, the most senior person was minister Goutam Deb who is from Siliguri town and represents the Dabgram-Phulbari constituency in Jalpaiguri. The only one who was reportedly not seen at the meetings despite being summoned was Mihir Goswami, the legislator from Cooch Behar South constituency, TMC leaders said. “During the talks, Kishor dished out data on incidents of infighting and insubordination in each district. He mentioned incidents where anti-party statements were made in public. Abhishek Banerjee, on the other hand, gave clear instructions after hearing us during one-on-one meets to end infighting,” said a north Bengal leader, who did not want to be identified. North Bengal is crucial for both the TMC and the BJP after the latter wrested seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats in the region in 2019 and managed to win 18 of the state’s 42 seats. It was after this debacle that Kishor - who earlier helped the BJP, Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and the YSR Congress Party win elections - was roped in by Mamata Banerjee. In 2019, the TMC’s tally in the Lok Sabha came down from 34 seats to 22, giving the BJP a position to pose a challenge to Banerjee in 2021. In terms of the 56 assembly segments in the eight seats in north Bengal, the BJP is ahead of the TMC in 35. The West Bengal assembly has 294 seats. BJP president J P Nadda will be visiting north Bengal on October 19 to interact with party workers and leaders and some prominent non-political persons as the party gears up for 2021 elections.Explaining how the meetings went, a TMC leader said that Udayan Guha, who represents the Dinhata constituency in Cooch Behar, was cautioned for making an explosive statement at a party meeting on October 9 which put the party in the opposition’s line of fire. In a video that went viral, Guha could be heard saying in Bengali, “you have eaten a lot. If you stop eating now, people will give you the opportunity to eat again in future.” It was apparent that he was talking of corruption. A leader said that office-bearers from South Dinajpur and Malda, where infighting has cropped up, were asked to work together. The meeting with leaders from the Hooghly district had to be held in Kolkata on Wednesday because two Lok Sabha members Kalyan Banerjee and Aparupa Poddar and three legislators, Tapan Dasgupata, Prabir Ghosal and Becharam Manna had all expressed their grievance against TMC district president Dilip Yadav. They said Yadav was taking autocratic decisions. Hooghly district is crucial for the TMC. The agitation against acquisition of farmland for the proposed Tata Motors plant helped Mamata oust the Left Front government in 2011 but in 2019 the BJP wrested one out of three Lok Sabha seats in the district. “While the meeting was on, the chief minister called Abhishek Banerjee and asked him to form a core committee with all those who are unhappy with Yadav. She said Yadav should be there in the committee along with Ashima Patra, the MLA from Dhanekhali and Snehasish Chakraborty, the MLA from Jangipara,” said a leader who attended the meeting. The first meeting of this core committee will be held on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhishek-banerjee-prashant-kishor-hit-the-road-to-stop-infighting-in-tmc/story-sjHxNDkQmizG5m634IBodJ.html
15-10-2020||India||Manipur has a tourism revival plan, it is spread over 60 constituencies||In a move to promote Covid-19- hit tourism industry, Manipur is planning to set up eco-tourism facilities at all the 60 assembly constituencies in the state.“The state government has finalised the proposal to set up the eco-tourism facilities having basic amenities,” says director W Ibohal Singh of Manipur tourism department. “The district agencies will implement the said eco-tourism project,” he added.The government will provide Rs 30 lakh for installing these facilities in each of the 60 constituencies, while another Rs 20 lakh will come from each MLA’s local area development funds, Ibohal told reporters on the sidelines of a function to distribute incentives to six registered tour operators in Imphal on Wednesday.Ibohal also appealed to the residents to promote homestay facilities in the state as they are preferred by tourists. Presently homestay is available in the state capital besides Moirang in Bishnupur district and Ukhrul in Ukhrul district.Also Read: Manipur students’ body asks private schools not to collect 30% fees for lockdown periodSix registered tour operators in the state were given a cash incentive of Rs one lakh each considering their current challenges. Commissioner (Tourism) Devas Deval said the department will start focusing on domestic tourism in the days to come in order to offset the lack of tourist inflow due to the Covid-19 situation.Also Read: Two former ministers, Congress spokesperson join BJP ahead of Manipur bypollsAccording to state tourism department sources, a total of 28,836 tourists including 12,102 foreign tourists visited the state in 2019-20. While there is no official figure available for tourist inflow in the state since easing of restrictions after the lockdown, it is considered to be very low.The prevailing sentiment has even led to the suspension of the launch of the much awaited Imphal to Mandalay (Myanmar) bus service, earlier scheduled from April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-has-a-tourism-revival-plan-it-is-spread-over-60-constituencies/story-m6gJqNHl1cjAPhOeE42c8J.html
15-10-2020||India||SC notice to Centre, Google, Amazon, FB on plea over protection of UPI transactions||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to Centre, Google, Amazon and Facebook/WhatsApp over a petition filed by CPI MP Binoy Viswam seeking data protection of transactions made over UPIs. A three-judge bench headed by CJI SA Bobde said, “we will issue notice. Here there is apprehension that the entire regime of payments will commence before the entire regulatory framework is put in place.”Senior advocate Shyam Divan appearing for Viswam said that RBI issued an order in April 2018 asking these multinational firms to ensure data transacted on these forums is secured in a server within India. This was to be complied by October 2018 but was not done, Divan added. He further informed the court that WhatsApp stores data with its parent company Facebook having server outside India.The court has also issued notices to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). The petition filed through advocate P Sriram said, “The RBI and NPCI, instead of looking into such allegations (of data protection) have turned a blind eye and have permitted the operation of Amazon, Google, and WhatsApp in the UPI platform even contrary to public interest. This at a time when India has banned host of Chinese applications on the ground that these applications were or could be used for data theft.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-notice-to-centre-google-amazon-and-facebook-on-petition-seeking-data-protection-of-transactions-made-over-upis/story-ieNwZTpiyR00vue3tQpWCK.html
15-10-2020||India||Rating agency BARC to pause audience estimates of news channels amid TRP fraud probe||Rating agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) has decided to temporarily suspend news channels’ ratings following the fake TRP scam, the agency said in a statement on Thursday.“BARC Board has proposed that it’s Technical Committee (Tech Comm) review and augment the current standards of measuring and reporting the data of niche genres, to improve their statistical robustness and to significantly hamper the potential attempts of infiltrating the panel homes,” the agency said in a statement, adding that starting with the news genre, BARC will cease publishing the weekly individual ratings for all news channels during the exercise. The exercise, which the agency said is likely to take eight to twelve weeks, will cover all Hindi, regional, English news and business news channels. Also Read: ‘Your office is at Worli’, SC tells Republic TV to approach Bombay HC in TRP caseBARC, however, will continue to release weekly audience estimates for the genre of news by state and language, the statement added. Punit Goenka, Chairman of BARC India Board, said that the temporary suspension of ratings was necessitated “to enable the industry and the agency to work closely to review its already stringent protocols and further augment them to enable focus on collaborating for growth and well-natured competitiveness”.The rating agency’s CEO Sunil Lulla said, “We at BARC take our role in truthfully and faithfully reporting ‘What India Watches’ with the greatest sense of responsibility and work with integrity to ensure that our audience estimates (ratings) remain true to their purpose”.He added that BARC is actively exploring options to discourage unlawful inducement of its panel home viewers and further strengthening its code of conduct to address viewership malpractice, besides augmenting current protocols and benchmarking them with global standards. The alleged fake TRP scam came to light when BARC filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers. It was alleged that some families at whose houses metres for collecting data of viewership were installed were being bribed to tune into a particular channel.Last week, Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh had claimed that Republic TV and two Marathi channels - Box Cinema and Fakt Marathi - manipulated TRP for better advertisement revenue. The Mumbai police then registered a case in the TRP scam against Republic TV and summoned the channel’s chief financial officer (CFO) S Sundaram for investigation.The police have already arrested owners of channels Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema in the case.Republic TV , meanwhile, has rubbished Singh’s claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rating-agency-barc-to-pause-audience-estimates-of-news-channels-amid-fake-trp-fraud-probe/story-WmsMNjwvvoSF7HEkGg4pKI.html
15-10-2020||India||Sikkim’s Lepcha tribe vows to stall hydropower project in their holy land||Lepchas, the indigenous tribal people of the tiny Himalayan state of Sikkim, have vowed to stall an upcoming 520-megawatt hydropower project at Dzongu, a protected area the community considers its holy land. The protestors apprehend that the project would not just destroy the fragile ecosystem of the area which comprises Teetsa river basin and the Khangchendzonga National Park, which is a UNESCO World heritage site, but would also destroy the Dzongu, the last bastion of the Lepchas. “Nearly 99% of landmass in Sikkim and Darjeeling hills is held by Teesta basin. It is very important to allow the Teesta river, already destroyed for hydro power projects, to flow freely. The upcoming project is going to destroy the last bastion of the Lepchas. Around 60% of Dzongu falls under Khangchendzonga national park, a UNESCO World heritage site,” said Gyatso Lepcha, general secretary of affected citizens of Teesta (ACT). Dzongu is a protected area as per a 1956 notification when Sikkim was a separate country. Lepchas consider it to be their holy land and outsiders need permission to visit the place. Seven hydropower electric projects in Sikkim including the biggest-- 1,200 mw Teesta Urja-- have already been commissioned, while two more are likely to come up. On Teesta River only, there are four big projects inside Sikkim while two are in West Bengal. Environmentalists have been saying that power projects in the ecologically sensitive Teesta basin region will be harmful. Also Read: Foundation stone of Nechiphu Tunnel on road to China border in Arunachal laid by Rajnath Singh “This project is even economically unviable. It will hugely increase the disaster vulnerability of the Teesta basin in multiple ways. We have the examples of Teesta Stage VI proving unviable, Teesta V increasing disaster potential and Teesta III in terms of corruption,” Himanshu Thakkar, coordinator of south Asia network on dams, rivers and people (SANDRP) said. Way back in 2006, the National hydro power corporation (NHPC) had signed a memorandum of understanding with the state government to build the state’s second biggest hydropower project, which had to be stalled later following agitations by the ACT. Also Read: 54 done, BRO rushes to build 48 bridges that can shoulder T-90 main battle tanksThe ACT launched a 915-day-long hunger strike in Gangtok, stretching from 2007 to 2009, forcing the state government to scrap at least seven hydro power projects, some of them in Dzongu. The Teesta Stage IV project was also stalled after local people boycotted the mandatory public hearing in protest. Both the Sikkim Democratic Front (SDF) government and the Sikkim Krantikari Morcha (SKM) party- when it was in the opposition-- had promised not to go ahead with the project unless and until local people gave their consent. The Sikkim government on July 18, 2020 constituted an expert group for social impact assessment in respect to acquisition of land by NHPC, which is carrying out the project. The move has triggered tension among the Lepchas. “We are preparing for our agitation and are writing to the state government,” Lepcha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-s-lepcha-tribe-vows-to-stall-hydropower-project-in-their-holy-land/story-2WI8qE5RbcRNZ4Hdr7FEMP.html
15-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to address Bengal BJP workers on Durga Sasthi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address Bengal BJP on Durga SasthiPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address a virtual rally of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s West Bengal unit on October 22, which marks the Durga Sasthi, the sixth day of the Durga Puja festival. Read moreIAF team in France to review Rafale project as India prepares to induct more jetsAn Indian Air Force team, led by a two-star officer, is currently in France to review the progress of the Rafale project even as the second batch of fighters is set to reach their home base in Ambala in the next few weeks, officials familiar with the developments said on Thursday. Read moreNepal PM Oli sends a quiet message to India with a change in his cabinetNepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has shunted out the country’s deputy PM Ishwar Pokhrel out of the defence ministry in Wednesday’s cabinet reshuffle, a move seen as an effort to reset ties with its giant neighbour India, people familiar with the matter said. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘No idea, hearing it for the first time,’ Delhi Capitals pacer Anrich Nortje clocks over 156 kph, bowls fastest ball in IPLOn Wednesday in Dubai, playing against Rajasthan Royals, Delhi Capitals’ Anrich Nortje cemented his place in IPL record-books as he bowled the fastest ball ever in the tournament’s history. Read moreLand Rover Defender launched in India at ₹73.98 lakhThe all-new Land Rover Defender has gone on sale in India from Thursday. Bookings for the new Defender have already commenced. The SUV has been made available in both Defender ‘90’ as well as Defender ‘110’ body styles. Read moreKid sees dad without beard for first time. Her reaction will make you LOLA video captures a toddler’s reaction to seeing her dad without his beard for the first time. There’s a possibility that her reaction will leave you chuckling hard. Read moreGovt’s storage plan for Covid-19 vaccine; schools, cinemas reopen todayHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far; Unlock test today as schools, cinemas set to reopen today, the Great Barrington Declaration signed by doctors; govt chalks out plan for storage of covid vaccine. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-to-address-bengal-bjp-workers-on-durga-sasthi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-onC7ieKEflnhYONXPrdMRM.html
15-10-2020||India||Yogi resets protocol to deal with crime against women, onus on senior cops||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered senior police officers in the state to not only reach the crime spot, but in future also complete the investigations, in all cases of crime against women and children, in a time bound manner, according to an official press statement.Promising strict action against those behind such incidents in Agra, Chitrakoot and Pratapgarh, Adityanath reiterated that his government was committed to act decisively in all cases of crime against women and children. Adityanath also said that effective cover of protection must be provided to all the poor and needy likely to be affected in such incidents. “All cases of crime against women should be tried in fast track courts while those related to minors be tried in Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act courts,” said Adityanath, according to the press note. He also stressed on ensuring the guilty were punished in the shortest possible time, the press note said. Also Read: Uttar Pradesh: In a first, BSP, SP, BJP, Congress field Brahmins for Deoria bypollEarlier, Allahabad high court had directed the Uttar Pradesh government to take steps for the early constitution of Juvenile Justice Boards (JJB) in each district of the state to ensure appropriate measures including those related to children accused of violating any penal laws. Besides, the court also directed the state government to ensure that in future, steps for filling vacancies in the JJB are taken at least six months prior to the date of the post getting vacant.Also Read: UP considering Centre like festival bonanza for its employees before Diwali Yogi Adityanath government’s bid to close gaps in administration of law and order in the state, especially in cases of crimes against women, follows a huge outcry and allegations of state apathy and mishandling of the gang rape of a Dalit girl in Hathras district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-resets-protocol-to-deal-with-crime-against-women-onus-on-senior-cops/story-CCJRhEwO2Orx6NgO55FosO.html
15-10-2020||India||‘Your office is at Worli’: SC tells Republic TV to approach Bombay HC in TRP case||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to entertain a plea by Republic TV challenging the Mumbai police investigation into the TRP scam.A three-judge bench headed by justice DY Chandrachud asked the channel to move the Bombay high court first before approaching Supreme Court.“Your office is at Worli. Worli to Flora Fountain (where Bombay high court is situated) is closer. We should have faith in our high courts,” justice Chandrachud said.The judge, however, also deprecated the tendency of police officers going to the press.Also Read: BARC to pause audience estimates of news channels amid TRP fraud probe“We are concerned with the police commissioners giving interviews to press these days,” justice Chandrachud remarked.Senior counsel Harish Salve agreed to withdraw the plea which was allowed by the court. The Mumbai police had filed an affidavit opposing the plea stating that freedom of speech and expression under Article 19 of the Constitution cannot be used as a shield to commit crimes and prevent investigation into the offence.The affidavit also said that Republic TV has been conducting TV debates into the scam and contacting witnesses and intimidating them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/your-office-is-at-worli-supreme-court-tells-republic-tv-to-approach-bombay-high-court-in-trp-case/story-e0JYbqGNpPKm3JaXUWCfbI.html
15-10-2020||India||IAF team in France to review Rafale project as India prepares to induct more jets||An Indian Air Force team, led by a two-star officer, is currently in France to review the progress of the Rafale project even as the second batch of fighters is set to reach their home base in Ambala in the next few weeks, officials familiar with the developments said on Thursday. The team, headed by assistant chief of air staff (projects), reached France earlier this week for a scheduled review of the project, the officials said. Five Rafale jets of the 36 ordered by the IAF reached the Ambala airbase on July 29 after a stopover at the Al Dhafra airbase near Abu Dhabi, although a formal induction ceremony took place later on September 10. The officials said next batch of three or four Rafale jets is expected to arrive in the next few weeks (the date is being finalised) and will further boost the IAF’s capability to rapidly deploy the advanced jets amid tensions with neighbouring China and Pakistan. Also Read: IAF has shown capability to engage adversary: Air chiefThe IAF is expecting three or four Rafale jets to be delivered every two months, with all the planes likely to join the air force’s combat fleet by the year-end. ALSO WATCH | Watch: IAF’s Chinook helicopter carries out night sortie in Ladakh The Rafale fighters—the first imported jets to be inducted into the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997—have significantly enhanced the offensive capabilities of the IAF. The IAF is operating the Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on high alert to deal with any provocation by China even as military and diplomatic talks have failed to reduce friction in the sensitive Ladakh theatre. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria recently said the integration of Rafale fighter jets brought in a platform armed with advanced weapons, sensors and technologies that gave the IAF an operational and technological edge. “Combined with upgraded operational capabilities of our current fighter fleet, it gives us the ability to shoot first and strike deep and hard, even in contested airspace,” the IAF chief said. Also Read: PLA rotating troops on north Pangong Tso, signals disengagement is far offThe jets were ordered from France in September 2016 under a government-to-government deal worth Rs 59,000 crore. India-specific enhancements on the Rafales include a helmet-mounted sight, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers, cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases and towed decoys to ward off incoming missiles. The twin-engine jet is capable of carrying out a variety of missions —ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance and nuclear strike deterrence. It can carry almost 10 tonnes of weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-team-in-france-to-review-rafale-project-as-india-prepares-to-induct-more-jets/story-FTnzBkNnkEMJxiYpL1jYDJ.html
15-10-2020||India||Gadkari to initiate first blasting of all-weather Zojila Tunnel between Srinagar and Leh||Union minister for road transport, highways and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari will on Thursday initiate the first blasting of Zojila Tunnel in Jammu and Kashmir, which will ensure all-weather connectivity between the Srinagar valley and Leh.The 14.15-km tunnel will connect the Valley and Leh on NH-1 with approach road to Z-morh tunnel and avalanche protection structures.The Zojila Tunnel, which will be built at an altitude of about 3000 metre under Zojila pass on NH-1 connecting Srinagar and Leh through Dras and Kargil, will bring about an all-round economic and socio–cultural integration of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, the road transport ministry said in a statement. There is also an approach road of 18 kilometre from end of Z-Morh tunnel to the start of Zojila tunnel with avalanche protection structures such as catch dams, snow galleries, cut and cover, deflector dam, etc to make it an all-weather connection between two tunnels.At present it is one of the most dangerous stretches in the world to drive a vehicle and this project is also geo-strategically sensitive. The stretch remains closed during winters due to heavy snowfall. The project was first conceived in 2005 but could not be taken ahead. In May 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone at Leh but work could not be progressed after July 2019 as IL&FS, the firm that was given the contract, ran into financial problems. The project was terminated on January 15, 2019. Gadkari then reviewed the languishing project in February 2020 and referred it to an expert group to reduce the cost and to execute it on priority. After due consultation with tunnel experts and other stakeholders, the expert group submitted its report on May 17, 2020, which was approved by the minister, the statement added. “The construction cost of Zojila tunnel was earlier worked out at Rs 6,575.85 crore and after considering the escalation @ 5 per cent per annum and the total capital cost of the project as Rs 8,308 crore by NHIDCL. Thus, the total integrated cost of the project including Zojila tunnel and approaches up to Z-Morh tunnel works out to Rs 10,643 crores,” the statement said.Compared to the present cost of the integrated project, based on the tender received at Rs 4,509.5 crore, the total capital cost of the project would be Rs 6,808.63 crore, it added.“Thus, after re-modelling of the project and reaping the benefit of integrated project management by segregating the egress tunnel & utilising the excavated rock material in construction of approaches, generated from tunnel boring, resulted in an anticipated saving of Rs 3,835 crore,” according to the statement. The tunnel project shall bring to fruition 30 years of overwhelming public demand of Kargil, Drass and Ladakh region and will make the travel on Srinagar-Kargil-Leh Section of NH-1 free from avalanches. Project would enhance the safety of the travellers crossing Zojila Pass and would reduce the travel time from more than 3 hours to 15 minutes, it added. The project will also generate employment for the locals.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gadkari-to-initiate-first-blasting-of-all-weather-zojila-tunnel-between-srinagar-and-leh/story-M1IzoZ93isMJjqgRP8C4YO.html
15-10-2020||India||Nepal PM Oli sends a quiet message to India with a change in his cabinet||Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has shunted out the country’s deputy PM Ishwar Pokhrel out of the defence ministry in Wednesday’s cabinet reshuffle, a move seen as an effort to reset ties with its giant neighbour India, people familiar with the matter said. As defence minister, Ishwar Pokhrel had been one of India’s sharpest critics in PM Oli’s cabinet.The change of guard at the defence ministry - PM Oli will hold the charge of this portfolio - has been timed ahead of the Nepal visit of Indian Army Chief General MM Naravane on November 3.Pokhrel has been attached to the Prime Minister’s Office, an assignment that Nepal media said, effectively means he will be a minister without portfolio.Back in May this year when General Naravane had hinted at China’s role in Nepal’s shrill reaction to an 80-km road to Lipulekh built for pilgrims to Kailash Mansarovar in Tibet, Ishwar Pokhrel had sought to provoke Gurkha soldiers who have been an integral part of the Indian Army for decades.ALSO WATCH | India-Nepal tussle: Oli govt forced to defer new map claiming Indian territory Gen Naravane’s comment had “hurt the sentiments of the Nepali Gurkha army personnel who lay down their lives to protect India”, Pokhrel had said, claiming that Gurkha soldiers in the Indian army wouldn’t respect their superiors after Gen Naravane’s comment. There were other offensive remarks by the minister as well.Nepal watchers say Pokhrel had recently also opposed General Naravane’s November 3 visit to the Himalayan country and wanted India to first sit across the table to discuss the boundary dispute between the two countries.Pokhrel would often have run-ins with his own army chief General Purna Chandra Thapa as well. Gen Thapa, for one, had refused to play his game over the Lipulekh row when he declined to issue a statement. A report in the Kathmandu Post said General Thapa had also been upset about the minister dragging the armed forces in a row over the purchase of medical equipment to fight Covid-19.Also Read: PM Oli breaks ice with PM Modi on I-Day, tweets from top Nepal leaders followPokhrel, who was considered one of PM Oli’s most-trusted lieutenants, faced corruption charges in the procurement of medical equipment from China and has also been blamed for messing up Nepal’s handling of the coronavirus crisis. PM Oli had appointed him to lead the country’s high-level Covid-19 crisis management centre.During his Nepal visit, General Naravane would be conferred the honorary rank of general of the Nepali Army by Nepal’s President Vidya Devi Bhandari in keeping with a long-standing convention between the armies of the two countries on a reciprocal basis. Nepal Army Chief Gen Thapa was conferred the honorary rank of general of the Indian army in January 2019.PM Oli had laid the groundwork for his India outreach in August when he dialed Prime Minister Narendra Modi to greet him on the occasion of India’s 74th Independence Day. Last month, he stopped the distribution of a new text book that included the country’s revised political map that has riled India. The map shows three strategically-important Indian areas as part of its territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-pm-oli-s-cabinet-reshuffle-holds-an-outreach-message-to-india/story-a820jW7jDvkS3hQa7Pd93N.html
15-10-2020||India||Malayalam poet and Jnanpith awardee Akkitham Achuthan Namboothiri passes away||Eminent Malayalam poet and Jnanpith awardee Akkitham Achuthan Namboothiri died on Thursday following age-related ailments. He was 94.Namboothiri was also a recipient of the Padma Shri award and was associated with the freedom movement. A vedic scholar, Namboothiri was among the most talked about writers of his time. Born in 1926, he had mastered all the Vedas by the age of 14.He was close to Marxist legend EMS Namboodiripad.Namboothiri was later dubbed as a Hindutva ideal for his cultural and traditional ideas. He, however, always said he always stood with humanity and not with any ideals.Namboothiri received the Jnanpith award in September. The scholar also won the Kendra Sahitya Akademy award in 1976.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malayalam-poet-and-jnanpith-awardee-akkitham-achuthan-namoothiri-passes-away/story-kPvxxlpuG6wiBcS0o6MRaJ.html
15-10-2020||India||Railways gives nod to Alstom for running high speed freight trains in India||High-speed freight trains capable of running at a maximum speed of 120 kmph manufactured by French rolling-stock firm Alstom have been approved by the railway ministry and the Research Designs & Standards Organisation, the firm announced.“This makes the Alstom e-locos the fastest freight movers in the country. Cumulatively, these electric locomotives have already clocked over 1 million kilometres, thus providing a significant fillip to the country’s freight logistics landscape,” Alstom said in a statement on Wednesday.Electric locos allow heavy freight trains to haul 6,000 tonnes at a top speed of 120 kmph. The trains are planned to be deployed for operations on major freight routes including the Dedicated Freight Corridors. They are expected to increase the average speed of freight trains in India by at least 20-25 kmph, the company said.Also read: Railways to upgrade high speed trains with only special AC coaches“In line with India’s push towards self-reliance, we have successfully leveraged our local engineering and manufacturing capabilities. Alstom is also committed to support IR [Indian Railways] in reducing its carbon footprint and adopt cleaner technologies in its quest to transform into the world’s largest Green Railway network,” Alain SPOHR, managing director of Alstom India and South Asia, said in a statement on Wednesday.“Equipped with Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistors (IGBT) based propulsion technology, it would lead to considerable savings in energy consumption due to the use of regenerative braking. The technology is also helpful towards making the acceleration process more efficient by reducing the heat generation and traction noise. Additionally, this move will not only bring down operational costs but also reduce the congestion faced by Indian Railways.”The French rolling-stock maker has four industrial sites in Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. The largest engineering centre of Alstom outside of France is also in India (Bengaluru).Alstom in August also expressed interest in running private train operations in India. The railways ministry on July 1 began the process for allowing private trains on 109 routes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-gives-nod-to-alstom-for-running-high-speed-freight-trains-in-india/story-Xsn9oqBow7CYmDzCnnK7JJ.html
15-10-2020||India||Covid-19: India crosses 7.3 million mark with 67,708 new cases||India continued with its recent downward trajectory of new Covid-19 cases per day as the country recorded 67,708 new infections on Thursday to take the total caseload past the 7.3 million mark to 7,307,097, the Union health ministry’s data showed.(Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)This is for the fourth consecutive day the country has recorded less than 70,000 new cases in a day. However, it is a marginal rise from the 63,509 cases reported on Wednesday.With these latest figures, the number of active cases has reached 812,390 or 11.42% of total cases. There were 81,514 recoveries in the last 24 hours--more than the number of new cases--as overall recoveries reached 6,383,441 or 87.05% of the total cases.Meanwhile, the disease claimed 680 lives in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 111,266 or 1.53% of the overall caseload.Also, India’s latest Covid-19 figures come on a day schools, cinema halls, multiplexes, entertainment parks and swimming pools reopened with strict protocols in place. Last month, the Union home ministry, in its guidelines for the ongoing fifth phase of the nationwide unlock, had allowed these to reopen, but only outside containment zones.(Read more: Reboot begins for cinemas, schools)India had crossed the seven million case mark on October 11 amid a sharp fall in the number of new Covid-19 cases per day.Earlier today, the health ministry, in a tweet said India’s case doubling time has improved sharply to 70.4 days from 25.5 in mid-August. A graph attached with the tweet shows India’s case doubling time at various stages in the last two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-crosses-7-3-million-mark-with-67-708-new-cases/story-ct8hilPLP5ofkdSQE9YNtN.html
15-10-2020||India||BJP laps up ‘Bhookhe Nange’ slur to make MP polls Chauhan vs Nath battle||The Bharatiya Janata Party has turned the campaign for the upcoming by-election in Madhya Pradesh into a contest between “son of the soil” Shivraj Singh and “entrepreneur” Kamal Nath. Congress leader Dinesh Gurjar’s “Bhookhe-Nange” (impoverished) jibe at chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has given the BJP the arsenal to accuse the Congress of being anti-poor. VD Sharma, president of the BJP‘s state unit told HT that the statement reflects how detached Congress is from the ground and the contempt its leaders hold for the poor.“We are going to the people with a simple message that Kamal Nath is not a public figure, he is an ‘Udyogpati’ (entrepreneur) who came to Madhya Pradesh to fill his coffers. He is not a leader, but only a manager who was a ‘darbari’ (courtier) for the Congress and the Gandhi family. The campaign lays bare the five months of Kamal Nath government’s misrule in the state,” Sharma said. In the campaign rallies and the outreach through social media, the BJP has been alleging that the Kamal Nath government transferred schemes meant for the development of the whole state to his own constituency in Chhindwara. “Take the case of an agriculture college that was sanctioned for the Bundelkhand area, it was forcibly moved to Chhindwara. A Rs 1400 crore super-specialty medical college and irrigation projects meant for Bundelkhand and Bhind were also transferred to Chhindwara and 2.43 lakh houses under the PM Awas Yojana could not be built because the state government refused to release its share of 24% of funds for their construction,” Sharma said. Also Read: Bihar assembly election: 30% of phase-1 candidates have criminal recordsBypolls will be held in the state on November 3 to fill 28 seats in the legislative assembly. Of these 28 vacancies, 22 arose after congress MLAs along with senior Congress leader and former minister Jyotiraditya Scindia broke away from the Kamal Nath government and joined the BJP. The BJP which has 107 MLAs needs 9 more to reach the half-way mark in the house, while the Congress with 88 needs to win all the 28 seats if it hopes to return to power. On how the party will defend the government’s Covid-19 containment response and the large scale movement of migrant workers during the pandemic, Sharma said, the state would have been worse-off had the Congress been in power. Also Read: How will the LJP factor play out in the Bihar Assembly Election 2020?“Swift action was taken to ensure that the hospitals are equipped and there is provision for medicines and oxygen. In five months Rs 22,000 crore was transferred to farmers; similarly welfare schemes discontinued by Kamal Nath were restarted, so there is no anger against the government,” he said. According to functionaries involved in the electioneering process, the BJP has set a target of winning over 25 seats to give the government the cushion it needs to formulate policy without requiring support from independents or friendly parties. “Campaigning is being done across the election bound constituencies keeping the Covid protocol in mind. But our Panna Pramukhs have been given the duty to ensure that people come out to vote in large numbers. They have been tasked to alleviate the fear that voters might have about voting during the pandemic,” Sharma said. Political analysts Shirish Kashikar said the jibe at Chauhan will work in favour of the BJP. “While the party will definitely gain from highlighting this jibe; the goodwill that Scindia has in the region is a big factor that will help the party gain electorally,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-laps-up-bhookhe-nange-slur-to-make-mp-polls-chauhan-vs-nath-battle/story-S2hww0AUV60FTmoqlq6hLO.html
15-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Eight fresh cases detected in Mizoram as tally reaches 2,220||Mizoram’s COVID-19 count has reached 2,220 with eight new cases, according to the State government on Thursday.As per the State’s Department of Information and Public Relations (DIPR), the number of active cases in the state stands at 112, while 2,108 patients have been cured and discharged so far.The State has not reported any death due to the disease.India crossed the nine-crore mark of COVID-19 testing on Wednesday after 11,45,015 tests were conducted for the disease, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The ministry had said, “With 11,45,015 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the cumulative tests now stand at 9,00,90,122.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-eight-fresh-cases-detected-in-mizoram-as-total-raises-to-2-220/story-ykcYtELoxYq8sWkhBsyH1H.html
15-10-2020||India||‘Congress’ game plan won’t work this time’: HD Kumaraswamy attacks former ally||Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) ran the government in Karnataka, though the tenure was short-lived. But since parting ways, the allies have been attacking each other.Ahead of Rajarajeshwari Nagar (a locality in Bengaluru) assembly bypoll, JD(S) leader and former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy fired another dart at his party’s erstwhile ally.“Congress party’s game plan will not work this time in RR Nagar. How will they face the voters when they could not do anything for the constituency despite winning the elections from here twice?” Kumaraswmay said on Wednesday as he accompanied his party candidate V Krishnamurthy who filed nomination for the bypoll.The election is going to be interesting as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress have also fielded their candidates. While N Munirathna is fighting the bypoll on BJP ticket, H Kusuma is the Congress candidate for the November 3 bypoll.Munirathna was twice elected on Congress ticket from RR Nagar constituency - once in 2013 and second time in 2018.However, his resignation from the Assembly last year under anti-defection law along with 15 other MLAs of Congress and the JD(S) necessitated the bypolls in the constituency.After resigning from the assembly, he joined the BJP and now, he is contesting the polls on the BJP ticket.Congress candidate Kusuma, wife of deceased IAS officer DK Ravi, was accompanied by former chief minister Siddaramaiah and Congress state chief D K Shivakumar as she filed the nomination papers.Shivakumar said the election was crucial as it is a way to send a message to the state government as well as the Centre.Earlier this month, Kumaraswamy had made a scathing attack on Congress, saying it was not a party worthy of an alliance and it does not honour coalition dharma.“Who had placed the proposal from the JD(S) to have an alliance with the Congress? None of us have gone to Congress’ doors like they had come to H D Deve Gowda’s (JDS supremo) doors after the 2018 assembly polls,” Kumaraswamy tweeted.Both Congress and JD(S) had formed a coalition government led by Kumaraswamy after the 2018 assembly polls, but parted ways following the collapse of government due to internal differences and defection from several legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-game-plan-won-t-work-this-time-hd-kumaraswamy-attacks-former-ally/story-57ertwQndLQGrVEWfLZBnJ.html
15-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Extremely heavy rain warning for parts of west coast today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Extremely heavy rain warning for parts of west coast todayThere is warning for heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, measuring more than 20 centimetres (cm), over Konkan, Goa, parts of coastal Karnataka, central Maharashtra and south Gujarat for Thursday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read more here. IPL 2020: ‘Once you get 5000 runs, it’s enough,’ KL Rahul wants IPL organisers to ‘ban’ Virat Kohli and AB de VilliersDuring an Instagram interaction on Wednesday, Kings XI Punjab captain KL Rahul jokingly said that he would want the IPL organisers to ban Kohli and de Villiers, when the RCB captain asked him about a rule that he would like to be changed in T20 cricket. Read more here. WATCH | IPL 2020: Delhi Capitals beat Rajasthan Royals by 13 runs to reclaim top spotNASA explores ‘bizarre fantasy-like structures’ in the Carina Nebula. WatchIs it a habit of yours to often search for images or videos of the outer world on the Internet? If you have answered “yes” to any or all of these questions, then this post shared on official account for NASA’s Hubble Space Telescope is tailor-made for you. Read more here. Aditya Narayan says all his money is gone, has only Rs 18K in his account ahead of wedding: ‘Will have to sell my bike’Aditya said that he had never planned that he won’t be working for a year but the lockdown changed all his plans. Read more here.iPhone 12 Pro series have 6GB of RAM, iPhone 12, iPhone 12 Mini just get 4GBThe iPhone 12 Pro and iPhone 12 Pro Max are equipped with 6GB of RAM and the 2 lower variants, the iPhone 12 and the iPhone 12 mini have 4GB of RAM. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-extremely-heavy-rain-warning-for-parts-of-west-coast-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-WiEZFbYQG99hLdoZ3YpKpJ.html
15-10-2020||India||CPCB to deploy 50 teams in Delhi, NCR as pollution levels rise||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) will deploy 50 teams for extensive field visits from October 15 to ensure strict vigilance as pollution levels mount in Delhi and adjoining areas. The teams will visit Delhi and adjoining and nearby cities such as Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Gurugram, Faridabad, Ballabgarh, Jhajjar, Panipat and Sonepat.The teams will also closely monitor Alwar, Bharatpur in Rajasthan and the vigil against pollution will continue till February 28 next year.CPCB teams will monitor sources of pollution at ground level and polluting activities for immediate action. The teams will focus on hotspot areas where the problem gets aggravated.An Environment Ministry spokesperson said that they will be using app for regular updates on air quality. He said on spot reporting of major air polluting sources such as major construction activities without proper control measures, dumping of garbage and construction waste alongside the roads and on open plots and open burning of garbage and industrial waste will be done using SAMEER App.Details of the feedback will also be shared with concerned agencies and state governments.A Central Control Room has been made functional at CPCB headquarters for keeping track of pollution levels on an hourly basis and coordination with state agencies.District-wise nodal officers have been appointed for better management and coordination with teams.Air quality in the winter season is a major environmental concern in Delhi and the NCR region and special attention is being given to the problem this year due to COVID-19 pandemic.There are concerns that there could be more transmission of the virus in winter months and people have been urged to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour.The air quality in Delhi was between moderate and “poor” category at several places on Wednesday.An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpcb-to-deploy-50-teams-in-delhi-ncr-for-strict-vigil-to-curb-pollution/story-sPf8Qeu3w1BqJEUKzHN4aN.html
15-10-2020||India||Amit Shah pays his tributes to ex-President APJ Abdul Kalam on birth anniversary||Home minister Amit Shah on Thursday paid his tributes to former President and scientist APJ Abdul Kalam on his 89th birth anniversary.Shah wrote on Twitter, “Remembering Bharat Ratna Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam on his jayanti. A visionary leader and architect of India’s space & missile programmes, who always wanted to build a strong and self-reliant India. His immortal legacy in the field of science and education is an epitome of inspiration.”Remembering Bharat Ratna Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam on his jayanti. A visionary leader and architect of India's space & missile programmes, who always wanted to build a strong and self-reliant India. His immortal legacy in the field of science and education is an epitome of inspiration. pic.twitter.com/QzPW7IDMWsAvul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam was born on October 15, 1931 in Tamil Nadu’s Rameswaram. He worked with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) as a scientist and an administrator before becoming the President of India.He also headed the Integrated Guided Missile Development Programme and developed missiles like Agni and Prithvi. His close involvement with the nation’s space and ballistic missile development program earned him the sobriquet “Missile Man of India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-pays-his-tributes-to-ex-president-apj-abdul-kalam-on-birth-anniversary/story-OWm8LGeq1eMv57Lz1m9YuN.html
15-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 case doubling time has sharply increased to 70.4 days, says health ministry||With India’s new Covid-19 cases per day seeing a sharp fall in recent days, the Union health ministry on Thursday said the country’s doubling time has increased to 70.4 days from 25.5 days in mid-August.(Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)“India’s doubling time has sharply increased to 70.4 days (it was 25.5 days in mid-August). This indicates a substantial fall in the daily new cases and the consequent increase in time taken to double the total cases,” the ministry said on its official Twitter handle.A graph attached with the said tweet shows India’s doubling rate was 27.7 on August 18, 32 on August 30, 35.6 on September 17, 51.4 on October 2 and, finally, 70.4 on October 14. #IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCoronaIndia's Doubling Time has sharply increased to 70.4 days (it was 25.5 days in mid August).This indicates a substantial fall in the daily New Cases and the consequent increase in time taken to double the Total Cases. pic.twitter.com/6lckGUW1AYCrediting the central government’s strategies and Covid-19 warriors with the improvement in India’s case doubling time, the ministry further tweeted, “This is the result of the Centre-led strategies and the selfless dedication of doctors, paramedics, frontline workers and all other Covid-19 warriors.”After days of recording more than 80,000 and 90,000 cases a day, India’s rise in new cases per day has seen a dramatic fall in recent days. While the country’s last spike was 63,509 on Wednesday, the 55,342 cases that were reported on Tuesday was its lowest spike in nearly two months.India crossed the one million case mark on July 17 and two million in the next 21 days. It crossed the current seven million mark on October 11.The country’s current caseload, the second-highest after that of the United States, stands at 7,239,389 as per data from the health ministry. However, 6,301,927 or 87.05% of these are recovered cases, the highest number of recoveries globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-case-doubling-time-has-sharply-increased-to-70-4-days-says-health-ministry/story-Mnn4pgtHplUoswJbGDc9KL.html
15-10-2020||India||Schools, cinemas, religious gatherings resume today: All you need to know||After remaining shut for nearly seven months due to the lockdown imposed across the country in view of the coronavirus pandemic, cinemas and schools across several states are set to reopen on Thursday while religious gatherings too have been allowed with restrictions. Even as recent trends suggest the peak of the Covid-19 infection in India may be over, the latest ‘unlock’ measures - reopening of schools, cinemas and religious gatherings - pose a big risk given that Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease, may easily spread in closed spaces like movie theatres and auditoriums, children may contract the disease and take it home where there may be more vulnerable people, and if people do not remain cautious crowds at festivals may catch the infection. Owing to the risks involved in returning to normalcy, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday said, “The next two-and-a-half months are going to be very crucial for us in our fight against corona because of the winter season and the festival season. It becomes the responsibility of every citizen to not let our guard down and follow Covid appropriate behaviour to curb spread of the infection.”Here is everything you need to know about the latest phase of unlockingSchools -- The Centre has allowed states to let students to get back to classrooms starting Thursday, the final call, however, remains with the state governments. A few states resumed classes from September 21, as advised by the Centre earlier.--While schools are partially opening for Classes 9 and upwards in several states with the consent of parents, they will remain closed in Delhi, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala, Karnataka, Telangana, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh. --Uttar Pradesh government has decided to reopen schools from the beginning of the next week - October 19.Movie theatres, multiplexes--The state governments in Delhi, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, UP, Punjab, Chandigarh, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, and Karnataka have decided to reopen cinemas. They are required to follow guidelines stated by the Centre.--Since no fresh titles have been released ever since the pandemic began, most halls will rerun old hits. “We’ve picked some old blockbusters like Simmba, Chhichhore, Malang, Section 375 depending which movie fits best in which pocket and was preferred in that place. So, cinemas in Delhi would show a different film than a cinema in Gurugram or Kanpur,” said Kunal Sawhney, senior vice president of operations, Carnival Cinemas. --Cinemas are allowed to operate with 50% occupancy so as to maintain adequate physical distance between people. Not only on seats, floor marking will be done at box office counters too to ensure social distancing. --Show timings of the screenings will be staggered to avoid overcrowding. Advance bookings have also been made available for the purpose. --People have been advised to use digital modes of payment at the theatre. Multiple sale counters for food and beverages will be open, people will be allowed to carry only packed food and no delivery will be permitted inside the auditorium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-cinemas-religious-gatherings-resume-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-KsOurqbw56KFvvNwd75H2K.html
15-10-2020||India||Extremely heavy rain warning for parts of west coast today||There is warning for heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, measuring more than 20 centimetres (cm), over Konkan, Goa, parts of coastal Karnataka, central Maharashtra and south Gujarat for Thursday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The depression over north interior Karnataka and adjoining areas of Maharashtra has moved west-north-westwards and has weakened into a well-marked low-pressure area over south-central Maharashtra. The depression is likely to intensify following its merger with the Arabian Sea.It is likely to move west-north-westwards and emerge into east-central Arabian Sea off Maharashtra coast on Friday (October 16) morning. The depression is likely to intensify in the next 24 hours over east-central and adjoining north-east Arabian Sea off Maharashtra towards south Gujarat coasts.Also Read: Heavy rains lash Hyderabad, waterlogging and traffic jams reported in many areasGradually, it will move west-north-westwards and intensify further.Sea conditions will be rough to very rough over east-central and adjoining north-east Arabian Sea and along and off Maharashtra and Gujarat coasts between Friday and Sunday (October 16 to 18). IMD has advised fishermen not to venture into the sea from Friday onwards for the next three days.Flash floods, water logging, and disruption of traffic are likely to occur in areas that will experience heavy to extremely heavy rainfall.Mumbai’s Colaba and Santracruz recorded 107 millimetres (mm) and 82.5 mm of rainfall, respectively, on Wednesday. The other parts of Maharashtra also recorded very heavy rainfall. Mahabaleshwar recorded 118 mm, Chinchwad (113 mm), and Magarpatta (131.5 mm).Between October 1 and October 14, the country has recorded 6% of excess rainfall.Officially, the monsoon season comes to an end on September 30, but it hasn’t withdrawn yet, according to IMD. The withdrawal of monsoon is stalled because of intense rainfall associated with a depression that has formed over the Bay of Bengal. So far, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yaman, Rayalaseema, north interior Karnataka, Odisha, Chhattisgarh have recorded excess rainfall -- 60% or more than normal -- in October. Usually, monsoon is expected to withdraw completely from the country by October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extremely-heavy-rain-warning-for-parts-of-west-coast-today/story-QXCS5vHQ9G0M4H2XyzNTwJ.html
15-10-2020||India||19-yr-old arrested for throwing acid on 3 sisters in UP’s Gonda district||A 19-year-old man was arrested after a brief exchange of fire on Wednesday for allegedly throwing chemical, suspected to be acid, on three Dalit sisters, aged 8, 12, and 17 early on Tuesday morning in Gonda district,the police said.Gonda additional superintendent of police (ASP) Mahendra Kumar said the accused, Ashish Chaurasiya alias Chotu, had been “troubling” the eldest sister for quite some time and pressuring her to talk to him. He lived near the girls’ house in Paska town.“Police launched a search for the accused and late evening [on Tuesday], a police team saw him [Chaurasiya] arriving on a motorcycle. His bike slipped when he saw the police jeep and he opened fire at police, and police personnel retaliated in self-defence during which the accused got injured. He has been arrested and sent to a hospital for treatment,” the ASP said.Chaurasiya’s arrest led to a protest by local traders and residents of Paska town as they blamed the police for framing Chaurasiya in the case. Chaurasiya’s mother Laxmi Chaurasiya demanded a probe by Central Bureau of Investigation in the case.The ASP rejected the allegations and said that two of the three girls had told the police that they had seen Chaurasiya escaping from the house after throwing the acid-like liquid on them. The ASP also said the accused confessed to committing the crime during interrogation. Three Dalit sisters were attacked with a chemical while they were sleeping inside their house in Uttar Pradesh’s Gonda in the early hours of Tuesday. The eldest sister suffered major injuries on her face and chest while the other two suffered minor burns on hands. Superintendent of police Shailesh Kumar Pandey had said on Tuesday that all three girls are out of danger.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-yr-old-arrested-for-throwing-acid-on-3-sisters-in-up-s-gonda-district/story-RJf5L6ls76i5OThjJXoQvI.html
15-10-2020||India||Army chief General MM Naravane to visit Nepal next month||Indian Army chief General MM Naravane is set to travel to Nepal next month in the first high-level visit between the two countries since a border row hit ties earlier this year. Nepal’s defence ministry announced on Wednesday that Naravane will visit in November. “The visit was approved by the government of Nepal on 3rd February 2020 but was postponed due to [the Covid-19] lockdown in both the countries,” it said in a statement. In keeping with a long-standing convention between the armies of the two countries, Nepal’s President Vidya Devi Bhandari will “confer the honorary rank of general of the Nepali Army to General Naravane in an investiture ceremony during this visit”, the statement said. Though the statement did not give the dates for the trip, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the Indian Army chief is expected to be in Nepal during November 3-5. Naravane’s visit will provide an opportunity for the two sides to push defence and security cooperation after bilateral relations were affected by a border row that erupted in May. At the time, Nepal objected to the opening of a new road to Lipulekh region on the border with Tibet by India’s defence minister Rajnath Singh. Nepal then issued a new map that showed Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, all controlled by India, as part of Nepalese territory, exacerbating the row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-general-mm-naravane-to-visit-nepal-next-month/story-uiaPbg8FoWvULd2mDF3FFL.html
15-10-2020||India||After ad row, Tanishq store made to put out apology||A Tanishq jewellery store in Gandhidham town in Gujarat’s Kutch district put up a note apologising for a recent advertisement featuring a Muslim woman with a Hindu daughter-in-law, police said on Wednesday.The police statement came after TV reports said a group of people angry with the advertisement barged into the store and threatened the manager. The store owner and the police, however, denied the reports. “The store owner told us that he was not threatened. As demanded by some people, he had put up that apology in Gujarati as Tanishq had issued the same in English at the national level. There is no element of threat or attack involved,” said Mayur Patil, superintendent of police, Kutch-East.The advertisement in question, for Tanishq’s new collection called Ekatvam (which means oneness), showed a Muslim family organising a baby shower for their Hindu daughter-in-law. The Tanishq jewellery brand is a division of the Titan company, promoted by the Tata Group in collaboration with the Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation.Some people had asked the store owner to put up the apology in Gujarati so that more people could understand it, police said. The note condemned the advertisement, which has been withdrawn from all platforms after it received a backlash with #BoycottTanishq trending on social media. “We apologise to the Hindu community of Kutch on the shameful advertisement of Tanishq,” the handwritten note said.The note was put up on the store’s door on October 12, and has since been removed, police said. The SP said the showroom had received some threatening calls on October 12 regarding the advertisement after which security was stepped up around the showroom. “But there was no attack,” he said.Later, a person who purportedly asked the showroom manager to apologise, Ramesh Maitra, said he went to the showroom and his intention was not to hurt anyone’s business.“Yes, I went there to apprise the showroom people about the feelings of the Hindu samaj (society) of the area and asked them to write an apology for the advertisement. I did not intend to hurt the business of anyone,” he said in a video issued on Wednesday.Photos of the apology note have since been widely shared on social media.Advertising bodies came out in support of the advertisement featuring the interfaith family.“Such baseless and irrelevant attack on creative expression is extremely concerning,” The Advertising Club said on Twitter. “The Advertising Club on behalf of the Indian Media and Advertising industry strongly condemns the threatening and targeting of Tanishq and its employees in regards to their latest advertisement on the new jewellery line.”The Indian chapter of the International Advertising Association said the events that led to the withdrawal of the advertisement were “very unfortunate”, and demanded action from the government against “intimidating behaviour”.“While we respect the opinion of every individual on subjective matters, these should not descend to illegal threats and anti-social behavior. We appeal to the concerned governments to take a serious view of such intimidating behaviour and take exemplary action where required to ensure that businesses are provided a safe environment to communicate their brand advertising messages,” the association tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-ad-row-tanishq-store-made-to-put-out-apology/story-Bp94K5oSqKWcwMwYrZMZAK.html
15-10-2020||India||Hathras case: CBI questions victim’s father, two brothers||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned the father and two brothers of the Hathras gang rape victim for six hours on Wednesday, the second straight day the probe officials have quizzed the kin of the 19-year-old Dalit woman whose death and subsequent midnight cremation last month roiled the country. The questioning began at the CBI’s camp office in Hathras at 11am and continued till 5pm. “The male members of the victim’s family were called to the camp office of CBI and were taken there under full security,” said Anjali Gangwar, subdivisional magistrate, Hathras. The agency’s camp office is at the office of the deputy director (agriculture) in Hathras. On Tuesday evening, Seema Pahuja, who is heading the CBI team, reached the house of the victim and met the women of the family. The relatives of the victim requested the authorities to shift the four accused – all from the Thakur caste -- from the Aligarh jail to another prison far away. “Such a decision can be taken at the government level, if such a demand is being made,” Gangwar said. A 15-member CBI team had inspected the crime scene on Tuesday and called the victim’s brother there. The victim’s mother and aunt were also called to the spot later in the day. The CBI team also went to site where the Hathras victim was cremated at 230am on September 30 against the wishes of her family.In Mathura, a team of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) quizzed four men, who were arrested a week ago for alleged links with the Popular Front of India (PFI) and its associate body, Campus Front of India (CFI). The interrogation by the six-member ED team in Mathura jail lasted about five hours, but officials refused to share any details with the media.The questioning revolved around sources of funding raised through a website, which is at the centre of a state government probe into an international conspiracy to foment caste violence. The four men -- Atiq-ur- Rehman of Muzaffarnagar, Siddique from Mallpuram (Kerala), Masood from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur -- are currently in Mathura jail. Siddique is a journalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-cbi-questions-victim-s-father-two-brothers/story-VjRmuZ7LJ1X2EgmXsQymMI.html
15-10-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti meets political leaders, to attend key meeting today||The release of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti from more than 14 months of detention appears to have galvanised political parties of Jammu and Kashmir, where all mainstream groups will meet on Thursday to take stock of the situation in the erstwhile state and decide on their next course of action.A day after her release, National Conference leaders Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah on Wednesday visited Mufti’s residence and invited her to the meeting. Mufti, who like the Abdullahs is a former chief minister of J&K, accepted the invitation.Mufti, and other major politicians of J&K including the Abdullahs, were detained ahead of the Constitutional changes pushed through by Parliament on August 5, 2019, nullifying Article 370 of the Constitution to divest the state of its special status and reorganising it into two Union territories -- J&K and Ladakh. Farooq and his son Omar Abdullah were released in March.Also Read| People will continue struggling for resolution of Kashmir: Mehbooba Mufti’s message after release“My father and I called on Mehbooba Mufti Sahiba this afternoon to enquire about her well-being after her release from detention. She has kindly accepted Farooq Saab’s invitation to join a meeting of the Gupkar Declaration signatories’ tomorrow (Thursday) afternoon,” Omar Abdullah said.“Today, our visit was without any political motive and we wanted to know her well-being... In the meeting tomorrow, the present political situation will be reviewed and what will be the future agenda of the Gupkar Declaration signatories in one view, that will also be discussed,” he said. Gupkar Declaration is a joint initiative of all the regional mainstream political parties – the National Conference, the Peoples Democratic Party,the People’s Conference, the Awami National Conference and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) - of J&K.On August 4, 2019, a day before the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, a group of prominent politicians of J&K met in Srinagar at Gupkar and issued a joint statement vowing to defend the “identity, autonomy and special status of Jammu & Kashmir against all attacks and onslaughts whatsoever”. The statement has since come to be known as the Gupkar Declaration.After the meeting with the Abdullah, Mufti said she was hopeful that together they could change things.“It was nice of you & Farooq sahab to come home. It gave me courage listening to him. I am sure together we all can change things for the better,” Mufti said in response to Omar Abdullah’s comments. Mufti sent a terse message to Delhi just an hour after her release from detention. “I have become free today after more than a year. During this time the black decision of August 5, 2019, black day, would always pain my heart and soul. And I realize that the people of J&K would have the same feeling. Nobody among us can forget the day’s robbery and humiliation,” she said in a 1.23 minute long audio message.“Now we all will have to reiterate that whatever Delhi Darbar, unconstitutionally and undemocratically, snatched away from us will have to be taken back,” said Mufti, who spent Wednesday meeting leaders and workers of her party who came to visit her from all over the Kashmir valley. More than a year after the constitutional changes related to J&K, on August 22, 2020, the six signatories again issued a statement and announced that they would carry forward the Gupkar Declaration.Also Read: Former J-K CM Mehbooba Mufti’s release welcomed widely, press conference likely on FridayIt was the first such joint statement signed by mainstream parties after the revocation of Article 370 and the bifurcation of the region into two union territories; it hinted at a joint campaign for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status.“We all reiterate that we are bound, wholly, by the contents of the Gupkar declaration and will unwaveringly adhere to it. We are committed to strive for the restoration of Articles 370 and 35A, the Constitution ofJ&K and the restoration of the State and any division of the State is unacceptable to us. We unanimously reiterate that there can be ‘nothing about us without us’,” the joint statement said.Article 35A empowered the Jammu and Kashmir legislature to define the permanent residents of the state and provide them special benefits and privileges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-meets-political-leaders-to-attend-key-meeting-today/story-tNYGaG75EwhQtzagIcZZoJ.html
15-10-2020||India||How the Covid-19 pandemic has hit GDP growth||The International Monetary Fund (IMF) released its World Economic Outlook (WEO) report on Tuesday. The previous WEO was released in April this year, when the extent of the Covid-19 pandemic and ts economic implications were still being evaluated. The report gives the economic forecast on a host of indicators up to 2025. While these numbers are subject to revision even in the short-term horizon, it is worth comparing India’s post-pandemic economic trajectory with that of other South Asian countries -- Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, and Pakistan -- and with China, the only emerging market economy that is bigger than India. India’s post-Covid losses the biggest in South Asia India’s GDP will contract by 10.3% this fiscal year, IMF has projected. This is the biggest contraction among the countries which have been selected here. Three other countries, Afghanistan (5%), Pakistan (0.4%) and Sri Lanka (4.6%) will also experience a contraction in GDP this year. India will only be the second country apart from Afghanistan, which will not be able to regain its 2019 GDP level even in 2021. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicInvestment to suffer a sharp fall Investment as a share of GDP had been falling in India even before the pandemic. This number had come down from 39.6% in 2011 to 29.7% in 2019. It is expected to fall to 27.8% in 2020 and will not cross the 31.7% level of 2018 until 2025. To be sure, all countries except Bhutan, China and Myanmar will experience a fall in investment-GDP ratios in 2020.  Per capita GDP While India’s per capita GDP (in current dollars) will fall below Bangladesh’s in 2020-21, it will overtake it marginally once again in 2021-22. India’s per capita GDP is significantly less than that of Bhutan and Sri Lanka in the South Asia region. With a dip in India’s per capita GDP trajectory, Bangladesh will enjoy almost similar per capita GDP levels as India’s up to 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-the-covid-19-pandemic-has-hit-gdp-growth/story-7enJJQpWNdPMb2UGAHdomO.html
15-10-2020||India||3-layer security given to Hathras victim’s kin: UP govt to SC||The Uttar Pradesh government told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that it is committed to providing complete security to the family members of the Hathras gang rape victim and witnesses in the case, and placed before the court the details of the steps taken to ensure they were protected. A three-fold protection mechanism, comprising armed constabulary, civil police, and CCTV cameras and lights, has been deployed at the victim’s village entrance, house and surroundings, a compliance affidavit filed by the Yogi Adityanath government said. “The state government has deployed adequate forces to ensure protection of the victim’s family. The government of Uttar Pradesh is committed to provide complete security to the victim’s family and witnesses to ensure free and fair investigation,” the affidavit said. Also Read| Hathras case: Not satisfied with govt version on cremation, says high courtFurther, personal security gunners have been provided for the security of victim’s father, mother, brothers, sister-in-law and grandmother, it added. “The entire security staff deployed at the village has been strictly instructed to ensure that there is no intrusion into the privacy of the victim’s family and witnesses and that they are free to move and meet people they want,” it was submitted. The affidavit also stated that the victim’s brother informed the additional superintendent of police that they engaged two lawyers on behalf of their family as private advocates in the matter.The affidavit was filed pursuant to an order passed by the Supreme Court on October 6 seeking details of the security being provided by the state government to the victim’s family and witnesses. The apex court’s order came after a plea by a social activist, Satyama Dubey, and two lawyers, Vishal Thakre and Rudra Pratap Yadav. alleged failure on the part of Uttar Pradesh authorities in dealing with the matter. The petition sought a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the incident in which a 19-year old Dalit woman from Hathras was gang raped and murdered. The victim, a member of the Valmiki caste, was allegedly attacked by four members of the dominant Thakur caste on September 14, and breathed her last on September 29. At 2.30am the next day, her body was forcibly cremated by local authorities in a field outside her village, triggering outrage across the country. The UP government has maintained that it was forced to do so in order to avert an extraordinary law-and-order problem posed by protestors and political parties.The state, in an earlier affidavit filed on October 5, said that it is in agreement with the prayer for a CBI probe but that such a probe should be monitored by the top court. The probe was handed over to CBI by the state on October 10. In its affidavit on Wednesday, the UP government requested that a direction be issued to CBI to submit fortnightly status reports on the investigation to the state government which can then be filed by the director general of police of UP before the Supreme Court.Also Read| ‘Male members to be questioned’: CBI again summons Hathras gang-rape victim’s brotherMeanwhile, an intervention application was file before the Supreme Court by an NGO, Munnokka Samudaya Samrakshana Munnani (Forward Community Welfare Front), based in Kerala, praying that guidelines be issued to ensure that when such crimes are reported, it should be first ascertained whether or not such crime is indeed the outcome of caste-based discrimination before portraying it as one.“It becomes imperative that the random use of caste in the reporting of crimes even when the caste of the involved parties is of no relevance, only helps to vilify and malign entire sections of people leaving them with no legal remedy and needs to be checked,” the application said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-layer-security-given-to-hathras-victim-s-kin-up-govt-to-sc/story-trLyrCgCdfJAPX3eJRwjqJ.html
15-10-2020||India||Farmers’ groups walk out of govt meeting on new agricultural reforms||A delegation of protesting farmers’ leaders from Punjab invited for talks by Union agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal walked out of the meeting, demanding the presence of farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar, according to an umbrella platform representing the cultivators. The Centre had invited at least 31 farmers’ organisations and their leaders from Punjab for talks in New Delhi, the second attempt in a month to reach out to farmers protesting a set of laws enacted to liberalise agricultural markets. “The meeting was an effort to try and create a false impression that the central government is engaging with farmers, when in fact it is going all out to roll out and enforce the black anti-farmer laws,” the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said. Also Read| Govt always open for discussion with farmers on new farm laws: Prakash JavadekarThe farmers’ delegation demanded the presence of agriculture minister Tomar and tore up copies of the laws. “First, the government should be ready to review and if necessary, repeal the three laws. Second, the government should be ready to consider legislating minimum support price as a legal right and deal with input cost...” the AIKSCC said. Avik Saha, convener of the AIKSCC, said the meeting with the agriculture secretary “did not meet any of these criteria” as a the bureaucrat is not in position to repeal, amend or enact new laws. “Rather his job is to implement the laws made by government so he is the wrong person for the right discussion,” Saha said. Farmers have blocked roads and railway tracks since September 24 in a protest against legislation they fear could pave the way for the government to stop buying cereals at guaranteed prices (minimum support prices or MSPs), leaving them vulnerable to exploitation by private entities. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defending the laws, has called the new measures “historic”. He has said that while the laws give farmers options to sell their produce to private buyers, the government would continue to purchase staples at MSPs. The laws seek to end local monopolies of regulated markets known as agricultural produce marketing committees by opening up to private competition. These assurances have done little to satisfy farmers in Punjab, Haryana and western parts of Uttar Pradesh. Big farmers’ groups, who usually produce substantial surpluses, fear deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses. Also Read| Farm reforms will help turn farmers into entrepreneurs: ModiThe reforms are a crucial test for the Modi government’s ability to push through structural policy changes in the antiquated agriculture sector, which supports nearly half of all Indians, while mollifying especially large farmers in the food bowl states. A statement by the agriculture ministry, however, said that the farmers’ leaders sat through the discussions for nearly two hours before submitting a memorandum. Asked about the absence of agriculture minister at the meeting, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said: “If some one wants more (discussion), we are always open (to) meet everyone. But (agriculture minister Narendra Singh) Tomarji has an engagement today, therefore he has gone. When he will get free, he will meet all. There is no problem in this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-groups-walk-out-of-govt-meeting-on-new-agricultural-reforms/story-BlnCeKO637qWC1z7NjbH7K.html
15-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Antibody tests administered to a huge swathe of the population (or sero surveys as they are called) have shown that a significant proportion of the Indian population has been exposed to the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes the coronavirus disease.How significant?A previous instalment of this column, Dispatch 158 on September 15 attempted to address that question. The answer (based on results of sero surveys conducted across the country, and some conservative assumptions): 15% of the urban population and around 5% to 7.5% of the rural population can be expected to have been infected with the virus. Assuming a rural population of 850 million and an urban of 450 million, and taking the rural infection rate as 6.25%, the weighted infection rate for the country is around 12%. This is not a measure of those with current infections, but those who have been infected and cured (many times without their knowledge).India’s positivity rate for the week ended October 13 was 6.2%, according to the health ministry. This is consistent with an infection rate of 12%. Both antigen and molecular tests for Covid-19 test for current infections, unlike the antibody tests which look for antibodies — they can only diagnose current infections where antibodies have been produced (one reason why they aren’t recommended for diagnosis) or previous exposure — and logic demands that the positivity rate always be lower than the infection (or exposure) rate.Also Read: Researchers find evidence of antibody production 5-6 months after Covid-19 infectionThere’s been a lot of talk of herd immunity (again) in recent days, especially with the release, last week, of the loftily named Great Barrington Declaration (https://gbdeclaration.org/) which basically calls for building herd immunity. “The most compassionate approach that balances the risks and benefits of reaching herd immunity is to allow those who are at minimal risk of death to live their lives normally to build up immunity to the virus through natural infection, while better protecting those who are at highest risk. We call this Focused Protection,” it says. A report in the New York Times suggests that the Trump White House has embraced this declaration.Because it’s important to say this, I will do so straightaway: I do not agree with the course advocated by the declaration, and believe it is downright dangerous. Several experts believe that the only way to achieve herd immunity in the case of the coronavirus disease, without significant loss of lives, is vaccination.The herd immunity level may be just around 40% instead of the widely believed 60%, according to mathematicians at the University of Stockholm and the University of Nottingham; and only around 11% of people exposed to an infected person are likely to contract Covid-19, according to a team led by Ramanan Laxminarayan of the Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy. It still does not make sense to pursue an expose-and-infect strategy. That’s because some of those infected tend to be superspreaders (8% infect 60%, according to the second study cited above); we do not know enough about the long-term impact of even mild infections; and the mathematicians themselves, in the first study cited above, caveat that the 40% number is not even directional but merely to show how “population heterogeneity affects herd immunity”.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicStill, sero surveys are important — not so much for assessing when a city or region or country is likely to achieve herd immunity, but to measure prevalence of the infection and the proportion of the population that has been exposed to it. A city or state with a high exposure rate (as measured by the sero survey), can safely assume that with stringent enforcement of mask discipline, social distancing, hand hygiene and rules on public gatherings, it can open up just about anything (including schools) with a lower risk than a city or a state with a lower exposure rate. That’s good enough reason for the Union government as well as states to get serious about sero surveys, just as it is good enough reason for them to get serious about the enforcement of Covid-safe behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-3AB7atPLUejgozoOne7zZN.html
15-10-2020||India||429 new Covid-19 cases take Uttarakhand’s tally past 56,000-mark, 14 more die||With 429 fresh Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand on Wednesday crossed the 56,000-mark, taking the state’s tally of total coronavirus cases to 56,070.According to the bulletin released by the health department on Wednesday evening, a of 157 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district followed by Haridwar (55), Nainital (42) US Nagar (40) Pithoragarh (25), Pauri (22) Champawat (22), Almora (17), Uttarkashi (14), Rudraprayag (12) Chamoli (12), Bageshwar (9) and Tehri (3). Dehradun district has reported the maximum of 15,494 Covid-19 cases so far followed by Haridwar (10,380), US Nagar (9095) and Nainital (6576). Out of 56,070 who have tested positive so far, a total of 48,798 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 87.03%. Also, 827 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Wednesday with a maximum of 209 from US Nagar district. The state reported the death of 14 Covid-19 patients. With this, the death toll of Covid-19 patients increased to 796 in the state. Out of the 796 deaths, 237 are due to coronavirus, while the others died due to co-morbidities. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 83.92 days, while the positivity rate is 6.79%. The state has so far tested over 8.58 lakh samples of which results of over 15,800 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 257 containment zones in seven districts including a maximum of 96 in Haridwar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/429-new-covid-19-cases-take-uttarakhand-s-tally-past-56-000-mark-14-more-die/story-zRO3coLfaJId5nqmWmmNLI.html
15-10-2020||India||In Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh, 40-year-old woman killed by leopard||In yet another incident of leopard attack, a 40-year-old woman was mauled to death by a leopard in Pithoragarh district on Wednesday evening when she had gone to the forests to cut grass. Vinay Bhargav, divisional forest officer of Pithoragarh division said the incident happened around 4 pm on Wednesday in Papdeo Van Panchayat area. “When the woman had gone to cut grass in the forests, she was mauled by the leopard and the animal further dragged her around 50 metres into dense bushes. Upon hearing her scream, other women who had accompanied her reached the site by tracing the blood trail, but the woman had died by then,” Bhargav said. The body was recovered by local forest staff and sent to the district hospital for a post-mortem examination. “As the incident happened inside a forest area, it prima facie appears to be a result of confrontation and panic attack,” said the forest official. This is not the first incident of a leopard attack in the state. On October 11, a 7-year-old girl was killed by a leopard in Tehri Garhwal district when she had gone to use the washroom outside her house. This was the fifth case of a child being killed by a leopard in the past one month. On October 7, a 7-year-old girl was killed in a leopard attack outside her house in Berinag division of Pithoragarh district. On October 1, a 14-year-old boy was killed in a leopard attack in Pauri Garhwal district when he took his cattle for grazing in the forest area. On September 24, an 11-year-old girl was killed in a leopard attack in Pithoragarh district when she was working near her house and collecting fodder. On September 19, a 7-year-old girl was mauled to death by a leopard when she was playing near her house in Almora district. On September 22, a 40-year-old man was also killed by a leopard in the Pithoragarh district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-uttarakhand-s-pithoragarh-40-year-old-woman-killed-by-leopard/story-HbAiFung8xEWsuyiYeg46M.html
15-10-2020||India||Tribal woman gang-raped in south Bengal village, one arrested||A 22-year-old tribal woman was allegedly gang-raped by two youths while two others, including a woman, stood guard late on Tuesday night in a village in south Bengal, about 100 km north of Kolkata. “We have initiated a case based on the victim’s allegations. A tribal youth has already been arrested. A search has been initiated for the others. Investigation is going on,” said Bhaskar Mukherjee, Superintendent of Police of Purba Burdwan district. According to the police, the woman who was staying with her in-laws, had gone out to relieve herself around 10:30 pm on Tuesday. “She said she saw a light outside the house and went to investigate. When she found nothing and had just turned back, the miscreants attacked her from behind. She was gagged and taken to a field where she was raped by two men. According to the victim, there were four people including a woman,” a senior official said. Though the victim could not identify any of the miscreants since their faces were covered with towels, the police later identified one youth and arrested him. He has been identified as Daktar Hembram, 24. Around 3.00 am, the victim managed to reach home and was rushed to a hospital by villagers. She was later treated and discharged. Her husband was not at home when the incident took place. “She said that she couldn’t see any of the miscreants as it was dark and their faces were covered. But she could make out that there was one woman in the gang,” said the victim’s mother-in-law. This comes a month after a 19-year-old was allegedly gang-raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras. The woman succumbed to her injuries in hospital days later. The incident triggered outrage across the country. The Bharatiya Janata Party has already attacked the ruling Trinamool Congress over the incident. “When something happens in Uttar Pradesh, TMC goes there. Will Mamata Banerjee demand a CBI probe now? Why is she silent now?” Agnimitra Paul, Bengal BJP women’s wing president said. “Police has already started an investigation. The BJP is shouting unnecessarily. West Bengal has a woman chief minister and women are safe in West Bengal. The guilty won’t be spared,” said Prasenjit Das, TMC spokesperson of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribal-woman-gang-raped-in-south-bengal-village-one-arrested/story-fR1MkXlLNnEn5EALVf2X1J.html
15-10-2020||India||PM Modi saves bulk of salary, banks on term deposits||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s movable assets have increased by Rs 36.53 lakh over the past 15 months and, like most Indians, he saves most of his money in savings accounts and term deposits with banks, according to his latest declaration of assets and liabilities.PM Modi’s movable assets grew by 26.26% to Rs 1,75,63,618 from Rs 1,39,10,260 in the previous fiscal year. The PM’s latest voluntary disclosure, published on October 12, shows his financial status as of June 30.The increase would largely appear to be on account of the PM saving most of his salary -- a known fact in government circles -- and reinvesting interest from his fixed deposits.There is almost no change in his immovable assets. The PM has listed a plot and house in Gandhinagar worth Rs 1.1 crore. He is a part owner of this along with his family.The disclosure shows that the 70-year-old Prime Minister steered clear of the equity market. His preferred tax-saving tools are life insurance, National Savings Certificates (NSCs) and infrastructure bonds. The declaration of assets and liabilities also shows that he has invested more in NSCs and that his insurance premium has come down.Modi, who draws a monthly salary of Rs 2 lakh (low by global standards), along with the President, the Vice-President, his Cabinet colleagues and members of Parliament, accepted a 30% cut in pay and allowances beginning April in a cost-cutting exercise necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic.His Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government also announced an austerity drive, scrapping the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) for two years and pumping money into stimulus and relief packages to reive an economy that shrank by a record 23.9% in the quarter ended June 30 from a year ago.The Prime Minister’s savings account balance was Rs 3.38 lakh on June 30 against Rs 4,143 on March 31, 2019. He held Rs 31,450 in cash at June-end.His fixed deposit in State Bank of India’s Gandhinagar branch rose to Rs 1,60,28,039 as of June 30, 2020 from Rs 1,27,81,574 in the last fiscal year.These numbers are consistent with those in his affidavit filed ahead of the Lok Sabha elections last year which listed movable assets of Rs 1.41 crore including Rs 1.27 crore in deposits.The Prime Minister has no liabilities and doesn’t own a car. He has four gold rings. He saves taxes through the National Savings Certificates of Rs 8,43,124 and paid a premium of Rs 1,50,957 for his life insurance.In FY19-20, the Prime Minister had Rs 7,61,646 of National Savings Certificates and paid Rs 1,90,347 as life insurance premiums.The infrastructure bond he purchased in January 2012 for Rs 20,000 has not yet reached maturity.The public disclosure of assets and liabilities of the union council of ministers was introduced in 2004 by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government for greater transparency in public life. Members of Parliament, too, have to file a statement of their family income every year and provide an affidavit of assets and liabilities for filing election nomination forms.After the roll-out of the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013, commonly known as the Lokpal Act, all public servants are required to disclose their annual income.Apart from the Prime Minister, all senior ministers, including home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, external affairs minister S Jaishankar, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, have filed their wealth disclosures. Shah and civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri were among the first to do so.Some junior ministers including Ramdas Athawale, Babul Supriyo and Pratap Chandra Sarangi are yet to file their declarations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-saves-bulk-of-salary-banks-on-term-deposits/story-9pyc540y0K7W0YLx5CfBLN.html
15-10-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling accused have links with Dawood Ibrahim’s gang: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the Kerala gold smuggling case on Wednesday told a special court in Kochi that some of the accused have links with the gang of Dawood Ibrahim and they visited Tanzania several times where the underworld don has an extensive network. The accused had challenged the provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in the smuggling case, arguing that smuggling comes under economic offence and no terror angle was involved in the case. Countering that, the NIA said some of the accused in the case have links with anti-national forces. Elaborating its point, the NIA said accused No 5 in the case KT Ramees and accused No 13 M Sharafuddin had visited Tanzania a number of times and met Dawood’s contact Feroze ‘Oasis’ and discussed ways to smuggle firearms into the country. Earlier, Ramees was caught with smuggled revolvers at the Kozhikode airport. But later he got away, saying he was a member of the shooting association and remitted fine. It also said one of the arrested Muhamad Ali was an accused in chopping off the palm of a college teacher who prepared a controversial question paper but was later acquitted by a court in 2015. The NIA said he had close links with some of the fundamentalist outfits conspiring against the country. The court is expected to deliver its verdict on Friday. This is the first time that the anti-terror law was invoked in a smuggling case. Meanwhile, senior Indian Administrative Service officer M Sivasankar, who was Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s secretary, on Wednesday moved the high court for anticipatory bail after the Enforcement Directorate summoned him again in connection with the case. He was suspended in July after his alleged liaison with Swapna Suresh, the main accused in the case, came to light. In his bail plea he contended that he was questioned for more than 90 hours by different central agencies and they failed to detect any anomalies. He said he was fully cooperating with the ongoing investigation. To satisfy some vested interests, now agencies are under pressure to arrest him, he said in the plea which will be taken up on Thursday. There are reports the ED may file a case against him for money laundering. During investigation, it found that he had made several foreign trips and in some of them official permission was not sought. He was also aware of the questionable integrity of Swapna Suresh and he went out of way to help her, the ED said. The sensational smuggling case came to light on July 5 after 30 kg of gold was seized from a consignment in the UAE consulate. P Sarith Kumar, a former employee of the consulate who came to receive it, was arrested by the customs and two other suspects, Suresh and her accomplice Sandip Nair, were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru five days later. Sivasankar was suspended shortly after that. Now a multi-agency team is probing the case and 30 people have been arrested. Besides the NIA, ED, DRI, Customs and Income Tax are also part of the investigation. The ED had questioned Kerala Higher Education Minister KT Jaleel in connection with alleged import of holy books and dry dates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-accused-have-links-with-dawood-ibrahim-s-gang-nia/story-jNGkPvy2p8YaNEMv5dRmQK.html
15-10-2020||India||Unlock test today: Reboot begins for cinemas, schools||Movie theatres will open, religious gatherings will be allowed with restrictions, and students in some parts of the country will be let back into classrooms, as the latest phase of reopening the country begins on Thursday, close to seven months after a national lockdown was first imposed as the coronavirus pandemic swept across the world.The latest activities to be “unlocked” pose some of the biggest infection risks: the virus can spread easily in closed spaces such as cinema halls, quickly among crowds typical at religious festivals, and potentially unchecked in children who can then pass it on to more vulnerable people at home. The risks are counterweighed by recent infection trends that suggest India may be over its first outbreak peak, and economic indicators that make for a case to allow more normalcy to return in order to stem the widespread erosion of earnings. The measures also come at a time when the country heads into winter, conditions in which the Sars-Cov-2 virus is projected to last longer and a Covid-19 infection feared to be worse due to increased pollution. Also Read: Govt chalks out plan for storage of Covid-19 vaccine“The next two-and-a-half months are going to be very crucial for us in our fight against corona because of the winter season and the festival season. It becomes responsibility of every citizen to not let our guard down and follow Covid appropriate behaviour to curb spread of the infection,” Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said at a meeting with central government hospitals on Wednesday.A review of state-wise protocols for schools, cinema halls and festival celebrations shows that most regions are playing it safe. Only around five states have decided to open up schools, and almost all of them will allow only students from senior classes to attend. Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, which have the highest number of cases, have decided to keep them shut.More states, however, have chosen to open movie theatres. The Union home ministry, which defines a base level of restrictions that must be followed, said on September 30 that these businesses can admit only 50% of their capacity, and must ensure space is left between each guest.  With few new titles being released, most cinema halls are choosing to screen previously released titles as they also determine the risk appetite among their customers. “We’ve picked some old blockbusters like Simmba, Chhichhore, Malang, Section 375 depending which movie fits best in which pocket and was preferred in that place. So, cinemas in Delhi would show a different film than a cinema in Gurugram or Kanpur,” said Kunal Sawhney, senior vice president of operations, Carnival Cinemas.Also Read| Lights, Camera, Action: Safety is key as cinema screens flicker back to life in Delhi“We just want customers to come and see that cinema is safe, we’re only targeting to win back their confidence in this particular week,” he added.In Delhi, representatives of cinema halls — which include PVR, M2K Cinemas and INOX — told chief minister Arvind Kejriwal that in order to ensure guidelines are followed, they will sanitise food counters, prohibit patrons from consuming food inside auditoriums, leave a seat empty between two viewers -- even if they arrive as a group -- and ask customers to download the Aarogya Setu mobile application. As on Wednesday, India has recorded 7,304,804 cases and 111,314 deaths. Data from across the country showed there were 67,819 new cases, significantly lower than the roughly 93,000 cases being seen on average in mid-September when the outbreak was at its peak. Experts reiterated that risks have not diminished and people must not let their guard down. “Coming months are going to be crucial as for respiratory viruses, pollution, drop in temperature and congregation makes for a killer combination that helps these microbes thrive. Sars-Cov-2 may be a new virus but based on evidence available globally on the behaviour of respiratory viruses in winters, we should well be prepared for a surge in cases,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.“Maintaining physical distancing will be difficult in coming weeks when there is festive season rush in markets, which could impact containment measures. A vaccine will take time, so the only effective option is to observe Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he added. Paediatricians said opening schools is not a good idea since closed spaces such as classrooms pose a significant risk. “The problem is not opening of schools, the real challenge will be to ensure students follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, especially when you see adults around taking preventive measures too casually,” said JS Bhasin, head, paediatrics department, BLK Hospital, Delhi. “Kids themselves may not be very sick but once they come back home they might pass it on to the more vulnerable population such as their grandparents. It’s definitely going to lead to a spurt in cases,” Bhasin added. The latest unlocking exercise is the fifth in a series of such decisions since June 1 but with a changed nomenclature (earlier, the reopening process was called “Unlock”). For large gatherings, the home ministry’s September 30 announcement set a limit of 200 people if an event is held indoors, provided that this gathering does not exceed 50% of the established capacity of the venue. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicFor outdoor events, the government did not set a limit but specified that people need to follow the social distancing practice of keeping 6 feet apart, cover their faces, use hand sanitisers and are screened for fever. Over the next month, the country will also witness its first elections since the pandemic broke out. Polls will be held in Bihar for all 243 assembly constituencies and bypolls will be held for 59 seats in 11 states. Results of the Bihar assembly elections and the bypolls will be declared on November 10. On October 8, the Union home ministry allowed election meetings to be held in these 12 states, putting the responsibility on political parties to ensure people observe precautions such as distancing and covering their faces in order to minimise the risk of infections. Regular international flights remain banned, as one of the most prominent pre-Covid activity that is yet to be restored fully. For domestic flights, 60% capacity has been currently allowed by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-test-today-reboot-begins-for-cinemas-schools/story-JOWgaMvY6lcdsB87sBscHM.html
15-10-2020||India||Delhi High Court notice to govts on same-sex marriages||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought responses from the Centre and the Delhi government on pleas by two same-sex couples seeking legal recognition of their marriages under two different civil laws, the Special Marriage Act (SMA) and the Foreign Marriage Act (FMA), and observed that “laws are gender-neutral” and are for the rights of “every citizen”. A bench of justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon said that marriage is not defined in both acts, but the concept emanates and is interpreted under customary laws which do not recognise same-sex marriages. Issuing notice to the authorities, the bench stated that inhibitions could be shed after Rajkumar Yadav, one of the counsels for the Centre submitted that the pleas presented a peculiar circumstance and that such a situation has not been faced in 5,000 years of Sanatan Dharma.“We may shed our inhibition. The laws are gender-neutral. You please try to interpret the law for the citizens of Sanatan Dharma in the country. This is not an adversarial litigation. This is for the right of every citizen of the country,” justice Menon said.Central government standing counsel Kirtiman Singh said that the issue would require a detailed reply.During the proceedings, the court said that SMA was enacted as there were no customs for inter-faith and inter-caste marriages, and stated that once same-sex marriage is recognised under the customary laws, other statutes like SMA and FMA would follow suit. It stated that if the petitioners wished to make any change in their pleas to challenge the definition of marriage, now was the time to do so.“Please understand that till the concept of marriage is not challenged, it would not be able to move forward in the matter because marriage is not defined. There is otherwise no question on the maintainability of the pleas but in both the Special Marriage Act and Foreign Marriage Act, the term marriage has not been defined,” said the court.However, senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy who argued for the petitioners said the plea was not to challenge customary or religious laws, but discrimination by civil laws. “This is about the civil law, a statute provided by the Indian law for inter-caste, inter-faith, modern couples, same sex couple etc,” she said and added that past judgments have held that sexual orientation cannot be grounds for discrimination.The court posted the matter for further hearing on January 8, 2021.The first petition was filed by two mental health professionals — Kavita Arora, 47, and Ankita Khanna, 36 — who said they had been living together as a couple for eight years, took care of each others’ parents, were in love with each other, but unable to marry each other.“The petitioners are like any other couple you might meet, except they are both women,” their petition read.The second petition was filed by two men — Vaibhav Jain, an Indian citizen, and Parag Vijay Mehta, an overseas citizen of India — who got married in the United States, where same-sex marriage is legal, in 2017. An Indian consulate refused to register their union this year under the 1969 Foreign Marriage Act.The two have been in a relationship since 2012 and are supported by families and friends, also they claimed that during the Covid-19 pandemic, India’s non-recognition of their marriage prevented them from travelling to India as a married couple.“The petitioners submit that non-recognition of same-sex marriages is a wanton act of discrimination that strikes at the root of dignity and self-fulfillment of LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer) couples,” the petition read.The two women said that issues like opening a joint bank account, buying family health insurance, or securing address proof — things that a married couple takes for granted — were a struggle for them. On September 30, they approached the marriage officer (the sub-divisional magistrate, South East Delhi, Kalkaji) seeking solemnisation of their marriage under the Special Marriage Act, 1954.“The marriage officer would have solemnised the marriage of any similarly placed opposite-sex couple. Sexual orientation discrimination is constitutionally prohibited under Article 15, but the petitioners were refused the right to marry a person of their choice on grounds of their sexual orientation alone,” they said.The petitions argued that the non-recognition of marriage between LGBTQ persons violated the fundamental rights of liberty, equality, life and freedom of expression guaranteed to them by the Supreme Court judgment, Navtej Johar vs Union of India, which decriminalised adult, consensual same-sex relations in 2018.The Delhi high court is already hearing a Public Interest Litigation filed by defence analyst Abhijit Iyer Mitra and three others. In response to that petition, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said last month that Indian values didn’t recognise same-sex unions.The two petitions before the court on Wednesday were represented by senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy and advocates Arundhati Katju, Govind Manoharan and Surabhi Dhar. Guruswamy and Katju were among the lawyers who argued the case against Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code which led to the Supreme Court decriminalising homosexuality in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-notice-to-govts-on-same-sex-marriages/story-r7StVAAItq3TCSnWmyVmJJ.html
15-10-2020||India||Govt chalks out plan for storage of Covid-19 vaccine||With several experimental vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reaching late-stage trials, the government has started making logistical arrangements for procurement, storage and distribution to ensure the uninterrupted delivery of a vaccine, when one becomes availableThe Centre has begun identifying both government and private facilities to create hubs for vaccine storage. The focus is on maintaining cold storage as most vaccines require to be stored and distributed at a fixed temperature, failing which the vaccine becomes ineffective.Under the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 that is chaired by Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, there are subgroups looking into various aspects of vaccine development, procurement and distribution, including one that looks at cold chain requirements.“The subgroup has already mapped the existing cold chain that is presently being utilized under the immunisation programme of the government, and it has also made a projection of the additionality that will be required. Presently, that group is engaged with mapping the private sector facilities where with minor modifications they could be converted to serve the needs of supplementing the cold chain equipment. So, that is how things are currently developing,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayReal-time tracking of vaccine movement- from procurement to storage, to delivery and distribution is being planned using the electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) that is used for the immunisation programme. This cloud-based application tracks realtime stock positioning and supply route based on the information fed by ground staff.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan recently announced that the government was looking at procuring and utilizing about 400-500 million vaccine doses, covering about 200-250 million people.India has about 27,000 vaccine storage centres across all 700 plus districts that are connected through eVIN; with at least 50,000 temperature loggers to monitor storage temperatures as accurately as possible for at least 40,000 frontline workers to manage logistics.“We already have a well-oiled machinery in place as far as vaccine delivery is concerned with a robust national immunisation programme running. That will be made use of for Covid-19 also. Apart from polio there are other vaccines needing cold storage like the measles vaccine. It won’t be a problem,” said Paul.Experts said India has the capacity to handling the logistics.“I don’t see it as a problem as India already has a large-scale Universal Immunisation Programme running that can easily be made use of for Covid vaccine delivery also. A lot of logistical arrangements are currently being made in a well-coordinated manner that should see us through,” said Dr YK Gupta, former head, pharmacology department, and advisor, Translational Health Science & Technology Institute. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe pricing of each dose has not been fixed. “The price of single-dose or the price of two-dose vaccine, because most of the vaccines that are being worked across the globe are two-dose vaccines, is still evolving. And we have seen that in an extremely dynamic situation as the vaccines prove their safety and efficacy, and till the time they prove their safety and efficacy, whatever figure is being bandied around is just a figure. So, any indicative price for a single-dose or a double-dose vaccine becomes a plausible figure once the vaccine has been able to demonstrate its safety and efficacy. And once that is done by multiple vaccines, then the prices decline, and decline drastically. Therefore, at the present moment in time, we do not hazard a guess,” Bhushan said.The health secretary reiterated that there were sufficient financial resources for vaccine procurement.“We are parallelly making arrangements for putting in place procurement and distribution logistics of Covid-19 vaccine as and when it is available for use. We will be prepared to ensure it is delivered to all,” said Dr Paul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-chalks-out-plan-for-storage-of-covid-vaccine/story-JDu7QOjO9a5dk1vMzDkWyN.html
15-10-2020||India||Tamil Nadu, Delhi pick borrowing option to meet GST deficit||Tamil Nadu and Delhi are the latest states to opt for the first borrowing option proposed by the Centre through the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council, even as the Union finance ministry on Wednesday permitted the southern state to raise Rs 9,627 crore from the open market, taking the total amount for 21 states to Rs 78,452 crore.“The permission was issued after the State (Tamil Nadu) formally communicated its acceptance for Option 1 to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation. Twenty-one States and two Union Territories -- Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) -- have so far requested Option 1,” the Union finance ministry said in a statement.The seven dissenting states left now are Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana and West Bengal. Initially, 10 states had opposed the proposal, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi The Centre had given states the choice of borrowing Rs.97,000 crore(the shortfall resulting from GST implementation issues) without having to pay principal or interest or the entire Rs.2.35 lakh crore revenue deficit from the indirect tax (including that arising from the Covid-19 pandemic) projected for this fiscal year. The Rs.97,000 crore amount was subsequently raised to Rs.1.1 lakh crore. The principal and interest in the first option would have been paid out of the cess levied on luxury products and sin goods such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles and coalThe borrowing plans of Delhi and J&K will soon be forwarded to the department of expenditure (DoE) by the home ministry, a government official said, requesting anonymity. DoE is an arm of the Union finance ministry, which is coordinating borrowing by states along with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).“With the latest development, only seven states have so far refrained from taking the borrowing option. Puducherry had already indicated its preference for the first borrowing option, but it is yet to formally communicate the same to DOE,” the official said.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, said the Capital was left with no choice but to go for the first option suggested by the Centre. “The Centre had already told us that Option 2 was not applicable for Union Territories such as Delhi and Puducherry,” he said.“Delhi is facing a shortfall of Rs 16,000 crore in GST this year. As per the GST amendment, the central government should take a loan and give this loan to us and the same can be paid from the cess after 2022... Now, against the shortfall of Rs 16,000 crore, we would get a loan of Rs 6,000 crore. We have to survive under a huge shortfall which will result in cutting on lots of schemes and plans,” Sisodia told HT.The 21 states that have been granted clearance to borrow are: Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. “The borrowing permission issued to the 21 states [on Tuesday and Wednesday] is over and above the borrowing permission of around Rs 1.10 lakh crore to be issued to enable the states to meet the revenue shortfall arising out of GST implementation. A special window is being created by the Ministry of Finance to facilitate this borrowing,” the Union finance ministry said. The current additional borrowing permission has been granted at the rate of 0.50% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to states as a precondition for picking the first option. The Rs 20.9 lakh crore Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan [Self-reliant India Initiative] stimulus announced on May 17 had permitted 2% additional borrowings to states with some conditions. “This is over and above the Special Window of Rs 1.1 lakh crore,” the statement said. The official quoted above said: “After Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi agreeing to borrow, the numbers of dissenting states have now reduced to seven. Some more states could opt for the first option in next couple of days.” Kerala’s finance minister Thomas Isaac said on Wednesday that he was in talks with other dissenting states, and they were considering moving the Supreme Court over the issue.Archit Gupta, founder & CEO of tax consulting firm ClearTax, said: “Nobody could have foreseen this kind of a black swan event (Covid-19) and in the spirit of federalism it is important that centre and states resolve this amicably. If state borrowings keep escalating, they might have to be bailed out at a later date by the central government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-delhi-pick-borrowing-option-to-meet-gst-deficit/story-RpFkXeahvR4ubQcs6KSDxL.html
15-10-2020||India||Schools, cinema halls, entertainment parks, swimming pools to reopen: List of relaxations from October 15||The country will reopen further from Thursday as schools, cinema halls, multiplexes, entertainment parks, swimming pools--all outside containment zones--will reopen with strict Covid-19 norms in place. In its guidelines for the fifth phase of nationwide unlock, on September 30, the Union home ministry had given permission for these places to reopen from October 15.(Click here for all Covid-19 coverage)While schools had reopened partially, on voluntary basis for class 9-12 on September 21 during Unlock 4, other places were not allowed to open.Following relaxations will come into effect from Thursday:Schools: While the Centre has approved phase-wise reopening of schools, final decision will be taken by state governments. While most states, including Delhi and Maharashtra, have decided not to reopen schools for now, others like Punjab and Uttar Pradesh have announced reopening of schools--October 15 in Punjab and October 19 in Uttar Pradesh.Broad guidelines for reopening of schools issued by the central government include online/distance learning, written permission from parents to attend, classes in shifts, flexibility in attendance, no assessment for up to three weeks etc.ALSO WATCH | Unlock 5: More economic activities likely, cinema halls may resume operationsCinema halls/multiplexes: These can reopen with 50% occupancy with adequate physical distancing while seating. Seats which are not to be occupied, shall have to be marked as such. Show timings shall be staggered and digital payment modes will be encouraged.Also, sufficient number of ticket counters will be opened and advance booking allowed to prevent crowding. Only packaged food and beverages will be allowed.Entertainment parks: Cleaning and sanitisation of frequently touches surfaces, open spaces, work areas etc. shall be done before the parks open and after they close for the day, as well as at other appropriate times. There must be separate covered bins for disposal of used face masks and covers. Also, swimming pools in these parks will stay closed; however, water parks and those with water rides shall ensure regular and adequate filtration and chlorination of water.Further, the park authorities will have to deploy adequate security personnel for queue management inside and outside the premises. Planning for park management must factor in crowd sizes, including during peak hours. To avoid crowding adequate ticket counters must be made available and online booking encouraged.Swimming pools: The SOPs for reopening swimming pools, as released by the sports ministry, state a maximum of only 20 swimmers can train during a session in an Olympic-sized pool. While swimmers have been directed to submit ‘obligatory self-declaration,’ residential trainees will have to submit a mandatory Covid-19 negative report.Each training centre will have a Covid-19 task force to guide and monitor trainees, coaches and staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-cinema-halls-entertainment-parks-swimming-pools-to-reopen-list-of-relaxations-from-october-15/story-lGbi38Lcs2OhVyqz2EoXZP.html
