16-10-2020||India||‘Form self-regulatory bodies’: I&B ministry to digital platforms||The Information and Broadcasting ministry on Friday urged digital media platforms to form a regulatory body on the lines of those formed for the electronic and print media.The ministry, in a statement, said that following the decision of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) allowing 26% FDI under government approval route on ‘Uploading/Streaming of Current Affairs and News through Digital Media’, it will be considering in the near future to extend benefits, presently available to traditional media (print and TV), to digital entities also.These include Press Information Bureau (PIB) accreditation for reporters, cameramen, videographers, enabling them with better first-hand information and access, including participation in official press conferences and such other interactions.Persons with PIB accreditation can also avail CGHS benefits and concession rail fare as per extant procedure.Another benefit offered was eligibility for digital advertisements through the Bureau of Outreach and Communication (BOC).The ministry also said that similar to self-regulating bodies in print and electronic media, entities in digital media can form self-regulating bodies for furthering their interests and interaction with the government.Presently, the Press Council of India looks at regulatory issues related to print while the News Broadcasters Standards Authority (NBSA) looks at the regulatory aspects related to the electronic media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/form-self-regulatory-bodies-i-b-ministry-to-digital-platforms/story-my8VIEGRRoRnL3ghTsYVzN.html
16-10-2020||India||Civil aviation ministry, DGCA grant conditional exemption to NCRTC for using drones||The Civil Aviation Ministry and DGCA have granted a conditional exemption to National Capital Region Transport Corporation to use drones in carrying out GIS mapping for Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System, an official release said on Friday.The conditions include securing necessary clearances from the local administration, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Home Affairs, Indian Air Force and Airport Authority of India, prior to operation of remotely piloted aircraft system (RPAS), the Civil Aviation Ministry said in the release.The exemption will remain valid till December 31 or until the full operationalisation of the Digital Sky Platform, whichever is earlier, it said.The Corporation has the mandate to implement the RRTS project across the National Capital Region, ensuring a balanced and sustainable urban development through better connectivity and access.The Civil Aviation Ministry and Directorate General of Civil Aviation have granted a conditional exemption to NCRTC for the deployment of RPAS for data acquisition for mapping and implementation of web-based geographical information system (GIS) platform for Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS), the release said. “This (conditional exemption) will help them in effective aerial surveillance and project planning. The granting of these approvals is in line with the civil aviation ministry objective of promoting the use of drones for mass benefit,” Amber Dubey, Joint Secretary, Civil Aviation Ministry, said.According to the release, the corporation will only operate the RPAS which have been voluntarily disclosed to the central government and issued with a valid Drone Acknowledgement Number (DAN).The other conditions include submission of a comprehensive brief on the scope of operations and the copy of SOP to Flight Standards Directorate (FSD), DGCA, the release said.Operations of the drones will be carried out only after the vetting/ approval of SOP, it added.Also, the corporation should have an adequate level of insurance to cover any damage to a third party resulting from an accident/ incident occurred during the operation of RPAS and will have to ensure that hazardous material or variable payload are not carried on using the RPA under any circumstances, the release noted.National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) will ensure safety, security and privacy of public, property, operator, among others, and in case of any eventuality, the DGCA will not be held responsible, the ministry said.It also said that the RPA will not be operated in the vicinity of the airport as per the provisions of the CAR. If operated near the airport, approval from AAI shall be taken in advance regarding time and area of operations of RPAS, as per the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civil-aviation-ministry-dgca-grant-conditional-exemption-to-ncrtc-for-using-drones/story-xlN9OdBKVZPOisdH7IurKK.html
16-10-2020||India||Tibetan administration head meets Trump’s point man on Tibet||The head of the Tibetan administration in exile, Lobsang Sangay, has met with Robert Destro, the newly appointed US special coordinator for Tibetan issues, a move that is widely anticipated to rile China. Sangay is “sikyong” or president of the Dharamshala-based Central Tibetan Administration (CTA), which said in a statement that he had discussed the India-China border standoff at his meeting with Destro in Washington on Thursday. The statement said Sangay urged Destro to press the Chinese government to have a dialogue with the envoys of the Dalai Lama based on the “Middle Way Approach”. The statement added Sangay “also elucidated the ongoing Indo-Tibet border clashes”, without giving details. Sangay posted photos of the meeting with Destro on his social media accounts. “Great honor to meet with the Special Coordinator on Tibetan Issues @DRL_AS. This is the first time a Sikyong (President) of the Central Tibetan Administration was formally invited inside the State Department,” he tweeted. Sangay was among the first persons whom Destro met following his appointment to the special position on Tibet by the Trump administration on Wednesday. Announcing the appointment, secretary of state Mike Pompeo said Destro will address the “dire human rights situation the people of Tibet face” and serve as the US administration’s conduit to the Tibetan diaspora. Destro has said he will engage Tibetans and America’s partners around the world to promote human rights and freedoms for Tibet. “The US is concerned by the lack of meaningful autonomy for Tibetans and the CCP’s [Chinese Communist Party’s] ongoing crackdown on Tibetan Buddhists,” he tweeted. China has for long described the Dalai Lama and the CTA as part of a “separatist” movement, and opposed meetings between Tibetan leaders and representatives of the Indian and foreign governments. The Chinese foreign ministry described Destro’s appointment as a move designed to “interfere in China’s internal affairs and destabilise Tibet”. Outlining his priorities in a tweet, Destro referred to the “deteriorating human rights situation and lack of religious freedom in Tibetan areas” and said the US will continue to seek dialogue between China and the Dalai Lama. The CTA’s statement said Sangay was the first CTA president to be formally invited to the US state department for meetings, marking a “momentous progress” in the Tibet-US relations. Though CTA began seeking meetings with the state department soon after Sangay assumed office in September 2011, it “took nine long years for the US state department to realise the strategic importance of having the CTA president have formal meetings...similar to leaders of independent countries”, the statement said. During 2011-18, Sangay informally met state department officials but these events “were kept undisclosed and photographs were not allowed”, the statement added. “Today’s unprecedented meeting further strengthens the narrative that the Central Tibetan Administration will be treated akin to other governments by the US state department, and it is yet another significant win for Tibetans and allies,” Sangay was quoted as saying in the statement. Sangay also invited Destro to visit the CTA in Dharamsala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tibetan-administration-head-meets-trump-s-point-man-on-tibet/story-WI3RTkUnTxGbrwA9Q6a38J.html
16-10-2020||India||India and Chile hopes to firm up bilateral investment protection deal||India and Chile on Friday agreed to add new momentum in their cooperation in a wide-range of areas including trade, defence, energy, agriculture, mining and science and technology. A comprehensive review of the bilateral cooperation was carried out at a virtual meeting of the India-Chile Joint Commission which was co-chaired by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chilean counterpart Allamand Zavala. Official sources said both sides are also looking at firming up a bilateral investment protection treaty. In 2017, India had expanded its preferential trade agreement with Chile that resulted in boosting of bilateral trade ties. At present, Chile is the fifth largest trading partner of India in the Latin America and the Caribbean region. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), in a statement, said both sides discussed the future trajectory of their wide-ranging engagements in the meeting. “They agreed to add new momentum to the relations of the two countries in the fields of trade and commerce, agriculture, health and social security, defence, space, science and technology, energy, mining, culture and education, disaster management and cooperation in Antarctica amongst others,” the MEA said. It said India welcomed Chile’s decision to designate India as a priority country in its foreign policy, adding the country will also be opening its Consulate General in Mumbai. Chile has control of a large part of Antarctica and has a very large maritime boundary, having the distinction of being the longest country in the world. The sources said that in addition to discussions on the bilateral investment protection treaty, the two sides also deliberated on further expansion of the preferential trade agreement. They said there was a discussion on export of generic medicines from India to Chile and that an MoU on it is in the final stages. In the meeting, the two sides exchanged views on regional and international issues of mutual interest, especially in the context of the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. “The external affairs minister underlined the prime minister’s vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ for enhancing resilience through self-reliance and human-centric globalisation as the basis for India’s economic revival,” the MEA said. It said Jaishankar invited Chile to take advantage of India’s new economic capacities and growing market. “Based on their convergence of views on many global and regional issues, both sides agreed to coordinate closely at the multilateral fora,” the MEA said. It was the first meeting held under the framework of India-Chile Joint Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-chile-hopes-to-firm-up-bilateral-investment-protection-deal/story-RX0I0a1du1Ut5PQMov4H1K.html
16-10-2020||India||‘Give him water,’ Jawans applaud as terrorist in J&K surrenders. His father touches feet of soldiers||The Indian army on Friday released a video of a an anti-terror operation in Jammu and Kashmir where a terrorist can be seen surrendering before the security forces. “Jahangir, we are requesting you to drop your weapons and surrender. We have cordoned off the place where you are hiding. I assure nothing will happen to you,” the Army personnel can be heard saying to the terrorist thrice. One SPO went missing with two AK-47 on 13 Oct 20. Same day, Jahangir Ah Bhat (31 yr old shopkeeper) from Chadoora had gone missing too. Today, he was apprehended with one AK rifle.#Kashmir https://t.co/D2p2WmHqal pic.twitter.com/44YdqxGTSe“Surrender for the sake of God, for the sake of your family,” the soldier said. As soon as the terrorist, identified as Jahangir Bhat, started movement, the soldiers in the operation can be heard saying among themselves, “nobody will fire”.“Is there anybody else? Is there any weapon? Come this side,” soldiers can be heard saying as the terrorist comes out from his hideout wearing just trousers. “Give him water. Please maintain some distance. Please be quiet. Leave your jersey. Nothing will happen to you. You have done a great job,” the soldiers calm Jahangir as he walks towards the security forces and then sits in front of them.In another video, the security forces can be seen interacting with Jahangir’s father who touched their feet for saving his son.“Tell your son he has done a great job. His all past mistakes will be forgotten. But don’t let him go with the terrorists again,” a security personnel told the father.Jahangir Bhat, a 31-year-old shopkeeper went missing on October 13 from Chadoora. His family was trying to trace him. On Friday, he was apprehended with one AK rifle, the Army has said.On Friday morning, a fierce gunfight broke out between the security forces and terrorists in Chadoora, following which mobile internet service was suspended in Budgam. After the joint operation, internet service was restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-him-water-jawans-applaud-as-terrorist-in-j-k-surrenders-his-father-touches-feet-of-soldiers/story-CgUTpZ9hmzWxQ8pn9B5gON.html
16-10-2020||India||Shaurya chakra awardee killed months after security withdrawn||Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu who fought terrorism in Punjab was shot dead by two unknown assailants in Tarn Taran district on Friday, months after the government withdrew his security cover. The motorcycle-borne men pumped four bullets into 62-year-old Sandhu when he was at his office adjoining his home at Bhikhiwind in the district and escaped, police said. He was taken to the hospital where doctors declared him “brought dead”. Sandhu had fought against terrorism in the state for years, facing scores of terror attacks during the height of Khalistani militancy. Singh’s security cover was withdrawn by the state government a year ago on the recommendation of Tarn Taran police, his brother Ranjit said, adding their entire family had remained on the hit list of terrorists. Sandhu’s wife Jagdish Kaur said it was the “handiwork of terrorists”, maintaining that their family did not have any personal enmity with anyone. “The family always fought against terrorists. As many as 62 attacks were made on my family by terrorists. We made numerous requests with DGP Dinkar Gupta for the security cover but all in vain,” she said. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh condoled Sandhu’s death and set up a special investigation team headed by Ferozpur deputy inspector general to probe the killing. The chief minister said the SIT will probe the killing, taking all possibilities into account. The guilty will not be spared, he added. Sandhu was killed by two unknown assailants at around 7 am, said Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta, adding the victim died on the spot. A CCTV footage from the area shows that two unknown assailants arrived at Sandu’s house, one of them entered the premises and fired at him from a point blank range. The details of the vehicle and its registration number are being ascertained, the DGP said the DGP in a statement. An SIT has already been formed to nab the accused, he said. Giving details of the SIT, the DGP said in addition to Ferozepur Range DIG Hardial Maan, the team comprises Tarn Taran Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman Nimbale and Bhikhiwind Deputy Superintendent of Police Rajbir Singh. A case under relevant sections including 302 (murder) of the IPC and the Arms Act has been registered, he added. The Tarn Taran braveheart also featured in some documentaries. Inspired by Sandhu and his family, many people followed him and defended themselves from terror attacks. The Union government awarded him Shaurya Chakra in 1993. “Balwinder Singh Sandhu and his brother Ranjit Singh Sandhu are opposed to the activities of terrorists. They were on the hit lists of terrorists. The terrorists so far have made 16 attempts to wipe out the Sandhu’s family within in about 11 months,” the citation for the gallantry award said. “The terrorists attacked them in groups of 10 to 200, but every time Sandhu brothers with the help of their brave wives Jagdish Kaur Sandhu and Balraj Kaur Sandhu have successfully foiled the attempts of militants to kill them,” it said. Militants had attacked the family on January 31, 1990 for the first time. The family had faced the deadliest attack on September 30, 1990 when around 200 terrorists surrounded their house from all sides and attacked them continuously for five hours with deadly weapons including rocket launchers. In this well-planned attack by terrorists, the approach road of the house was blocked by spreading underground mines so that no help from police could reach them, the citation said. Undaunted, Sandhu brothers and their wives fought terrorists with pistols and sten-guns provided by the government. The resistance shown by Sandhu brothers and their family members forced the terrorists to retreat, it said. All these persons have displayed courage and bravery of a high order in facing the attack of the terrorists and failing their repeated murderous attempts, it further says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shaurya-chakra-awardee-killed-months-after-security-withdrawn/story-WSUlzPRtBEHGUlHFKkf0NN.html
16-10-2020||India||Internet services suspended in Rajasthan district ahead of Gujjar Mahapanchayat on October 17||Ahead of Gujjar Mahapanchayat to be held on October 17 at Rajasthan’s Ada Pilupura in Bharatpur district, internet services and other social media services will remain suspended from October 16 midnight to October 17 midnight in Bayana, Weir, Bhusawar and Rupwas of Bharatpur district.Last month, Gujjar leader Kirori Singh Bainsla had threatened to revive the quota agitation in a month’s time if the central government did not offer constitutional protection to 5% reservation given to five more backward classes (MBCs) including Gujjars in Rajasthan by including the relevant legislation in the ninth schedule of the Constitution.Reports said the Mahapanchayat was initially scheduled to be held at Maksudanpura Devnarayan Temple in Malarna Dungar area, but later the venue was changed to Bharatpura which saw a massive agitation in which police had to open fire, after a cop was lynched. About 15 people were killed. In February 2019, the Rajasthan assembly amended the Rajasthan Backward Classes Act, 2017 to extend the reservation given to four more backward classes including the Gujjars to 5%, from the previous 1% provisioned by Vasundhra Raje government of the BJP. However, the Supreme Court had ruled in 2007 that laws placed under the ninth schedule after the Kesavananda Bharati judgement in April 1973 are open to judicial scrutiny.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/internet-services-suspended-in-rajasthan-district-ahead-of-gujjar-mahapanchayat-on-october-17/story-e47SwriX9TmZ01N6EFrx7J.html
16-10-2020||India||‘Up your service or...’: Odisha’s new bill to define norms for hospitality industry||Odisha government is in the process of bringing a new bill that would not just make registration of hotels, travel agents and tour operators, homestay operators and roadside dhabas mandatory, but also haul them up in case their service is not up to the mark.The bill titled ‘Odisha Tourism Trade (Regulation and Facilitation) Bill, 2020’ - a copy of which is available with HT - is now in the drafting stage and has been sent to some departments for their review before it is tabled in the winter session of the Assembly next month.As per the bill, hotels with a minimum of seven rooms, convention centres, restaurants, bars, dhabas with a seating capacity of more than 50 guests, cruise ships, cruise boats, houseboats, tourist boats with seating capacity of more than 10 passengers, roadside motels, PG accommodations, wayside amenities centres would have to compulsorily register as service providers. Even recreational facilities, such as golf courses, arts & crafts village, museums, aquaria, amusement parks, water parks and theme parks, would have to register as service providers with the government as per the proposed bill.Also read: Women allowed to travel in Mumbai local trains from tomorrowTo ensure that the service providers stick to an acceptable level of service to visiting tourists, the bill says that the state government would declare standards and norms and in the event of non-compliance of the same, they would be liable for a penalty in the form of fine and temporary suspension of operations for a minimum period of one month. If the service provider fails to bring up the service standard, they could be blacklisted and may face prosecution under the Indian Penal Code (IPC).As per the draft bill, all service providers have to register themselves with the government within 60 days of the framing of the rules under the new Act. The service providers would be penalised if they are found fraudulently marketing or selling a product or service which is proven to be bogus or unverified, charging a price or tariff higher than that displayed and/or declared, charging remuneration higher than that fixed or failure in displaying prices/tariff, failure in giving cash memo/credit memo.Refusal to accept cashless payment for services, use of misleading names and logos - for homestay, hotel, motel, houseboat, museum - even when requisite features of such places are missing or showing incorrect star rating of a hotel or showing names or abbreviations and logos similar to reputed ones shall also attract a penalty. They would also be penalised if they refuse admission/entry to a tourist on grounds of gender, caste, religion, nationality or ethnicity.To keep beggars and touts out of tourist places, the bill has prohibited their entry in or around any tourist area and anyone found engaging in touting or begging would be produced before the judicial magistrate for prosecution. The bill also has a provision of tourist police at tourist spots who would keep touts and beggars out. The tourist police would comprise specially trained personnel from Odisha state police or other suitably trained personnel of the state government.The department of tourism would function as the single window facilitator for all tourism and hospitality projects helping all service providers obtain statutory and non-statutory licences, no-objection certificate and necessary authorisations.Odisha tourism minister Jyoti Prakash Panigrahi refused to comment on the draft bill, saying it would not be fair to speak about it till it is tabled in the Assembly. Hotel and Restaurants Association of Odisha president JK Mohanty also refused to comment saying he is yet to see the draft of the bill.Over the last few years, Odisha has been betting big on tourism to pump up its economy through a series of campaigns and festivals. In December last year, it organised eastern India’s first ‘Glamping’ festival or Glamorous Camping on the Marine Drive-Eco Retreat on a kilometre-long beach between Puri and Konark. It drew high-end tourists to the state by putting 50 luxurious tents on the beach with provision of bedrooms, luxury toilets, private dining area, spa, air-conditioners, televisions as well as non-alcoholic minibars for the tourists. Last month, the tourism department launched ‘Odisha by Road’ campaign to let tourists explore the state’s tourist circuit through its roads as people were less likely to travel by air or train during the pandemic.More than 1.5 million domestic tourists visited Odisha during the years 2018-19 while the number of overseas tourists stood at 114,000, registering growth of 8.75 percent and 10.4 percent respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-your-service-or-odisha-s-new-bill-to-define-norms-for-hospitality-industry/story-eUb3Qc4DrOqjQgH68DAfhK.html
16-10-2020||India||Plea in SC to gag judges from making ‘extraneous’ comments in rape cases||The Supreme Court on Friday sought to know from Attorney General KK Venugopal whether a gag order can be issued against all high courts and other trial courts from commenting anything that trivialises the incident or harms the woman’s dignity while dealing with sexual assault cases.The need for this was felt after a petition was moved by a group of nine women lawyers who objected to crass comments made by judges across the country in their order while dealing with bail of an accused in a sexual harassment case.The immediate trigger for filing the petition was an order passed by an Indore Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court on July 30 this year. In the order, the judge allowed bail to a man accused of sexually harassing his neighbor by forcibly entering her house where she stayed with her family. As a bail condition, the court asked him to request the woman to tie a rakhi on Raksha Bandhan and promise to protect her dignity in future.“This is an extraordinary order which is totally against the principles of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The judge is aiming at reconciliation when the accused in sexual crimes need to be severely dealt with,” said senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, representing the application of advocate Aparna Bhatt and eight others.The application listed out instances where similar utterances were passed by various High Court judges and trial courts too. “We are not concerned with the bail granted in the present case but what worries us is a growing phenomenon where extraneous conditions/observations are being made in many cases related to women, which tend to trivialise the offences committed. Violence against women and more particularly sexual violence against women are extremely serious offences and need to be treated stringently by the courts.”Among the highlighted cases was an order passed by the Karnataka High Court on June 22 this year when the judge went on to question the character of the woman who complained that a man had raped her in the office after she had few drinks with him. The order was later modified after widespread protests.On September 2, the Madhya Pradesh High Court allowed bail to an alleged rapist in order to marry the victim. The group of lawyers in their application said, “In many cases, these conditions are actually in the nature of compromise, which dilute or completely obliterate the heinousness of the crime against the dignity of a woman. These observations also have an impact on the trial and in many cases on account of such observations, the accused get the benefit of acquittal or imposition of lesser sentence.”The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and BR Gavai said, “Since you have asked for a general order for all courts, we will issue notice to the Attorney General for consideration of this position.”The petition spotlighted the top court’s extraordinary powers under Article 142.Using Article 142, it can direct all courts to “refrain from passing observations and imposing conditions in rape and sexual assault cases that trivialise the trauma undergone by survivors and which violate their human dignity.”The courts, according to the petition, must not adopt a soft approach towards the crime or the accused and employ appropriate language that does not compromise the victim’s dignity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-to-gag-judges-from-making-extraneous-comments-in-rape-cases/story-uG0TriDByJ42aha4MG7CsJ.html
16-10-2020||India||Jharkhand rejects Centre’s loan offer in lieu of GST compensation||The Jharkhand government on Friday rejected the loan offer of the Centre in lieu of the GST compensation, a day after the union finance ministry announced that the Rs 1.1 lakh crore estimated shortfall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess will be borrowed by the central government and “passed on to the states as a back-to-back loan”.Speaking to reporters after the state cabinet meeting here, chief minister Hemant Soren said he would write and speak to the Prime Minister over the issue, even as he hit out at the Centre for asking the RBI to deduct the outstanding dues of the central power generator Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) directly from the state’s consolidated fund.“This is the first instance in my knowledge that the Centre has invoked such a rule to directly deduct money from the Consolidated Fund of a state. Our condition financially is grim due to the pandemic and the Centre knows about it. This act is an attack on the federal structure,” Soren said.“Yesterday the Union finance minister wrote to us and also called up to consider the loan offer. This is a strange situation. On one hand they are deducting our funds (Rs 1417 crore in reference to DVC payment by RBI) and on other they are pressuring us to accept loan (back to back loan provision by Centre laid out by Finance Ministry for GST compensation cess dues). Things won’t work this way. The cabinet today has decided to outrightly reject the loan offer,” the CM added.As per the state government, the Centre currently owes around Rs 3300 crore as GST dues to the Jharkhand government. The chief minister underlined that he would speak to the Prime Minister over these issues, besides writing to him officially.“We will be deliberating on the next possible steps in the best interest of the state. We need to understand in detail what could be potential fiscal implications of this proposal on our state coffers which is facing severe onslaught both from pandemic and of non-clearance of multiple dues, central share dues, GST dues etc by Centre, including the unilateral decision to deduct Rs 1417 crore from the state govt’s account with the RBI,” the CM said in a separate statement. Earlier this month, the Centre directed the RBI to auto deduct Rs 1417.50 crore in October, 2020 from the account of Jharkhand government maintained by the top bank as the first instalment for settling the outstanding dues of the state government’s power discom JBVNL to the DVC.While the state government has questioned the total outstanding amount claimed by the DVC, the chief minister said it’s baffling why the Centre did not deduct the money during the previous BJP regime. He also warned of a ‘people’s surge’ against such moves of the Centre.“This entire due being claimed by the DVC accumulated during the five years of Raghubar Das government. There was zero debt when we left the government in 2014. We are also paying regularly to DVC now. This tripartite agreement was also signed by the Raghubar Das government. I wonder why the money was not deducted when they were in power. This is an attempt to target a non-BJP government in the state,” said Soren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-rejects-centre-s-loan-offer-in-lieu-of-gst-compensation/story-yqPo7e7tn8XE8UBIBLBqaI.html
16-10-2020||India||Next two and half months are going to be crucial, says Harsh Vardhan on Covid-19||Union health minister on Friday said the next two and half months are going to be crucial in India’s fight against Covid-19 because of the festival season and winter. The minister was chairing a meeting with the heads of autonomous institutions under the department of Science and Technology and CSIR to review the Covid-19 preparations. “We are now entering into the 10th month of our fight against COVID-19. It was on January 8 when we had our first meeting of the expert group. Since then, the journey has been relentless. But today, we can proudly say that we have created significant infrastructure for our fight against coronavirus,” the minister said. Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally rises to 7.37 million with 63,371 new cases; recoveries at 6.4 millionUnless a vaccine comes — which the minister said will happen soon as one vaccine candidate is at stage 3 trial and the other two are at stage two — social vaccines of precautionary measures need to be followed, the minister said. On Friday, India’s tally went up to 7,370,468 with 63,371 fresh cases recorded in the last 24 hours. However, India’s recovery rate is the highest in the world and the fatality is among the lowest, the health ministry has said. The minister has earlier warned of a spike in the number of cases during winter. “SARS Cov 2 is a respiratory virus and the transmission of respiratory viruses is known to increase during the colder weather. Respiratory viruses thrive better in cold weather and low humidity conditions. There is another fact that needs to be kept in mind. During winter, there is a tendency of overcrowding in residential dwellings which may increase transmission... So in Indian context, it would not be wrong to assume that the winter season may see an increase in the number of cases,” Harsh Vardhan had said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/next-two-and-half-months-are-going-to-be-crucial-says-harsh-vardhan-on-covid-19/story-I5Zk1vWb6Ha3dDt7LLWFTN.html
16-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: S Jaishankar says presence of Chinese troops at LAC a critical security challenge and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chinese troops at LAC critical security challenge, says S JaishankarThe presence of a large number of Chinese troops in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) presents a critical security challenge to India and has disturbed the relationship built by the two sides over 30 years, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. Read more‘I’m Modi’s Hanuman, will tear open my chest and show if needed’: Chirag PaswanLok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan on Friday showered praises on the prime minister and said that he does not need to use PM Modi’s photos for his party’s campaign in the upcoming Assembly elections in Bihar as ‘his prime minister resides in his heart’. Read moreUser data of more than 900,000 leaked from IRCTC last year, resurfaces on dark webA set of user data belonging to more than 900,000 users has been spotted on the dark web by a dark web risk monitoring firm called Cyble. Cyble noted that they came across a post where a user had allegedly claimed that user of data of close to one million people had been leaked sometime in 2019 and shared that data on the DarkWeb community on October 13. Read moreTaish trailer breakdown: Bejoy Nambiar, Pulkit Samrat, Jim Sarbh, Kriti Kharbanda, Sanjeeda Shaikh explain their slick thrillerThe makers of upcoming Zee5 original web series/feature film, Taish, revealed its first trailer on Thursday. Directed by Bejoy Nambiar of Shaitaan and Wazir fame, the thriller stars Harshvardhan Rane, Pulkit Samrat, Jim Sarbh, Kriti Kharbanda and Sanjeeda Shaikh. Read moreIPL 2020: Eoin Morgan reveals what Dinesh Karthik told him while handing over KKR captaincyNewly-appointed Kolkata Knight Riders captain Eoin Morgan revealed how Dinesh Karthik came up to him and the KKR management to inform them about his wish to step aside from the leadership role on the eve of their IPL 2020 match against defending champions Mumbai Indians in Abu Dhabi. Read moreElon Musk calls this image ‘table in tension’. Check it out to see whyElon Musk often tweets about and on science-related subjects. This notion is illustrated best by a comment the CEO of SpaceX left on this post by a Twitter account named @UniverCurious. The share is intriguing, and netizens’ comments left under the post convey the same. Read moreHow Pakistan is hoodwinking FATF and the world on terror fundingThe Imran Khan government has been trying hard to get off the FATF ‘grey list’. Pakistan had tried to impress the meeting of the Asia pacific Joint Group last month by boasting of the arrest and conviction of a select group of terrorist leaders. However, a careful examination of Pakistan’s claims show that it is only depending on its old trick of hoodwinking the world with a sham crackdown on terror groups. Hindustan Times’ executive editor Shishir Gupta decodes the Imran Khan government’s false claims and explains why it is time for the FATF to blacklist Pakistan. Watch In Focus with Hindustan Times senior editor Aditi Prasad for all the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-s-jaishankar-says-presence-of-chinese-troops-at-lac-a-critical-security-challenge-and-all-the-latest-news/story-YjKGgT6yHhCPdSyXGZ1OsJ.html
16-10-2020||India||Foreign secy Harsh Shringla expected to visit Maldives in November||Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla is expected to visit the Maldives in November as part of an outreach to India’s key neighbours, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Friday. The visit will follow his recent trips to Bangladesh and Myanmar, and the Maldives will be only the third foreign destination for Shringla amid Covid-19-related travel restrictions. This reflects the importance attached by India to its ties with the Indian Ocean archipelago, the people said. In recent months, India has unveiled a slew of measures to assist in the recovery of the Maldives from the economic impact of the pandemic and to bolster defence and security cooperation. The visit is currently in the planning stage and a date is expected to be finalised soon, the people said. The Maldives is usually among the foreign countries that every foreign secretary visits soon after assuming office, but Shringla, who took over in January, had to curtail his travel plans due to the pandemic. Last month, India provided a soft loan of $250 million to the Maldives as budgetary support to mitigate the economic impact of the pandemic, the latest in a string of support measures. The financial aid was first announced during a virtual meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Maldivian counterpart Abdulla Shahid on August 13. At the meeting, India had also unveiled a $500-million package to help the Maldives build a connectivity project linking its capital Male with three islands. The Maldives and India launched a cargo ferry service connecting Tuticorin and Cochin ports with Male in September with the aim of cutting costs and time taken to transport goods between the two countries. India also provided a Dornier maritime surveillance aircraft to the Maldives National Defence Force (MDNF) in September. The aircraft is expected to boost efforts to keep a closer eye on the movement of Chinese vessels in regional waters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secy-harsh-shringla-expected-to-visit-maldives-in-november/story-G4xIJRWjKcmd5trjVkaVnJ.html
16-10-2020||India||PM Modi speaks to Uddhav over Maharashtra flood, assures Centre’s support||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray about the flood situation in the state and assured Centre’s support in the ongoing rescue and relief work.“Spoke to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray regarding the situation arising due to flooding and heavy rain in parts of the state. My thoughts and prayers are with those sisters and brothers affected. Reiterated Centre’s support in the ongoing rescue and relief work,” PM Modi said.Heavy rains and floods have claimed at least 47 lives in Maharashtra’s Pune, Aurangabad and Konkan divisions in the last three days while crops on lakhs of hectares were damaged extensively, officials said on Friday.About 28 persons have died in rain-related incidents in western Maharashtra which comes under Pune division, 16 in central Maharashtra’s Aurangabad division and three in coastal Konkan, they said.Over 2,300 houses were damaged in heavy rains and floods in Western Maharashtra where more than 21,000 people were moved to safer places, as per the Pune Divisional Commissioner’s office.Crops such as sugarcane, soybean, vegetables, rice, pomegranate and cotton, spread over 57,000 hectares in Pune, Solapur, Satara and Sangli districts, have suffered damage.The death toll was 16 in Aurangabad division and three in Konkan division.“Thirteen tehsils in Aurangabad division had heavy rainfall, that is, more than 65 mm in 24 hours, which caused flooding and damaged houses as well as crops over 4,99,648 hectares,” an official said.In Konkan division, 326 houses were damaged in Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri districts while five cattle died.Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts have reported one death each in rain-related incidents.Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar said farmers, mostly in Pune division, have suffered huge crop damage and he would “ask the Union government to provide some compensations to farmers who have lost their livelihood”.Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar reviewed the flood situation in western Maharashtra and asked the administration to prepare ‘panchnama’ (inspection report) of damaged crops, houses and other properties immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-uddhav-over-maharashtra-flood-assures-centre-s-support/story-0HrTjyl3Tl3NTFy53sAHLN.html
16-10-2020||India||Chinese troops at LAC critical security challenge, says S Jaishankar||The presence of a large number of Chinese troops in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) presents a critical security challenge to India and has disturbed the relationship built by the two sides over 30 years, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. Participating in a discussion on global challenges confronting India along with former Australian premier Kevin Rudd for Asia Society, Jaishankar expressed surprise at the nearly six-month border standoff, especially since it followed the efforts by India and China to improve their ties through two informal summits. “It has obviously had a very deep public impact and a very major political impact and it has left the relationship profoundly disturbed,” he said, referring to the large numbers of Chinese forces deployed at friction points on the LAC and the “tragic” clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 that killed 20 Indian soldiers. “I haven’t got a reasonable explanation...from them [Chinese] on this matter,” he said, adding that the concentration of Chinese troops at the disputed border represented a “critical security challenge”. The informal summits between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping at Wuhan in 2018 and at Mamallapuram in 2019 provided an opportunity to the two leaders to spend time and directly talk to each other “about their concerns” without any bureaucratic filters, Jaishankar said. At the second summit held a year ago, a lot of the discussions centred round “the future, our prospects [and] issues between us” and “how do we work out our own relationship”, he added. “What happened this year was a very sharp departure...over the course of a relationship over 30 years,” he said, noting that the two sides “painstakingly” built their ties since former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi’s visit to Beijing in 1988 despite India’s concerns on trade issues and China’s relationship with Pakistan. The basis for building this relationship “has been peace and tranquillity along the LAC” and multiple agreements created the framework for this by limiting military forces in border areas and setting the stage for border management, he said. The events of this year marked a “departure from these agreements”, he added. In response to a question from Rudd, Jaishankar made it clear that India’s approach towards Pakistan hinged on Islamabad stopping the use of terrorism as a policy. “[India is] still dealing with the perennial issues – terrorism from Pakistan continues, and terrorism remains publicly acknowledged by their government as a policy that they are justifying,” he said. “It makes it very hard to conduct normal relations with them.” Pakistan doesn’t “do normal trade with India”, didn’t give the country Most Favoured Nation (MFN)-status and has blocked connectivity with Afghanistan, he said, adding: “Until we address that problem, this challenge of how do you have a normal relationship with this very unique neighbour is a very troubling issue for our foreign policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-troops-at-lac-critical-security-challenge-s-jaishankar/story-kVouq48LGAp4rQUrXU6GMK.html
16-10-2020||India||Hackers attack Haldiram’s servers, demand Rs 7.5 lakh||Unidentified hackers attacked the servers of Noida-based Haldiram’s Snacks private limited with ransomware, stealing sensitive data and demanding a ransom of Rs 7.5 lakh to release the information. A case was registered at Noida Sector 58 police station on Wednesday.The incident occurred on the intervening night of July 12 and 13 when issues were reported with the company server which later turned out to be ransomware attacks.According to the complaint filed by the company’s deputy general manager (DGM), IT, technicians were called in after the corporate office located in Noida’s sector 62 was alerted about the problem.“It was found that the company’s data was being diverted through the cyber attack following which the server connection with other branches was cut off. However, by then, substantial data had already been stolen. By 3 am, the ransomware had spread via the corporate network. A complaint was then raised with a cyber security company but all sensitive data had already been encrypted by the by then,” said DGM, Aziz Khan, in his complaint to Noida cyber cell.Also read: ‘I’m Modi’s Hanuman, will tear open my chest and show if needed’ - Chirag PaswanOfficials said that the data stolen included financial and employee information, data on payroll, retail sales, purchases, inventory of the company.“This was a pre-planned conspiracy and the hackers not only stole the data but also tried to extort money in exchange for returning it. They left a message on the servers about the ransomware attack and proposed decrypting and returning the data for a ransom of Rs 7.5 lakh,” said the complainant.Company officials also said that the data theft can lead to losses and has already disrupted the company’s daily functioning. The hackers also deleted the backups from the servers, spelling more trouble for the company. Officials have provided IP addresses, of servers from where the ransomware appeared to have originated, to the police. Aziz did not comment on the situation.Based on his complaint, a case was registered with the Noida Sector 58 police station under sections 420 (cheating), 384 (extortion) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Information Technology Act.A senior police official said that before approaching Noida police, the company had the case investigated on their own and once the complaint was filed, the cyber cell was conducting the probe in the matter.“The server IDs provided by the company are proxy servers and the hackers were long gone from those addresses. No issues have been reported yet which might indicate that the misuse of data. Work is being done to track the hackers and identify them,” said the official.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 1, said that an investigation is still underway.“We have registered the FIR and cyber cell officials are looking into the case,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hackers-attack-haldiram-s-servers-in-noida-demand-rs-7-5-lakh/story-0HlGSst3ab8j2qKn2F1Z8L.html
16-10-2020||India||Prithvi-2 missile, capable of carrying nukes, blasts off from Odisha in user trial||India on Friday successfully conducted another night trial of its nuclear-capable Prithvi-2 missile as part of a user trial for the armed forces from a test range in Odisha coast. Friday evening’s user trial was carried out by the Strategic Force Command, people familiar with the matter said.The liquid-propelled Prithvi-2 has a range of 250 km and can carry a 1 tonne warhead. The 9-metre tall missile is the first to have been developed by DRDO under the Integrated Guided Missile Development Programme. It is India’s first indigenous surface-to-surface strategic missile.The trajectory of the missiles was tracked by a battery of long-range, multi-function radars and electro-optic telemetry stations at different locations.This is the second night trial of Prithvi-2 in less than three weeks. The DRDO had quietly carried out another round of night trial of the nuclear missile on 27 September.The flight test of the surface-to-surface missile is the 11th missile test by India’s Defence Research and Development Organisation in 40 days. The last one hadn’t ended very well and DRDO scientists had to abort the Nirbhay cruise missile that was launched from Odisha’s test facility into the Bay of Bengal eight minutes later.The Prithvi-2 missile met all parameters during the user trials conducted late on Friday, a top government official said. “The night trial was successful,” the official said.The state-of-the-art missile uses an advanced inertial guidance system with manoeuvring trajectory to hit its target.In the past too, the Strategic Force Command of the armed forces has executed night trials under the watch of DRDO scientists as part of a training exercise. The missile has already been deployed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prithvi-2-missile-capable-of-carrying-nukes-blasts-off-from-odisha-in-user-trial/story-EBEzXdoocz11h69gQhVFXK.html
16-10-2020||India||Air pollution, hypertension among top 5 risk factors for death in India in 2019: Study||Air pollution, hypertension, tobacco use, poor diet and high blood sugar levels were the top-five risk factors for death in India in 2019 according to a new study.The Global Burden of Disease (GBD) Study, published in the Lancet journal on Friday, assessed more than 286 causes of death and 369 diseases and injuries in more than 200 countries and territories across the world. It noted that India has gained more than a decade of life expectancy since 1990, but with wide inequalities between states. According to the researchers, including Srinivas Goli from the Indian Institute of Public Health Gandhinagar, life expectancy in India has risen from 59.6 years in 1990 to 70.8 years in 2019, ranging from 77.3 years in Kerala to 66.9 years in Uttar Pradesh. However, they said the increase in ‘healthy life expectancy’ in India has not been as dramatic as the growth of life expectancy since “people are living more years with illness and disability. The study found that the largest contributors to increasing health loss in India over the last 30 years were non-communicable diseases (NCDs) like ischaemic heart disease, COPD, diabetes, and stroke. In 2019, the research noted that the top five risk factors for death in India were air pollution (contributing to an estimated 1.67 million deaths), high blood pressure (1.47 million), tobacco use (1.23 million), poor diet (1.18 million), and high blood sugar (1.12 million). According to the researchers, over the past decade there has been more than 0.5 per cent annual increase in the exposure to several highly preventable risks such as obesity, high blood sugar, alcohol use, and drug use globally. They warned that the greatest cumulative impact on health comes from the striking rise in metabolic risks like high blood sugar, hypertension, and high cholesterol, which have risen 1.5 per cent a year since 2010, and account for nearly 20 per cent of total health loss worldwide in 2019. The study noted that these metabolic risks have grown by a staggering 50 per cent since 1990, and are responsible for a huge number of deaths globally -- with high blood pressure contributing to 1 in 5 deaths (almost 11 million) in 2019, followed by high blood sugar (6.5 million deaths), high BMI (5 million), and high cholesterol (4.4 million). The scientists said several of the risk factors and NCDs highlighted by the study, including obesity and diabetes are associated with increased risk of serious illness and death from Covid-19. In the South Asia region, they said non-communicable diseases now contribute to more than half of the years lost due to ill-health, disability or early death, which was dominated by infectious, maternal, neonatal, and nutritional diseases 30 years ago. Citing an example, the researchers said 58 per cent of the total disease burden in India is now due to non-communicable diseases, up from 29 per cent in 1990, while premature deaths due to NCDs have more than doubled from 22 to 50 per cent. According to the study, hypertension is the third leading risk factor after air pollution, responsible for 10-20 per cent of all health loss in eight states in India, primarily in the south. “Most of these risk factors are preventable and treatable, and tackling them will bring huge social and economic benefits,” said study lead author Christopher Murray, Director of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington in the US. “We are failing to change unhealthy behaviours, particularly those related to diet quality, caloric intake, and physical activity, in part due to inadequate policy attention and funding for public health and behavioural research,” Murray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-hypertension-among-top-5-risk-factors-for-death-in-india-in-2019-study/story-SgodUK44xQdEVCEIObXhOL.html
16-10-2020||India||Smog returns to Delhi as agriculture fires start||The Indian capital’s air quality levels plunged to “very poor” on Friday and a smoggy haze settled over the city, days after the state government initiated stricter measures to fight chronic air pollution.The Air Quality Index in New Delhi rose past 270, according to SAFAR, India’s main environment monitoring agency, after agricultural fires in neighboring states sent smoke billowing across the city. The World Health Organization deems anything above 25 as unsafe.The national capital, one of the world’s most polluted cities, enjoyed a respite from air pollution up until September in part thanks to a virus lockdown. But with industrial activities resuming and cars back on the roads — along with the onset of cooler weather and less wind — air quality in the city has once again fallen to unhealthy levels.October is also the time of year when farmers in neighboring regions, including the states of Haryana and Punjab, set fire to their post-harvest fields to clear them, despite there being a ban on it.That smoke travels to New Delhi, leading to a surge in pollution levels in the city of more than 20 million people and exacerbating what is already a public health crisis.Health experts say high air pollution levels over a prolonged period have compromised the disease resistance of people living in New Delhi, making them more susceptible to the coronavirus.Over the years, the pollution crisis in New Delhi has piled public pressure on the government to tackle the root causes.Authorities have often introduced a system that restricts many private vehicles from taking to the roads for two weeks. It has also ordered firefighters to sprinkle water from high-rise buildings to settle the dust, tried to snuff out garbage fires and ordered builders to cover construction sites to stop dust from enveloping the area.But the problem continues to persist.During peak pollution periods last year, air pollution levels in New Delhi sometimes soared even off the measurable scale. A dark yellow haze blanketed the city for several days, forcing schools to close and flights to be diverted.The Indian Agricultural Research Institute says it has developed a microbial liquid solution that softens crop stubble and turns it into compost, thus ruling out the need to burn the agricultural crop.The watery solution is made of four capsules that cost a little less than half a dollar and can be used for the rapid decomposition of crop residue.K Annapurna, a senior scientist at the public institute, said the solution can help with pollution levels while at the same time retaining the essential nutrients in the soil that are otherwise damaged when the residue is burned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smog-returns-to-delhi-as-agriculture-fires-start/story-uqObN2hlbdaktzLVPemqwL.html
16-10-2020||India||Amid border tensions with China, Army vice chief to visit US||Indian Army vice chief Lieutenant General SK Saini will on Saturday kick off a four-day visit to the United States at a time India is locked in border tensions with China in the eastern Ladakh theatre and the country is in the midst of buying a raft of military items from the US to beef up the army’s capabilities, officials familiar with the developments said on the eve of the visit.Issues related to arms procurement and joint training will be discussed during the visit that seeks to bolster bilateral military cooperation, the officials said. Saini’s visit (October 17-20) assumes significance as he will be visiting the Hawaii-based United States Indo-Pacific Command (USINDOPACOM) whose responsibilities include deterring aggression and promoting security cooperation in the Asia-Pacific region even as the Ronald Reagan Carrier Strike Group returned to the South China Sea this week for its third deployment this year amid Beijing’s rising belligerence in the region. “The aim of the visit is to enhance military cooperation between both the armies,” an Indian Army spokesperson said on Friday. He said General Saini will visit the US Army Pacific Command --- the army component of USINDOPACOM --- and hold talks with the military leadership, witness the US Army’s training activities and get an overview of its equipment capabilities.Saini’s visit comes days ahead of the planned 2+2 dialogue between the foreign and defence ministers of India and the US. The 2+2 dialogue is expected to be held in New Delhi on October 26-27, with secretary of state Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark Esper set to visit India for the talks.“He (the vice chief) will also visit INDOPACOM where aspects of military cooperation and furthering military-to-military engagement, including procurements, training in niche domains, joint exercises and capability building will be discussed,” the spokesperson said. The equipment ordered from the US by India for its army includes six Apache attack helicopters, more stocks of Excalibur precision guided munitions for its artillery guns and an additional 72,000 Sig Sauer assault rifles. The visit of the vice chief to the US is crucial in the context of the India-China standoff that is escalating into a serious situation, said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd).“Strategic-level endeavours underway towards capability enhancement to meet the potential threat need to be expedited. Consequent to the recent meeting of the Quad, the threat perceptions have witnessed greater convergence. It is in this context that the visit is very significant,” Lamba added. The spokesperson said the visit would further enhance the operational and strategic collaboration between the two armies. He said India would be participating in two joint exercises with the US next year, despite the Covid-19 restrictions --- Yudh Abhyas (February 2021) and Vajra Prahar (March 2021).Cooperation for ensuring a free and open Indo-Pacific that is in line with a rules-based order is expected to be a focus area for both the vice-chief’s visit and the 2+2 ministerial dialogue, the officials said. The USINDOPACOM is the US military’s largest unified command whose vast area of responsibility extends from the west coast of the US to the west coast of India. Its name was changed from the Pacific Command to Indo-Pacific Command in 2018 to reflect the greater emphasis on South Asia, and especially India, in protecting American strategic interests.The vice chief’s visit also comes at a time when Australia is likely to be part of the next Malabar naval exercise conducted by India with the US and Japan. The next edition of Malabar, delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic, is expected to be held in November, Indian Navy officials said. China has been wary of the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-vice-chief-jets-off-to-us-amid-border-tensions-with-china/story-NlybosAS9uYSRehsqqWA0M.html
16-10-2020||India||Cultural ministry issues SOPs for artistes to hold events online, claim benefits of govt schemes||The Culture Ministry Friday issued guidelines for holding events in online mode, allowing artistes to take benefits of government schemes even if they are unable to hold such programmes in physical settings owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The ministry said the guidelines will ensure continued financial assistance to artistes and help them tide over the present crisis.In a statement, the ministry said there has been a substantial impact on the performing arts and cultural sector with in-person exhibitions, events, and performances either cancelled or postponed due to the coronavirus outbreak. However, there were intensive efforts by the artistes and the institutions of the Ministry of Culture to provide alternative or additional services through digital platforms with proper documentation of the events, it said. The Ministry of Culture (Performing Arts Bureau) implements many schemes under its Kala Sanskriti Vikas Yojana (KSVY), where grants are sanctioned/approved for holding programmes/activities which involved large audience.¨This (the guidelines) will enable them to avail benefits under these schemes even if they are not able to stage programs in the physical format as before and will ensure continued financial assistance to tide over the present crisis,” the ministry said.The guidelines will be applicable on artists/organisations who have already been sanctioned grants under KSVY schemes. The ministry has urged them to conduct various components of the schemes such as virtual workshops on art and craft, lecture-cum-demonstrations, webinars, online programmes/festivals etc. through virtual mode on social media handles like Facebook, YouTube etc.The ministry has said that instead of the usual hard copies of documents relating to activities covered under the scheme/scheme, artistes or organisers can submit soft copies of the same for the release of the grant. The components will be dispensed with for the time-being and soft copies of the same will be admissible for release of grant.“The organisations who are conducting events on virtual mode may be given exemption from submission of proof of event such as Newspaper cutting but must submit link/recordings of the virtual events/activities with details of the event. The outreach of the program in terms of measure of the digital audience should also be indicated. “The expenditure incurred on activities as reflected in Utilization Certificate (UC) should be justified with reference to the program conducted via virtual platform,” it said.The Ministry of Culture is implementing Kala Sanskriti Vikas Yojana (KSVY) through which cultural organisations are given financial assistance for the promotion of art and culture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cultural-ministry-issues-sops-for-artistes-to-hold-events-online-claim-benefits-of-govt-schemes/story-I9zMjvEOJ5RADOBX3dl65I.html
16-10-2020||India||International flights: India-Germany flights to start from October 26 after brief suspension of air bubble||After a brief standoff over who is flying more planes amid Covid-19 pandemic leading to a brief suspension of the air bubble between India and Germany, the Air India on Friday tweeted that it would start its Germany flights from October 26. It indicates that the new agreement reached between the two countries has been extended till March 28, 2021. #FlyAI: Air India will operate flights between India-Germany from 26th Oct' 20 to 28th March '21.Bookings open through AI website, Booking offices, call centre and Authorised Travel Agents. pic.twitter.com/KHCvZo4VkMAir bubbles are pacts signed by two countries allowing airlines of both the countries to fly. Under these agreements, the number of flights are restricted as all countries are now cautious so that the number of Covid-19 cases does not increase because of the resumption of international flights.India alleged that Germany was flying more flights to India while the government restricted the number of Indian flights in the country. After India asks Lufthanasa to curtail its schedule, it cancelled all flights to India till October 20. Following which, Air India too cancelled all its flights to Frankfurt till October 14. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation said Lufthansa was flying 20 flights a week while Indian carriers were operating only three to four flights. Lufthanasa was suggested to fly seven flights per week which the carrier rejected.As a result of the brief suspension of the air bubble, several flights were cancelled. Those who have Air India tickets between October 20 and October 26 have been asked to contact the airline for rescheduling after October 26.Commenting on the suspension of air bubble between India and Germany, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri recently said that talks were on between the two countries. “The issue is not about allowing foreign carriers in or not. We are all for foreign carriers operating here. Make no mistake. But I think the time has come for the message to go out loud and clear that it will not be done at the expense of the Indian carriers. Under the regulated (air bubble) arrangements, we are not insisting on total parity. Even near parity will do,” the minister had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-flights-india-germany-flights-to-start-from-october-26-after-brief-suspension-of-air-bubble/story-QnSiTH8FSHLVxhOJyLrf5O.html
16-10-2020||India||25 lakh cases heard virtually in courts during Covid-19: Ravi Shankar Prasad||As many as 25 lakh cases were heard virtually in courts across the country, including 9,000 by the Supreme Court, during the coronavirus-triggered restrictions, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Friday. Prasad was hosting a virtual summit of ministers of justice of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) countries. He apprised the gathering of the high priority the government has given to framing business facilitating laws and rules, including Commercial Courts Act and arbitration laws, with a view to make India a preferred destination for investment and business. Besides Prasad, ministers from Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyz Republic, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and an “authorised representative” of Pakistan’s Ministry of Law and Justice attended the meet. According to a Law Ministry statement, Prasad highlighted the initiatives taken by the government for providing affordable and easy access to justice for all. He referred to pro bono legal services provided to the marginalised sections of the society. Through Tele-Law services initiated in 2017, so far 3.44 lakh free legal consultations have been given to poor people through video conference, he said. Prasad also highlighted e-Courts projects with video conferencing facility and the rolling out of virtual courts as part of the government’s transformative change in process automation from the conventional brick and mortar court architecture. “During COVID-19 pandemic, over 25 lakh hearings through video conference have taken place at various courts of India, out of which 9,000 virtual hearings have taken place at the Supreme Court alone,” the statement said quoting him. As part of activities of Justice Ministers’ Forum, the minister urged SCO member states to promote exchange of ideas, best practices and experiences in identified areas through the platform.  He also stressed on widening the spectrum of activities being undertaken in the forum, in particular, and SCO in general.  Earlier, an Experts Working Group of SCO member states discussed the importance of promoting ab alternative dispute resolution mechanism, besides cooperation in all spheres, including legal, given the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The meet also adopted a joint statement. The joint statement calls for continuing the work on implementation of the action plans of the working groups of experts on forensic activities and legal services for 2018-2020, as well as to develop action plans for 2021-2023. It also calls for considering organising exchange programmes for representatives of the ministries of law and justice of the SCO member-states to study the best practices in alternative dispute resolution. According to the joint statement, efforts should continue to develop an online platform for the exchange of legal information, taking into account national laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-lakh-cases-heard-virtually-in-courts-during-covid-19-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-sXrK3i1gmbSph6IRuVIEoI.html
16-10-2020||India||Decision to reserve 80 per cent ICU beds for Covid-19 patients temporary: Delhi govt to HC||The Delhi Government Thursday told the Delhi High Court that the policy decision directing 33 big private hospitals to reserve 80 per cent of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients was taken as a stopgap and temporary measure with an intent to mitigate the surge of coronavirus cases in the national capital.The government defended its decision and opposed a plea challenging the September 13 order, directing all the private hospitals having bed strength of 50 or more to reserve at least 80 per cent of their total ICU bed strength for Covid-19 patients.In an affidavit filed before Justice Navin Chawla, the Aam Aadmi Party(AAP) government vehemently denied that the decision, which was stayed by the High Court on September 22, was in violation of any fundamental right of the citizens of Delhi and termed the petition by ‘Association of Healthcare Providers’ as wholly misplaced and baseless.The High Court granted one week time to the petitioner association, which claims that the 33 private hospitals against whom the order was passed are its members and sought to quash the order to reserve 80 per cent ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, to file rejoinder to the government’s affidavit and listed the matter for further hearing on November 18.The government has already challenged the single judge’s stay order before a division bench which has listed it for hearing on November 27.Additional Solicitor General, Sanjay Jain, representing the government, said there is a prediction that in the upcoming festive season, the number of Covid-19 cases will go up.The affidavit, filed through additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose and advocate Urvi Mohan, contended that the petitioner association was looking to secure the financial interests of its member hospitals, under the garb of expressing masked concerns over securing healthcare facilities for non-Covid patients, to be able to levy arbitrary and exorbitant medical treatment fee and other such charges from critical Covid-19 patients.“The act of the answering respondent (Delhi government), being that issuing the GNCTD Order, is a policy decision, that had been implemented, as a stopgap and temporary measure, with the intent and objective to mitigate the surge in the Covid-19 cases in the NCT of Delhi,” it said.It also referred to various judicial pronouncements saying it is settled law that courts will ordinarily exercise restraint while dealing with a challenge preferred to a policy decision of the State.It said it is not the domain of the court to embark upon the uncharted ocean of public policy in an exercise to consider as to whether a particular public policy is wise or a better public policy can be evolved and such an exercise must be left to the discretion of the executive and legislative authorities as the case may be.The Delhi government said several other states like Maharashtra and Odisha have also taken similar steps and put in place similar measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic.“On account of the Covid-19 pandemic graph taking an alarming rise nation wide and also impacting upon the cases in the national capital, the Government of the NCT of Delhi has been adopting a hands-on dynamic approach for the management and mitigation of this disaster,” the affidavit said.It said since certain private hospitals have been the preferred choices of patients, it has been found that they hardly have any free and available ICU beds for Covid-19 patients and there is a section of the society including those with health insurance prefer admission in private hospitals despite availability of beds in the government sector.It was found that many such patients were made to wait for long hours and even days prior to their admission due to non-availability of Covid-19 ICU beds as a result of which their condition deteriorated.The government said when the emergency meeting was convened by it on September 12, out of 33 private hospitals, 25 participated and none of them raised any protest or objection to the decision of the authorities to reserve the ICU beds.Almost all of the 33 hospitals also started implementing the government’s order with immediate effect, it claimed, adding that order only covers 33 private hospitals and nursing homes, out of over 1150 private nursing homes and hospitals across the city.It said no patient, suffering from a critical illness other than Covid-19, has objected to the government’s order or complained of having been deprived of necessary medical treatment.“The alleged violation of fundamental right to life of one class of persons (being non- COVID patients, none of whom have come before the court alleging such a violation), cannot be given primacy over the fundamental right to life of critical Covid-19 patients,” especially when the government order is only a stopgap and temporary arrangement, to cater to the present and dynamics rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases, it said.The government said the petition is an attempt to seriously imperil its pandemic management efforts and actually jeopardises the interests of hundreds of Covid-19 patients who have availed of the benefit of the order and secured ICU beds in private hospitals, at capped rates.It said the stay on the operation of the government’s decision, which has been granted to the petitioner, further leaves such patients at the mercy of these private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-to-reserve-80-per-cent-icu-beds-for-covid-19-patients-temporary-delhi-govt-to-hc/story-jqJKNIOdtsritWLYNxQgkJ.html
16-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 fatality rate lowest since March 22, says govt: All you need to know||India has continued to report one of the lowest deaths per million population which stands at 81, as of Friday, the health ministry said. India, the second worst-hit nation due to the disease outbreak, has reported 7.3 million positive cases of Sars-Cov-2 and 1,12,161 people have died due to the viral infection so far.India has also recorded a decline in active cases, according to the health ministry data. As of Friday, India has 8,04,528 active cases, which accounts for 10.92 per cent of the total cases. Here is all you need to know about the disease outbreak in the country: - India has reported less than 1,100 deaths since October 2.- India’s Case Fatality Rate - on a continuous downslide – has been recorded at 1.52 per cent. It is also the lowest since March 22, when the government imposed a Janata curfew to curb the disease spread.- 78 per cent of the new recovered cases come from 10 states and Union Territories, which include Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerrala and Andhra Pradesh. Maharashtra is witnessing 13,000 recoveries from the disease within a day.- 79 per cent of India’s fresh infections come from 10 states and UTs. The new cases are from 10 States and UTs. After a gap of a few days when Kerala overtook Maharashtra in daily cases, the latter has regained the spot with more than 10,000 cases followed by Karnataka with more than 8,000 cases — in the last 24 hours.- Of the 895 new deaths reported in the last 24 hours, nearly 82 per cent come from Maharashtra, Karnataka, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Odisha and Delhi.- More than 37 per cent of new deaths have been reported from Maharashtra.- Thirteen states and union territories, including Puducherry (403), Maharashtra (335), Goa (331), Delhi (317), Karnataka (152), Tamil Nadu (135) and Punjab (131), had deaths per million population more than the national average.- India’s total number of recoveries from coronavirus disease have surged to 64,53,779 and exceed active cases of Covid-19 by 56,49,251.- India’s national recovery rate has improved to 87.56 per cent.- For eight days in a row, the active cases of Covid-19 in India have remained below 9 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-fatality-rate-lowest-since-march-22-says-govt-all-you-need-to-know/story-LanAKtOtJWzdZzYEjf9dgK.html
16-10-2020||India||What about victim’s trauma? Plea in SC against molester getting bail on ‘rakhi’ condition||The Madhya Pradesh High Court, in July, granted bail to an accused in a molestation case on the condition that he would request the alleged victim to tie him ‘Rakhi’. Nine women lawyers moved the Supreme Court against the high court order and said that courts across the country should be restrained from imposing such conditions as these are “against the principle of law”. The Supreme Court has now sought the assistance of the Attorney General on this plea to stay Madhya Pradesh High Court order.A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar issued notice to the office of Attorney General K K Venugopal on Friday.Senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, appearing for the petitioners including lawyer Aparna Bhat, told the bench that the appeal has been filed in a “extraordinary circumstance”. “The trauma of the victim is trivialised by such conditions,” Parikh told the bench, also comprising Justice B R Gavai. “These kind of conditions are imposed which are against the principle of law. Repeatedly such observations are being made,” he said. Are you making the submission only for Madhya Pradesh or for the entire country? the bench asked.Answering this, Parikh said he is making submission with regard to entire country and the petitioners have made prayers to restrain courts, including high courts and trial courts, from making such observations. The bench, which said it is issuing notice to the office of the top law officer of the country, posted the matter for hearing on November 2.“The high court erred in imposing a condition that defeated the very purpose of granting bail by directing the alleged perpetrator to establish contact with the victim,” the plea said.It alleged that imposing such a condition results in “further victimization of the survivor” in her own house. “In the context of Rakshabandhan being a festival of guardianship between brothers and sisters, the said bail condition amounts to gross trivialisation of the trauma suffered by the complainant in the present case,” it said, adding that the alleged incident is said to have been committed by the accused by forcibly entering the complainant’s house.In the order, the Madhya Pradesh High Court stated, “The applicant along with his wife shall visit the house of the complainant with a Rakhi thread / band at 11 am on August 3 with a box of sweets and request the complainant to tie the Rakhi band to him with the promise to protect her to the best of his ability for all times to come. He shall also tender Rs 11,000 to the complainant as a customary ritual, usually offered by the brothers to sisters on such an occasion and shall also seek her blessings. The applicant shall also tender Rs 5,000 to the son of the complainant for purchase of clothes and sweets.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-about-victim-s-trauma-plea-in-sc-against-molester-getting-bail-on-rakhi-condition/story-slesvTtpYglcP95TItIzEJ.html
16-10-2020||India||Pollution could worsen Covid-19 impact in winter: Experts||As smoky and hazy skies are back to haunt Delhi-NCR after a few months of blue skies and clean air, experts have cautioned people to brace for the winter season saying higher pollution level may worsen the impact of Covid-19. Environment and health experts have asked people, especially those vulnerable to Covid-19 attack, to be more careful as the chronic exposure to air pollutants is associated with severe infections and higher mortality.They feel that lungs compromised due to pollution could lead to complications like pneumonia during Covid-19.“There is abundant evidence that exposure to air pollution increases our vulnerability to respiratory viral infections both in terms of transmission and the severity of the infection,” said Avinash Chanchal, climate campaigner, Greenpeace India.“Researchers have linked air pollution with mechanisms that may reduce our immune defenses such as damage to human airways, cilia and epithelial barriers. In the case of Covid-19, current evidence indicates that chronic exposure to air pollutants is associated with more severe infections and higher mortality,” he said. Every year the winter season brings with it cold, polluted air in northern India and the problem this year can worsen due to the pandemic.A layer of smoky haze lingered over Delhi-NCR on October 15 with the air quality in the region hitting ‘very poor’ levels, even as stricter anti-air pollution measures, including a ban on electricity generators, came into force under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP).According to Health Ministry data updated on Friday, India’s Covid-19 caseload rose to 73,70,468 with 63,371 new infections being reported in a day.Doctor Shuchin Bajaj from Ujala Cygnus Group of Hospitals in Delhi, said at the onset of winter and stubble burning, cases of Asthma and COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) rise but one needs to be more careful this year because of the pandemic. “When your lungs are compromised and weak, you have more chances of developing complications like pneumonia during COVID. You have to take care of SMS - social distancing, mask and sanitisation more so in the coming days,” Bajaj said.According to SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research), contribution of farm fires to Delhi’s PM2.5 concentration was around 6 per cent on Thursday. It was only around one per cent on Wednesday and around 3 per cent on Tuesday, Monday and Sunday. NASA’s satellite imagery showed a large cluster of farm fires near Amritsar, Patiala, Tarn Taran, and Firozpur in Punjab, and Ambala and Rajpura in Haryana. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) swung into action on October 15 by sending its 50 teams to inspect pollution hotspots in Delhi and neighbouring cities and file reports from field for next two months.The Environment Ministry recently held a meeting with the CPCB and officials of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh on stubble burning.Ravindra Khaiwal, Associate Professor, Environmental Health, PGI Chandigarh, said that air pollution has been identified as a major risk factor for premature deaths.“Air pollution has been identified as a major risk factor for premature death and non-communicable diseases. There are emerging evidence that air pollution could be linked with the severity of Covid-19 conditions,” he said, adding that stubble burning could spike pollution by 20-40 per cent.Experts advise that wearing mask is the most effective way to protect oneself from pollution as well as Covid-19. “Wearing face mask is single most effective way of keeping oneself safe from Covid-19 as well as pollution this winter. Avoiding strenuous outdoor exercise during peak pollution hours is also beneficial. For people with chronic lung diseases, it is very important to be compliant to their treatment,” Arunesh Kumar, Head Respiratory Medicine/Pulmonology at Paras Hospital, said. Piyush Goel, a doctor from Columbia Asia Hospital, Gurgaon, said while people need to follow basic principles of wearing masks, sanitising hands and maintaining distance, the government should ensure policy measures to prevent pollution. “Wear face mask covering nose and mouth upto chin, maintain social distancing and ensure hand hygiene. Face mask will also help to prevent impact of pollution such as particulate matters. “The government should ensure policy measures to prevent pollution. No stubble burning should be allowed, vehicular pollution should be avoided, and construction protocols should be followed. Besides, we must recognise that it is a collective responsibility of people to work together to defeat both Covid-19 and pollution,” Goel said.Khaiwal said the problem of pollution needs public policy and industry partnerships. “The government had last year launched the National Clean Air Program (NCAP) to reduce air pollution by 20-30 per cent by 2024. Public participation is vital as we are aware of the pollution problem. Still, our contribution is minimal, which we do by taking simple steps like recycling and segregating household waste, use of energy-efficient electronics and e-vehicles. “There should be policies to incentivise the public for walking and cycling. Cities should also adopt and promote a non-motorized mode of transportation. Industries should be encouraged to adopt a healthy business model having a focus on pollution reduction,” he said.India’s coronavirus death toll climbed to 1,12,161 with 895 fatalities reported on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pollution-could-worsen-covid-19-impact-in-winter-experts/story-Oik2qbJkAR2AcGdrXuaxsJ.html
16-10-2020||India||Delhi resident Vibhor Anand arrested for spreading ‘fake news’ on Sushant Singh Rajput death case||Vibhor Anand, a Delhi resident who claims to be an advocate has been arrested by the Mumbai Police cyber cell for spreading ‘fake news’ regarding Sushant Singh Rajput death case. Reports said Mumbai Police has taken him into custody on Thursday.Following Sushant Singh Rajput’s death on June 14, Vibhor Anand made “sensational revelations” on his now-suspended Twitter account linking Rajput’s death with his former manager Disha Salian’s death. Anand allegedly dragged Bollywood actor-producer Arbaaz Khan’s name in the cases, which prompted Khan to file a case against Anand and a few others who have dragged his name. Anand was active on YouTube where he was posting videos peddling various theories behind Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. He allegedly defamed Maharashtra ministers in his video. The Mumbai Police has recently revealed that over 80,000 fake accounts were created on various social media platforms on June 14 to discredit the Mumbai Police and Maharashtra government over the investigation into Rajput’s death. Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh has asked the cyber cell to investigate the matter, and register cases under the Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-resident-arrested-for-spreading-fake-news-on-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case/story-i4YdSkBj2yJxa7SZTt7PcI.html
16-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Leopard kills 11-year old girl in Uttarakhand, 6th child killed in last 1 month and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Leopard kills 11-year old girl in Uttarakhand, 6th child killed in last 1 monthAn 11-year-old girl was killed by a leopard in Uttarakhand’s Jaspur area in US Nagar district, said forest officials. The incident has created panic and resentment among villagers who accused the forest department of inaction despite having received complaints against the leopard. Read moreDelhi next on NCB radar to launch Mumbai-style crackdown on drugsThe Narcotics Control Bureau, which traced back the drug trail that emerged during investigations into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, and arrested nearly 20 people in Mumbai will next turn its focus on rampant drug abuse in the national capital Delhi too and other metros, a senior official of the country’s lead drug enforcement agency said. Read moreHow Centre borrowing Rs 1.1 lakh crore will impact states, Nirmala Sitharaman explains in a letterA day after the Centre announced that it would borrow Rs 1.1 lakh crore on behalf of the states — much to the relief of the states as now they don’t have to borrow to pay the GST compensation shortfall— finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman wrote to all states explaining the change in stance. Read moreCongress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad tests positive for Covid-19, goes into home quarantineSenior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Friday tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Azad confirmed on Twitter that he has contracted the viral disease and also requested people who came in contact with him in the last few days to follow Covid-19 safety protocol. Read moreIPL 2020: Eoin Morgan appointed KKR captain after Dinesh Karthik steps asideIPL 2020: Dinesh Karthik has informed the KKR management that with a view to focusing on his batting and contributing more to the team’s cause, he wished to handover the captaincy to Eoin Morgan. Read moreMicromax India to launch new smartphones in India soonGurugram-based tech company Micromax is gearing for a major launch in India. The company is planning to launch a new smartphone series in India soon. Read moreAnand Mahindra shares pics of floor drain and solar panel, asks similarity between them The business tycoon has again shared that image along with another picture of a solar panel and asked people to find the similarity between the two. His tweet is now creating a chatter on Twitter. Read moreWatch | From kickboxing to floor exercises: Kangana Ranaut begins training for Tejas||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-leopard-kills-11-year-old-girl-in-uttarakhand-6th-child-killed-in-last-1-month-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qEo1LEZU0J4bauYBDHt6pJ.html
16-10-2020||India||Adverse meteorological conditions could lead to spike in air pollution, says CPCB||The meteorological conditions for the dispersal of pollutants are more adverse this year compared to last year, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) officials said at a technical briefing on air pollution on Friday, suggesting that pollution levels could be relatively higher this year.Last year, in September and October, there were seven rainy days that brought around 121mm rain compared to only three rainy days this year in the same period that brought only 21mm rain. The average ventilation index in the same period this year is 1,389 m2/s but the minimum recorded was only 636 m2/s. A ventilation index of more than 6,000 m2/s is considered favourable for the dispersion of pollutants, according to CPCB officials. Prashant Gargava, member secretary, CPCB, said harvest of the kharif crop and stubble burning has started earlier than normal this year. He added so the peak of stubble fires may not coincide with the most adverse meteorological conditions this year.Last year, the contribution from stubble fires to Delhi’s air pollution peaked on October 31 when it was 44%. Diwali was celebrated on October 27 last year. “This year, because stubble fires have started relatively early, we are hoping that the peak contribution from fires reduces by the time minimum temperature start falling significantly and before Diwali,” said Gargava. Diwali will be celebrated on November 14 this year. Another development, which could mean lower contribution from stubble fires this year, is that area under non-Basmati paddy (which leaves stubble that needs to be disposed of) has reduced in both Haryana and Punjab this year. In Punjab, the area under non-Basmati paddy has reduced from 22.91 lakh ha to 20.76 lakh ha this year. In Haryana, the area has reduced from 6.48 lakh ha to only 4.27 lakh ha.“I have been informed that farmland of over 1 lakh ha has switched over from paddy this year which is a very important development,” added Shiv Das Meena, chairman, CPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adverse-meteorological-conditions-could-lead-to-spike-in-air-pollution-says-cpcb/story-qqnRI32MC2FLoK0URMyn6K.html
16-10-2020||India||3-4 Rafale fighter jets to join Indian Air Force in November first week||Amid the ongoing China border conflict, Indian Air Force’s (IAF) offensive capabilities will get a boost as 3-4 Rafale fighter jets would be arriving at the Ambala airbase in Haryana by the first week of November.This would be the second batch of these French-origin fighter jet aircraft as the first batch of five Rafales had arrived in India on July 28 and were officially inducted on September 10 by the Narendra Modi government.“The second batch of 3-4 Rafale fighter jets would be arriving in India by first week of November from France and preparations are on for their arrival in the country,” government sources told ANI.“With the induction of these aircraft, the IAF would have 8-9 fighter aircraft which will be operationalised within a few days in view of the ongoing situation,” they said.The Rafale fighters have already been operationalised and have also been deployed in the conflict zone of Ladakh in the short duration of time they have been with the Air Force.An IAF team headed by Assistant Chief of Air Staff (Projects) Air Vice Marshal N Tiwari in France for reviewing the project as part of the annual routine meeting.The Indian pilots are training there in France and by March 2021, the Indian side is likely to complete the training phase there.The IAF will deploy one squadron each of the Rafale combat aircraft at its airbases in Ambala in Haryana and Hashimara in West Bengal.In September of 2016, India signed a deal with the French government and Dassault Aviation to acquire 36 Rafale fighter jets for over 7.8 billion euros to arrest the fall of combat squadrons and meet urgent requirements on the eastern and western fronts.The first five fighter aircraft were inducted in Ambala in presence of the French Defence Minister Florence Parry and Indian Chief Of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat along with the IAF Chief RKS Bhadauria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-4-rafale-fighter-jets-to-join-indian-air-force-in-november-first-week/story-YdnEZJOkxJBzAkHUfZCofM.html
16-10-2020||India||Statue of Unity to reopen from October 17: Check latest guidelines||Seven months after it was closed as the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, Gujarat’s Statue of Unity will be open for tourists from Saturday, which is also the first day of Navratri.Here are the guidelines issued by the Sardar Ekta Trust, which manages the 182-metre tall statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.1. Only 2,500 tourists will be allowed per day. The regular footfall before lockdown was 15,000 per day.2. Only 500 will be allowed to visit the viewer’s gallery located at a height of 153 metres.3. Tickets will be provided in two-hour slots through the website www.soutickets.in4. Entry will be allowed to tourists only in the slot for which the tickets have been purchased.5. No tickets will be issued physically from any ticket window.6. Social distancing to be maintained everywhere including the hop-on, hop-off busses.Monuments under the Archaeological Survey of India reopened since August with restricted number of tourists. On September 21, the Taj Mahal was reopened for tourists after a hiatus of six months. The Statue of Unity was inaugurated in 2018 and within 2019 it surpassed the footfall at the 133-year-old Statue of Liberty in the US, with an average of over 15,000 tourists visiting the monument daily.The Time magazine has mentioned the statue as among the 100 places to visit in 2019. It is built on an island in the Narmada river and overlooks the Sardar Sarovar Dam.The Shanghai Cooperation Organization has included the Statue of Unity in its list of eight wonders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/statue-of-unity-to-reopen-from-october-17-check-latest-guidelines/story-cj9CDFaCuEvuwEh54v8SPN.html
16-10-2020||India||Pfizer, Bharat Biotech, AstraZeneca: Latest Covid-19 vaccine developments||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a review meeting to assess the progress of research and vaccine development ecosystem to fight coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The meeting was attended by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, NITI Aayog member (health), principal scientific advisor, senior scientists, and other officials.PM Modi said be it testing, vaccine and medication, the solution has to be cost-effective, easily available and scalable.Know all the latest updates on coronavirus vaccine:1. Pfizer Inc said on Friday it would apply for emergency use in the United States of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate being developed along with Germany’s BioNTech SE as soon as a safety milestone is achieved in the third week of November.2. Bharat Biotech, which is developing an indigenous vaccine in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is conducting its second phase trial, the results of which are expected soon.3. The results of phase three of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine could be available by November-end or early December, the Niti Aayog announced on Tuesday.4. India is expected to have a Covid-19 vaccine in a few months and the country should be in the process of delivering it to people in the next six months, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday.5. The government has started making logistical arrangements for procurement, storage and distribution to ensure the uninterrupted delivery of a vaccine, when one becomes available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-bharat-biotech-astrazeneca-latest-covid-19-vaccine-developments/story-QL88WlQeYF8h9ftSoAyDCI.html
16-10-2020||India||Torrential rains continue to wreak havoc in Karnataka, CM B S Yediyurappa chairs meeting to review situation||Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa held a review meeting on Thursday with officials of districts affected by incessant rains and floods that have wreaked havoc in the state. The meeting was held throught video conferencing and was attended by district collectors, Superintendent of Police and chief executive officers of districts that have been ravaged by the relentless rains.The flood situation in Karnataka remains grim with several low-lying areas submerging due to the heavy rains and release of water from dams in the state. The chief minister said the Centre was informed about the dire situation in Karnataka. “The Centre is aware of the prevailing situation. I have just now spoken to the (Union) Home Minister who has assured us of every assistance,” he said, as quoted by PTI.An overflowing river Bhima severely hit Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts with several villages facing flood-like situations. The water also destroyed standing crops. North Karnataka saw the worst as this is the third time the region has been hit by floods in a span of three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/torrential-rains-continue-to-wreak-havoc-in-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-chairs-meeting-to-review-situation/story-ErnOzshKv868eEiApl3vZL.html
16-10-2020||India||Centre asks RBI to deduct Rs 1417 cr from Jharkhand funds against dues, Soren fumes||The central government has directed the RBI to auto deduct Rs 1417.50 crore from the account of Jharkhand government maintained by the top bank, as the first instalment against its power discoms outstanding dues to Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), a central public sector power generator.In a communication on October 8, the central power department directed the RBI to invoke the tripartite agreement (TPA)---signed between the Centre, the Jharkhand government and the RBI on April 27, 2017 regarding payment security mechanism---and realise a part of the outstanding Rs 5608.32 crore as on August 13, 2020, said officials aware of the development.The Centre has argued that the time period indicated in the notice period to the state government has already expired and its response regarding payment of outstanding dues owed by the JBVNL to DVC is not convincing. JBVNL or the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited is the state’s largest power distribution company.“Accordingly, in terms of provisions of clause 7.3 of the TPA, I consider this a fit case for invoking TPA and accordingly request you to take further action to debit an amount of Rs 1417.50 crore in the month of October, 2020 from the account of state government being maintained by the RBI and credit it into the account of Ministry of Power, Government of India for onward transfer into the account of the DVC,” power department’s letter to the RBI reads. The Union power ministry had on September 11 written to the state government, putting it on notice of 15 days for payment of the outstanding dues to the DVC. The state government in its reply on September 25 had questioned the outstanding dues amount being claimed by the Centre. In its reply to the Union power ministry, the state energy secretary had argued, quoting minutes of previous meetings, that the JBVNL owes only Rs 3919.04 crores to the DVC, state government officials said.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi’s dig at govt over IMF’s India projectionsThe state government further argued that DVC is also required to pay Rs 360.36 crore to the state government for conducting mining activity at the Bermo mines. The state government also pointed out that it has already applied for Rs 1,841 crore from the consolidated fund of Atmanirbhar Bharat to pay off the dues.Reacting to the development, chief minister Hemant Soren expressed “deep anguish and disappointment at the blatant and continuous attempt by the Centre to impose fiscal penalties on Jharkhand”. “It’s a veiled conspiracy by the Centre to provoke and trap the state government to increase its borrowing from markets and other instruments in these times of economic instability and fiscal difficulties being faced by the state. BJP’s previous Raghubar Das government through the TPA signed in 2017 laid the foundation stone towards destroying the basic edifice of cooperative federalism,” Soren said. Also Read: 5 arrested for alleged gang rape of 14-year-old girl in Jharkhand’s Gumla districtHe also asked if the Centre’s reluctance to pay states their long-standing GST compensation citing the economic impact of Covid-19 pandemic was defendable when it was resorting to auto deduction of thousands of crores from state funds kept with RBI.Finance minister Rameshwar Oron said earlier this week that the GST dues owed to Jharkhand have risen to around Rs 3300 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-rbi-to-deduct-rs-1417-cr-from-jharkhand-funds-against-dues-soren-fumes/story-W0ZpyrIoGlFSdqoObvNxEP.html
16-10-2020||India||Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad tests positive for Covid-19, goes into home quarantine||Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Friday tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Azad confirmed on Twitter that he has contracted the viral disease and also requested people who came in contact with him in the last few days to follow Covid-19 safety protocol.I have tested positive for COVID-19. I am in home quarantine. Those who came in contact with me in last few days may kindly follow the protocol.Azad is among the 20 star campaigners of the party for the upcoming Bihar assembly elections.The 71-year-old Congress leader is the fourth senior party member to have tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier senior Congress leaders Ahmed Patel, Motilal Vora and Abhishek Singhvi had tested positive for Covid-19.While Singhvi – who had confirmed that he was largely asymptomatic – has recovered, other leaders are still under treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-ghulam-nabi-azad-tests-positive-for-covid-19-goes-into-home-quarantine/story-Gy2C8xI8LGrrgqfMOg35qI.html
16-10-2020||India||Govt will soon take decision on minimum age of marriage for girls: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the government will soon take a decision on revising the minimum age of marriage for girls after it receives a report from the committee set up for this. The Prime Minister said the girls’ gross enrolment ratio in education has turned higher than that of boys for the first time in the country because of several efforts taken by the government in the last six years.Modi also highlighted that the government has constructed 11 crore toilets across the country under the Swachh Bharat Mission , and is also providing sanitary pads at Re 1 to poor women. “Because of these efforts, for the first time, the gross enrolment ratio of girls in education is more than that of boys,” he remarked Modi was addressing a video conference for releasing a commemorative coin of Rs 75 denomination on the 75th anniversary of the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO).“There is an important deliberation going on to decide what should be the ideal age of marriage for daughters,” Modi said.The Prime Minister said he has been receiving letters from women from across the country, asking about the report of the committee and when the government will take a decision on it. “I want to assure them, the government will soon take its decision after the submission of the report,” Modi said. In his Independence Day speech, the Prime Minister had earlier announced that government was deliberating on what should be the minimum age of marriage for women and has set up a committee to look into the same. Currently, the minimum age of marriage is 18 years for women and 21 for men..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-soon-take-decision-on-minimum-age-of-marriage-for-girls-pm-modi/story-v6Ml5Bd2tkJTCZ3zTjGuII.html
16-10-2020||India||Odisha couple charred to death from stove fire while making tea||A middle-aged couple from western Odisha district of Jharsuguda was charred to death on Friday morning, when the 40-year-old wife’s clothes caught fire while she was lighting a coal-fired stove inside their house.Police officials in Jharsuguda said 40-years-old Geeta Das of Rampur village under Brajrajnagar police station area was lighting up the stove for making tea when her saree accidentally caught fire. Though she pushed the stove away in an attempt to save herself, the fire had engulfed her body by then.Jharsuguda SP Rahul PR said Geeta’s husband Giribara (47) went to rescue her and was badly burnt too. The couple died on the spot. Later, the fire spread further, turning several household items to ashes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-couple-charred-to-death-from-stove-fire-while-making-tea/story-w5HOaMf0ppcg6vt1f1OivM.html
16-10-2020||India||MSP, government procurement important part of country’s food security: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the government is committed to procure of agri crops at Minimum Support Price (MSP) as it is an important part of the country’s food security. Efforts are being made to improve mandi infrastructure so that MSP buying continues in a scientific way, he said, adding that recent agri reforms reflect India’s commitment to global food security. “MSP and government procurement are an important part of the country’s food security. It is important that it continues to function with better facilities and in a scientific way. We are committed towards this,” Modi said after releasing a commemorative coin of Rs 75 denomination on the 75th anniversary of Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). Noting that wholesale mandis or Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) have their own identity and strength, Modi said these mandis were in place for years in the country and their infrastructure is being improved. He said about Rs 2,500 crore investment was made in the last six years to boost mandi infrastructure. Even IT infrastructure is being built to connect mandis with electronic National Agriculture Market (eNAM). “The recent three big agri reforms are major steps towards expanding agriculture and increasing farmers’ income,” he said, adding that the reforms in the Essential Commodities (EC) Act will make mandis more competitive, enhance farmers’ income and address the problem of food wastage. Further, Modi said that earlier farmers did not have access to mandis and were forced to sell their produce to middlemen. “Now, the market will reach the doors of small farmers and ensure higher prices. They (farmers) will be free from middlemen and consumers will also benefit,” he said. The recent law on contract farming will also benefit farmers by protecting them from price volatility as they can enter into a contract to sell their produce at a pre-determined price with private entities prior to sowing. Farmers’ interests are protected if there is any breach of contract, he added. Lauding farmers’ initiatives during the Covid-19 pandemic that has helped the country fight malnutrition, Modi said farmers have broken the previous record in foodgrains production this time. Similarly, the government has broken past records in procurement of wheat, rice and pulses. “Farmers, agri scientists, anganwadis’ asha workers have played an important role in our efforts to address malnutrition. Even during the corona crisis, we are fighting malnutrition due to their efforts,” he said. In the last seven to eight months, the government distributed free ration worth Rs 1.5 lakh crore to 80 crore people although there is less discussion about it at the global level. “Free ration given in India is higher than the population of Europe and the US,” Modi said. He also mentioned that the government has implemented ration card portability scheme ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ in 28 states and union territories. Prior to 2014, the food law was rolled out in only 11 states. To address malnutrition, the government is promoting crops with high nutrition. Millets like ragi, jowar, bajra are being promoted. Modi, who released 17 new bio-fortified varieties of eight crops on the occasion of World Food day on Friday, said these varieties are being made available to farmers across the country and will help boost production of high-nutrition crops. Prior to 2014, only one variety used to reach farmers but now 70 varieties are reaching farmers, he said. According to him the acceptance of India’s proposal by FAO to declare 2023 as International Year of Millets will not only promote high-nutrition food and its availability but also benefit rain-fed small farmers in the country. The UN agency FAO has seen India’s fight against malnutrition closely. Earlier, efforts were made in silos but now multidimensional approach is being adopted to address malnutrition issue in India, he added. Modi also recalled the contribution of Indian civil service officer Binay Ranjan Sen who started the World Food Programme when he was Director General of FAO during 1956-1967 and that programme has won the Nobel Peace Prize 2020. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Women and Child Development Smriti Irani, Ministers of State for Agriculture and senior FAO officials were present in the virtual event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msp-government-procurement-important-part-of-country-s-food-security-pm-modi/story-kH94smo1mjnZQcmhtQYALO.html
16-10-2020||India||PM Modi to hold a dozen campaign rallies in poll-bound Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold 12 campaign rallies in poll-bound Bihar, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) election in-charge for the state Devendra Fadnavis announced on Friday, where his party is looking to retain power in alliance with chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal(United) and others.“PM Modi will hold 12 election rallies in Bihar. He will be in Sasaram, Gaya and Bhagalpur on October 23. On October 28, the PM will hold rallies in Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Patna. On November 1, he will be in Chhapra, East Champaran and Samastipur. On Nov 3, he will be in West Champaran, Saharsa and Araria,” Devendra Fadnavis said according to ANI.Sasaram and Gaya will head to polls during the first phase of the Bihar assembly elections, which will take place October 28.His next stop will be on the day of the first phase of elections when he will hold rallies in Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Patna. Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga will vote on the third phase of elections on November 7 and Darbhanga (Rural) will vote on the second phase of elections on November 3.In his third round of campaigning, PM Modi will head to Samastipur, East Champaran and Chhapra. He will hold election rallies in these three places on November 1 which is two days before the second phase of the elections. Samastipur will head to vote on the final phase of the elections on November 7.PM Modi will visit West Champaran, Saharsa and Araria in his final round of campaigning on November 3. Saharsa and Araria will also head to polls on the final phase of the elections.The JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar has already held six poll rallies since Wednesday and he is scheduled to hold six more on Friday. RJD leader Tejashwi Singh has also kicked off his campaigning on Friday. He is scheduled to hold public meetings in Kahalgaon, Bhabua, Kaimur and six other places.The results of the Bihar polls will be declared on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-a-dozen-campaign-rallies-in-poll-bound-bihar/story-usPLRaS769bfhVdqY2sFSI.html
16-10-2020||India||Ballia shooting unfortunate but...: BJP MLA Surendra Singh defends accused||Uttar Pradesh BJP MLA Surendra Singh on Friday said the firing incident in Reoti area which killed a 46-year-old man on Thursday was unfortunate but it was an act of self-defence. “If he hadn’t fired, then dozens of his relatives would’ve been killed. Wrongdoers should be punished under law. What happened shouldn’t have happened but police should also act against other group which attacked women with sticks, iron rods,” the MLA from Bairia Assembly said. Surendra Singh is known for his controversial remarks. After Hathras gang-rape, the BJP MLA said incidents like these can be stopped with help of good values. All parents should teach their daughters good values.On Thursday, Jaiprakash alias Gama was killed when Dhirendra Pratap Singh, district unit president of the BJP ex-servicemen cell, opened fire at a meeting convened for the allocation of two fair price shops in Ballia district.In a statement, the UP government said chief minister Adityanath has taken cognizance of the Ballia incident and directed that the SDM, CO and the police personnel on the spot be suspended immediately and the strictest action be taken against the accused. The role of the officers would be investigated and, if they were found responsible (for the incident), criminal proceedings would be initiated, the statement added.“He had no other option. It was a do-or-die situation for him,” Sing said, admitting that the accused is his close associate. “How can I deny that he is my close associate? Not only mine, he is a close associate of BJP as his family votes for us and he worked for us in polls. Everyone who votes for us is a close associate. But I decry the incident and the administration’s one-sided probe,” he said. “Nobody is looking at the pain of six women who have been injured in the incident. Dhirendra Singh fired in self-defence,” the BJP MLA added. He said six people from Dhirendra Pratap Singh’s group were injured in the incident and one of them was hospitalised in Varanasi but nobody was listening to them.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ballia-shooting-unfortunate-but-bjp-mla-surendra-singh-defends-accused/story-2SWAyO94QVxaFL4vb6YdjL.html
16-10-2020||India||Heavy rainfall likely in parts of Tamil Nadu tomorrow: IMD||Heavy rain is likely to occur at isolated places over Salem, Tiruvannamalai, Dharmapuri and Tirupattur districts of Tamil Nadu on Saturday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).According to an official statement, a low-pressure area is likely to form over the east-central Bay of Bengal and adjoining the Andaman Sea on October 19 and will become more marked during the subsequent 24 hours over the central Bay of Bengal and is likely to move in the west-northwest direction towards Andhra coast.IMD also said that the cyclonic circulation associated with the well-marked low-pressure area over the East-central Arabian Sea off north Maharashtra coast persists and now seen between 1.5 and 2.1 km above mean sea level.Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 Kmph is likely to prevail over east-central Bay and adjoining Andaman sea.High waves in the range of 2.2 - 3.2 meters are forecasted during till 11:30 pm on Friday along the coast of Southern Tamil Nadu from Kolachal to Dhanushkodi.Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas during the period mentioned period, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-likely-in-parts-of-tamil-nadu-tomorrow-imd/story-Qhd3Uy7IpmxnMqExmfk0aL.html
16-10-2020||India||‘Blood-coloured’ clothes found at Hathras rape accused’s house, kin say it’s red paint||Investigating the case of alleged gang rape and murder of Hathras woman, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) claimed to have recovered clothes stained in ‘blood colour’ from the house of one of the four accused, Luv Kush Sikarwar. However, Sikarwar’s family has refuted the claims.They claimed that Ravi Sikarwar, the elder brother of the accused, works as a painter in a factory and thus his clothes had red stains and it was not ‘blood stain’ as perhaps suspected by the agency.“Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) stayed for two and half hours and kept on searching material in our house. They found clothes with red colour on it and took that along,” said Lalit Sikarwar, the younger brother of Luv Kush Sikarwar.“In fact these clothes are of my elder brother Ravi Sikarwar who works in a paint factory and thus it had red stains on it. They were not blood stains as understood by the CBI team which took it along,” said Lalit in a videographed message.Also Read: ‘We want to be safe’: Hathras rape victim’s family wants to be shifted to DelhiThe CBI team is in the village for the past four days and has interacted with the victim’s father and brothers. They had also taken one of the victim’s brothers to the crime scene. The mother and aunt of the victim had also gone to the millet field, the crime spot, in the outskirts of village Boolgarhi of Hathras. The CBI team had visited the houses of all the four accused on Thursday and had extensively interrogated their family members.Also Read: Barabanki Dalit girl was raped before murder, reveals post-mortemMeanwhile, the special investigation team (SIT) has claimed to have completed its investigation in the gang rape case. The three-member SIT, constituted by UP government, had begun its investigation on September 30 and taken statements of members of victim’s family, family of the accused and other villagers.Initially, the SIT was allocated a week’s time to complete investigation, but it was later extended by ten days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blood-coloured-clothes-found-at-hathras-rape-accused-s-house-kin-say-it-s-red-paint/story-O249RTlrC59y0KrUEkMDrM.html
16-10-2020||India||Delhi next on NCB radar to launch Mumbai-style crackdown on drugs||The Narcotics Control Bureau, which traced back the drug trail that emerged during investigations into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, and arrested nearly 20 people in Mumbai will next turn its focus on rampant drug abuse in the national capital Delhi too and other metros, a senior official of the country’s lead drug enforcement agency said.The official did not elaborate if the agency already has a lead. “ We will focus on Delhi too,” he said, suggesting that the NCB was looking at a Mumbai-style operation that would go up the value chain right to the cartels that supply drugs to Mumbai.Officials investigating the Mumbai case haad started with information about purchase of drugs by one person and then expanded the probe that has netted nearly 20 people including actor Rhea Chakraborty and could singe several Bollywood A-listers and politicians as investigations proceed.Such an operation also brings in an element of uncertainty for drug consumers who may not be detected when they make the purchase, but much later.Delhi, according to a nationwide survey on drug consumption released by the government in 2019, was among the small group of states - Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh were the others - that contributed more than half of the country’s 77 lakh problem opioid users.This survey also revealed how huge India’s drug problem was. According to this survey, a senior NCB official said, 2.1% of the country’s population used opioids, thrice the global average of 0.7% and four times Asia’s 0.46%.The NCB estimates that if only 20 lakh of the 77 lakh people who use opioids are dependents who consume a minimum of 0.5 gram of heroin everyday, the average daily consumption of heroin in the country comes to 1000 kgs per day. This means there is a demand for a minimum 360 tonnes of retail quality or 36 tonnes of wholesale (relatively pure) quality of heroin per year. The international value of this requirement of the wholesale quality of heroin comes to Rs 1,44,000 crore.In contrast to this huge requirement, law enforcement agencies were able to seize only 2.4 tonnes of heroin in 2019, the year the nationwide study was published.Officials said they were working to dismantle the international supply chains used by drug traffickers and had started sharing and receiving real-time information from drug enforcement agencies in the United States, Canada, Australia, Russia, the United Kingdom and South Africa to jointly push back against the drug culture. And scoring some successes too.India’s geographic location does complicate the effort. India is sandwiched between Golden Crescent on the northwestern frontier, and Golden Triangle on the northeastern frontier. There are indications that in addition to Afghanistan, parts of Pakistan near the Afghan border, are also used by the Pakistani drug traffickers to convert Afghan opium into heroin. Myanmar throws another challenge with its heroin and methamphetamine production and porous borders, the NCB official said. India’s eastern neighbour is the second largest opium producer with 33,000 hectares of land under cultivation in Shan and Kachin provinces, which share a border with China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-next-on-ncb-radar-to-launch-mumbai-style-crackdown-on-drugs/story-6uXKmV6YOq1kkWttG3w5CI.html
16-10-2020||India||Supreme Court constitutes one-member committee to monitor farm fires in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh causing air pollution in Delhi-NCR||The Supreme Court on Friday constituted a one-member committee headed by one of its former judges, Justice Madan B Lokur, to carry out physical surveillance on farm fires in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh causing air pollution in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) and submit a report after the Dussehra vacation.The three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde ordered that all authorities in Delhi and Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority will report to Justice Lokur Committee. He added that corps such as National Cadet Corps, Bharat Scouts and Guides and National Service Scheme can be deployed for the Lokur Committee to carry out the surveillance of the fields where stubble burning is likely to take place. These mobile teams will inform about such farm fires based on which the authorities will take action. The order came on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by two young environmental activists who demanded that immediate steps be taken to stop the stubble burning. They claimed that despite the court monitoring, states were not acting enough to curb this menace. Also Read: How India can eliminate the burning of crop waste | OpinionSenior advocate Vikas Singh, who represented the two activists, said farm fires had increased by five times this year and an immediate order will be needed to arrest this problem which could lead to an unmanageable situation when the court reopens. He made the suggestion to appoint Justice Lokur for the purpose. The court heard the states of Punjab and Haryana and recorded in its order that adequate steps have been taken but preventive steps need to be put in place amid the rising pollution in Delhi and NCR. “We are concerned that citizens of Delhi and NCR should breathe good, clean air,” said the bench, also comprising Justice AS Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian. The top court has asked state chief secretaries to provide all assistance to the Lokur committee and arrange for infrastructure, transportation and security of the panel and the mobile teams.The committee will also have the mandate to suggest additional means and methods for preventing the burning of stubble. After the hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for UP and Haryana said that the states were not put to notice on the proposal to form Justice Lokur Committee and requested the court to continue monitoring by EPCA. The bench, however, refused to change its order and deprecated the practice of mentioning out of turn. Mehta informed the bench that he couldn’t log in when the case was taken up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-constitutes-one-member-committee-to-monitor-farm-fires-in-punjab-haryana-and-uttar-pradesh-causing-air-pollution-in-delhi-ncr/story-lvFdI0ZSp4w0F6LvxQ0iCK.html
16-10-2020||India||India gained decade of life expectancy since 1990: Lancet study||India has gained more than a decade of life expectancy since 1990, but there are wide inequalities between states, according to a new study which assessed more than 286 causes of death and 369 diseases and injuries in more than 200 countries and territories across the world. The study, published in the Lancet journal, noted that life expectancy in India has risen from 59.6 years in 1990 to 70.8 years in 2019, ranging from 77.3 years in Kerala to 66.9 years in Uttar Pradesh. However, the researchers, including Srinivas Goli from the Indian Institute of Public Health Gandhinagar, said the increase in ‘healthy life expectancy’ in India has not been as dramatic as the growth of life expectancy since “people are living more years with illness and disability. According to the international team of scientists, the current global crisis of chronic diseases and failure of public health to stem the rise in highly preventable risk factors such as high blood pressure, tobacco use, and air pollution have left populations vulnerable to acute health emergencies such as COVID-19. “The main improvement we see in almost every country, including in India, is a decline in infectious diseases and more rise in chronic diseases,” study co-author Ali Mokdad from the University of Washington in the US told PTI. “In India maternal mortality used to be very high, but now it is coming down. Cardiovascular diseases used to be number five, and now it is number one, and cancer rates are increasing,” Mokdad, Professor of Global Health at the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME), said. While many parts of the world have also controlled infectious diseases through immunisation and better medical care, he said some countries still struggle to manage these epidemics. “The interaction of COVID-19 with the continued global rise in chronic illness and related risk factors, including obesity, high blood sugar, and outdoor air pollution, over the past 30 years has created a perfect storm, fuelling COVID-19 deaths,” the scientists noted in a statement. In the South Asia region, they said non-communicable diseases (NCDs) now contribute to more than half of the years lost due to ill-health, disability or early death, which was dominated by infectious, maternal, neonatal, and nutritional diseases 30 years ago. Citing an example, the researchers said 58 per cent of the total disease burden in India is now due to non-communicable diseases, up from 29 per cent in 1990, while premature deaths due to NCDs have more than doubled from 22 to 50 per cent. The study found that the largest contributors to increasing health loss in India over the last 30 years were NCDs like ischaemic heart disease, COPD, diabetes, stroke, and a group of musculoskeletal disorders. In 2019, the research noted that the top five risk factors for death in India were air pollution (contributing to an estimated 1.67 million deaths), high blood pressure (1.47 million), tobacco use (1.23 million), poor diet (1.18 million), and high blood sugar (1.12 million). The scientists said several of the risk factors and NCDs highlighted by the study, including obesity and diabetes are associated with increased risk of serious illness and death from COVID-19. They cautioned that urgent action is needed to address the synergistic epidemic of chronic diseases, social inequalities, and COVID-19, referring to the interaction of several epidemics that exacerbate the disease burden in populations who are already burdened. “Most of these risk factors are preventable and treatable, and tackling them will bring huge social and economic benefits,” said study lead author Christopher Murray, Director of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington in the US. “We are failing to change unhealthy behaviours, particularly those related to diet quality, caloric intake, and physical activity, in part due to inadequate policy attention and funding for public health and behavioural research,” Murray said. Since 1990, the researchers said India has made substantial gains in health, but added that child and maternal malnutrition is still the number-one risk factor for illness and death in India, contributing to more than a fifth of the total disease burden in several states in northern India like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. According to the scientists, high blood pressure is the third leading risk factor after air pollution, responsible for 10-20 per cent of all health loss in eight states in India, primarily in the south. The researchers stressed that there is overdue recognition of the importance of social and economic development to overall health all over the world. “Given the overwhelming impact of social and economic development on health progress, doubling down on policies and strategies that stimulate economic growth, expand access to schooling, and improve the status of women, should be our collective priority,” Murray said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gained-decade-of-life-expectancy-since-1990-lancet-study/story-MXZ7A3zx84V2znQrO5uUFL.html
16-10-2020||India||Protecting vulnerable communities during the pandemic: FAO’s key focus on World Food Day 2020||‘Grow, Nourish, Sustain. Together. Our actions are our future’ is the Food and Agriculture Organization’s (FAO) global call for solidarity to mark the World Food Day 2020. Celebrated every year on October 16, World Food Day is an essential reminder of the significance and also the struggles faced by the communities that feed the world. Formed in 1945, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, had a daunting task in hand - to constantly monitor agricultural problems in member countries and also report on critical food shortages and famines. Multiple programmes and measures were initiated by the FAO in an effort to restore agriculture and food production to pre-war levels. One such measure was the decision to observe World Food Day on October 16, as agreed in the 20th session of the FAO in 1979. It was also to be observed in honour of the founding of FAO in 1945.2020 was supposed to be the year that marked the beginning of a decade termed popularly by the United Nations as the ‘Decade of Action’ to achieve the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG).‘Zero Hunger’ and ‘Good health and well-being’ are the second and third SDGs respectively. However, the ongoing pandemic situation has only aggravated many food shortage problems and has put vulnerable communities in even more danger. Qu Dongyu, the present Director General of the FAO, recently wrote to the Down To Earth magazine, that even before the pandemic, 700 million people across the globe were found to be undernourished. Damage to the economy of countries, across the world, could potentially expose another 130 million people to this problem. He also called the present crisis as one ‘on a scale not seen since the end of World War II.’In its celebrations this year, the FAO has called for global solidarity to support vulnerable communities in times of the pandemic. It has also defined the actions for countries/governments, private sectors and individuals in its action call to end world hunger.As part of celebrations in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi released a Rs 75 coin to commemorate the World Food Day 2020 and also to mark the 75th anniversary of the FAO. 17 biofortified varieties of eight crops were also announced during the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protecting-vulnerable-communities-during-the-pandemic-fao-s-key-focus-on-world-food-day-2020/story-QBfsUcQreGjb8jRIVb27YN.html
16-10-2020||India||On FAO’s 75th anniversary, PM Modi releases commemorative coin of Rs 75||To mark the 75th anniversary of the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi released a commemorative coin of Rs 75 denomination, as a testament to India’s long-standing relationship with the global body. The Prime Minister also dedicated to the nation 17 recently developed biofortified varieties of eight crops.The Prime Minister talked about India’s commitment to ensuring the Food Security Act translated into practice during the coronavirus pandemic, emphasising on the importance of Minimum Support Price(MSP) and government purchase for ensuring food security. “Once farmers of India become strong and their incomes increase, the mission against malnutrition will also garner strength,” added the Prime Minister.Congratulating FAO for reaching a monumental milestone, the PM said, “Increasing coordination between India and FAO will provide speed to our fight against malnutrition”.FAO’s India representative Tomio Shichiri, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, women and child development minister Smriti Irani, minister of state for woman and child development Debasree Chaudhuri were present during the occasion. The event was also witnessed by anganwadis, Krishi Vigyan Kendras, organic and horticulture missions across the country. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) had pointed to India’s association with FAO in a statement earlier. “India has had a historic association with FAO. Indian Civil Service Officer Dr. Binay Ranjan Sen was the Director General of FAO during 1956-1967. The World Food Programme, which has won the Nobel Peace Prize 2020, was established during his time. India’s proposals for the International Year of Pulses in 2016 and the International Year of Millets 2023 have also been endorsed by FAO,” PMO had said in the statement.“India’s vision aligns with international efforts to fight malnutrition, undernutrition, and hunger. This event reinforces the government’s commitment to agriculture and nutrition, which has been accorded the highest priority,” the PMO had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-fao-s-75th-anniversary-pm-modi-releases-commemorative-coin-of-rs-75/story-dv5aOMQwd2mhhEL7CtfHfN.html
16-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi talks India’s movement against malnutrition and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On FAO’s 75th anniversary, PM Modi talks India’s movement against malnutritionPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday released a commemorative coin of Rs 75 to mark the 75th anniversary of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), which he said had seen India’s fight against malnutrition from close quarters. Read moreTejashwi Yadav kicks-off campaign trail; says CM Nitish Kumar is ‘tired’Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Friday began his campaign for the upcoming Bihar assembly elections by calling chief minister Nitish Kumar ‘tired’. Yadav will address rallies in Kahalgaon, Bhabua, Kaimur and six other places on Friday. Read moreFirst rally of Pakistan oppn parties against Imran Khan govt today to kick off protest movementAll is set for Pakistan’s opposition coalition to hold their first public meeting on Friday evening to kick off a series of agitations aimed at forcing out the government of Prime Minister Imran Khan. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Had they lost, who among Gayle, Pooran or Rahul would’ve taken the blame?’ Sehwag highlights mistake in KXIP’s chase against RCBThe Kings XI Punjab’s win over Royal Challengers Bangalore saw a thrilling end to the game as it took a six off the final ball from Nicholas Pooran to finish the match. While KXIP won the match eventually to bag much-needed 2 points, they, once again, saw the game slipping out of their hands from a comfortable position. Read moreAudi Q2 SUV launched in India, live updates: HighlightsAudi Q2 SUV has been officially launched in India today at a starting price of ₹34.99 lakh (ex showroom) and with the German luxury car maker targeting a wider set of customer base with its smallest product in the Q family. Read moreHarsh Goenka shares tips on how to maintain good relationships, they’re something to abide byBusiness tycoon Harsh Goenka has quite the fan following on Twitter. Every now and then, he shares posts which create a buzz among people. From witty to inspirational, the tweets are varied. His post, shared a day back, is no different. Read more‘Stop blame game and act’: 9-year old activist protests against Delhi pollution9-year-old climate and environment activist Licypriya Kangujam protested against the bad air quality and pollution in Delhi and called on politicians to stop blaming each other and start acting. She was protesting at the Vijay Chowk area of the national capital. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-talks-india-s-movement-against-malnutrition-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Ed2FTv2A297eFmWPvP5pqL.html
16-10-2020||India||Supreme Court dismisses plea seeking imposition of President’s rule in Maharashtra||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a plea seeking imposition of President’s rule in Maharashtra. The petition, which was filed by three Delhi residents, sought President’s rule in the state and dismissal of Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government.Rejecting the plea, Chief Justice of India SA Bobde told the petitioners, “You can ask the President.” The court disapproved the petitioners for singling out Maharashtra alone. “You know how big Maharashtra is?” the CJI asked them while dismissing the plea.The plea, filed by advocates Rishab Jain and Gautam Sharma and social worker Vikram Gahlot, alleged deterioration in the law and order situation in Maharashtra. They mentioned Bollywood actor’s Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, the row over the demolition of Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow, and the attack on former Indian Navy officer Madan Lal Sharma to support their plea.“On the contrary, when the state machinery allows itself to be used as a band of persons out to throw law to the winds and take to oppressive activities at the instance of the ruling dispensation which shows and establishes a failure of the constitutional machinery and require imposing of President’s rule in the state,” petitioners said in their plea.The petitioners had also said if not the whole state, at least Mumbai and its neighbouring districts should be controlled by armed forces. “Declare a state of emergency Maharashtra, and in any case in the city of Mumbai and neighbouring districts as a grave threat to the security of citizens residing there has arisen due to direct conduct of the present government, and bring it under the rule of armed forces to assist the civil administration,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-plea-seeking-imposition-of-president-s-rule-in-maharashtra/story-I5Fkk8ke1sAA666HIzKRXO.html
16-10-2020||India||Congress claims Vivek Oberoi-Sandip Ssingh angle to drugs case, demands NCB probe||Maharashtra Congress has again questioned the ongoing Bollywood drugs abuse probe by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and reiterated its demand for a probe into producer Sandip Ssingh’s alleged links with the drug racket. The renewed demand comes close on the heels of a search conducted by Bengaluru police at actor Vivek Oberoi’s house in Mumbai on Thursday.In a series of tweets on Friday morning, Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant reiterated suggestions that the Central investigating agencies could be deliberately shielding Oberoi and Sandip Ssingh, who had together produced a biopic on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “I had demanded with NCB to investigate the BJP Drug connection in Bollywood. In my questions to NCB I had specifically mentioned the name of Aditya Alva found in Sandalwood drug racket who is brother in law of Vivek Oberoi who is partner of Sandeep Ssingh. But NCB didn’t pay heed,” he tweeted on Friday morning. He further alleged that the Gujarat government run by the BJP may have favoured the duo. “But now Bengaluru police hv raided house of Vivek Oberoi who is not only co-producer of Narendra Modi Biopic but also played role of Modi ji. Several Qns still unanswered as to why only this company was chosen for signing an MOU by Guj govt,” another of his tweets read.Also Read: Vivek Oberoi’s wife Priyanka Alva served notice in connection with Sandalwood drugs caseSawant wanted to know why complaints against Sandeep Ssingh were being overlooked.“Not only us, BJP leader Subramaniam Swamy had tweeted demanding Ssingh’s probe and why he frequently visits Dubai. NCB has been summoning Bollywood actors, but the demand for the probe of Ssingh is overlooked,” Sawant said and asked why even Kangana Ranaut was not called for questioning by the Central agency. Sawant is meeting Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh this afternoon to request him to demand that the NCB looks into these allegations.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta asks his fans to stay unitedBJP has however rubbished the claims and dared Sawant to produce the evidence at an appropriate forum.“He is free to produce the evidence, if any, to the investigating agency or to the courts. BJP never shields any wrongdoer and the search at Oberoi’s house is an example of the same. PM Narendra Modi’s integrity or sincerity cannot be contested. The allegations by Congress leaders are malicious and born out of frustrations,” said BJP spokesperson Madhu Chavan. Sandip Ssingh has yet not responded to the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-claims-vivek-oberoi-sandip-ssingh-angle-to-drugs-case-demands-ncb-probe/story-8Vkfsj18ct9HlxoyZCQzjI.html
16-10-2020||India||On FAO’s 75th anniversary, PM Modi talks India’s movement against malnutrition||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday released a commemorative coin of Rs 75 to mark the 75th anniversary of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), which he said had seen India’s fight against malnutrition from close quarters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi releases a commemorative coin of Rs 75 to mark the 75th anniversary of the Food and Agriculture Organization pic.twitter.com/E6a2WUYYa4PM Modi began his address by congratulating all those working to remove malnutrition, around the world. “In India, our farmers, agricultural scientists, Anganwadi and ASHA workers are leading the movement against malnutrition,” he said.However, he said, lack of education, lack of information, non-availability of pure water, absence of hygiene were among reasons India did not get the results it expected from its fight against malnutrition. He said when he got an opportunity to serve the country in 2014, he moved ahead with an integrated and holistic approach. “We are taking an important step in our fight against malnutrition as we are now encouraging the production of crops which are rich in nutritional substances like protein, iron, zinc etc,” he said.On the issue of starvation and malnutrition during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, the Prime Minister said India has been providing free ration to 800 million poor people in the last eight months.PM Modi also dedicated to the nation 17 recently-developed bio-fortified varieties of eight crops on World Food Day, which is being observed on Friday. “Before 2014, only one biofortified variety of crops was available. However, today, farmers are getting 70 biofortified varieties of various crops,” he said.Talking about the recently introduced farm laws, which have triggered protests by farmers and opposition parties, he said these laws are an ‘important step’ in improving the country’s agricultural sector and increasing farmers’ income.“The empowerment of India’s farmers will further strengthen the country’s fight against malnutrition. I’m confident that the increasing coordination between India and FAO will give further impetus to this mission,” PM Modi said as he concluded his address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-fao-s-75th-anniversary-pm-modi-talks-india-s-movement-against-malnutrition/story-IV5xfrGSe4UUCQ9VAylC8O.html
16-10-2020||India||‘We want to be safe’: Hathras rape victim’s family wants to be shifted to Delhi||The family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, who was allegedly raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras last month, wants to be shifted to Delhi to ensure their “safety” and asked the state government to help them in moving from their village, the victim’s brother said according to news agency ANI on Friday. They also want the probe into the woman’s gangrape and murder to be handled in Delhi. “The family wants the case to be shifted to Delhi, we also want to shift there. The government should help us in this regard, we are dependent on them. We just want to be safe wherever we are,” the brother was quoted as saying by ANI.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is currently probing the case and has so far questioned the relatives of the victim as well as those of the four accused, who belong to the Thakur community. Earlier in the day, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by the Uttar Pradesh government said it has completed its probe and will soon submit the report to the government, according to ANI. The agency continued its investigation even after the rape and murder case was handed over to CBI on chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s recommendation and a notification by the Centre. Also Read: Supreme Court reserves order on plea for court-monitored probe in Hathras caseThe Dalit woman was cremated in the dead of the night on September 30 by the UP police a day after her death in a Delhi hospital. Her family has alleged that the cremation was carried out without their consent and they were locked inside their house when they tried to protest. The incident has sparked outrage across the country and several political leaders have visited the victim’s family and assured them of support in getting justice for their daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-want-to-be-safe-hathras-rape-victim-s-family-wants-to-be-shifted-to-delhi/story-H4zOQAa7kLAuSj83DBjAhP.html
16-10-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh SIT concludes probe in Hathras rape case, to submit report soon||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by the Uttar Pradesh government has completed its probe into the gang rape of the 19-year-old Dalit woman last month in the state’s Hathras district, news agency ANI reported on Friday. The SIT will soon submit its report to the state government, the agency added.Amid outrage over the handling of the case by the local administration, chief minister Yogi Adityanath recommended that the Central Investigation Bureau (CBI) must take forward the probe. Following the chief minister’s recommendation and a notification by the Centre, the rape and murder case was handed over to the central agency.The SIT formed by the state, however, continued its investigation and encouraged people to come forward and record their statements if they were aware of any details related to the case.CBI is now carrying out the investigation and has registered a case against the four accused named by the woman before she died. All the men belong to the Thakur community and are currently lodged in a jail in Aligarh. The central agency has so far questioned the family members of both the victim and the accused and also the policemen associated with the case.CBI, however, will not probe the cases related to alleged criminal conspiracy to spread caste conflict, instigating violence, incidents of vicious propaganda by sections of media and political interests, a senior agency official told HT. These cases were registered by the state government.Following the sexual assault on September 14, the woman died at a Delhi hospital on September 29 and was cremated the next day at 2:30am against the wish of her family. The family has alleged that they could not even see her face before the cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-sit-concludes-probe-in-hathras-rape-case-to-submit-report-soon/story-ldkPdLnXIhlmyE6JxNedwI.html
16-10-2020||India||Top Hindu body upset with Uddhav govt, also has advice for Udit Raj||The apex decision making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country— Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP)— has expressed strong resentment over the continued closure of mutts and temples in Maharashtra despite Centre’s Covid-19 Unlock 5.0 guidelines released further relaxing the restrictions on commencement of religious activities.The parishad also condemned a tweet by Congress leader Udit Raj, which questioned the expenditure of Rs 4,200 crore in organising Kumbh mela-2019 in Prayagraj. “It is a matter of grave concern that saints and priests have to agitate for opening of the mutts and temples in Maharashtra. After being opened in UP, the mutts and temples are following the corona guidelines completely and so will the venues located in Maharashtra,” said ABAP chief Mahant Narendra Giri. Giri further asked: “If Maharashtra CM is not opening the temples, who is he insulting? Is he insulting the saint community and the priests or is he insulting Hindu gods and goddesses and the Sanatan dharma?” Giri added that Maharashtra CM’s father, late Bal Thackeray, being a Hindu leader, always respected the saints but the government of Maharashtra seemed to be on the wrong path of arrogance. “Instead of treading the path of his father, it seems Uddhav has forgotten family values, respect towards saints, ignoring Sanatan Dharma just to gain political mileage,” said Akhada Parishad general secretary Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj. Also Read: Uddhav Thackeray warns against attempts to ‘finish off’ Bollywood“Why have bars and liquor shops been opened in Maharashtra amid the Covid-19 threat if that is the reason for keeping temples and shrines closed? It is quite ironic that places of worship are deemed prone to the spread of Covid-19, while beaches, bars, restaurants, malls, hotels, cineplexes are deemed safe. Temple management committees and civic bodies can ensure adhering to social distancing norms, wearing of face masks, sanitiser at religious places too,” said Kothari Mahant Jasvinder Singh of Shri Panchayati Akhada Nirmal, Kankhal. Saints also suggested that measures such as registration of other state/district pilgrims, e-passes/tokens, usage of technology for access control, not allowing prasadam to be served, not allowing touching of deities’ idols, bells, donation boxes, and darshan from a certain distance can be adhered to as in Char Dham shrines of Shri Badrinath, Shri Kedarnath, Gangotri, Yamunotri in Garhwal division of Uttarakhand. Also Read: Sharad Pawar writes to PM Modi over Maharashtra guv’s letter to ThackerayThe issue of alleged encroachment of temples in Kashi and Mathura also came up for discussion in parishad’s informal meeting at Mathura on Thursday.“It pains us to see that our temples are encroached in Kashi and Mathura and we will undertake all steps that are permissible under the Constitution to free the temple premises as was done in the case of Ayodhya,” Giri said. Giri also lashed out at Congress leader Udit Raj for questioning state spending on organising Kumbh-2019. Udit Raj’s tweet was in reaction to Assam education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s statement that it was not the job of a government to run institutions that teach religious scriptures.(With inputs from Sandeep Rawat)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-hindu-body-upset-with-uddhav-govt-also-has-advice-for-udit-raj/story-oNd99rLXwavl4Bq8qZO6HI.html
16-10-2020||India||Bihar minister Kapil Deo Kamat is 2nd Covid-19 casualty in Nitish cabinet||Bihar minister Kapil Deo Kamat of the Janata Dal-United (JD-U) died at Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences in the wee hours of Friday due to coronavirus. He is the second minister from Nitish Kumar’s cabinet to succumb to Covid-19 this week.70-years-old Kamat was admitted to AIIMS, Patna on October 1 and had been on ventilator support for the last one week. He passed away at 1.50am on Friday, said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna. “He was suffering from chronic renal failure. The minister’s condition began to deteriorate a week back, when he was put on inotropic drugs to maintain blood pressure. He was on hemodialysis alternate days,” said Dr Kumar. Click here for the full coverage of Bihar assembly elections 2020Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan, chief minister Nitish Kumar and several other leaders mourned Kamat’s demise. Earlier this week, minister of the backward classes and extremely backward class welfare department, BJP’s Vinod Singh, died after suffering a brain haemorrhage in Delhi, days after recovering from Covid-19 infection. Earlier, Bihar BJP MLC Sunil Kumar Singh, 69, died of the Covid pandemic at AIIMS-Patna in July. Also Read: Luv Sinha, Shatrughan Sinha’s son, in Congress’ final list for Bihar pollsKamat stepped into active politics in 1980 when he campaigned for Congress candidate Mahendra Narayan Jha in the Babubarhi assembly seat in Madhubani district before they fell apart. He unsuccessfully contested the 1985 assembly elections from Babubarhi as an independent candidate before dabbling with the Rashtriya Janata Dal and eventually joining the JD(U). Also Read: Self-reliance, farmers to figure in BJP’s Bihar manifesto: Party officialHe contested the October 2005 legislative assembly elections as a JD(U) candidate from Babubarhi seat and won. He contested again in 2010 from the same constituency but lost to Uma Kant Yadav of the RJD. In 2015 assembly elections, he won from the Babubarhi seat and was appointed the minister of Panchayati Raj department. As many as 972 fatalities have been reported in the state from over 2 lakh Covid-19 cases reported till Thursday. With 1,88,802 people having recovered, the recovery rate from the disease stood at 94.01% in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-minister-kapil-deo-kamat-is-2nd-covid-19-casualty-in-nitish-cabinet/story-qGt3rY56uNoKH2PuFseAxI.html
16-10-2020||India||‘Even Pak, Afghanistan handled Covid-19 better’: Rahul Gandhi’s dig at govt over IMF’s India projections||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government over the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) projection of India’s gross domestic product (GDP) during this fiscal year amid the coronavirus disease. Gandhi’s taunt featured neighbouring countries like Pakistan and Afghanistan, a day after he had picked Bangladesh’s example to launch the jibe.Referring to IMF’s estimates on Tuesday, Gandhi termed it the BJP government’s “solid achievement.” “Another solid achievement by the BJP government. Even Pakistan and Afghanistan handled Covid better than India,” the former Congress president tweeted and shared a graph with IMF’s projections for several countries.While Pakistan and Afghanistan are expected to experience a dip of 0.40% and 5% in their GDP growth this fiscal, India’s GDP is likely to shrink by 10.3%, the biggest slump of any major emerging nation and the worst since Independence. This points to a downwards revision from the IMF’s previous prediction in June when it said output would decline 4.5% while in April it had said the economy would expect a growth of 1.9%.However, the government had downplayed IMF projections, saying the per capita GDP has increased from Rs 83,091 in 2014-15 to Rs 1,08,620 in 2019-20, which points to an increase of 30.7%, according to news agency PTI.On Wednesday too, Gandhi had slammed the government. “Solid achievement of 6 years of BJP’s hate-filled cultural nationalism: Bangladesh set to overtake India,” he had tweeted.The claim was countered by the government, which said India’s GDP is 11 times that of Bangladesh in 2019.The IMF expects India to grow 8.8% next year. The international body has also warned that the global economy’s recovery is tentative and uneven and “marked by significant uncertainty” as the coronavirus disease caseload continues to increase across several nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-pak-afghanistan-handled-covid-19-better-rahul-gandhi-s-dig-at-govt-over-imf-s-india-projections/story-LAgLwsR4QZszNP9F9miAqO.html
16-10-2020||India||Govt bans import of air conditioners with refrigerants||The government on Thursday banned imports of air conditioners with refrigerants with a view to promote domestic manufacturing and cut imports of non essential items. “Import policy of air conditioners with refrigerants ...is amended from free to prohibited,” directorate general of foreign trade said in a notification. The government is taking steps to promote domestic manufacturing and reduce import bill of non-essential goods. In June, the government imposed curbs on imports of certain new pneumatic tyres used in motor cars, busses, lorries and motorcycles. PTI RR SHW SHW||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-bans-import-of-air-conditioners-with-refrigerants/story-IhjVUVelGQpWtam1QXTduJ.html
16-10-2020||India||Hypertension, diabetes two main comorbities in most Covid-19 fatalities in Mumbai||Covid-19 cases with hypertension and diabetes have a higher mortality risk, as seen among cases in Mumbai. Nearly 55% of those who died of Covid-19 in Mumbai were found to have these two comorbidities, as per BMC. Comorbidity is the presence of one or more additional health conditions that coexist with a primary condition.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “The two comorbidities (hypertension and diabetes) comprise 55% of the total Covid deaths. People with existing comorbidites, if they develop Covid symptoms, they should get into institutional quarantine as early as possible. Early detections and treatment have been found to be crucial in reducing the fatality chances among Covid patients.”Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally rises to 7.37 million with 63,371 new cases; recoveries at 6.4 millionThere have been 9, 469 deaths due to Covid in the city. More than 70% of the patients that succumbed to Covid were found to have comorbidities, a senior civic official confirmed. The case fatality rate (CFR) of Mumbai is 4.1% which is much higher than the national and state CFR which is at 1.53% and 2.64%. Case fatality rate is the proportion of people succumbing to a disease out of the total cases.Experts say that Mumbaikars are more vulnerable to Covid-19. Shashank Joshi, member of state task force, said, “Often, these two comorbidities co-exist in Covid-19 patients. More than 30% of the city’s total population has hypertension and nearly 15% is diabetic. The two comorbidities make Mumbaikars more vulnerable to the disease. Citizens need to keep a check on their sugar levels and blood pressure.”Apart from these comorbidities, another two such pre-existing conditions that are found in Covid-19 cases are heart ailments and tuberculosis. Civic officials said that while these may not pose a higher mortality risk, they could have an adverse effect on Covid-19 patients if not treated in time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hypertension-diabetes-two-main-comorbities-in-most-covid-19-fatalities-in-mumbai/story-UjtZxYS7Umqcty0CDph2qN.html
16-10-2020||India||Pakistan opens heavy fire along LoC in Poonch||Pakistan on Friday morning opened heavy fire on Indian positions and forward villages along the Line of Control (LoC) in Mankote sector of Poonch district, prompting India to retaliate in equal measure.Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand said, at about 0515 hours (5.15 am) , Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and then switching over to mortar shelling along the LoC in Mankote sector.Indian Army retaliated befittingly, he added.There were no casualties reported by the Indian side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-opens-heavy-fire-along-loc-in-poonch/story-ExeiuDZ5uKYqrBfeAZCReL.html
16-10-2020||India||Prasar Bharti ends ad hoc arrangement with PTI, UNI; to call for fresh bids from news agencies||Public broadcaster Prasar Bharati on Thursday decided to end its present subscription with news agency Press Trust of India (PTI) and United News of India (UNI), and push for fresh contracts.According to a person aware of the developments, the formal contract between Prasar Bharati and PTI had come to an end in 2006, after which payments and service continued in an ad hoc manner.The board of the Prasar Bharati, which runs All India Radio and Doordarshan, had sought a fresh contract with PTI; however, in its absence, the previous arrangement continued.Also Read: Centre to ramp up AIR reach including in border areas“In a meeting on Thursday, it was decided that fresh contracts would be signed with news agencies. PTI and UNI can also participate in these bids... Prasar Bharati has now decided to call for fresh proposals for a digital subscription to English text and related multimedia services from all domestic news agencies,” said the person cited above.Significantly, Prasar Bharati had expressed displeasure over PTI’s coverage with regard to the news agency’s interview of Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong following the Galwan clash.The pending formal contract has been an issue between Prasar Bharati and PTI in the past as well, and Prasar Bharati had reduced the amount that it used to pay the news agency.“It has been decided not to spend public money on an ad hoc basis. A contract is needed to justify expenditure, especially keeping in mind the social media needs of current platforms,” said the person cited above. The subscription for PTI was about Rs 9 crore per year which was later reduced by Prasar Bharati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prasar-bharti-ends-ad-hoc-arrangement-with-pti-uni-to-call-for-fresh-bids-from-news-agencies/story-Ml0bjxML220kYbNYI5Z4LK.html
16-10-2020||India||SC gives right to reside to wives in shared house not owned by husband||The Supreme Court has allowed women fighting domestic violence cases the right to reside in the ‘shared household’ even if her husband had no legal right to the house and the same was owned by the father-in-law or mother-in-law.A three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan passed the landmark ruling while considering the petition of a septuagenarian couple from Delhi who filed a civil suit to dispossess their daughter-in-law even as the proceedings initiated by her under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005, was ongoing.The couple told the court that they wished to stay peacefully and could not tolerate the frequent fights between their son and daughter-in-law even as their divorce proceedings were pending. The father-in-law, SC Ahuja, obtained a decree from a Delhi trial court on April 8, 2019, dispossessing his daughter-in-law from the house as he claimed sole ownership of the property purchased in 1983, long before his son’s marriage in 1993.The wife challenged the decree before the Delhi high court on the ground that the house was her “shared property” and under the domestic violence act, she had a right to reside at the same. She claimed that the property was acquired through joint family funds. By a judgment passed on December 18, 2019, the wife got the decree set aside as the HC sent the matter back to the trial court for fresh consideration. The HC said that the trial court could not be oblivious to the pending proceedings initiated by the wife under the 2005 act.The Supreme Court had to decide whether Section 2(s) of the domestic violence act that defines “shared property”, includes property not belonging to the husband. According to the definition in the provision, “a shared household means a household where the person aggrieved lives or at any stage has lived in a domestic relationship either singly or along with the respondent.”Also Read: Hathras case: Supreme Court reserves order on plea for court-monitored probeThe bench, also comprising justices RS Reddy and MR Shah said, “The definition of shared household given in Section 2(s) cannot be read to mean that shared household can only be that household which is household of the joint family, of which husband is a member or in which husband of the aggrieved person has a share.” To this extent, they held the HC decision to be right.In stating so, the court reversed the law held by a previous decision of the Supreme Court in December 2006 in SR Batra v Taruna Batra where on similar facts, a two-judge bench refused permission to the wife to continue staying in her husband’s house as it was owned by her mother-in-law. This was later followed by several HCs. The 3-judge bench held this part of the ruling wrong in law as it did not give full meaning to the 2005 act.The bench was of the view that the 2005 act was meant to extend effective protection for victims of domestic violence and should be so interpreted.Also Read: Supreme Court notice to govt on PIL to regulate online streamingThe court noted how domestic violence in this country is rampant yet underreported. “Several women encounter violence in some form or the other almost every day, however, it is the least reported form of cruel behaviour. A woman resigns her fate to the never ending cycle of enduring violence and discrimination as a daughter, a sister, a wife, a mother, a partner or a single woman in her lifetime.” The bench noted how cases of domestic violence carry a social stigma against the wife as women are expected to be subservient. “This set of circumstances has ensured that a majority of women preferred to suffer in silence, not out of choice but out of compulsion,” the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-gives-right-to-reside-to-wives-in-shared-house-not-owned-by-husband/story-YPi9TuBFXz9awEoG4grtTK.html
16-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally rises to 7.37 million with 63,371 new cases; recoveries at 6.4 million||With 63,371 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 895 related deaths in the past 24 hours, India’s tally went up to 7,370,468, rising by more than 100,000 since the beginning of this month, according to the Union health ministry on Friday.India has been reporting around 66,000 new Covid-19 cases daily since October 12 and even witnessed 55,342 infections on October 13, official data shows. Deaths have also been fewer with 816 succumbing to the viral disease on October 12 and 680 fatalities on Thursday. The number of deaths have been sustained below the 1,000 mark since the last 17 days.The health ministry said on Friday that the country continues to have one of the lowest deaths per million population due to the coronavirus disease compared to other countries across the world. It also said that at least 22 states and Union territories have lower deaths per million population than the national average, which is currently at 80. “Some States/UTs are performing better and reporting much lower deaths/million population than the national average,” the ministry posted on Twitter.There are 804,528 active cases of the coronavirus disease and the death toll in the country, which is the second worst-hit in the world, has gone up to 112,161, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am. There have been 6,453,779 recoveries so far with 70,338 people cured of the respiratory disease in the last 24 hours. This has taken the national recovery rate to 87.56%.Also read | Remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine did not cut hospital stay or mortality in Covid-19 patients: WHO“India is reporting a progressively high increase in the recoveries and a persistent decline in the percentage of active cases. As a result, the doubling time of the infection has sharply improved. It is now almost 73 days (72.8 days). This indicates a substantial fall in the daily New Cases and the consequent increase in time taken to double the Total Cases,” the health ministry said on Thursday.It added that India has come a long way from “registering a doubling rate of 25.5 days in mid-August to now registering a doubling rate of nearly 73 days.” This, it said, was because of “collaborative action by States/UTs under the Centre’s strategy of comprehensive and high countrywide testing, prompt and effective surveillance and tracking, quick hospitalization and effective adherence of the Standard Treatment Protocol issued by the Union Government.” This is also the combined outcome of the “selfless service and dedication” of doctors, paramedics, frontline workers and all other frontline workers, it added.Also read | Low risk of Covid-19 infection on planes if masks worn: US militaryThe ministry had also said on Thursday that 10 states and Union territories account for 79% of the new recovered cases. Maharashtra has contributed more than 19,000 to the single-day recoveries followed by Karnataka with more than 8,000 recoveries, it said. “Presently the active cases comprise 11.12% of the total positive cases of the country standing at 8,12,390. They have been below the 9-lakh mark for a week now,” it added.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayOf the 67,708 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, 77% were from 10 states and Union territories as Maharashtra reported the highest number with more than 10,000 cases followed by Karnataka with more than 9,000 cases. The ministry said that of the 680 fatalities, nearly 80% are concentrated in 10 states and Union territories. More than 23% of new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra with 158 deaths.India has the world’s second-highest tally of the coronavirus disease after the United States, where the figure is nearing 8 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-7-37-million-with-63-371-new-cases-recoveries-at-6-4-million/story-1jpOz542mHOBySNgjnMQsN.html
16-10-2020||India||‘I always go for chana masala, naan’: Prez Tsai Ing-wen says Taiwan lucky to have Indian restaurants||Taiwan president Tsai Ing-wen has spoken about her fondness for Indian food, saying the east Asian country was lucky to be home to many Indian restaurants and that the local people “love them.”Ing-wen took to Twitter to say that she loves to eat chana masala and naan and that tea reminds of her visits to India. “#Taiwan is lucky to be home to many Indian restaurants, & Taiwanese people love them. I always go for chana masala and naan, while #chai always takes me back to my travels in #India, and memories of a vibrant, diverse & colourful country. What are your favourite Indian dishes?” she wrote on the microblogging website.Along with the tweet, she shared a picture of a delectable platter of rice, naan, a colourful salad and several dishes, including the Taiwanese president’s favourite chana masala, and a cup of tea on the side.  #Taiwan is lucky to be home to many Indian restaurants, & Taiwanese people love them. I always go for chana masala and naan, while #chai always takes me back to my travels in #India, and memories of a vibrant, diverse & colourful country. What are your favourite Indian dishes? pic.twitter.com/IJbf5yZFLYForeign leaders’ love for Indian food is not too uncommon. In May, Australian prime minister Scott Morrison made the popular Indian snack samosa at home during the lockdown across countries due to the coronavirus pandemic and tagged his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi in a tweet sharing the pictures.“Sunday ScoMosas with mango chutney, all made from scratch - including the chutney! A pity my meeting with @narendramodi this week is by videolink. They’re vegetarian, I would have liked to share them with him,” Morrison had posted on Twitter.Modi also replied to him saying, the samosas looked delicious and that he hoped to enjoy the snack together after the pandemic. “Connected by the Indian Ocean, united by the Indian Samosa! Looks delicious, PM @ScottMorrisonMP! Once we achieve a decisive victory against COVID-19, we will enjoy the Samosas together. Looking forward to our video meet on the 4th,” he had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-always-go-for-chana-masala-naan-prez-tsai-ing-wen-says-taiwan-lucky-to-have-indian-restaurants/story-NpS0HhUwPVoGSeXM8ra61I.html
16-10-2020||India||‘Ayurveda for Covid’ is this year’s Ayurveda Day theme||The potential role of Ayurveda in the management of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be the focus of this year’s Ayurveda Day, which will be observed on November 13.The practice to observe the Ayurveda Day, which falls on Dhanwantri Jayanti, was started by the Union Ministry of Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Sidda and Homoeopathy) in 2016. Dhanwantri is the god of medicine, according to Hindu mythology.“The objective is to focus on the strengths of Ayurveda and its unique treatment principles, to work towards reducing the burden of disease and related mortality. It also aims to tap into the potential of Ayurveda to contribute towards National Health Policy and National Health programmes, and to promote its principles of healing in society,” said the Ayush ministry in a statement.Also read: Health minister releases Covid-19 management protocol based on Ayurveda, YogaThis year’s special focus will be on the concerns related to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic and how Ayurveda can help build immunity.A webinar on the theme -- Ayurveda for Covid-19 pandemic -- will also be organised on the occasion.“The Ayurveda Day is an occasion of virtual information dissemination about the various initiatives of the Ayurveda discipline to mitigate Covid-19 effects. About 1.5 lakh participants from all over the world are expected to attend the webinar…” said the ministry.ALSO READ:Is Covid-19 stress delaying your periods? Here’s how Ayurveda can helpState and Union Territory governments are also separately organising events such as webinars, radio talk, quiz programmes and health camps on the occasion. The ministry will also be engaging with other stakeholders such as Ayurveda colleges, Ayurveda drug manufacturing associations, Ayurveda practitioners’ association etc. in a bid to spread the message far and wide.“Ayurveda, the original healthcare tradition of humanity, is not just a medical system, but a manifestation of our symbiotic relationship with nature. It is a well-documented system of healthcare, where the prevention of disease and promotion of health are given due consideration,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayurveda-for-covid-is-this-year-s-ayurveda-day-theme/story-rehmHwTKH8ZKlOfy50R3EL.html
16-10-2020||India||Monsoon unlikely to withdraw in Oct as intense low-pressure systems continue to form||Squally winds and rain are expected along the Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts for the next two or three days as the well-marked low-pressure area which was over Konkan region has moved over the Arabian Sea.It is likely to intensify further with energy from the ocean into a depression over the east central and adjoining northeast Arabian Sea off the Maharashtra-south Gujarat coasts in the next 24 hours. The wind speed is likely to be 45 to 55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph on Friday evening along the Maharashtra and Gujarat coasts.The depression is likely to further intensify as it moves gradually west-northwestwards. The current low-pressure system had initially formed over the west central Bay of Bengal on October 11. It had crossed the north Andhra Pradesh coast and made landfall over north Andhra Pradesh, following which it moved west north-westwards and weakened into a depression the same day. The system had caused extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) over coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, etc. It caused massive urban flooding in Hyderabad; at least 30 people died in Telangana.Also Read: Delhi’s rising air pollution may have an invisible Covid linkIndia Meteorological Department, in its weekly weather report, also said there was low to moderate probability of another low-pressure area forming over the east central Arabian Sea by October 19 which may bring more rain to the eastern region. Large parts of northwest India will start experiencing normal to below normal temperatures in from October 23 to 29.The weekly report also said that monsoon is unlikely to completely withdraw until October 29 because south-westerly monsoon winds are strong, and east and northeast India is expected to receive rain during that week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-unlikely-to-withdraw-in-october-as-intense-low-pressure-systems-continue-to-form/story-m8rUFyptQ0cK2ygMJPkcGO.html
16-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After marginal improvement Delhi’s AQI slips back into ‘poor’ category and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s AQI improves marginally; slips back into ‘poor’ categoryThe national capital’s air quality index (AQI) showed some improvement on Friday morning after recording a spate of very poor air quality days earlier this week. Read more here. India has one of lowest Covid-19 deaths per million population globally: GovtIndia continues to have one of the lowest deaths per million population due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) compared to other countries across the world, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday. Read more here. Hathras fallout: Yogi orders women help desk in each UP police stationUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered setting up of women help desk in every police station of the state, while reiterating that the state government was committed to safety, security and honour of women. Read more here. Sex workers in Kolkata to receive dry ration on World Food DayNoting that more than 10,000 sex workers of Sonagachi, one of the largest red light areas in Asia, are finding it difficult to make ends meet. The women, with no other source of income, are struggling to survive the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more here. Redditor shares picture of polished car. Can you spot it at first glance?If you have been around the Internet for long, chances are you have seen the illusion or puzzle posts which keep people busy. There’s a high possibility that the post will leave you intrigued and amused, all at the same time. Read more here. Aditya Narayan dismisses reports that he’s ‘bankrupt’, says he was touched when industry friends offered financial helpAditya said that the reports were exaggerated. “I was shocked when so many people started calling me after the report. I must, however, admit that I was also touched because a lot of friends in the industry offered help. That goes to show that they genuinely care for me.” Read more here. IPL 2020, RCB vs KXIP: Gayle, Rahul shine as KXIP beat RCB by 8 wicketsChris Gayle returned for Kings XI Punjab as they beat Royal Challengers Bangalore by 8 wickets in Sharjah. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-marginal-improvement-delhi-s-aqi-slips-back-into-poor-category-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4DCMnuJ0uMSgLyerblQUPJ.html
16-10-2020||India||Delhi’s rising air pollution may have an invisible Covid link||Environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday said that 95% of Delhi’s present air pollution was because of local sources, triggering a debate on whether the deterioration in air quality could be an indirect consequence of Covid-19 pandemic. The pandemic has resulted in reduction in use of public transport, leading to more use of personal vehicles in the national capital, like elsewhere in the country. More vehicles on road mean more emissions and with poor dispersal, it leads to higher ambient air pollution levels. This was evident on Thursday with air pollution in Delhi and its neighbouring towns -- Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Gurugram -- being in the very poor category. According to the data provided by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, the Metro ridership in the past fortnight has been 78% of the number of people who took the public transport during the same period last year. Even though the ridership is rising, Metro spokesperson said it would take some months before the passenger level reaches pre-Covid level. Similarly, the Delhi Transport Corporation, another major public transport mode, has recorded a dip in daily ridership of passengers. Transport minister Kailash Gehlot had said last week that there was about 54% dip in ridership due to Covid-19 restrictions which allows filling only half of the seats. Even as people are working from homes, traffic on Delhi roads is rising. Data from Google’s community mobility trends shows traffic on Delhi roads was just 30% less than that of the pre-Covid period baseline of January 3 to February 6, this year. In August, this dip was 67% and in April, 80%. As only limited public transport was available, Delhi witnessed a spike in purchase of vehicles after Covid unlock was implemented from June 8. According to Society for Automobile Manufacturing (SIAM), Delhi has seen an increase of about 10.7% in sale of new passenger vehicle -- cars and two-wheelers -- from the same period last year. The overall vehicle sale increase in August in India was 14.6%. SIAM is yet to release auto sale data for September. “The pandemic outbreak has changed people’s preferences and we believe they will opt for personal mobility solutions rather than shared mobility,” co-founder and CEO of CarDekho Amit Jain said. A scientist at Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, who was not willing to be quoted, said more vehicles on road is one main reasons for bad air quality in and around Delhi. Most of the pollution load is coming from within and around 70 kms of Delhi, he said. “Yes, the higher number of vehicles on roads contribute to air pollution but very low wind speed, which causes localised heat islanding, is the main cause for air being foul,” the scientist, who has earlier done pollution source appropriation study for Delhi, said. He said industrial emissions, dust and biomass burning are the other contributors. Javadekar on Thursday had said that 95% air pollution in Delhi happens because of dust, construction and biomass burning. He said stubble burning this year has contributed only 4-5% to Delhi’s pollution load. Environment ministry said the share of stubble burning in capital’s pollution load varies on daily basis. In 2019, stubble burning contribution to Delhi’s pollution load was more than 15% only for six days between October 8 and December 9. And, only on one day it was more than 40% in this period, the ministry said, after Raghav Chadha of Aam Aadmi Party claimed that Central had last year claimed that the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s pollution was 44%. Anil Sood, a scientist at Punjab Agriculture University, Ludhiana, who monitors stubble burning through satellite mapping in the state, said that the farm fire incidents recorded between September 21 and October, 2020, were three times more than those in 2019. About 2,900 farm fire incidents were reported this year as compared to 755 in 2019. He attributed the increase in farm fires to early harvest of paddy this year because of the dry weather in September unlike 2019 when monsoon rains were prevalent till October 12 in northern India, leading to delay in harvest. Sood expected stubble burning to finish by October-end. However, the IIT scientist predicted said there would be some respite in the next three to four days because of improvement in wind speed. The pollution levels will rise again in the latter part of October and would remain high till Diwali , that falls on November 11, he said. Anumita Roy Choudhary of Centre for Science and Environment said the impact of Covid-19 on air pollution management has thrown up new challenges for air pollution management. “We cannot intensify public transport as Covid-19 restrictions would remain. We may need to reinforce work from home option to prevent unnecessary travel to cope with winter pollution,” she said. (With inputs from Vijdan Mohammad Kawoosa in New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-rising-air-pollution-may-have-an-invisible-covid-link/story-rkaPqSV1kzA0neKp0dW83K.html
16-10-2020||India||Hathras fallout: Yogi orders women help desk in each UP police station||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered setting up of women help desk in every police station of the state, while reiterating that the state government was committed to safety, security and honour of women.Following the chief minister’s directive, the UP government decided to set up women help desks from October 17, coinciding with the launch of Mission Shakti campaign to empower women and sensitise citizenry towards security of women and girls.Women police personnel will be deployed at these help desks to register complaints of women and assist them.Chairing a Covid-19 and Unlock 5 review meeting, the chief minister said Mission Shakti campaign would be launched on ‘Sharadiya Navratri’ beginning on October 17 and will continue till the ‘Basantik Navratri’ (in April 2021), spanning a period of about six months.Women and girls would be educated about self-defence techniques during the campaign, he said. He also said all the district magistrates should effectively implement and monitor Mission Shakti.Also Read: Hathras case: Supreme Court reserves order on plea for court-monitored probeYogi has also directed top police officials to personally visit the spot of crime against women and children, reported in the state, and ensure a time bound investigation. The series of steps announced for better prevention of crime against women follow a national outrage against state police’s handling of Hathras gang rape case. A slew of programmes on women’s safety and empowerment are to be organised at gram panchayats, schools, colleges and government offices apart from other places.Also Read: Chinmayanand case: Police file perjury charges against womanAs many as 23 departments, including those of basic education, secondary education, higher education, MSME apart from government and non-government agencies will be participating in these programmes. Private cab operators will also be sensitised on the need for safety of women.The state government had earlier set up pink booths and made arrangements to drop single women safely home at night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-fallout-yogi-orders-women-help-desk-in-each-up-police-station/story-6wECH2uraJOjLh5EJFmq1M.html
16-10-2020||India||Income Tax department raids 38 sites linked to advocate||The Income Tax department on Wednesday raided 38 locations in Delhi and Haryana in connection with a case of ‘unaccounted cash transactions’ involving advocate Manoj Kumar Singh, who specializes in commercial arbitration and alternate dispute resolution. According to a statement issued by the department, Singh allegedly received substantial amounts in cash from his clients to settle their disputes. The department recovered Rs 3.5 crore cash, incriminating documents pertaining to unaccounted cash transactions and investments made by him over several years, during its searches. Ten lockers have also been placed under restraint by the department. Substantial digital data reflecting unaccounted transactions of the assessee (Singh) and his associates, who are financers and builders, has also been recovered, a statement issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said. Investigations have revealed that in one particular case, Singh received “Rs 117 crore from a client in cash, whereas he had shown only Rs 21 crore in his records, which was received through cheque.” “In another case, he received more than Rs 100 crore in cash from an infrastructure and engineering company for its arbitration proceedings with a public sector company,” the CBDT said. It added that the unaccounted cash has been invested in the purchase of residential and commercial properties, and in taking over of trusts engaged in running of schools. “Evidences recovered indicate investment of more than Rs 100 crore in cash in several properties in posh areas in the last two years. The assessee (Singh) and his associates have also purchased several schools and properties, for which also more than Rs 100 crore was paid in cash. He has also taken accommodation entries worth several crores,” CBDT said. According to the website of his law firm, Singh represents clients in cross border financial disputes and investment disputes. Singh was not immediately available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/income-tax-department-raids-38-sites-linked-to-advocate/story-CA4ZbDt8V0DVkVQ9LQrAZL.html
16-10-2020||India||CBI, US authorities crack down on fraud scheme targeting American senior citizens||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the US Justice Department have cracked down on a technical support fraud scheme allegedly masterminded by an American citizen working with call centres in several Indian cities over the past decade. Michael Brian Cotter (59) of Glendale, California, allegedly worked with India-based accomplices on the scheme that is believed to have defrauded hundreds of elderly American citizens, the US Justice Department said in a statement. The CBI moved in parallel with the US justice department filing a complaint in a court in Florida. The Indian agency filed a criminal case against five companies and conducted raids last month on businesses and individuals in Delhi, Noida, Gurgaon and Jaipur that were allegedly involved in the scheme, the statement said. Also Read: China sees red as US names officer for Tibet affairsCoordinated search operations were conducted at offices of these companies and residences of the directors of the entities. “According to the CBI, incriminating digital evidence related to the scheme was collected and seized during the searches,” the statement added. The US Justice Department described the operation as the first parallel action by the US and Indian governments against defrauding of elderly American citizens. The statement cited CBI officials as saying that the agency would continue its close collaboration with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and promote cooperation with US law enforcement agencies on cybercrime and cybersecurity. CBI has been working to identify and dismantle networks of transnational cyber fraud operated out of India, the officials said. In response to the complaint filed in the US, a federal court issued a temporary restraining order that directed Cotter and five companies to stop engaging in the technical support fraud scheme. The complaint was filed by the civil division’s consumer protection branch and the US attorney’s office for the southern district of Florida and the action was coordinated by the Transnational Elder Fraud Strike Force established last year to combat foreign fraud schemes targeting American senior citizens. Also Read: US elections 2020: Donald Trump says Joe Biden will face ‘soft’ questions in dueling town hallAccording to the complaint, those engaged in the scheme contacted US consumers via internet pop-up messages that falsely appeared to be security alerts from Microsoft or another reputed company. These messages fraudulently claimed the consumer’s computer was infected by a virus, and then purported to run a scan that “falsely confirmed the presence of a virus and malware”. The consumers were provided a toll-free number to call for assistance and were connected to India-based call centres allegedly participating in the fraud. Call centre employees asked the victims to give them remote access to computers and said they had detected viruses or malware. Then, the employees falsely diagnosed non-existent problems and allegedly asked the victims to pay hundreds of dollars for unnecessary services and software. Cotter allegedly facilitated the scheme through several companies, including Singapore-registered Global Digital Concierge Pte Ltd, formerly known as Tech Live Connect Pte Ltd, Nevada-registered companies Sensei Ventures Incorporated and NE Labs Inc, New York-registered Kevisoft LLC, and UK-registered Kevisoft UK Ltd. The restraining order issued by the court dismantled the US-based infrastructure, including websites and payment processing relationships. The complaint alleged that, since at least 2011, Cotter worked with co-conspirators in India to operate the scheme, including registering website domains, setting up shell companies, and entering into relationships with banks and payment processors to facilitate collection of funds from the victims. Individual victims allegedly paid hundreds to thousands of dollars for unnecessary technical support services. The scheme was brought to the Transnational Elder Fraud Strike Force’s attention by Microsoft. Acting assistant attorney general Jeffrey Bossert Clark said: “The department of justice sincerely appreciates CBI’s efforts to disrupt and prosecute technical support fraud, government imposter fraud, and all other schemes directed at the American public.” “The FBI works with its local, state, federal and international partners to combat technical fraud schemes,” said Charles Spencer, assistant director of the international operations division, FBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-us-authorities-crack-down-on-fraud-scheme-targeting-american-senior-citizens/story-Hycyl3YFHhihhYIrZpIY8N.html
16-10-2020||India||India has one of lowest Covid-19 deaths per million population globally: Govt||India continues to have one of the lowest deaths per million population due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) compared to other countries across the world, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday.At least 22 states and Union territories have lower deaths per million population than the national average that is currently pegged at 80, the ministry added. “Some States/UTs are performing better and reporting much lower deaths/million population than the national average,” it tweeted.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here According to government data, Mizoram has reported no fatalities due to the viral disease, the lowest per million population deaths were reported by Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli (3), followed by Bihar (8), Nagaland (10) and Arunachal Pradesh (18). The most number of deaths (per million population) in the country were reported from Tripura (77), Uttarakhand (71), West Bengal (58) and Haryana (57).  #IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCoronaIndia continues to have one of the lowest deaths per million population globally (presently pegged at 80).Some States/UTs are performing better and reporting much lower deaths/million population than the national average. pic.twitter.com/3ejtqZwvZ6The ministry credited the improved infrastructure for enabling promising results. “Enhanced medical infrastructure, strengthened critical care capacities of ICU doctors, adherence to Standard Treatment Protocol, and tireless efforts of doctors, paramedics & various #COVID19 warriors have collectively resulted in these outcomes,” it said in another tweet.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage As on Thursday, the toll from the disease stood at 111,266 which puts the case fatality rate at 1.52%. The caseload in the country has surpassed 7.3 million with 812,390 active cases, while more than 6.3 million people have recovered from the infection in home isolation or Covid-19 designated hospitals.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said that a vaccine against the deadly disease is expected in a few months and its distribution will begin in the next six months. He reiterated the need to follow social distancing protocols, wash hands regularly and wear face masks and added this “potent social vaccine can stop the disease and it also forms the foundation of the Jan Andolan against Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-one-of-lowest-covid-19-deaths-per-million-population-globally-govt/story-NN8EfgC5FZlHtTWWIa6sZM.html
16-10-2020||India||Balwinder Singh’s family to protest outside Mamata Banerjee’s office||Arrested Sikh man Balwinder Singh’s wife Karamjit Kaur and son Harshveer Singh will stage a sit-in demonstration on Saturday outside Nabanna, the secretariat building of the West Bengal government, to seek his release. Singh was arrested for carrying a pistol at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) agitation in Howrah on October 8. The incident made headlines as Singh’s turban fell off when he was jostling with the police. While videos of the incident went viral, the state police accused him of carrying a firearm, the licence for which they claimed, was not valid in West Bengal.The Howrah district police said on Thursday night that Singh’s licence was valid only in Rajouri, Jammu and Kashmir, where it was issued. “As per the national database of arms licences, ministry of home affairs, govt. of India; the arms licence of Sh Balwindar Singh is valid only in Rajouri distt of J&K. He was arrested for being part of an unlawful assembly with a weapon. Please do not get carried away by fabricated social media posts. A thorough investigation is going on to unearth the truth,” tweeted the Howrah district police.“I want to meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee. I have appealed several times but there has been no response. My son and I will start a dharna outside her office at 11 am on Saturday. I appeal to all Sikh Sangats (associations or groups) to stand by their sister. I want to see my husband released,” Kaur said in Punjabi in a video message on Thursday evening. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh has said that Singh works for a private security agency and he was deployed to provide security to one of the BJP’s youth wing leaders. “Even my security personnel carried guns on that day,” Ghosh, who is a Lok Sabha member from Midnapore, said on Wednesday. Also Read: Bengal Guv Dhankhar trolled after tweeting state govt orderOn Thursday, members of Kolkata’s Sikh community staged a silent demonstration at Sant Kutiya Gurudwara, Bhawanipur, demanding justice for Balwinder Singh. They put up posters with Singh’s photo. “Police defiled Balwinder Singh’s turban and dragged him by his hair. This kind of behaviour is entirely unacceptable with an ex-army man who was just doing his duty,” the community members said in a statement. They also wrote a letter to the chief minister. Former Indian cricketer Harbhajan Singh, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal, Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh are among some prominent members of the Sikh community who have condemned the alleged incident of defiling. Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who is a Shiromani Akali Dal leader, has challenged the allegation that the arms licence is not valid in West Bengal. “We will file a petition at the Calcutta high court on Friday. I am getting calls from newspapers and radio stations the Sikh community runs in several countries, including Canada,” said Sirsa. Also Read: 2 Trinamool leaders appear before Bengal CID in BJP leader’s murder probeAfter the incident, the West Bengal Police said Singh’s turban was not pulled off intentionally. “The concerned person was carrying firearms in yesterday’s protest. The Pagri had fallen off automatically in the scuffle that ensued, without any attempt to do so by our officer (visible in the video attached). It is never our intention to hurt the sentiments of any community,” The West Bengal Police tweeted around 10 pm last Friday, attaching a video of the incident. “West Bengal Police respects all religions. The officer specifically asked him to put his Pagri back before the arrest. The attached photo has been clicked right before he was escorted to the Police station. We remain committed to our duty to uphold law and order in the state,” said a second tweet. Balwinder Singh’s wife and son met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at the Raj Bhawan on Wednesday and sought his help. Dhankhar later said in a tweet that Singh is a victim of human rights violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/balwinder-singh-s-family-to-protest-outside-mamata-banerjee-s-office/story-eKwAC1n8Xvm1QoT7Am80jK.html
16-10-2020||India||Grand alliance candidate Aaftab Alam arrested during nomination||Bihar Police on Thursday arrested Mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) candidate Aaftab Alam while he was filing his nomination for assembly election 2020 saying police have a non-bailable warrant against him.Aaftab Alam is CPI-ML candidate, contesting elections from Aurai constituency in Muzaffarpur District of the state.When asked about the arrest, Alam said, “I have been arrested for staging a peaceful protest against the murder of Deepak Rai. This is a vendetta and a political conspiracy.”Meanwhile, Muzzafarpur city Superintendent of Police (SP) Rajesh Kumar confirmed the arrest and said that a non-bailable warrant has been issued against him.“Aaftab Alam has a non bailable warrant against him. He came here for his nomination and his arrest took place. He will be presented in court,” Kumar said.Elections for the 243-member Bihar Assembly will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7 and the counting of votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grand-alliance-candidate-aaftab-alam-arrested-during-nomination/story-89wzQlkeMyvULNuZXQX0rL.html
16-10-2020||India||10 accused in Kerala gold smuggling case get bail||A National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Kochi on Thursday granted bail to 10 accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, even as leaders of opposition parties sought chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s resignation after the agency said the accused were suspected to have links with underworld don Dawood Ibrahim. The NIA arrested 30 people in connection with the seizure of 30kg of gold by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate in a package camouflaged as diplomatic consignment marked to the UAE consulate at Thiruvananthapuram airport on July 5.The accused moved court, arguing that smuggling comes under economic offences, and challenged the provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) invoked against them, saying there was no terror angle in the case. The accused said that were in custody for over three months. Also Read| Kerala gold smuggling accused have links with Dawood Ibrahim’s gang: NIANIA countered the claim saying some of the accused in the case have links with anti-national forces. They visited Tanzania several times, where Dawood Ibrahim has an extensive network, the agency told the court, opposing the bail pleas on Wednesday.The court, however, argued that UAPA cannot be invoked against all accused and some of them were eligible for bail, having completed 90 days in jail. Granting bail to the 10 accused with stringent conditions, the court directed them to execute a bond of Rs 10 lakh each with two solvent sureties each for the same amount. They were also ordered to surrender their passports, not to leave the state without the court’s permission, and not make any attempt to contact any of the prosecution witnesses.Meanwhile, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan sought chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s resignation over NIA observations that some accused had links to Dawood Ibrahim. “We want the CM to resign as everything happened right under his nose. His secretary was helping some of the accused. The main accused even said she visited the CM’s official residence several times. When his office is under investigation how can he continue in his office?” he asked.Kerala BJP chief K Surendran accused the government of shielding the smugglers and demanded that the chief minister resign as he has “lost moral rights to continue.” The Congress’s Ramesh Chennithala called the news shocking and said it was the biggest crime that has happened in the state. He, too, accused the Vijayan government of “supporting” the accused. “Unfortunately, the state government was supporting the culprits. NIA will unearth details of this crime,” he told ANI.In a related development, the Kerala high court on Thursday restrained the Enforcement Directorate, probing the money trail in the case, from arresting suspended IAS officer and former principal secretary to the CM, M Sivasankar, till October 23.The court asked the ED to file its report on his anticipatory bail plea, which came up for hearing on Thursday.Adjourning the matter to October 23, the court directed the central agency not to arrest Sivasankar till then.Sivasankar who is facing probe in connection with the case, had moved the court on Wednesday seeking anticipatory bail.The ED said it has not taken a decision on arresting him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-accused-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-get-bail/story-MLbVVPPuu1bI2SCu3DzzJK.html
16-10-2020||India||Six J&K parties form alliance for restoration of Article 370||Six of Kashmir’s biggest political parties came together on Thursday to form an alliance to peacefully seek the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status and fight for the rights of the people in the restive region. Leaders of the National Conference (NC), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) , Peoples Conference (PC), Communist Party of India Marxist (CPI-M), Peoples Movement (PM) and Awami National Conference (ANC) met at the residence of former chief minister Farooq Abdullah for about two hours before announcing the coalition. Abdullah said that the leaders decided to name it “People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration”, which will push for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s constitutional position before August 5, 2019, when the region’s special status was revoked and it was split into two union territories. “We shall struggle for restoration of what was snatched from Jammu Kashmir and Ladakh. Ours is a constitutional battle, we want the government of India to return to the people of the state the rights they held before August 5, 2019,” said Abdullah.Also Read| ‘Black day, black decision’: Mehbooba Mufti tweets message after her releaseHe was flanked on one side by his son and former CM Omar Abdullah, and his one-time arch rival and former CM Mehbooba Mufti on the other.The meeting came two days after Mufti, who was the erstwhile state’s last chief minister, was released from detention that began in the early hours of August 5, 2019. The Abdullahs, who were released in March, held a previous meeting on August 4 with other mainstream political leaders at their residence on Gupkar road, from where the political declaration derives its name. Abdullah said the time had come for the resolution of the Kashmir issue. “We feel that the political issue of the state has to be resolved as quickly as possible and that can only be resolved through dialogue with peaceful means and with all the stakeholders who are involved in the problem of J&K,” he said.Thursday’s meeting was the first major political event involving all major players in Kashmir since almost all of the Valley’s political leadership was detained hours before the region’s special status was revoked in 2019. After Mufti, only a handful of leaders remain in detention. Other than the Abdullahs and Mufti, the meeting was attended by Sajad Lone chairman of PC, Muzaffar Shah, vice president of ANC and MY Tarigami, leader of CPI(M). President of the Jammu and Kashmir Congress, GA Mir, was expected to attend but could not, owing to health issues. The Congress was a part of the earlier August 4 Gupkar declaration. “All the signatories to the Gupkar Declaration have given a formal name to the grouping: People’s Alliance. The alliance will constitutionally fight for the restoration of the August 4 position of J&K,” PDP spokesperson Najmu Saqib tweeted.Abdullah said the leaders congratulated Mufti on her release. “It was a totally illegal, unjustified and unconstitutional detention. And already those who are still in the prison, we have demanded that they must be released immediately,” he said.The NC president added that they would meet again because Thursday’s event was done on short notice. “At the same time we are also going to meet people from the other regions of the state so that we can have a broader discussion on the issues to be put before the people of the state as well as before the government of India,” he said.Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah were released on March 13 and March 24, respectively. Both of them called on Mufti on Wednesday to invite her for the talks to take forward the Gupkar Declaration. The Gupkar Declaration was a joint effort of NC, PDP, the J&K Congress, PC, ANC and the CPI (M) to fight for the restoration of special status of the erstwhile state. The declaration was drafted on August 4, 2020 -- a day before the one-year anniversary of the effective scrapping of Article 370, which accorded special status to the region. At that time, the parties had issued a joint statement vowing to defend the “identity, autonomy and special status of Jammu & Kashmir against all attacks and onslaughts whatsoever”. Though Mufti was in detention, she had approved the participation of PDP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-j-k-parties-form-alliance-for-restoration-of-article-370/story-plzh7jFzFmoSX6f6MfuKkO.html
16-10-2020||India||Hathras case: Supreme Court reserves order on plea for court-monitored probe||The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved orders on a petition seeking court-monitored investigation into the Hathras gang rape and murder and suggested the Allahabad high court supervise the investigation into the crime that occurred roughly a month ago and has roiled India since.The top court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by activist Satyama Dubey and others, along with several interventions. The 19-year-old Dalit victim’s family asked the court to shift the trial to Delhi after completion of investigation. Their lawyer Seema Kushwaha further demanded the Central Bureau of Investigation, which took over the probe on October 10, be asked to submit periodic status reports to the apex court.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who was representing the state government, informed the court that the state had accepted the demand for a court-monitored probe and had no objections to periodic reports being filed. The bench interrupted him and said when the matter was last heard on October 6, all lawyers consented to transfer the matter to the Allahabad high court.Also Read: CBI team questions kin of 4 accused in Hathras gang-rape case“We are here as an ultimate supervisory authority. Let the Allahabad high court supervise investigation. Ultimately, we are here for any decision,” said the bench, headed by Chief Justice SA Bobe and comprising of justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.Senior advocate Indira Jaising, who was representing interventions by women’s groups, did not yield to the suggestion. She pointed out the victim’s family had already requested the trial to be moved to Delhi, so the jurisdictional court could either be the Delhi high court or the Supreme Court. Thursday’s hearing was crowded by other activists, women’s groups, Dalit organizations, upper caste groups, and the accused. The situation was such that the three-judge bench observed, “We have had enough of this. We do not need assistance of the whole world.”Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing on behalf of one of the accused, Ramu alias Ramkumar, rued the fact that the investigation had become a media spectacle, affecting his right to a fair trial. Jaising objected to the accused being heard. The bench asked Luthra to approach the concerned court in UP with his request.Mehta wondered how persons who were total “strangers” to the case could take part in the hearing when the state, the victim and the investigating agency were present. Senior advocate Harish Salve, who appeared for the UP director general of police (DGP), said, “Any order that the court may pass on providing of security to the witnesses, it should not reflect badly on the state police’s performance.”One of the applications was by activist Teesta Setalvad who sought an inquiry not just into the incident but into the forced cremation of the victim. Objecting to Setalvad’s application, Mehta said, “Teesta Setalvad has nothing to do with this case. Nobody should collect money in the name of the victim. This application is not in good taste.”Also Read| 3-layer security given to Hathras victim’s kin: UP govt to SCThe bench concluded the hearing saying, “We do not need any further complication. Judgment reserved.”On Thursday, CBI officials questioned the family members of the four accused in the Hathras gang rape case on Thursday. Investigators visited the village of the 19-year-old Dalit victim, who died in a Delhi hospital on September 29, a fortnight after she was gang raped and brutalised in Hathras.Police threw a cordon of security around the homes of the four accused, identified as Sandeep Singh, Ravi, Ramu and Luvkush Sikarwar, who are all lodged in Aligarh jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-supreme-court-reserves-order-on-plea-for-court-monitored-probe/story-txm6U5U090Vd4cryVkXLNM.html
16-10-2020||India||Imran Khan window dresses Pak record on terror, gets groups to change tactics||A detailed intelligence assessment whose contents have been accessed with Hindustan Times shows that all is not quiet on India’s western (and north-western) fronts with Pakistan based terror groups trying to re-energize groups from the days of the Afghan jihad, create new fronts, and figure out new ways of targeting India.It also shows that the terror groups are especially targeting the Sialkot-Shakargarh and Bhimber-Samahni sectors, with the Pakistani establishment supporting them with drone drops of weapons across the border, and boosting signals of mobile towers along the Line of Control to facilitate communication.Pakistan-based terror groups have changed tactics by shifting the military (askari) training camps to the Af-Pak region, with their existing camps having been turned into religious indoctrination centres, adds the assessment – which, coming ahead of the crucial Paris Plenary of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), suggests that Pakistan is trying to window dress its adherence to the anti-terror-financing strictures of the body. FATF’s meeting on Oct 21-23 will decide whether Pakistan remains in the “Grey List” due to inaction on part of Imran Khan government on proscribed terror groups and in curbing money laundering activities or be removed from it on the basis of facile action taken to escape the economic guillotine. The grey list (referred to as jurisdictions under increased monitoring by FATF) comprises countries whose systems aren’t strong enough to prevent money laundering or terror financing, but which have promised to work on addressing these issues.Also Read: India pummels Imran Khan’s adviser for fictional claim, then a parting shotAccording to the assessment, prepared by India’s national security planners, the change in strategy on part of the Pak-based groups, particularly the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) to shift terror training to camps around the Durand Line could also be aimed at operating in collusion with Afghanistan based Taliban and Haqqani Network (HN) groups following the signing of the US-Taliban-Afghan peace accord. The leader of HN is proscribed terrorist Sirajuddin Haqqani, who is also the deputy leader of Taliban with control over Nangarhar and a strong presence in Kabul. He has a $5 million bounty on his head.Other intelligence reports that corroborate this, suggest that while the Muridke- based LeT has been asked by the Pakistani deep state to maintain a low profile ahead of the Paris meeting, there has been no let-up in the terror activities of the Bahawalpur-based JeM with India being the primary target. The JeM has been infiltrating its cadre into Jammu and Kashmir on the one hand while planning joint terror strikes with its fellow Deobandi-ideologue, the Taliban in Afghanistan.“The JeM has intensified its focus on Sialkot-Shakargarh and Bhimber-Samani sectors in Jammu in order to rachet up violence in the union territory,” said a senior counter-terrorism official who asked not to be named. The Sailkot-Shakargarh sector is a so-called chicken-neck area, and it, as well as the Bhimber-Samani sector are strategically important from the perspective of Indian defence. Not surprisingly, both routinely witness cross-border firing. While the LeT is now being handled by 26/11 main accused Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi and Hafiz Saeed’s son Talha, JeM is a full-fledged Masoor Azhar family enterprise with his brother Mufti Rauf Asghar acting on behalf of the ailing Azhar, and other siblings including Maulana Ammar and Azhar Ibrahim working in tandem.Apart from the two main terror outfits, the Pakistani deep state, upset with the international community for ignoring the August 5, 2019 abrogation of article 370 by the Modi government, is trying to re-energize groups active during the days of the Afghan jihad, and also create new fronts, which will also help it spin a narrative of home grown terrorism in the valley.According to the intelligence assessment, the task of resurrecting the Harkat-ul-Mujahideen has been given to a serving colonel of Pakistan military intelligence with support from HUM chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman Khalil with the objective of shifting the focus from Afghanistan to J&K. Khalil currently resides in outskirts of Islamabad and runs a chain of madrassas known as Jamia Khalid bin-Al-Waleed in Pakistan. He has an umbilical jihadi chord with the Taliban and HN from the 1990s. In this context, Occupied Kashmir resident Maulana Mohammed Sajjad Shahid Kashmiri has been appointed the head of Tehreek-e-Millat-e-Islamiya (TMI), the Jammu and Kashmir chapter of the revived HuM.Also Read: India roasts Imran Khan adviser’s claim of New Delhi’s outreach to PakIntelligence inputs suggest that Pakistani deep state is also trying to revive the 313 brigade, a 2008 splinter group from Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami (HUJI), which is much closer to Al Qaida than any Kashmiri terror group. Founded by Illyas Kashmiri, the handler of both Daniel Pearl murderer Omar Sheikh and 26/11 conspirator David Headley, the 313 brigade is currently being used by former LeT operatives Huzaifa Bhai, Obaid-ur-Rehmani Barlas Kashmiri and Sumama Bhai to recruit cadre in the valley through cyber platforms. The group is also promoting Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind (AGuH) after the elimination of Zakir Musa and Hamid Lehari by Indian security forces last year. Illyas Kashmiri was killed in a US drone strike in 2011.Over the past two years , J&K has witnessed a spurt of new terror outfits such as “The Resistance Front”, TMI, AGuH and J&K Ghaznavi Force, all created to propagate the Pakistani narrative that terrorism in the union territory is indigenous and home grown. According to Indian counter terror experts, these outfits have been created out of LeT, HuM, HuJI members who underwent terror training in Pakistan but were not active on account of having been arrested, exposed or released after serving jail sentences in India.In order to facilitate infiltration as well as provide secure communications to terrorists, Rawalpindi GHQ has resorted to aligning mobile communication towers along the Line of Control (LoC) to ensure the signal spills into Indian territory. Not only this, the signal strengths of two radio base stations at Pandu and Thub in Occupied Kashmir have been enhanced so as to reach audiences from Buglanaar up north and Samba down south across the LoC.Also Read: Pakistan PM’s adviser says India has sent a message with ‘desire for conversation’The Rawalpindi-based promoters of Pak terror groups are now exploring new technology to not only transport arms, explosives and ammunition through Chinese made drones from across the LoC but also the use of explosive-laden drones to carry out attacks on Indian targets. It is for this reason that India recently tested anti-drone technology on the LoC and international border. The country is also working on an indigenous laser based anti-drone system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imran-khan-window-dresses-pak-record-on-terror-gets-groups-to-change-tactics/story-FZMcF0vMuPobXmLPx6vppL.html
16-10-2020||India||UP Dalit teen’s body found with limbs tied, kin allege rape||Body of a 17-year-old Dalit girl with limbs tied was found in a paddy field in a village in Barabanki, nearly 40 km from Lucknow, late on Wednesday night. Initial probe suggests that she had been strangulated, police said on Thursday. Barabanki officiating SP, RS Gautam, said the incident occurred in Tipri village under Satrikh police station limits. “The girl was missing since she left home to cut the paddy crop. Later, her body was found lying in the field when family members reached there, searching for her on Wednesday night,” he said. Gautam said the girl apparently had been choked with her shirt, and her clothes were torn and the case initially appeared to be of murder. Family members told media persons that the girl’s body was found in semi-naked condition and they suspect sexual assault before murder. The police and administration did not share the post-mortem report and have sought opinion from doctors, who carried out the post-mortem examination, over possibility of any sexual assault. Meanwhile, two suspects were picked up for interrogation and further probe is on. A police team was camping in the village to ensure peace, said Ram Surat Sonker, CO, Barabanki Sadar. Earlier, an FIR under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 302 for murder had been registered against unidentified people and further sections will be added, as per the investigation findings, said a senior police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-dalit-teen-s-body-found-with-limbs-tied-kin-allege-rape/story-4jMd7ku4rTErhMohAcR9tO.html
16-10-2020||India||India rejects China’s stance on border infra and Ladakh||India on Thursday called on China to work for complete disengagement at friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), while rejecting Beijing’s contention that infrastructure development and troop deployments by New Delhi were the root causes of tensions at the border. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, participating in the Bloomberg India Economic Forum online, made it clear that New Delhi wasn’t to blame for the standoff in the Ladakh sector that has entered its sixth month. Acknowledging the gravity of the situation, he pointed out India and China had built their relationship and expanded cooperation over the past 30 years “predicated on peace and tranquillity along the border”. “If that underlying peace and tranquillity is disturbed, if the agreements which the two sides signed are not honoured, then clearly that is the primary cause of the disruption,” Jaishankar said. He added: “If you disturb the foundation of this relationship, you cannot be impervious to the fact that it will have consequences...that problem...was not created on our side.” China’s foreign ministry had on Monday cited India’s infrastructure development and troop deployments as the root causes of tensions. It also said India should refrain from actions that could escalate the situation. The external affairs ministry also dismissed China’s stance on not recognising Arunachal Pradesh state and the Union Territory of Ladakh, saying both regions are an integral part of India and Beijing has no locus standi to comment on such internal matters. Also Read: In rebuttal to China claim over Ladakh, Arunachal, India drops a clear warningThe remarks by external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava reflected the stalemate in efforts to end the Ladakh standoff, and the lack of progress in disengagement of troops at friction points after several rounds of diplomatic and military talks. Srivastava said India was creating infrastructure that improved the lives of its people. “The government gives careful and specific attention to improvement of infrastructure for the development of border areas in order to facilitate economic development of these areas, as also to meet India’s strategic and security requirements,” he said.Peace and tranquillity can be restored by “scrupulously observing all relevant agreements” on border management, he added. Responding to China’s contention that it doesn’t recognise Arunachal Pradesh and the Union Territory of Ladakh, Srivastava said both regions are an integral and inalienable part of India. “China has no locus standi to comment on India’s internal matters. We hope that countries will not comment on India’s internal matters, as much as they expect the same of others,” he said. Also Read: A long, fragile winter in Ladakh | HT EditorialSrivastava described troop disengagement as a complex process requiring redeployments by each side towards their regular posts along the LAC, and indicated there would be more talks to take this process forward. “To achieve this, the two sides will maintain the current momentum of communications based on the guidance of our leadership to not turn differences into disputes and work towards a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement in all the friction areas along the LAC and restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas,” he said. Jaishankar also told the Bloomberg India Economic Forum that the talks between military commanders and diplomats were a “work in progress”. He said: “What is going on is something confidential between us and the Chinese and we will wait to see how this plays out.” A key issue was whether a rising China and a rising India could find equilibrium, and the situation on border is an expression of “the inability to meet that challenge”, he said. Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash described the situation on the LAC as a battle of wits, with both sides waiting to see who would blink first. “The Chinese are playing chicken, since they staged a misadventure with the expectation of quickly fulfilling the objective of grabbing some land but were surprised by the Indian response,” he said. “They have hit the pause button after they realised it wasn’t going to be an easy ride. It is a battle of nerves as the Chinese have upped the psychological warfare. They are also watching other developments, such as the outcome of the US election,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-china-s-stance-on-border-infra-and-ladakh/story-jwYGE66N8xdUWPsKWdIlfL.html
16-10-2020||India||Indian Air Force team in France reviews Rafale project||An Indian Air Force team, led by a two-star officer, is currently in France to review the progress of the Rafale project even as the second batch of fighters is set to reach their home base in Ambala in the next few weeks, officials familiar with the developments said on Thursday. The team, headed by assistant chief of air staff (projects), reached France earlier this week for a scheduled review of the project, the officials said. Five Rafale jets of the 36 ordered by the IAF reached the Ambala airbase on July 29 after a stopover at the Al Dhafra airbase near Abu Dhabi, although a formal induction ceremony took place later on September 10. The officials said next batch of three or four Rafale jets is expected to arrive in the next few weeks (the date is being finalised) and will further boost the IAF’s capability to rapidly deploy the advanced jets amid tensions with neighbouring China and Pakistan. The IAF is expecting three or four Rafale jets to be delivered every two months, with all the planes likely to join the air force’s combat fleet by the year-end. The Rafale fighters—the first imported jets to be inducted into the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997—have significantly enhanced the offensive capabilities of the IAF. The IAF is operating the Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on high alert to deal with any provocation by China even as military and diplomatic talks have failed to reduce friction in the sensitive Ladakh theatre. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria recently said the integration of Rafale fighter jets brought in a platform armed with advanced weapons, sensors and technologies that gave the IAF an operational and technological edge. “Combined with upgraded operational capabilities of our current fighter fleet, it gives us the ability to shoot first and strike deep and hard, even in contested airspace,” the IAF chief said. The jets were ordered from France in September 2016 under a government-to-government deal worth Rs 59,000 crore. India-specific enhancements on the Rafales include a helmet-mounted sight, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers, cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases and towed decoys to ward off incoming missiles. The twin-engine jet is capable of carrying out a variety of missions —ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance and nuclear strike deterrence. It can carry almost 10 tonnes of weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-air-force-team-in-france-reviews-rafale-project/story-43OlvD4ZXFfL5BYkLli6aL.html
16-10-2020||India||Amid TRP ‘scam’, ratings for news channels halted for now||Television viewership monitoring agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) on Thursday said it will not publish weekly data for news channels for 8-12 weeks as it seeks to review and improve the current standards of measuring and reporting data.The exercise will be carried out for all niche genres to improve statistical robustness and impede any attempt to infiltrate the panel homes.Ratings for Hindi, regional and English news, and business news channels will be stopped, with immediate effect.The move comes after Mumbai Police unearthed a television rating points (TRP) scam, in which Republic TV, Fakt Marathi, and Box Cinema were accused of manipulating viewership data by bribing homes where measurement metres were installed. The scandal may hit the business of news channels, which are under the scanner for rumour mongering and spewing hate, specifically in the coverage of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.BARC will, however, continue to release weekly audience estimates for the genre by state and language. It is, however, not clear, how the process will be tweaked to ensure better data standard. “Given the most recent developments, the BARC board was of the opinion that a pause was necessitated to enable the industry and BARC to work closely to review its already stringent protocols and further augment them to enable the industry to focus on collaborating for growth and well-natured competitiveness,” said Punit Goenka, chairman of the BARC India board.The news channels have been in the eye of a storm with even the courts asking the government to crack the whip and ensure they follow the programming code. Consequently, the ministry of information and broadcasting issued an advisory to all private satellite television channels asking them to broadcast content strictly adhering to programme and advertising codes, which may not contain “anything obscene, defamatory, deliberate, false and suggestive innuendos and half truths”.The move on pausing ratings comes right in the middle of the festive season when channels expect spike in advertising. However, buyers at media agencies say that most broadcasters do advance deals so advertising may see only marginal impact.“Unlike general entertainment channels, where ratings play a crucial role in deciding the ad spot costs, advertisers choose news channels looking at time spent and share of the market as well. TRP data has a small role to play. This decision will not have an immediate impact as the entire month of November has already been booked in terms of media buying,” said a media buyer requesting anonymity.Yet another senior executive at a media agency said that pause in ratings may not be a good sign. “While not all ad buying decisions are solely based on TRP data... Diwali is one month away and marketers have already chalked out their media plans and bought ad spots. If they decide to pull out, there could be a 10-15% drop in advertising on news channels but majority of them will continue with their plan,” the executive said.The News Broadcasters Association, meanwhile, said BARC’s decision is an important step in the right direction to help overhaul its systems and restore the credibility of the information it collects. “Recent revelations have brought disrepute to the measurement agency and by extension the broadcast news media. The current atmosphere of toxicity, abuse, and fake news is no longer tenable and NBA believes a bold step of putting ratings of news genre on hold will help improve the content,” said NBA president Rajat Sharma.Human intervention in the collection and processing of viewership data must be totally eliminated to safeguard the integrity of the data, Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-trp-scam-ratings-for-news-channels-halted-for-now/story-F1Ou1MgDHV0ZmDC2cTMH3H.html
16-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||That Europe would see a second wave of the coronavirus disease was always known. The onset of winter, the reopening, and the reluctance of governments to impose lockdowns, it was clear, would combine to create a second wave of some magnitude.As it turns out, it’s a second wave that is more pronounced than the first. France’s seven-day average of new cases, according to the New York Times database, was 17,387 on October 13, almost four times the peak of a weekly average of around 4,500 seen in early April. Spain’s seven-day average was 10,097 on October 13, up from around 8,000 seen on April 1 during the peak of the first wave. Even Germany, widely feted for getting the pandemic under control quickly, is seeing around 4,000 daily cases on average, just around 27% lower than peaks it saw, again in early April. And Italy, ravaged by the first wave, but then cheered for getting its act together, is seeing daily cases of around 5,000, just 10% lower than the number of daily cases it saw in late March.That Europe would weather the second wave better (read: have fewer deaths) than it did the first wasn’t always clear, although the rapidity with which doctors and researchers discovered, especially over the past five to six months, how to keep people alive -- even those with severe cases of Covid-19 -- suggested this. France’s seven-day average of daily deaths was 82 (according to the NYT database) on October 13, far below the 1,000+ number seen in early April. The trend is similar in other European countries.Also Read: London and Paris clamp down as Europe hits Covid-19 recordsFinally, that Europe would find its hospitals overwhelmed by the second wave was a surprise. After all, these countries saw this happening during the first wave, and one would have expected them to do enough to prevent a recurrence. Yet, on October 14, france24.com reported Martin Hirsch, the head of a hospital group, as saying that 90% of the Greater Paris area’s intensive care unit capacity would be filled by the third week of October.In Germany, Reuters reported on October 9 that testing laboratories in cities including Berlin were functioning close to capacity, and that hospital administrators feared significant staff shortages, something that could affect the response of a country which was relatively unscathed in the first wave of the pandemic partly because it had sufficient intensive care beds and ventilators. And in Spain, capital Madrid’s hospitals have been overwhelmed for weeks.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThis is an important learning for India’s policymakers and administrators coordinating the response to Covid-19: there will be a second wave (winter, opening up, and the reluctance to re-impose lockdowns are factors that are applicable here too); it could be stronger than the first; and, if unprepared, hospitals could find themselves overwhelmed all over again.So, how is Europe coping?As the number of cases increases, many of the countries are losing their reluctance to impose restrictions and lockdowns, even as they are fully aware of the devastating economic impact of these. France has imposed night curfews in many cities; Germany and the Czech Republic have ordered the closure of restaurants in many areas; Spain has imposed restrictions too, including curfews for restaurants; and the Netherlands has actually enforced a partial lockdown. The UK — its seven-day average of daily cases was around 15,000 on October 13, three times the peak of the first wave seen through April and May — has announced a so-called “three-tier traffic light” system to regulate the imposition of local lockdowns.Also Read: Herd immunity approaches to control Covid-19 ‘a dangerous fallacy’, say scientistsThese too, constitute learnings for India, which has announced a campaign to contain an anticipated spurt in cases during the coming festive season. That there will be one is a given. What matters is how we deal with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-xr2KXnjtvAgX8ofMj9u8AL.html
16-10-2020||India||Bengal Guv Dhankhar trolled after tweeting state govt order. Because...||Governor Jagdeep Dhankar on Thursday afternoon tweeted a 2019 West Bengal government order, but a Twitter user has alleged that the governor was sent the message by some ‘RSS Sudhir’ as seen in the tweet that the user claims is now deleted. By evening, the trolling on social media had picked up. Samik Ray Choudhury, the Twitter user, replied to Dhankhar by attaching the same image with that name. On the governor’s Twitter timeline, the exact tweet is there, minus the mention of the alleged name, which Choudhary claims has been cropped and reposted. Samik Ray Choudhury tweeted, “This is the original tweet u made about 10 mins back... U pasted the msg forwarded to u by some RSS Sudhir... Now u cropped the msg and reposting... Who is RSS Sudhir??? How is he related to u??? How come his number is there in ur mobile???” In his tweet, the governor, posting the government order, lamented the law and order situation in the state. “Internal Security environment @MamataOfficial alarming with ‘al-Qaeda’ finding WB safe haven and free run for illegal bomb making. All this even after appointing retd IPS Surajit Kar Purkayastha as State Security Advisor and Rina Mitra, as Principal Advisor, Internal Security,” tweeted Dhankhar. “Why not be transparent with performance of these super bosses @WBPolice and enforce accountability @MamataOfficial. Why delay sharing with Governor their duties and performance ! Why all this with law & order getting beyond cliff hanging !” he said in the second tweet.  Internal Security environment @MamataOfficial alarming with ‘al-Qaeda’ finding WB safe haven and free run for illegal bomb making.All this even after appointing retd IPS Surajit Kar Purkayastha as State Security Advisor and Rina Mitra, as Principal Advisor, Internal Security." pic.twitter.com/OWgciR01JtState education minister Partha Chatterjee and Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha member Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar joined the attack against the governor, writing tweets against Dhankhar and attached the image Samik Ray Choudhury had shared. Their tweets were shared on the official twitter handle of the Trinamool. Partha Chatterjee tweeted, “As a governor of any Indian state, one is expected to be a detached figure, not intimately connected with the local politics of the state. And then we have @jdhankhar1 ji, who, under @BJP4India’s thumb, directly takes orders from the RSS!”  As a governor of any Indian state, one is expected to be a detached figure, not intimately connected with the local politics of the state. And then we have @jdhankhar1 ji, who, under @BJP4India’s thumb, directly takes orders from the RSS! pic.twitter.com/bDb4EWVb64HT waited till 11 pm. Dhankhar neither removed his tweet nor did he reply to the trolls. HT saw the image Samik Ray Choudhury shared but could not verify its authenticity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-guv-dhankhar-trolled-after-tweeting-bengal-govt-order-because/story-cjZyMXbbs3OVCULt3E0HEK.html
16-10-2020||India||Delhi: Blame game erupts as bad air worsens||Top ministers of the Union and the Delhi governments traded blame on Thursday as the city’s air quality slipped into the “very poor” category, a stark replay of how the crisis has unfolded in recent years when close to 30 million people are exposed to hazardous levels of pollution in the run-up to the winter. Delhi’s average air quality index (AQI) for the 24 hours till 4pm on Thursday was at 312, according to government data, a level not seen since February. Air quality was similar in Gurugram (311), and slightly worse in Noida (321) and Ghaziabad (322). One of two monitoring stations in Greater Noida recorded an AQI of 400, which is on the cusp of the “severe” category – the highest of the five-point scale for air pollution.Thursday’s spat, which later also included comments from Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, began with Union minister of environment, forest and climate change, Prakash Javadekar, saying that only 4% of Delhi’s air pollution is due to farm fires in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana. Also Read: ‘What did Delhi people do in last 15 days?’ Delhi versus Centre on pollution“Stubble burning is contributing to only 4% load now, 96% of the load (pollution load of Delhi) is from local factors such as biomass burning, unpaved roads, dust, construction and demolition waste. CPCB teams will monitor these local factors and submit reports to concerned authorities immediately,” he said.The stand, however, was criticised by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “Staying in denial will not help. If stubble burning causes only 4% pollution, why has pollution suddenly increased over the last fortnight? Air was clean before that. It’s the same story every year. There’s no massive jump in any local source of pollution in Delhi in last few days to cause this spike,” Kejriwal said.The CM added: “Let’s accept that stubble burning causes huge pollution every year in north India during this time. And let’s all get together to find a solution sincerely. Blame game and politics hasn’t helped anyone. People are suffering. I’m extremely worried that pollution will play havoc coupled with Covid-19.”Javadekar responded to these with tweets of his own: “My statement today on air pollution in Delhi has been misinterpreted by a section of the media. Let me clarify, the figures of 4% share of stubble burning in AQI in Delhi pertained to this week. It varies from 4 to 40% during peak stubble burning.”  The environment ministry, too, tweeted out the clarification. “At the same time let us not be in denial that there are several local factors -- vehicular pollution, non-agricultural biomass burning, dust, geographical and meteorological -- that are primarily responsible for high air pollution during winters in Delhi,” Javadekar said later. The exchange did not stop there. Delhi’s environment minister Gopal Rai accused the central government of meting out “partial” treatment towards Delhi. He said the BJP was acting as a “mouthpiece” for other states where polluting activities such as stubble burning were ongoing, and diesel generator sets and polluting thermal power plants were continuing to operate without any checks. “The Grap (winter segment of the Graded Response Action Plan) was to be implemented from today (Thursday) and Delhi was the first state to have taken out an order to strictly comply with the diesel genset ban. However, the Haryana government has been writing letters asking for exemptions. The governments of neighbouring states have also asked for an extension of deadlines for thermal power plants to install air pollution control equipment. Why should they be given any extensions?” he said. Later in Chandigarh, the Punjab CM said: “In fact, it is Kejriwal who is in denial”. “The fact is that there is absolutely not data to support the claims of the Delhi chief minister,” he added.Also Read: Gopal Rai asks CPCB, Epca to shut down 11 thermal power plants around DelhiSimilar exchanges took place last year. On November 1, Javadekar accused Kejriwal of “politicising pollution” after the Delhi CM criticised the Centre for not doing enough on reducing farm fires. Kejriwal had then asked students in Delhi schools to write to chief ministers in Haryana and Punjab to crack down on crop residue burning.Farm fires have been a persistent source of winter pollution for the National Capital Region and large parts of north India. Farmers in Punjab and Haryana set fire to paddy stubble left behind after harvesting, a practice that helps them to turn their fields around for sowing winter crops quickly and economically.“Only 50% of harvesting is complete till now. Harvesting and clearing the fields will take another 10 to 15 days. The use of straw management machinery is not very successful because all farmers cannot afford it and some stubble still remains which has to be cleared manually. The government should accept the Supreme Court’s suggestion and pay ₹100 per quintal to all farmers and then act on farmers who still burn stubble,” said Dharmendra Kumar, spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union. Last year, there were 55,210 fire points in Punjab and in 2018 there were 50,590 fire points in the state. Since mid-September this year, according to data from American space agency National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa), there have been 5,733 incidents of fire observed in Punjab and Haryana. This number is more than double the 2,761 seen in the same period last year and 1,937 observed in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blame-game-erupts-as-bad-air-worsens/story-XMdAcgz6nBRwxpl72zytfP.html
16-10-2020||India||Centre softens stand, to borrow for states||The Union finance ministry on Thursday said that the ₹1.1 lakh crore estimated shortfall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess will be borrowed by the central government and “passed on to the states as a back-to-back loan”, allying concern of states that they would have to pay higher interest rates if they approach the market individually.The Centre’s move, detailed in a statement from the finance ministry, is likely to put to rest, for now, the controversy over the compensation cess shortfall that had caused a major split in the GST Council, with no consensus being reached after three meetings. It also keeps the concept of fiscal federalism, the core of GST, alive.The finance ministry statement added that the borrowing would “not have any impact on the fiscal deficit of the Government of India” and “be reflected as capital receipts of the state government as part of the financing of the respective fiscal deficits”. As a result, this borrowing doesn’t go into what is called general government borrowings (the debt of the Centre and the states). “It appears that the loan is treated as capital receipts of the state governments, which will have some positive impact on state finances, but we need to see the fine print,” said the finance minister of one of the dissenting states, requesting anonymity. The minister said it is prudent for the Union government to borrow the entire amount to get a better rate, but there are other concerns – the Centre should have borrowed the entire shortfall (₹2.35 lakh crore) and repay from the compensation cess fund as the financial position of most of the states are precarious.Also Read: Tamil Nadu, Delhi pick borrowing option to meet GST deficitKerala finance minister Thomas Isaac welcomed the Centre’s move and asked for consensus on other matters. “I welcome the new announcement that Centre will borrow through special window and provide back to back loans to states in lieu of Compensation. But there is one issue yet to be resolved — how much of compensation is to be deferred 2023? Negotiate this point and reach a consensus,” he said in a tweet. “Provide full compensation payment of ₹ 2.3 lakh crore this year itself. Since under the new arrangement additional borrowing does not affect the fiscal deficit of the Centre, why should it hesitate to borrow ₹1.7 lakh crore instead of the present offer of ₹1.1 lakh crore?,” he added. “Right from the beginning, Dr Mitra (finance minister of West Bengal Amit Mitra) was insisting that the Government of India should borrow the basic loan from a single window of RBI rather than 31 states/UT approaching the market, which would have been chaotic,” a senior official in West Bengal government said requesting anonymity. Kerala and West Bengal were among the seven states that were yet to agree to Option 1 of the finance ministry’s proposal that suggested the states borrow this amount from the Reserve Bank of India through a special window. On August 27, the finance ministry presented two options at a meeting of the GST Council. The Centre had given states the choice of borrowing ₹97,000 crore (the shortfall resulting from GST implementation issues) without having to pay principal or interest or the entire ₹2.35 lakh crore revenue deficit from the indirect tax (including that arising from the Covid-19 pandemic) projected for this fiscal year. The ₹97,000 crore amount was subsequently raised to ₹1.1 lakh crore on October 5. The states objected, and said the borrowing would have to be done by the Centre. At a subsequent meeting, the amount in Option 1 was raised to ₹1.1 lakh crore. While 10 states originally opposed the plan, this number came down to seven by Wednesday. Still, there was talk of legal recourse, especially by Kerala’s finance minister. The GST Council is a federal body, chaired by the Union finance minister, and whose members include the finance ministers of the state. This is the body that decides tax rates and other issues related to GST. Until the recent controversy, all its decisions had been arrived on the basis of a consensus. Economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj said that the Union finance ministry has implemented the decision taken by the members of the GST Council. “This move will not have any impact on the fiscal deficit of the Government of India,” he said. Interestingly, the borrowing has been structured in such a way as to not increase the Centre’s deficit. “The loan to be borrowed by the central government would be passed on to the states as back-to-back loans and, hence, would not have any impact on the central government’s fiscal deficit. This would still stand as the liability of the states,” Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said. “The dissenting states wanted the central government to absorb the liability without passing it on to states. The Centre has stuck to its ground and borrowing in its name is only for operational convenience, and it should not be construed as the Centre yielding to the states,” he added. The finance ministry’s statement said it is also likely that states that get the benefit from the “special window are likely to borrow a lesser amount from the additional borrowing of 2% of their GSDP” that has been allowed under the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) relief package.“Businesses would hope that the spirit of cooperative federalism demonstrated by the GST Council in the past four years continues as they now have to navigate a difficult post-pandemic terrain. It is also necessary that there is clarity on the period for which the compensation cess would be extended and whether it would be in the same terms,” said MS Mani, partner at consultancy firm Deloitte India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-softens-stand-to-borrow-for-states/story-Z51PP4vaMfcnYEsx63fq9O.html
16-10-2020||India||Earthquake of 3.5 magnitude hits Bishnupur in Manipur||An earthquake of 3.5 magnitude hit Manipur’s Bishnupur on Wednesday at 9.05 pm, the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) said.The earthquake hit 17 kilometers west of Bishnupur at a depth of 36 kilometers, the NCS said. No casualties have been reported. An earthquake of magnitude 5.3 hit state’s Tamenglong district last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-3-5-magnitude-hits-bishnupur-in-manipur/story-bWFM7JtIHon0LrYj6Cu2ZI.html
16-10-2020||India||Cop accused in Assam police job recruitment scam arrested||A senior police officer who is believed to have played a key role in the Assam Police job recruitment scam was arrested on Thursday. Kumar Sanjit Krisha, who was serving as the superintendent of police (SP) of Karimganj district till his transfer on Sunday, was arrested by the criminal investigation department (CID). “Kumar Sanjit Krishna has been arrested by CID today (Thursday) evening in connection with CID PS case no 21/2020. He would be produced in competent court tomorrow (Friday),” said a brief statement issued by Assam Police. Krishna, who was transferred as SP of foreigners’ regional registration office (FRRO) in Barpeta district, is the younger brother of Assam’s current chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna. Police officials were questioning Krishna and few of his close associates since Monday, but he suddenly disappeared from his official residence of Tuesday night only to resurface on Thursday. The written exam to select 597 sub-inspectors to Assam Police was cancelled on September 20 after the question paper got leaked. The exam will now be held on November 22. P Police officials had conducted searches at Krishna’s residences in Guwahati and Silchar on Wednesday and are reported to have unearthed several incriminating documents. The police officer is reported to have clicked photos of the question paper prior to the exam and gave them to other accused in the scam. On Tuesday, chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna had written on social media that the law would take its course and his name should not be dragged in as his brother “is a mature, independent individual in a different profession”. Till date, the police have arrested over 50 persons in connection with the case including a retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer PK Dutta and a ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Diban Deka (who has since been expelled from the party). Dutta and Deka are suspected to have fleeced many candidates for the SI post by assuring them jobs in lieu of cash. Deka is alleged to have procured the question paper ahead of the written test. Police investigation has revealed that a day ahead of the test on September 20, many candidates had taken a mock exam in a Guwahati hotel. Nearly 70 of these candidates were staying at one of the five hotels Dutta owns in Guwahati. Police have recovered nearly Rs 6 cr rupees, allegedly collected from candidates for the SI post by the accused, after conducting raids at several places in the past few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-accused-in-assam-police-job-recruitment-scam-arrested/story-Mlmeyr9Mdvcvj5cr6Fx0oN.html
16-10-2020||India||IT panel takes up TRP issue, says it’s ‘easily manipulated’||Parliament’s panel on information technology on Thursday took up media ethics and flagged that Television Rating Points (TRPs) are “easily manipulated” amid allegations of a scam involving certain news channels. Press Council of India (PCI) chairman Justice CK Prasad, information and broadcasting ministry secretary Amit Khare and other senior officials briefed the panel on the issue amid a controversy that certain news channels have manipulated the TRPs. The panel led by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor unanimously agreed that the TRP is not a robust method to measure viewership. “It is not in tune with current technologies,” said a person familiar with the matter. Over 10 members including Bharatiya Janata Party’s Syed Zafar Islam and Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore and the Congress’s Karti Chidambaram attended the meeting. People familiar with the matter added that the information and broadcasting ministry was in agreement with the points made by members of the panel. Also Read: Amid TRP ‘scam’, ratings for news channels halted for now“Due to converging technologies, it is difficult to have a regulatory framework.There is no uniformity of content and this required,”  said the person mentioned above.To specific questions, officials told the panel members that the current system to ascertain TRP is “not very scientific and accurate”, people familiar with the matter told news agency PTI.The members had a productive discussion about the need for policy changes in terms of regulation of media, including having a consolidated media council, instead of the PCI. The use of artificial intelligence tools was also discussed, this person added. “This not to blame anyone. The environment is rapidly changing and even BARC has decided not to publish weekly data for news channels for a period of time,” said this person aware of the matter . Also Read: Blame the regulatory system, not BARC | AnalysisThe person added that the issue was not about censorship, but that regulatory oversight is required and there is a need to amend existing laws to make that happen. “The ministry is working on alternatives and the members will put forth their suggestions regarding the same in Parliament,” this person added. Mumbai Police recently arrested at least five people over an alleged TRP scam. The police are also questioning executives of the Arnab Goswami-led Republic Media Group with regard to the case. Republic Media Group has denied any wrongdoing. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-panel-takes-up-trp-issue-says-it-s-easily-manipulated/story-Y1dFx1E6byx06SFDTG4hjM.html
16-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Guidelines out for cultural functions||The ministry of culture released detailed guidelines on Thursday for conduct of cultural programmes, performing arts and allowed theatres to function at 50% capacity with a ceiling of 200 people to curb the spread of coronavirus disease pandemic (Covid-19). A Standard Operating Procedure (SoP) is to be followed by the management of theatres and performance spaces, as well as the entertainment/creative agencies, artists and crew or any other persons who hire the auditoria or any other open/closed performance spaces.“It is advisable for all external artists and crew members, including those engaged in providing lighting, sound, make-up, costume etc. to present a valid Covid negative test result to relevant authorities at the host institution. The test should have been conducted within 7 days prior to the event. Management/creative agency may provide a mobile testing unit at the venue if feasible,” the ministry said in the guidelines. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIt has also advised to keep use of props to the minimal and avoid procurement of any new equipment than already designated in the premises. Production houses must ensure that minimum crew visits the premises, the ministry said.The stage has to be thoroughly sanitised before and after each use. Sets and properties in theatrical productions are also to be kept to minimum with few changes, to avoid movement and crowding on stage. “Artists must ensure sanitisation of their own equipment such as musical instruments before entering the venue and also before the performances,” the ministry said. “Digital no-contact transactions shall be the preferred mode for issue/verification/payments for tickets. All cultural institutions are encouraged to open purchase of tickets online for their events. Contact details of all customers should be taken at the time of booking of tickets, to facilitate contact tracing.” Frequent sanitisation of the entire premises, common facilities, and all points that come into human contact shall be ensured. “Measures for the safety of sanitisation staff such as adequate provisions for rational use of gloves, boots, masks, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, etc. shall be undertaken,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guidelines-out-for-cultural-functions/story-GeSzdrDHUM8MCpsnWaIlLL.html
16-10-2020||India||Centre plans to enrol 250 million migrants through its portal||The Union government’s proposed portal for migrants and other workers from the unorganised sector will enrol at least 250 million labourers in next few years and facilitate a single window for their social welfare, according to a top government official. The first-of-its-kind portal will be linked to various ongoing programmes, such as the medical care scheme Ayushman Bharat, or the subsidised ration scheme Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, and workers will be register directly through their through mobile phones, newly appointed Union labour secretary Apurva Chandra said.The government also plans to start the first official survey on migration of the Indian workforce, covering both seasonal and long term migration. The portal and the survey may help the government better understand migration patterns, and track movements of welfare-seekers, Chandra said, adding that data on migrants will be collected through various modes. Also Read: MGNREGS to expand further; for second time this year“The workers themselves can register through aadhar. Various authorities can also help in this purpose,” he said. The labour ministry is planning two more surveys on domestic workers and professionals. The plight of migrant workers, desperate to return home in the middle of the lockdown, sparked criticism of the Union government’s handling of the Covid crisis. The labour ministry, lacking any independent headcount of migrant workers, failed to furnish specific data in Parliament on how many workers lost their jobs and how many died while returning home. The ministry said that 10.4 million migrant workers returned home during lockdown, but experts suggested that this was merely the passenger data from Shramik special trains, and did not take into account workers who tried to return by bus, trucks, and other means. According to news reports, several workers and their family members died while trying to walk back or travel in overloaded trucks. Various estimates suggest that India has more than 400 million unorganised workers, and Parliament’s Standing Committee on labour recently suggested expanding the definition of migrant workers for their exposure to social security. Also Read: Aadhaar-‘plus’ on anvil for migrant workforce“It’s good that the government has accepted our suggestion to register unorganized sector workers. If they have set the initial target to enrol 25 crore workers, it means they would primarily target the construction sector as most unorganised and migrant workers belong to that sector,” the labour panel’s head Bhartruhari Mahtab said. Chandra also backed the recently enacted labour codes. “There will be a definite increase in fixed-term employment. Many industries had told us that they are keen to employ people during rush seasons or they wanted students in part-time work during their recess. Now, all these avenues will open,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-plans-to-enrol-250mn-migrants-through-its-portal/story-1fhPrCxHcNbeNXSmx0idrL.html
16-10-2020||India||News channels painted Bollywood as criminals: Plea||A plea filed by 34 top Bollywood production houses and four industry bodies against two English television news channels and its journalists alleges that the latter painted the entire film industry as criminals and made them synonymous with drug abuse in the public imagination.The 1,069-page petition was filed in the Delhi high court on Monday and was accessed by HT on Thursday. It said the impact of the “wrongs of the defendants” was felt prominently in the Capital and therefore the legal action was initiated in the Delhi high court. “They [the channels] are targeting specific individuals with the malicious intention of damaging their reputation in the eyes of the public, invading the private lives of various persons in the industry and dragging their personal lives into the public domain, and trying to show it in a completely false light across the board,” the petition said. “By their words, actions and publications the defendants are adversely impacting the right to a fair trial in these cases where several persons from Bollywood may be called as witnesses and some may even be prosecuted as accused,” it added.Also Read: Sandip Ssingh seeks Rs 200 cr compensation as he files defamation case against news channelAmong the petitioners were houses owned by actors Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan, Salman Khan, Akshay Kumar, Farhan Akhtar, Ajay Devgn, Anil Kapoor, Karan Johar, Rohit Shetty, Vinod Chopra, and Ashutosh Gowarikar -- also asked for the channels to be barred from conducting a “media trial”.The Film & Television Producers Guild Of India (PGI), Cine & TV Artistes’ Association (CINTAA), Indian Film and TV Producers Council (IFTPC), Screenwriters Association (SWA), Yash Raj Films, and Reliance Big Entertainment, were among the other petitioners.The petitioners sought directions against Republic TV, its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and consulting editor Pradeep Bhandari, Times Now, its editor-in-chief Rahul Shivshankar, and group editor Navika Kumar, as well as social media platforms. Kumar and Shivshankar had on Monday said they did nothing wrong. “Cases against journalists of Times Now that have only sought justice for those who are wronged are a bad precedent...,” Shivshankar had tweeted.“If fighting for justice invites court cases, bring it on.. Let truth prevail,” Navika Kumar had tweeted on Monday.The document said a perusal of various articles online reflected that the defendants were publishing and circulating false, disparaging and malicious allegations against the Bollywood actors. Also Read: Top film houses move High Court against 2 channels“The words used, remarks made, as well as the essence of the assertions and allegations made by the defendants against the plaintiff, include without limitation…. “cocaine and LSD drenched Bollywood”, “your consumption is the reason that Pakistan is carrying out narcoterrorism operations enabling asymmetric warfare on our country”, “the open secret in Bollywood of money that comes from the underworld to finance movies, you’ve seen stars all through the 80s and 90s and these stars going to Dubai, dancing in parties held by Dawood Ibrahim, heard of stars being booked for collaborating with the Underwood and going to jail, you’ve heard of supari killing being ordered by the underworld against other competitors of a certain group of people.” etc. The petition said that various articles, videos and broadcasts made it evident that the defendants were “deliberately inciting anger and hatred in the general public for persons associated with Bollywood which can endanger their safety as several of them are well known and easily identified and may be subjected to violent reactions in public places”. It also said that the actions of the channels and their anchors and reporters were “systematically destroying the goodwill that many personalities in the industry have spent years building and would tantamount to wanton and illegal destruction of the most valuable asset of the business”. The plea said that the privacy of persons associated with Bollywood was being infringed every day as private “facts” about lives of Bollywood personalities were being dragged into the public and their private communications -- including WhatsApp messages -- were being illegally accessed and published in the public domain without authorisation. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/channels-painted-bollywood-as-criminals-plea/story-L0SbOe30JGNPyu5hGvh9EP.html
16-10-2020||India||Torrential rains in Telangana leave 50 dead; flood situation in Karnataka worsens||In one of the worst spells of downpour spanning over a few days in this city and other parts of Telangana, 50 people died while the government pegged the losses from the deluge at an estimated Rs 5,000 crore.With relief works underway, the city and other affected parts started limping towards normalcy.A total of 50 people, including 11 from Hyderabad, died in rain-related incidents in the state.Chief Minister K Chandrasekar Rao urged the Centre to release Rs 1,350 crore immediately towards relief work and wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this connection.The flood situation in neighbouring Karnataka worsened on Thursday with several areas in the northern parts of the state inundated due to torrential rains and release of water from major dams.In Telangana, officials said that for the first time after 1916, such a big spell of rain was recorded under the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, leading to several localities being submerged.Chief Minister Rao, who reviewed the situation, directed the officials to take up relief measures on a war footing.Immediate financial assistance of Rs five crore would be provided to the GHMC to carry out relief works, an official release quoted him as saying.He also announced a compensation of Rs five lakh each to the families of the deceased. New houses would be built for those whose homes were completely destroyed, while financial assistance would be given to those whose houses suffered partial damage.Draining out stagnant water and restoration of power supply should be done on a war-footing, he said.Rao observed that a closer look at the flood situation in Hyderabad shows that residential colonies built within the Full Tank Level (FTL) of tank faced flooding.Adequate measures should have been taken while constructing apartments so as to ensure that water does not stagnate in the cellars.He directed that henceforth while giving building approvals to apartments, there should be a regulation that measures should be put in place to prevent water stagnation in the cellars.Officials said 20,540 houses in 144 colonies at 72 places in Hyderabad were inundated. As many as 35,000 families were affected.The government opened 72 centres in Hyderabad to shelter affected people. Daily mealswereserved to 1.10 lakh people.Though water started receding from many inundated parts of the city, some localities continued to remain under water and the government machinery stepped up efforts to pump out water.The heavy rains, officials said damaged crops on 7.35 lakh acres in the state and estimated Rs 2,000 crore loss to the sector.In Hyderabad, the body of a postman, who allegedly fell in swirling rainwater on Tuesday, was fished out in a lake on Thursday, police said.Efforts were on to trace six members of a family who were among nine people washed away on Wednesday at Bandlaguda, after they fell in floodwaters, police said.State Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao, son of the Chief Minister, visited different rain-affected areas in the city, including Nallakunta, Musheerabad and Amberpet and assured the victims that the state government would provide immediate assistance. In Karnataka, Yadgir, Raichur, Ballari, Bidar, Vijayapura ,Bagalkote, Belagavi, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Gadag, Koppal, Haveri and Dharwad were the worst affected due to floods.According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Management Centre, the floodgates of all the major dams have been opened resulting in water gushing into villages and formation of islands at different places.Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said he will hold a review meeting on Friday with administrations of districts that have been ravaged by torrential rain and floods, and necessary funds were being released for taking up the relief work.Due to rising inflow in Bhima river, villages that come in the river basin have been affected by floods.As a precautionary measure people in danger are being shifted to relief camps, he said.For the safety of people, NDRF teams- 2 each in Kalaburagi and Yadgir and one in Raichur- deployed by the Centre have been functioning.Steps are being taken to deploy two additional NDRF teams - one each for Kalaburagi and Yadgir, he said.Two helicopters are also being sent to Bidar airport to be used for the safety of people whenever required, the CM added.The rainfall that is reported to be heaviest since 1992 has affected most parts of north Karnataka, especially Kalyana Karnataka region.According to official data a total of 54 relief camps are operational in seven districts where 7,776 people, who have been displaced are taking shelter.While agriculture crops in 1,04,418.82 hectares have been lost, the horticulture crop loss is estimated to be in 3,481.93 hectares, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/torrential-rains-in-telangana-leave-50-dead-flood-situation-in-karnataka-worsens/story-jsAlnFUHrb4Yqh40y3crcK.html
16-10-2020||India||Harvesting not over, farm fires likely to peak next week||The number of farm fires spotted in Punjab and Haryana are higher this year for the kharif season till October 15, with 3,517 incidents compared to 1,217 for the same period last year and 773 points in 2018, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. Since harvesting of Kharif crops is still not complete, crop fires are likely to peak next week.Last year, there were 55,210 fire points in Punjab and in 2018 there were 50,590 fire points in Punjab. There were 616 fire points in Punjab and 87 fire points in Haryana on Wednesday alone, the IMD data shows.“Only 50% of harvesting is complete till now. Harvesting and clearing the fields will take another 10 to 15 days. The use of straw management machinery is not very successful because all farmers cannot afford it and some stubble still remains which has to be cleared manually. The government should accept the Supreme Court’s suggestion and pay Rs 100 per quintal to all farmers and then act on farmers who still burn stubble,” said Dharmendra Kumar, spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union.While the air quality early warning system of ministry of earth sciences said that stubble fires led to 6% of the total PM2.5 pollution in Delhi, scientists said it could change very rapidly, depending on meteorological factors and the number of farm fires in Punjab and Haryana.On Thursday, till 9 am winds were calm which meant dispersion of pollutants was not possible. After 9 am winds were northwesterly but contribution from stubble burning was around 6%.Scientists said the impact of stubble fires on Delhi’s pollution levels is dynamic and hence it is impossible to zero in on their total contribution. The combination of adverse meteorology, stubble fires and high local emissions create the conditions for a severe spike in air pollution every October.“We apportion the contribution from stubble burning every day. Now it’s 6%, but it will peak when the fire points also increase in the coming days. The rest of the 94% contribution is from various local factors,” said a senior scientist from IMD’s air quality management division.  Sagnik Dey, associate professor, IIT Delhi, explained that the impact of stubble burning on air pollution depends a lot depend on the meteorological factors.“Meteorology is the main factor—wind direction is north westerly, the boundary layer is stable or winds are calm, temperature also drops. These factors increase the pollution load significantly, nearly doubling it. There is not much change in the share of emissions in September and October. In addition, if there is another source like stubble burning obviously pollution levels can spike but the impact is not linear,” Dey said. “Though no studies have been conducted on how much emissions need to reduce during adverse meteorological conditions to bring air quality to acceptable levels, my estimate is that emissions need to halve not just in Delhi but in the Delhi airshed which includes 13 to 14 districts in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh,” he added.Also Read| ‘What did Delhi people do in last 15 days?’ Delhi versus Centre on pollutionA war of words began between the Centre and the Delhi government on Thursday after Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar said stubble burning is contributing to only 4% of the total pollution load in Delhi. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal countered that staying in denial will not help. “If stubble burning causes only 4% pollution then why has pollution suddenly increased last fortnight?,” he said.The environment ministry soon after clarified that the contribution from stubble burning is 4% only now and that it can change depending on various factors..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harvesting-not-over-farm-fires-likely-to-peak-next-week/story-O4lHBWtQzia6Z96z3zJwHM.html
16-10-2020||India||In rebuttal to China claim over Ladakh, Arunachal, India drops a clear warning||India on Thursday told off Beijing for its repeated complaints about infrastructure projects on the Indian side of the border with a clear warning, asserting that China should not comment on India’s internal matters just as it expects other countries to steer clear of its internal affairs.New Delhi’s harsher-than-usual message comes days after the Chinese foreign ministry linked infrastructure development on the Indian side to the five-month long stand-off in East Ladakh. China’s foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian had pointed to the infrastructure development along the border this week and gone ahead to describe the infra push along with military deployment as “the root cause for the tensions between the two sides”.“The union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have been, are, and would remain an integral part of India,,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told reporters on Thursday.Also Watch | Amid tension, India responds to China’s ‘Ladakh infra development’ comment “Our position on Arunachal Pradesh has also been made clear several times. Arunachal Pradesh is an integral and inalienable part of India. This fact has also been clearly conveyed to the Chinese side on several occasions, including at the highest level,” the spokesperson said.India reminded China that it had “no locus standi to comment on India’s internal matters” and sent a clear message that New Delhi may not always act with restraint on speaking about China’s internal affairs.Also Read: Pushback to Xi Jinping to reflect in US approach to ‘One China’ policy | Analysis“We hope that countries will not comment on India’s internal matters, as much as they expect the same of others,” Srivastava said.India’s sharp retort came hours after the Donald Trump administration appointed a senior official to oversee Tibetan issues, a move that is seen in line with the United States’ new approach to expand the scope of its running feud with China to call into question the ‘One China’ policy that President Xi Jinping holds dear.The US administration’s decision to appoint Robert Destro as the new Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues is significant because the post had been left vacant for the last four years.Also Read: India demolishes China’s new excuse for Ladakh stand-off in 3 pointsAccording to the state department, Destro will primarily be responsible for advancing dialogue between Beijing and the Dalai Lama and protecting the identity of Tibetans. China’s authority over Tibet has been an irritant in US-China relations. In July, the Trump administration had imposed travel restrictions on Chinese officials “substantially involved” in restricting access to Tibet.In discussions with other India, Japan and Australia as part of the four-nation Quadrilateral security dialogue, US secretary of state Mike Pompeo had signalled that the US could harden its stance on China and even call into question Beijing’s ‘One China’ mantra..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rebuts-china-on-claim-over-arunachal-ladakh-with-a-clear-warning/story-KmvC0fDvM0zYv63NJmvI6M.html
16-10-2020||India||‘Stalker hacks 20-year-old to death at her home in Andhra’: Police||A 20-year-old engineering student was allegedly hacked to death by her stalker for spurning his overtures in Vijayawada city in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district on Thursday morning, the police said. The stalker later stabbed himself repeatedly and is battling for his life in Government General Hospital in Guntur. This is the second such incident in Vijayawada this week. On Monday, a 24-year-old woman working as a nurse in Covid Care Centre was set on fire by her stalker for allegedly refusing to continue their relationship. He also succumbed to his burns later at the hospital as the woman had pulled him in while he set her ablaze.In the latest incident, Vijayawada city police commissioner B Sreenivasulu said the accused had been stalking the woman for several days stating that he had been in love with her. However, the woman rejected his advances and threatened to complain to the police. On Thursday morning, the stalker went to her house at Christhu Rajapuram area and slit her throat. “When the woman started screaming, he immediately stabbed himself in the stomach, neck and wrist. As the other family members rushed to her room, she was lying in a pool of blood, while the stalker was lying on the floor,” the police commissioner said. The family members rushed the woman to ESI hospital from where she was referred to a private hospital. However, she died even before reaching the hospital. The police who reached her house moved accused to Guntur government hospital, where his condition is said to be critical. The police, however, recorded his statement and are investigating the case. State women’s commission chairperson V Padma visited the bereaved family members of the girl and consoled them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalker-hacks-20-year-old-to-death-at-her-home-in-andhra-police/story-SgCaGBtI7O83iCyDiBBlaM.html
16-10-2020||India||More cyclones, relatively colder winter likely in India this year||This year could see frequent and more intense cyclones over Bay of Bengal during October-November and a relatively higher frequency of cold waves during winter season, India Meteorological Department (IMD) chief, M Mohapatra said.La Nina conditions have set in. “We associate La Niña years with a higher frequency of intense cyclones over Bay of Bengal and colder winters. But many other factors influence the winter. A forecast will be issued in November for the winter months. But if we consider only the impact of La Niña then that is definitely linked to colder winters,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.IMD in its El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) bulletin for October said that currently, weak La Niña conditions are prevailing over equatorial Pacific and sea surface temperatures (SSTs) are below normal over central and eastern equatorial Pacific. The latest forecast indicates cooling of SSTs will most likely continue and weak La Niña conditions will likely turn into moderate La Niña conditions during the coming months and sustain till early next year. No cyclone has developed this October yet. But the depression over north interior Karnataka and adjoining areas of Maharashtra moved west-northwestwards and weakened into a well-marked low-pressure area over south Madhya Maharashtra. But after merging with the Arabian Sea, it is likely to intensify once again with energy from the ocean.Also Read: Extremely heavy rain warning for parts of west coast todayIt is very likely to move west-northwestwards and over eastcentral Arabian Sea off the Maharashtra coast around October 16 morning. It is then very likely to intensify into a depression again during the next 24 hours over eastcentral and adjoining northeast Arabian Sea off Maharashtra–south Gujarat coasts, move gradually west-northwestwards and intensify further. Monsoon withdrawal from northwest India will resume only after these weather systems subside and rain stops.El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, whilst La Niña has the opposite effect. In India for example, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Nina is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters.Several studies have shown that La Nina conditions enhances the chances of extreme tropical cyclones in the Bay of Bengal during the post-monsoon season said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in Pune. ‘La Nina conditions modulate the ocean-atmospheric conditions in the Bay (enhancing the low-level vorticity and convection) and make it favourable for cyclone activity,” Koll added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-cyclones-relatively-colder-winter-likely-in-india-this-year/story-XYBPsYbCS6S6aCa3qFvw7I.html
