17-10-2020||India||‘Not an accident’: Odisha couple charred to death by nephews, nieces||A day after a middle-aged couple from western Odisha district of Jharsuguda was allegedly charred to death by a fire triggered by a coal-fired stove, the police said the couple was murdered by their nephews and nieces.On Friday morning, 40-year-old Geeta Das Panka caught fire while lighting a coal-fired stove inside her house in Rampur Punjabi Dhuda village under Brajarajnagar police station area of Jharsuguda district. Her husband, 45-year-old Giriwar Das Panka, who owned a paan shop, too was burnt to death while trying to save her. When the son of the deceased couple returned from tuition, he saw his parents burning and later informed the neighbours and relatives who reached the spot and informed the Brajrajnagar police.Though the police initially registered a case of unnatural death taking it to be an accident, subsequent investigations revealed that nephews and nieces of the couple had murdered them.Brajarajnagar sub-divisional police officer Dilip Das said the couple was first murdered by their nephews and nieces and then set on fire to make it look like an accident. “It was a case of pre-meditated murder. The five nephews and nieces of the deceased couple had killed them as they were unhappy over Giriwar allegedly cornering a huge chunk of the retirement benefits of their grandfather who worked in Mahanadi Coalfields Limited,” said Das.Police said the accused have been arrested and identified as Deepak Das Panka (28), Rahul Das Panka, Supriya Das Panka (25), Miran Das Panka (24), and Sunita Das Panka (27). They were forwarded to the court soon after their arrest.Also read: Nine killed, 32 injured in bus-SUV collision in Uttar Pradesh’s PilibhitOn Friday morning, after Giriwar’s son and daughter left for their tuition, their mother went to the toilet. When Giriwar returned home in the morning, the accused hit him with an iron rod and then attacked with an axe. The accused killed Gita in the same fashion. “The accused then poured kerosene over the dead bodies and set them afire to make it look like a case of accident. When their children returned, the accused pretended as if they had tried to save the couple,” said Jharsuguda SP Rahul PR.According to the police, Giriwar Das’s father retired and most of his retirement benefits were allegedly cornered by him. “A day before the incident, the Giriwar’s nephews and nieces had requested him to give some money for the treatment of their ailing mother. Resentment was already brewing in the family over Giriwar enjoying their grandfather’s post-retirement benefits. The accused then decided to bump off the couple,” said Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-an-accident-odisha-couple-charred-to-death-by-nephews-nieces/story-cZU6Szh8TyK6iHD2WstQ1I.html
17-10-2020||India||In Telangana, sudden surge of water from Krishna River submerges Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation Scheme||Sudden gushing of water from the Krishna River and from the backwaters of Srisailam Reservoir led to complete submergence of the pump house of the Mahatma Gandhi Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation Project at Yellur village of Telangana’s Nagarkurnool district on Friday evening. There were no casualties due to the incident, as all the engineering staff working in the pump house ran out, but there has been huge material loss to the project, officials said. State minister for agriculture S Niranjan Reddy who rushed to the project site late on Friday night said the accident occurred when the project engineers switched on the pumps to supply drinking water under the Mission Bhagiratha scheme. “The first motor of the pump house was switched on at 2.54 pm and the second one at 3.45pm for drinking water (Mission Bhagiratha) purposes. However, within three minutes, the flood water entered the pump house from the adjacent surge pool making a huge noise and within 20 minutes the entire pump house was submerged,” he said. The minister, however, said the engineering staff of the pump house immediately closed the surge pool gates and prevented more water from entering the pump house. They also initiated the dewatering process to pump the water from the submerged pump house. “We don’t know what exactly happened and the extent of damage unless we remove the entire water from the pump house. We shall take all measures and see that the pump house is restored within a month,” Reddy said. A project worker on the spot, who refused to be named, said the basement of the pump house had broken open suddenly with a deafening sound as the water from surge pool gushed into the pump house. “We were seven people on the spot and all of us rushed out,” he said. Due to the impact of the gushing water, the foundation bolts that fixed the motors to the basement also came off with a huge sound and within minutes the entire pump house got submerged, he said. Engineering-in-Chief of irrigation department Ch Muralidhar said the gushing of water from the surge pool into the pump house could be due to the failure of a discharging valve joint. Meanwhile, the police on Saturday arrested several Congress leaders including Pradesh Congress Committee working president and MP A Revanth Reddy, while they were on their way to Yellur village to inspect the submerged pump house of Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation Project. They were lodged at the Uppununthala police station before being released later in the evening. Police personnel were deployed in large numbers to prevent the Congress leaders and even media from going to the project. Speaking to reporters later, Revanth demanded a high level inquiry into the incident. He alleged that the accident at the Kalwakurthy lift scheme occurred due to blasting of rocks for a tunnel for the construction of the Palamuru-Ranga Reddy Lift Irrigation project a couple of kilometres away, much against the advice of irrigation experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-telangana-sudden-surge-of-water-from-krishna-river-submerges-kalwakurthy-lift-irrigation-scheme/story-kpeuH6ZkhLwXZ3S9fvZ5IO.html
17-10-2020||India||Differently-abled minor girl raped, killed in Gujarat||A 12-year-old hearing and speech-impaired girl was allegedly raped and killed by her cousin in Deesa town of Gujarat’s Banaskantha district, police said on Saturday.The victim’s body was recovered from an isolated spot near Moti Bhakhar village of Dantiwada taluka in the morning, deputy superintendent of police Kushal Oza said.“Prima facie, it appears that the 12-year-old girl was raped and then murdered by the accused identified to be her cousin. The body was sent for post-mortem and the report is awaited,” the official said.The victim’s 25-year-old relative has been detained for questioning, he said, adding that the case is being investigated by Dantiwada police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/differently-abled-minor-girl-raped-killed-in-gujarat/story-5xTAHbgr0y0Wzgi9OvqbxH.html
17-10-2020||India||CBI questions Hathras victim’s family for five hours||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday questioned family members of Hathras incident victim for almost five hours.The CBI is probing the torture and alleged gangrape of 19-year old Dalit woman who died in a Delhi hospital last month. Victim’s sister-in-law said the team asked her questions related to the case.“They did not ask me many questions. They asked me about Chotu, but I don’t know him. They have taken victim’s clothes with them. They carried out questioning for hours. We did not face any pressure,” she said.Family of the Hathras incident victim wants the case to be shifted to Delhi. They also want to move to the national capital.The victim’s brother had told ANI on Friday that the family wants to be safe wherever they are.The CBI has set up a camp office in Hathras on premises belonging to the agriculture department.As a part of the investigation, the CBI team on Tuesday collected samples from the spot where the victim of the alleged gang-rape was cremated on September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-questions-hathras-victim-s-family-for-five-hours/story-WspRdn3oa8fntrY0OtVp9N.html
17-10-2020||India||‘Playing a common man is not an easy task’||Backed with a decade-long association with theatre and having done national and international stage shows, actor Vivek Kumar feels his passion for acting is finally paying-off. “I love being an actor and want to do as many projects as I can. I left home just after Class X to reach Delhi and get on with the real, big stage of acting. After all these years, I have come very close to traditional theatre and I want to continue working for it, in order to do my bit to save it from fading away,” said National School of Drama, alumnus Vivek. He was last seen in the play ‘Zoon: A tale of Kashmir.’ Hailing from Bihar, Vivek played pivotal roles in Sanjay Dutt-starrer ‘Bhoomi’ and TV series ‘Surajya Sanhita’. “When I was offered these roles the perception of both directors was so amazing that instantly I wanted to be part of the projects. And thankfully, my characters were so meaningful that it made my choices worthwhile.”The young actor remembers when he did a crime thriller for Lucknow Doordarshan almost a decade back. “Yes, it was a show called ‘Satyamev Jayate’ and I had started getting a bit of work and this show was truly a memorable experience for a beginner,” he shared. Currently, Vivek is glad with the kind of response his latest release is garnering, “Written and directed by Gunveen Kaur and Robin Sikarwar, ‘376D’ is a hard-hitting film with the story revolving around the aftermaths of rape attempt. I’m portraying is Sanju, an ordinary man with whom everyone can easily relate. Though playing a common man is not an easy task.”His next project will be ‘Love at 5th Floor,’ a web-series which is currently being shown in a few international film festivals and will soon be released on an OTT platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/playing-a-common-man-is-not-an-easy-task/story-EjRVjopkOWul4K5M77SYOK.html
17-10-2020||India||‘Need luck & perseverance to make it in the industry’||Model turned actor Shreya Dhanwanthary, who made her Hindi film debut with ‘Why Cheat India’, believes one needs good luck and perseverance to make it in the industry. “While growing up, I was like Hrithik Roshan from the film ‘Lakshya’. Had no idea at all that what I’ll be doing. But the minute I came in front of the camera, for some random reason, I was like…this is it! I have studied in British school were dance and drama was a part of our curriculum. Camera was just an extension to it,” Shreya said. Talking about her journey, Shreya shared, “A part of me always wanted to be an actor but it never occurred to me that someone like me, from a normal background, can join the industry. I also feel there are many who work extremely hard but still can’t make it — so luck too does matter.” Shreya’s father hails from Lucknow and Mathura. “My father was from aviation industry so I had a chance to live in seven different countries later, returned for my engineering. Since ‘Why Cheat India’ was my first project so everything about the film has been special for me. As the film was all shot in Lucknow that gave me lots of time to shop till I drop. I bought chikankari stuff and attar (perfume) from there.” Currently featuring in the series ‘Scam 1992’, Shreya plays a journalist. “The story is based on Harshad Mehta scam and I’m thrilled to play a pivotal role. I researched a lot but director Hansal Mehta asked me not to copy instead be real…hope I have done justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/need-luck-perseverance-to-make-it-in-the-industry/story-QbUIGAM9EzaeSUG6W3DzYL.html
17-10-2020||India||Manipur district authority adopts new strategy to tackle rising Covid-19 cases||As a new strategy to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases, the administrative authority of Manipur’s Imphal West district has declared a major portion of an assembly constituency in the state capital as a containment zone. The move will come into effect from 6 pm on October 17 and will continue until the containment zone is denotified.The deputy commissioner of Imphal West district issued an order on Friday, declaring a portion of Thangmeiband assembly constituency as a Covid-19 containment zone. The order cited the rise in Covid-19 cases and the need to urgently break the chain of transmission in the area.While movement of people will not be allowed in and out of the containment zone, except for medical emergency and for maintaining the supply of essential goods and services, intensive contact tracing, house to house surveillance and other clinical interventions would be carried out within the containment zone as per the guidelines of the Union home ministry, the order stated.Also read: New coronavirus restrictions in Europe; Merkel warns of hard daysBesides sealing the said geographical areas, entry and exit of people in the containment area would be prohibited. Schools and offices located within the area would be shut and no vehicular movement will be allowed.The residents within the containment area are advised to use the Aarogya Setu app apart from wearing face masks, maintaining social distance and avoid eating from the same plate. Besides, the residents are also directed not go out during the containment period, said the order. Violators of the order will be punished under Section 188 of India Penal Code (IPC).As on Saturday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Manipur stood at 15,141, including 3,587 active cases and 11,443 recovered patients. So far, the state has reported 111 deaths. The recovery rate is 75,57 percent as per an official press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-district-authority-adopts-new-strategy-to-tackle-rising-covid-19-cases/story-C8udRue7eYjgx9PldLOEbP.html
17-10-2020||India||Woman lynched in south Bengal, four arrested||A 41-year-old woman was lynched and her husband seriously injured when they were beaten up by four people who suspected the couple of stealing money, in a village around 30 km east of Kolkata on Friday. The police have arrested four people including the main accused Mahibul Mollah, 50. He is a LPG dealer in the locality. A senior officer of Kashipur police station said that Mollah had accused the woman’s husband Ali Hossain of stealing money. An argument followed and Mollah and his associates assaulted Hossain. “When Hossain’s wife Sufia Bibi tried to intervene, she was also beaten up. Villagers rescued the two and rushed them to a local hospital from where they were referred to a state-run hospital in Kolkata. The woman was declared dead when she reached the hospital in Kolkata,” said the officer. Later, Hossain lodged a complaint on the basis of which the accused were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-lynched-in-south-bengal-four-arrested/story-AXScxgQJOF9iRR2LflvPUI.html
17-10-2020||India||Allahabad HC orders SSP, SHO to appear before court for 3-month delay in filing FIR in rape case||Taking a serious note of inordinate delay of three months in filing an FIR on the basis of a complaint lodged by a rape survivor, the Allahabad High Court has directed the Allahabad SSP and the SHO of Phoolpur police station to appear before it on October 20. Hearing a writ petition filed by the rape survivor seeking the registration of a case against culprits, a division bench comprising Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Pankaj Bhatia observed that “the present petition highlights the laxity shown by the officers in triggering the criminal justice system”. “The sequence of the evidence on the basis of instructions received highlights the sheer callousness of the police authorities in lodging the FIR after about three months of the alleged incident that too only after this court had intervened and had called for instructions,” the court said. “It is well settled that the information disclosing a cognizable offence should be initiated with all expedition, the same is also necessary so as to bring the prosecution to its logical conclusion fairly,” it said. The Allahabad HC, in an order passed on Thursday said, “In the present case, the laxity, which has been done at the behest of the police authorities, has not been explained at all.” The court said there is no explanation as to why so much time was taken for lodging the FIR and for proceeding in accordance with the complaint made by the petitioner for such a long time. It said there is nothing on record as to what action was taken by the senior superintendent of police (SSP) except merely forwarding the application of the petitioner before the station house officer. “On a prima facie consideration, this court is of the view that on account of the laxity of the police officials, the prosecution may be seriously affected, the action taken by the SHO the form of lodging of the FIR on October 13, 2020 and the subsequent medico legal examination of the petitioner on October 14, 2020, are prima facie a hogwash,” the order said. “Considering the facts, which prima facie disclose the laxity on the part of the police authorities, this court is of the view that the matter needs to be taken seriously,” it said. The petitioner has alleged that she was raped by four people on July 11, 2020 and she lodged a complaint but an FIR was not registered in the matter. Thereafter, the petitioner claims to have submitted an application before the SSP on July 22, highlighting that despite her best efforts, the case was not being registered. She again filed an application on July 23 informing the SSP that the case was still not filed. Ultimately, the petitioner approached the court. The state counsel informed the court that a complaint dated July 23 was forwarded by the petitioner to the SSP. The complaint was then forwarded by the SSP to the Phoolpur police station for further action. The FIR was finally registered at Phoolpur police station on October 13 under relevant sections of the IPC.The woman’s statement was also recorded on October 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-hc-orders-ssp-sho-to-appear-before-court-for-3-month-delay-in-filing-fir-in-rape-case/story-NtcILxZE5LiMPNzS0jQGJN.html
17-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Gyms in Maharashtra will reopen after Dusshera but conditions apply and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Gyms in Maharashtra will reopen after Dusshera. But conditions applyMaharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said that gyms and fitness centres in the state will be allowed to restart operations after Dusshera but only if they strictly follow the Standard Operation Procedures (SOP). Read more‘Deeply disturbed’: S Jaishankar says border standoff with China affected peace and tranquillity along LACExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday the immediate focus should be on restoring peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as settling the complicated boundary issue with China will require more time. Read moreEnsure election-like arrangement for vaccine delivery, be prepared to help global community, says PM Modi in Covid-19 review meetingUrging the health ministry and Niti Aayog officials to ensure a speedy vaccine delivery, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said an organised vaccine delivery and administration system should be put in place, making use of the experience of succesful conduct of elections and disaster management. Read moreIPL 2020: AB de Villiers does it again, RCB trump RR in last-over thrillerFor the second time in three matches, AB de Villiers showed that no equation is big enough for him. Read moreAre Tara Sutaria and Aadar Jain getting married? His spokesperson calls wedding rumours ‘baseless and untrue’Speculation was rife that Aadar Jain and Tara Sutaria had decided to take their relationship to the next level and get married. Read moreAmazon Great Indian Festival: Here are the top offers on smartphonesThe Amazon Great Indian Festival has begun. During its ongoing sale, Amazon India is offering interesting deals and special discounts on the purchase of a host of devices including home appliances, laptops, Echo smart speakers and Kindle devices among other things. Read moreAnand Mahindra praises MSEB employees, calls them ‘high-wire daredevils’. WatchMumbai faced a massive power outage on October 12. Many took to Twitter to share their emotions regarding the power cut. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-gyms-in-maharashtra-will-reopen-after-dusshera-but-conditions-apply-and-all-the-latest-news/story-O2gtDR5weiKg9cWD176QUL.html
17-10-2020||India||From PM Modi’s clarion call on vaccine to Sputnik V trial in India: Top developments||With three vaccine trials going on at present and the fourth one getting approval on Saturday, India’s quest for an effective Covid-19 vaccine is on the right track. The government has also started making logistical arrangement for the storage of vaccines — a crucial aspect in vaccine delivery. About 1 lakh refrigerators will be required to store vaccines, a report has said. The Centre has begun identifying both government and private facilities to create hubs for vaccine storage. Here are the top developments regarding India’s vaccine preparation1. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has suggested an efficient mechanism like that of Indian elections — to distribute vaccines.2. Speedy delivery of vaccines, once approved, should be the focus, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said.3. The vaccine delivery system must be IT-enabled, the PM has said. 4. Catering to the population of the country is not enough. Bangladesh, Myanmar, Qatar and Bhutan have requested for clinical trials of Indian vaccines in their countries, PM Modi has said.5. The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) has allowed Dr Reddy’s to conduct clinical trial of Russia’s Sputnik V. The vaccine — the first registered vaccine against Covid-19 in the world — was seen with doubt as its clinical trial was conducted on a small population.6. Bharat Biotech, which is developing an indigenous vaccine in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research, is cutting the trial size of phase 2 so that it can move to phase 3. The results so far have been positive.7. Pune’s Serum Institute of India, which is conducting the phase 2 and phase 3 trials of Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine, hopes to produce 60 to 70 million vaccine doses by December. By March, the vaccines are likely to hit the market after which the vaccine-maker will scale up the production.8. Meanwhile, the Centre has said that no major mutation was found in Covid-19 virus in India. There have been two pan-India researches, Centre has said.9. For the first time in September, the number of active Covid-19 cases in India dipped below 800,000 on Friday.10. However, the dip should not lead to complacency, experts and minister have warned, as a spike is apprehended in the upcoming festive season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-pm-modi-s-clarion-call-on-vaccine-to-sputnik-v-trial-in-india-top-developments/story-6GBdCa8qFGm23LYIihLDsK.html
17-10-2020||India||Home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla’s tenure extended till Aug 22, 2021||The government on Saturday extended Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla’s tenure till August 22, 2021. “The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the extension in service of Bhalla as Home Secretary beyond the date of his superannuation i.e. November 30, 2020, up to August 22, 2021,” personnel ministry said in a statement. The date of his superannuation was November 30.Bhalla is also holding additional charge as secretary of the department of personnel and training.A 1984 batch IAS officer of Assam-Meghalaya cadre, Bhalla was appointed as the Home Secretary in August 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-secretary-ajay-kumar-bhalla-s-tenure-extended-till-aug-22-2021/story-SEy3zQvPHdErA2MjE1fKRN.html
17-10-2020||India||Educational institutions in Assam to reopen on November 2||Educational institutions in Assam, which have been closed since the lockdown in March, will reopen from November 2 with strict compliance of Covid protocols, Education Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday.Educational institutions will reopen for students from class six to the postgraduate level with certain restrictions in place, he said.Schools will, however, remain closed for students up to class five, he said.Private schools and coaching centres can reopen from November 2 and must follow the Covid regulations. Each of them will have to remain in contact with the health department and periodic testing will be conducted in these institutes, Sarma said.The government has no objection if the private schools want to continue with online classes, the minister said.Joining school will, however, be a voluntary exercise on the part of the students. Their guardians will take the decision on sending them to school or not, and the necessary attendance required will not be applicable this year, he said.The ‘Unlock 5’ guidelines of the ministry of home affairs have allowed the schools to reopen across the country after October 15 in a graded manner. The decision will, however, be taken by the state governments and the administration of the Union territories.Sarma said the Assam government will not issue any directive regarding the restarting of classes at the postgraduate level. The university executive council concerned will decide on it and the rules to be followed.The education minister said all government polytechnics and engineering institutions will have “normal face-to-face classes from November 2 but hostels will not reopen”.Those who are unable to attend classes due to lack of hostel facilities can continue with online classes and as such there will be a blend of classroom and online teaching, he said.Undergraduate classes will also begin from November 2 with each section having not more than 25 students. If the classes are held in halls, the number of students can be proportionately increased.For the first semester students, classes will be held twice a week on Monday and Thursday, for the third on Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday, for the fifth on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday. Classes will be held in two batches in the morning and afternoon.Results are yet to be announced for second and final semesters.As hostels will remain closed, undergraduate students will be allowed to enrol temporarily for a month in a college in their respective home towns and attend classes.The decision regarding reopening of hostels will be taken on December 1, he said.At the school level, classes will be held in two batches - from 8:30 am to 12:30 pm and the next from 1:30 pm to 4:30 pm with not more than 25 students in each section.Examinations will be held only for class eight which will be conducted by schools, while board examinations will be held for those in classes 10 and 12. Students of other classes will be promoted to the next higher class without any examination, Sarma said.The syllabus will be reduced by the State Council of Education, Research and Training and this will be notified within 15 days, the minister said.Students of lower primary schools in rural areas can go to institutions to get their midday meals and the teachers can engage with them in informal academic discussions, but no classes will be held, he said. The children are currently being provided with dry food and the school authorities can slowly move to cooked meals depending on the situation, the minister said. The decision to reopen residential schools will be taken in December, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/educational-institutions-in-assam-to-reopen-on-november-2/story-gZRZaJ8pmVvOyxyBdp7DMP.html
17-10-2020||India||Vaccine ready by December, in market by March: Serum Institute reveals Covid-19 vaccine planning||India will get 60-70 million doses of Oxford vaccine Covishield by December but the vaccines will come to the market in March 2021, Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII) has said revealing its latest updates on the ongoing trial of Astrazeneca-Oxford vaccine. The time between December and March will be required for licensing, Dr Suresh Jadav, executive director of SII has said taking part at the India Vaccine Accessibility e-Summit HEAL-Thy Samvaad, organised by an NGO.Once it is released in the market, the world’s largest vaccine company by the number of doses produced will continue manufacturing more vaccines.At present, SII is conducting phase 2 and 3 trials of the vaccine. Reports said the vaccine maker wants to be more inclusive as far as the variety of participants is concerned. The pharma company wants to cover older individual and people with health conditions. Logistics preparation for Covid-19 vaccine is going on in full swing. The Centre had earlier asked states to prioritise populations who should receive the vaccine, once registered, first. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has held back-to-back review meetings and asked government officials to ensure speedy delivery of vaccines. In a meeting on Saturday, PM Modi suggested taking help of election mechanism to ensure well-managed delivery of vaccines.The government is targetting to vaccinate approximately 25 crore people by July 2021. This will include the three vaccines which are presently under trial in India and also the ones that India will get under other agreements, like WHO’s COVAX, Dr Reddy’s agreement with Russia for Sputnik V etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-ready-by-december-in-market-by-march-serum-institute-reveals-covid-19-vaccine-planning/story-KWBryK3euM7dbWa06GYZfJ.html
17-10-2020||India||Railways to run 392 ‘Festive special’ trains from October 20: Full list here||The Railways has given approval to run 392 ‘Festival special’ between October 20 and November 30 to cater to the big festive season rush.“To clear the festive rush, the ministry of railways has approved 196 pairs (392 trains) of “Festival Special” services over Indian Railways to be operated from 20th October 2020 and 30th November 2020. The fare for these Festival Special services shall be that applicable for special trains. Zonal Railways will notify their schedule well in advance,” the ministry said on Tuesday.In the order issued by the ministry, the Railway Board said these festival special trains will be operated at a speed of 55 kmph. The schedule and booking of the trains will be finalised by the railway zones.Check full list here: At present, a total of 666 mail and express trains are running while all regular trains have been suspended indefinitely in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-run-392-festive-special-trains-from-october-20-full-list-here/story-qi31ZkkkNTj3ZUAKGI5mFO.html
17-10-2020||India||Gyms in Maharashtra will reopen after Dussehra. But conditions apply||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said that gyms and fitness centres in the state will be allowed to restart operations after Dusshera but only if they strictly follow the Standard Operation Procedures (SOP). Going by this, the gyms which have been shut since March when the nationwide lockdown was announced to combat the spread of Covid-19 are likely to open from October 25.Maharashtra — with the highest Covid-19 cases in the country — is following a strict unlocking, separate from the other states. The Centre had allowed gyms and fitness centres to reopen across the country in the last phase of unlocking. But Maharashtra didn’t allow gyms to reopen. Cinema halls, religious places, swimming pools — which have been allowed to resume functioning elsewhere — are still closed in Maharashtra. Though gyms will be opened, activities like steam bath, sauna, Zumba and Yoga, which either involve group activities or water which can increase the possibility of infection, will remain suspended.The issue of what will be reopening has become a contentious one in the wake of mounting pressure to reopen temples in the state. Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari questioned Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s “secularism” as he is not allowing temples in the state to open. The Maharashtra government has recently allowed weekly markets, monorails, metro rails, business-to-business exhibitions to gradually start functioning. Monorails will start running from October 17 while Mumbai metro will start from October 19. The number of Mumbai locals has been increased from October 15. Women are also allowed to travel now in Mumbai local trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gyms-in-maharashtra-will-open-after-dusshera-but-conditions-apply/story-w7AghTEn6hQobefpv3HnwJ.html
17-10-2020||India||WATCH: Chinook helicopter takes off from Kedarnath with debris of IAF’s MI-17 helicopter||A Chinook helicopter on Saturday took off the debris of Indian Air Force’s MI-17 helicopter that caught fire following a collision with an iron girder while landing at the helipad near Kedarnath temple in 2018.The debris of the MI-19 helicopter will be carried to a nearby airbase. The preparations for lifting the debris has been going on for the last 15 days. Recently, Air Force officers visited Kedarnath Dham and took stock of the damaged helicopter. Chinook helicopter landed at the MI-17 helipad in Kedarnath on Saturday to carry back the debris of Indian Air Force’s MI-17 helicopter.In 2018, the Air Force’s MI-17 helicopter crashed while landing on the helipad located behind the Kedarnath temple. In the incident, the pilot suffered a minor injury, while the helicopter was damaged. IAF had left the damged MI-17 there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-chinook-helicopter-takes-off-from-kedarnath-with-debris-of-iaf-s-mi-17-helicopter/story-5RT4ZoET5oCTzKsBL6PB2K.html
17-10-2020||India||‘Deeply disturbed’: S Jaishankar says border standoff with China affected peace and tranquillity along LAC||External affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday the immediate focus should be on restoring peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as settling the complicated boundary issue with China will require more time.India and China had been developing cooperation in areas such as trade, tourism and societal activity since the late 1980s because of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and this year’s border standoff had “deeply disturbed” the situation, Jaishankar said during an online conversation with former ambassador Gautam Bambawale, Pune International Centre.“It’s not our position that we should solve the boundary... question. We understand that’s a very complicated, very difficult issue. There have been many negotiations on this at different levels over a different period. That’s a very high bar for a relationship,” Jaishankar said.“I’m talking of a much more basic bar, which is [that] there must be peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the border areas and that has been the case since the late 1980s. If peace and tranquillity is deeply disturbed then, obviously, there will be an impact on the relationship and that is what we are seeing.”The standoff, currently in its sixth month, has taken India-China ties to a new low, with troops firing warning shots at friction points – the first time guns have been used along the LAC since 1975. The two sides have also been unable to push forward a disengagement and de-escalation process despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks.Also read: Pak role in Kashmir violence, terror and killings since 1947 to be highlighted on Oct 22Jaishankar said the “big question” in the current scenario was how two large and developing countries such as India and China could find equilibrium. India had sought to normalise “what was a very difficult relationship” by developing cooperation with China since the late 1980s “on the premise that there will be peace and tranquillity in the border areas”, he pointed out.Asked if India could learn from China’s rise, Jaishankar said there were basic differences in the governance, polity and society of the two countries. In recent years, India had depended on imports and failed to create support systems that would boost manufacturing and industrial activity, he said. India will have to expand small and medium enterprises and strengthen its industrial base, innovation and manufacturing, he said, adding that looking to the services sector to solve all problems “is a fantasy”.A turning point in the modern era was 2008, marked by the global financial crisis and the rise of China, India and ASEAN, which led to economic rebalancing, he said. This process took an even sharper turn in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which accelerated trendlines and led to greater multi-polarity, he said.India’s ability to “step up and assume global responsibility to do good” is a very important part of the country’s rise, Jaishankar said. It is also in India’s strategic interest to facilitate and partner in the rise of Africa. “If Africa becomes one of the poles of the global polity, it is better for us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peace-and-tranquillity-on-lac-deeply-disturbed-jaishankar/story-AN3jogLhtqc9Fg7Ii8OMVO.html
17-10-2020||India||Home secretary Ajay Bhalla’s tenure extended till August 2021||Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla’s tenure has been extended up to August 22, 2021. He was due to retire on November 30, 2020.Ajay Kumar Bhalla, a 1984-batch Assam-Meghalaya cadre IAS officer, took charge as the home secretary on August 22, 2019, succeeding Rajiv Gauba, who is currently the Cabinet secretary. Before being appointed as the home secretary, Bhalla was an officer on special duty in the home ministry. Prior to that, he was the Union power secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-secretary-ajay-bhalla-s-tenure-extended-till-august-2021/story-mkprYSl65nwVpj7D3qEcGP.html
17-10-2020||India||Delhi’s air quality ‘poor’, share of stubble burning in city’s pollution increases||The national capital’s air quality was recorded in the “poor” category on Saturday and the share of stubble burning in the city’s PM2.5 pollution stood at 19 per cent, according to a central government agency.The share of stubble burning was 18 per cent on Friday, around one per cent on Wednesday and around 3 per cent on Tuesday, Monday and Sunday.The city recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 286. It was 239 on Friday and 315 on Thursday, the worst since February 12 when the AQI was 320.An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Winds were blowing from the northwest, bringing pollutants from farm fires, according to an India Meteorological Department official.The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the farm fire count around Haryana, Punjab and its nearby regions across the International Border on Saturday was 882.“Since transport-level wind direction is favourable for intrusion, stubble contribution in PM2.5 is around 19 per cent on Saturday,” it said. The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed -- was 10,000 metre square per second on Saturday -- favourable for dispersion of pollutants.Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed.A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. The impact of stubble burning on the national capital’s air quality is likely to “increase significantly” by Monday, the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said.Punjab and Haryana have recorded more incidents of stubble burning this season so far compared to last year, largely due to early harvesting of paddy and unavailability of farm labour due to the coronavirus pandemic, officials said on Saturday.According to the Punjab Pollution Control Board, the state has recorded 4,585 farm fires this season so far compared to 1,631 such incidents during the corresponding period last year.Haryana has also recorded an increase in farm fires -- from around 1,200 incidents till October 16 last year to 2,016 this year.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had on Friday said meteorological conditions in Delhi have been “extremely unfavourable” for dispersion of pollutants since this September as compared to last year.With less area under non-basmati paddy cultivation this time, CPCB Member Secretary Prashant Gargava hoped the number of stubble burning incidents will be fewer this year compared to 2019.Non-basmati paddy straw is considered useless as fodder because of its high silica content and so farmers burn it.Gargava also said stubble burning peak might not coincide with the peak of adverse meteorological conditions this year due to early harvesting of paddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-air-quality-poor-share-of-stubble-burning-in-city-s-pollution-increases/story-KCTXhjzQtSxYBjdheexDWM.html
17-10-2020||India||Ensure speedy access to Covid-19 vaccines: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the country and the preparedness of vaccine delivery, distribution and said that access to vaccines should be ensured speedily once they are ready keeping in view the geographical span and diversity of the country. He noted the steady decline in the daily Covid-19 cases and growth rate and stressed that every step in the logistics, delivery, and administration concerning vaccine should be put in place rigorously.A PMO release said three vaccines are in advanced stages of development in India, out of which two are in Phase II and one is in Phase-III. It said Indian scientists and research teams are collaborating and strengthening the research capacities in neighbouring countries - Afghanistan, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Maldives, Mauritius, Nepal and Sri Lanka.There are further requests from Bangladesh, Myanmar, Qatar and Bhutan for clinical trials in their countries.“The Prime Minister directed that keeping in view the geographical span and diversity of the country, the access to the vaccine should be ensured speedily. The Prime Minister stressed that every step in the logistics, delivery, and administration should be put in place rigorously,” the release said. It said the steps must include advanced planning of cold storage chains, distribution network, monitoring mechanism, advance assessment, and preparation of ancillary equipment required, such as vials and syringes.Two Pan-India studies on the genome of SARS CoV-2 (Covid-19 virus) in India conducted by ICMR and Department of Bio-Technology (DBT) suggest that the virus is genetically stable and there is no major mutation in the virus. The Prime Minister said that the country should make use of experience of successful conduct of elections and disaster management in vaccine distribution.He said that vaccine delivery and administration systems should be put in place in a similar manner. This should involve participation of states, UTs and district-level functionaries, civil society organisations, volunteers, citizens and experts from all necessary domains. The entire process should have a strong IT backbone and the system should be designed in such a manner so as to have a lasting value for our healthcare system, the release said.The Prime Minister gave directions that the country “should not limit efforts to our immediate neighbourhood but also reach out to the entire world in providing vaccines, medicines and IT platforms for vaccine delivery system”.He cautioned against complacency at the decline in coronavirus cases and laid stress on keeping up efforts to contain the pandemic.He insisted on continued social distancing, Covid appropriate behaviour such as wearing the mask, regularly washing hands and sanitation especially in the wake of upcoming festival season.The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) in consultation with state governments and all relevant stakeholders has prepared and presented a detailed blueprint of vaccine storage, distribution, and administration. The Expert Group in consultation with the states is working actively on vaccine prioritization and distribution of vaccine. The meeting was attended by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Principal Secretary to PM, Member (Health) NITI Aayog, Principal Scientific Advisor, senior scientists, officers of PMO and other departments of the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-speedy-access-to-covid-19-vaccines-pm-modi/story-NV4QxVcWptiYgl92zIvVwN.html
17-10-2020||India||Delhi riots: ED files chargesheet against Tahir Hussain in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate on Saturday filed a chargesheet against former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain for money laundering case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. The court has taken cognizance of the chargesheet and ordered that Hussain be produced in the court on October 19. Hussain is currently in jail for allegedly conspiracy in Delhi riots.Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat took cognisance of the offences under section 3 (money laundering) read with section 70 (offences by companies) punishable under section 4 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, against Hussain and co-accused Amit Gupta.The ED was probing the allegation that Hussain and his linked persons laundered about Rs 1.10 crore funds by using purported shell or dummy companies to fuel the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the riots.Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-ed-filed-chargesheet-against-tahil-hussain-in-money-laundering-case/story-otz2G51890VbR8xELtB9lO.html
17-10-2020||India||Ensure election-like arrangement for vaccine delivery, be prepared to help global community, says PM Modi in Covid-19 review meeting||Urging the health ministry and Niti Aayog officials to ensure a speedy vaccine delivery, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said an organised vaccine delivery and administration system should be put in place, making use of the experience of succesful conduct of elections and disaster management. The process should involve the participation of the administrations — from state level to district, and should have a strong IT backbone, the PM said addressung a review meet on Covid-19 preparation.During the meeting, the prime minister noted a steady decline in daily Covid-19 cases and growth rate. He further directed the officials “keep geographical span and diversity of the country in view” while ensuring access to the vaccine in the country speedily. The Prime Minister also cautioned to not be complacent because of the decline in the cases.PM Modi also stressed that every step in logistics, delivery, and administration should be put in place rigorously, the Prime Minister’s office stated.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageNot only for India and its immediate neighbouring countries, preparation should be in place to serve to the global community, the PM said.Three vaccines for the deadly virus are in advanced stages of development in India, out of which 2 are in Phase II, one is in Phase-III, the prime minister’s office informed in a statement.“Indian Scientists and Research Teams are collaborating and strengthening the research capacities in neighbouring countries viz., Afghanistan, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Maldives, Mauritius, Nepal and Sri Lanka. There are further requests from Bangladesh, Myanmar, Qatar and Bhutan for clinical trials in their countries. In an effort to help the global community, the Prime Minister further directed that we should not limit our efforts to our immediate neighbourhood but also reach out to the entire world in providing vaccines, medicines and IT platforms for vaccine delivery system,” the PMO said.India’s Covid-19 tally stood at 7.4 million after the country reported more than 62,200 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed.Deaths from Covid-19 infections rose by 837 to 112,998, the health ministry said.Of the new cases, 79% were reported from 10 states and union territories – Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, and Odisha. Maharashtra accounted for more than 18% of the new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-election-like-arrangement-for-vaccine-delivery-be-prepared-to-help-global-community-says-pm-modi-in-covid-19-review-meeting/story-oF5rKCpoOWJHCl9ML3o5bK.html
17-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi to visit Wayanad from October 19 to review pandemic situation||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will pay a two day visit to Wayanad from October 19 to review the Covid-19 pandemic situation inhis parliamentary constituency, a senior party leader said here on Saturday. Gandhi will reach Kozhikode by a special flight on October 19 and take part in a review meet on the pandemic at the Malappuram collectorate, Congress leader and SuIthan Bathery MLA I C Balakrishnan said. “After the meet, he will leave for Wayanad. On October 20, he will attend the Covid-19 review meeting at the Wayanad collectorate and DISHA committee,” Balakrishnan told PTI. The Congress leader will visit the government hospital at Mananthavady on October 21 before leaving for Kannur airport to return to New Delhi, he said. The Congress party has not organised any public meeting for the senior leader due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-visit-wayanad-from-october-19-to-review-pandemic-situation/story-1jvbMBhJgrSt3fiM4vW4wI.html
17-10-2020||India||Mizoram govt objects to temple construction at disputed border with Tripura, imposes prohibitory orders||The Mizoram government has restricted public movement in Phuldungsei, a small village in Tripura-Mizoram interstate border, a week after objecting to the construction of a temple and community activities in the village. The state government claimed that the construction and community activities could deteriorate law and order.The restrictions have been imposed since October 16 until further orders, according to which, four or more people could not assemble in the village and the surrounding areas of Phuldungsei Zampi and Zomuantlang of Mizoram’s Mamit district. If anyone is found violating the order, they would be charged under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) that would imprison them for one month or fine them Rs. 200 or both. The imprisonment might be extended to six months if the violation of the order poses threat to law or human life, safety and health, the provision says. Mizoram’s Mamit district magistrate Dr Lalrozama, in the prohibitory order served on Friday, said that an organisation named SONGRONGMA planned to construct a Shiv temple at Thaidaw Ylang falling in the same district. Lalrozama said that the organisation did not have any permission from the Mizoram government for the construction. Lalrozama said the plan would go against the interest of the local community and could disturb peace and tranquility in the region. SONGRONGMA is a local indigenous organization in Tripura. “ . ..This has been planned without the permission of the Govt of Mizoram and is against the interest of the local community and could harm peace and tranquility in the region... it is necessary to prohibit people from assembling in groups to prevent any untoward incident which is likely to disrupt or adversely affect peace and tranquility prevailing in the region,” the notification read. “Phuldungsei village is disputed by Mizoram but it remains under Tripura’s administrative control. The Tripura government already discussed the matter with Mizoram,” said a higher administrative official on the condition of anonymity. Despite the eastern side of Phuldungsei village falling into Mizoram, the village, traditionally has been accepted as part of Tripura.Phuldungsei village has a population of around 600 residents. The village is located in Kanchanpur sub division in North district of Tripura.In August, Kanchanpur sub divisional magistrate Chandni Chandran informed her higher officials that 130 residents of the village, who have Tripura’s ration cards, were found in Mizoram’s voters’ list.Mizoram home secretary Lalbiaksangi wrote to Tripura home secretary BK Sahu on October 10 seeking stoppage of construction of the temple and all kinds of activities within the disputed interstate border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-govt-objects-to-temple-construction-at-disputed-border-with-tripura-imposes-prohibitory-orders/story-2YjzHvi3zkxA8huR2MSFzL.html
17-10-2020||India||No major mutation in Covid-19 virus in India, confirms PMO||Based on two pan-India studies on Covid-19 virus genome, the Prime Minister’s Office on Saturday confirmed that there is no major mutation in the virus in India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic situation and vaccine delivery, distribution and administration.Earlier, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had said that the Indian Council of Medical Research has been conducting large-scale sequencing of nationally representative strains of SARS-CoV-2 virus collected for several months over different time periods.Also Read: Potential Covid-19 vaccines not affected by recent mutations: StudyThe minister had said there was no significant or drastic mutation in the strains. Reports said about 12,000 mutations have been documented in over 3.2 crore cases globally. Mutation is evolution that the virus goes through to adapt to various barriers.A recent study has revealed that mutation is the reason why Covid-19 death rates are different in various states. An international team, led by researchers at Banaras Hindu University (BHU) in Uttar Pradesh, analysed mutations in the gene responsible for the expression of the Angiotensin Converting Enzyme 2 (ACE2), a protein on the surface of cells which is believed to act as a gateway for the novel coronavirus into the human body.Their spatial analysis showed that in India, frequency of this haplotype, or a combination of mutations, varied between 33-100 per cent across different regions.The researchers, for the first time, also ascertained a significant positive correlation for the mutation with the lower infection and case-fatality ratio (CFR) among Indian populations.“If in a region more people with this haplotype will be present, the infectiousness of the virus would likely be lesser,” Professor Chaubey, who led the study, told news agency PTI. For example, he noted that state-wise Maharashtra and Gujarat have the lowest frequency of the gene mutation of about 30-40 per cent while the Northeastern region with a 75-100 per cent mutation in the gene has the highest frequency.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-major-mutation-in-covid-19-virus-in-india-confirms-pmo/story-sTJ8yIY70DwY9EbgiY8M5H.html
17-10-2020||India||AMU students are serving India, fulfilling Sir Syed Ahmad Khan’s dream: Satyapal Malik||Meghalaya Governor Satyapal Malik said on Saturday student of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) are serving the country and fulfilling the dreams of its founder Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, the 18th-century thinker and philosopher.Malik made the comments as he inaugurated the 203rd Sir Syed Day celebration virtually along with AMU’s vice chancellor Tariq Mansoor and registrar Abdul Hameed. “Aligarh Muslim University is not just a university, it is a movement,” said Malik, who was the chief guest at the Sir Syed Day celebration.“As a matter of fact, Hindus and Muslims are the two eyes of the beautiful bride that is Hindustan. A weakness of any one of them will spoil the beauty of the bride. Sir Syed’s thoughts and vision have contributed to the success of Indians during British rule and after independence,” he said.Malik, in his speech, counted AMU’s achievements in education and sports as he wished well to the university for completing 100 years. The governor also conferred Sir Syed Excellency Awards to historian Dr Gail Minault in the international category and to the Anjuman-I-Islam, Mumbai-based educational conglomerate, in the national category.Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin, the chancellor of the university, will inaugurate the Centenary Gate at the northern side of the Aligarh Muslim University campus to commemorate the 100 years of the varsity. AMU marked its 100 years as a university on September 14 this year. One of the oldest universities in India, AMU started as the Muhammadan-Anglo Oriental (MAO) College which eventually became Aligarh Muslim University in 1920 by the act of Parliament.AMU VC Tariq Mansoor also inaugurated a virtual ‘Exhibition of Books and Photographs’ pertaining to Sir Syed Ahmad Khan at Maulana Azad library. The exhibition will demonstrate Sir Syed’s hand-written articles and essays including his notable works— ‘Loyal Mohammedan of India’ and ‘Asbab e Baghawat e Hind’ (Causes of 1857 revolution). Sir Syed wrote 40 books and more than thousands of articles on contemporary issues. Mansoor also proposed a PhD programme on Sir Syed Ahmad Khan’s life to further his vision and works.Sir Syed Ahmad Khan was born on October 17, 1817. He is believed to be the first pioneer of Muslim education in India. In 1864, he initiated the Scientific Society to translate western knowledge into vernacular. He was one of many religious and social reformers in 18th century along with Raja Ram Mohan Roy and Dayanand Saraswati. He was the forerunner of Aligarh movement which undertook to modernise Muslims’ education by adapting English as a medium of learning and western education rather than just focusing on traditional teachings vehemently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amu-students-are-serving-india-fulfilling-sir-syed-ahmad-khan-s-dream-satyapal-malik/story-cTb9vFwarVuEHxsgCV6c1K.html
17-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: India ranks 94 in Global Hunger Index and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India ranks 94 in Global Hunger Index: Full list hereIndia ranked 94 among 107 nations in the Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2020 and is in the serious hunger category with experts blaming poor implementation processes and lack of effective monitoring in tackling malnutrition and poor performance by large states behind the low ranking. Read more here.Uddhav claimed conspiracy to move Bollywood, Saamana says it’s no cakewalkShiv Sena on Saturday took a veiled dig at Bharatiya Janata Party and said that shifting Bollywood out of Mumbai is as not as easy as moving the proposed International Financial Service Centre (IFSC) from the financial capital. The editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana came two days after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that attempts to finish off the Hindi film industry in Mumbai or to shift it from the state capital will not be tolerated. Read more here.IPL 2020: ‘That is a liability,’ Pragyan Ojha slams star all-rounder after KKR’s loss to Mumbai IndiansMumbai Indians registered their second win against Kolkata Knight Riders in the IPL 2020 on Friday, defeating the two-time IPL champions by eight wickets in Abu Dhabi. This was Mumbai Indians 11th win over KKR in the last 12 matches, which demonstrates just how lop-sided this rivalry has been. Read more here.Laghushanka review: Shweta Tripathi’s short film offers an escapist solution for a complex problemShweta Tripathi’s Laghushanka is a short film that takes up an uncomfortable subject and aims at creating a better acceptance of the issue in Indian society. But does it succeed in doing so? Read more here.Jacqueline Fernandez nails Trikonasana effortlessly in latest fitness pictureHeading into the weekend with her exercise routine intact, there seems to be no room for workout procrastinations for Bollywood diva Jacqueline Fernandez. Giving fans a glimpse of her intense workout in effortless style, the Drive actor shared a picture of herself nailing the triangle pose of Yoga or Trikonasana. Read more here.Chinook helicopter carries debris of IAF’s MI-17 from Kedarnath: WatchA Chinook helicopter on Saturday took off the debris of IAF’s MI-17 helicopter. The MI-17 helicopter had caught fire following a collision with an iron girder. The incident took place while landing at the helipad near Kedarnath temple back in 2018. The debris of the MI-19 helicopter was being carried to a nearby airbase. The preparations for lifting the debris has been going on for the last 15 days. Recently, IAF officers visited Kedarnath Dham and took stock of the damaged helicopter. In the incident, the pilot had suffered a minor injury and the helicopter was damaged.‘Tears ki baarishein’: Artist gets shout out from YouTube India for soul-stirring song. WatchYouTube India often takes to Instagram to share all sorts of posts. From witty ones which induce chuckle to the ones which give a special shout out to the content creators on the video sharing platform, their shares are varied. Just like their recent post which is about a YouTuber Anuv Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-india-ranks-94-in-global-hunger-index-and-all-the-latest-news/story-o93uzu9LpKcRhtwo2H0czK.html
17-10-2020||India||Lift ban on elephant catching to curb man-jumbo conflict- Wildlife experts||The rapidly rising graph of man-animal conflicts and consequent fatalities have not only left UP’s wildlife experts but also lone elephant catcher Kamaal Sheikh, worried. Expressing concern over the scenario, the experts and foresters have recommended elephant-catching as the best possible way to curb the menace and have also approached the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF) demanding lifting of the ban on elephant catching, also known locally as ‘mela shikaar’ and ‘khedda’, a dying art.“No doubt, we have excelled in saving elephants, as a result of which the elephant population in the country is set to cross the mark of 30,000 (according to MoEF). Despite having belonged to a generation of forest officers, who devoted their life to the protection of wildlife, I believe that now it’s time to think and re-think if our forests are ready to handle such a huge population of elephants,” asks a letter written to the Central ministry by RS Bhadauria, a retired officer of the Indian Forest Services (IFS).He says it is time to check the fast-increasing population of elephants, which he claims will also minimise man-elephant conflicts. Bhadauria is ex-principal chief conservator of forests and former chief wildlife warden of Uttar Pradesh.Bhadauria also says the wild elephant population has crossed the threshold limit and, as a result, elephants often enter into human habitations in search of food. Watch: Rescue tale of Roho the orphaned baby elephant melts people’s heartsAs per the data recently released by MoEF, at least 500 people and 100 elephants are killed every year due to man-elephant conflicts.“Indeed, the figure is depressing. And it is for the same reason that I believe that the government should lift the ban from elephant catching,” says Bhadauria, who has also served as a volunteer forester for the last 24 years post retirement in 1996.Bhadauria says catching elephants is perhaps the sole solution to the problem. “Castration of such huge creatures is out of the question. Hence, catching is the only possible way to check elephant populations in jungles. Once captured, the wild elephants should be tamed and put to different uses in various departments, similar to what the forest department does,” Bhadauria further argued.Interview: Stephen Alter, author, Feral Dreams; Mowgli and his MothersBhadauria’s letter to the MoEF further recommends reverting back to former system of capture, training, taming and reopening private ownership of elephants, allowing riding them in zoos, and their export to zoos abroad where there is a great demand for Asian elephants, because it trains better and quicker than African elephant.UP’s lone elephant catcher Kamaal Sheikh, too, echoed similar views, saying lifting the ban on elephant catching-- imposed in 1977 under Wildlife Protection Act 1972-- will not only keep a check on the increasing population of elephants, but will also revive an over 3000-year old art in India.“I am sure, the government would give a thought to it, which in return would keep the population under control and revive the dying art of Mela Shikaar,” says Kamaal Sheikh, who is well versed with the rare art of elephant catching.Mahendra Singh, who headed UP’s last elephant catching operation in UP in 1977, says, “I strongly believe that the government should assess the carrying capacity of the forest area and should allow elephant capture in the areas that are overpopulated. Also, it should find out the demand of elephants in different sectors in order to accommodate the elephants captured from the forest area.” Singh is a former wildlife warden of the forest department, UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lift-ban-on-elephant-catching-to-curb-man-jumbo-conflict-wildlife-experts/story-4LIX8V9yah5kkJL8GpiljK.html
17-10-2020||India||IndiGo to charge Rs 100 for check-in at airport counters||IndiGo will charge a passenger Rs 100 service fee if he or she wants to check-in at the airport counters from Saturday onwards, the airline said in a statement. The aviation ministry had in May made it mandatory for passengers to do web check-in so as to reduce touch points at the airport amid the coronavirus pandemic. Once web check-in is done, the online boarding pass is issued by the airline to the passenger. “IndiGo has introduced a service fee of INR 100 for check-in at the airport counters effective October 17, 2020,” said the statement. “We encourage all passengers to web check-in as per the Government directive, using our website or mobile app. The check-in fee at the airport counters is applicable on all bookings made, starting from today i.e. October 17, 2020,” it noted. The low-cost carrier said it is committed to take all precautionary measures for a contactless and hassle-free travel experience for its customers. Scheduled domestic passenger services resumed in India on May 25 after a gap of two months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 23 due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-to-charge-rs-100-for-check-in-at-airport-counters/story-MRQOjm7lzkhAoSaNzfmfVJ.html
17-10-2020||India||‘If we had security, this would not have happened,’ says Balwinder Singh’s wife as family allows last rites||A day after Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu was assassinated in Punjab, his wife blamed the government and intelligence agencies for not paying heed to the several appeals that they made for security. “There are 42 registered FIRs on attacks on our family and countless other attacks have taken place which are not on record. Withdrawal of security was wrong,” news agency ANI quoted Jagdish Kaur, wife of Balwinder Singh, as saying.“Those who treat security cover as a status symbol have been provided with it. We actually needed it but were not given,” She said, as reported by ANI.“If we had security then this would not have happened, as killers would have feared retaliation. We had sent several emails, written applications and also met officials, but we did not get any security,” Kaur added.The family members conducted the last rites of Singh on Saturday. Earlier the family had refused to cremate the body unless the accused are arrested.Months after the government withdrew security, two men on a motorcycle shot 62-year-old Singh on Friday when he was at his office adjoining his home at Bhikhiwind. He was taken to the hospital where doctors declared him “brought dead”.The family agreed for the cremation rituals after the administration ensured that the perpetrators will be arrested at the earliest.Justifying the security withdrawal, Tarn Taran’s Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Rajesh Sharma said it was done during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The situation arose suddenly and gunmen provided to everyone were called back by the police department,” he said.“Now three gunmen have been provided to the family,” he added.Sandhu had fought against terrorism in the state for years, facing scores of terror attacks during the height of Khalistani militancy.Meanwhile, a special investigation team has been formed to probe the killing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-we-had-security-this-would-not-have-happened-says-balwinder-singh-s-wife-as-family-allows-last-rites/story-k7dnCw5NgHNL5vxFP1W2FM.html
17-10-2020||India||Pak role in Kashmir violence, terror and killings since 1947 to be highlighted on Oct 22||India will spotlight Pakistan’s role in instigating violence and terror in Kashmir and the destruction of its culture on October 22, a day when Jammu and Kashmir was attacked in 1947 after which a big part of the erstwhile princely state was occupied by Pakistan and thousands of Hindus and Sikhs had to migrate to the Indian side, according to officials familiar with the development.According to senior officials, the day will be observed to protest against Pakistan, who used the tribal militia and army to wreak rape and mayhem in Kashmir in 1947, with protests in the Valley and in Delhi. After the nullification of Article 370 and formation of Jammu and Kashmir as Union territory on August 5, 2019, the day will see demonstrations in Jammu and Srinagar as the UT will be under security dragnet. Every year, October 22 is also observed as Black Day by Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) refugees in India. It was on this day that Pakistan had launched Operation Gulmarg to attack Jammu and Kashmir and which left thousands of people dead. Operation Gulmarg was conceived under the command of Major General Akbar Khan, who has spoken about this in a book and admits to Pakistan’s role in the conflicts in the Kashmir Valley.“On October 26 (1947), the Pakistani forces captured Baramula where only 3,000 survived out of 14,000. The troops were now only 35 miles from Srinagar when the Maharaja (Hari Singh) sent his papers of accession to Delhi asking for help,” Khan has written in the recently-re-published book, Raiders in Kashmir.Khan has said in his book, as he gives out minute details of Pakistan’s aggression in Kashmir, that the plan was hatched and formulated in Lahore and Rawalpindi. He has said he was asked by Mian Iftikharuddin, then a leader in the ruling Muslim League, at the beginning of September 1947 to prepare a plan to take over Kashmir. “Ultimately, I wrote a plan under the title of “Armed Revolt inside Kashmir”. As open interference or aggression by Pakistan was obviously undesirable, it was proposed that our efforts should be concentrated upon strengthening the Kashmiris themselves internally -- and at the same time taking steps to prevent the arrival of armed civilians or military assistance from India into Kashmir,” Khan said.“On October 22, the operation began with Pakistani forces crossing the border and attacking Muzaffarabad and Domel on October 24 from where the Dogra troops had to withdraw. The next day these troops moved forward on the Srinagar road and again took on the Dogras at Uri... On October 27, India intervened and sent troops to Kashmir,” he has written.Khan also writes in Raiders in Kashmir how the Pakistani army had worked with the tribal forces in various incursions in Kashmir. He had “rushed back to Pindi to ensure that the tribesmen received their ammunition in time” after being appointed as the military adviser to the prime minister on October 28, 1947.About 11,000 residents of Baramulla were killed on October 26, 1947, alone, and the Mohra power station that supplied electricity to Srinagar was destroyed in the attack. “The raiders came to our land, massacred thousands of people -- mostly Hindus and Sikhs, but Muslims, too -- abducted thousands of girls, Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims alike, looted our property and almost reached the gates of our summer capital, Srinagar,” Sheikh Abdullah, the first prime minister of J-K, described the invasion at the UN in 1948.Maharaja Hari Singh appealed to India for help in a letter dated October 26, 1947. “With the conditions obtaining at present in my state and to the great emergency of the situation as it exists, I have no option but to ask for help from the Indian Dominion. Naturally, they cannot send the help asked for without my state acceding to the Domination of India. I have accordingly decided to do so and I attach the Instrument of Accession for acceptance by your government,” he wrote.European Foundation for South Asian Studies (EFSAS), a think-tank, has said the intervening night of October 21-22, 1947, was the darkest day in the history of Jammu and Kashmir when Operation Gulmarg was launched and that Pakistan’s template has remained the same till date.“Pakistan has perpetuated the myth that the tribal raiders were liberators and came to Kashmir to fulfil their religious obligation of jihad because Muslims were being killed in Jammu in communal riots. However, the reality was that it was not as if Muslims had been spared (by them),” it has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-role-in-kashmir-violence-terror-and-killings-since-1947-to-be-highlighted-on-oct-22/story-S0kUd51UHy3LoEcGCgGHbO.html
17-10-2020||India||3 including former Congress MP’s only son dead in Jaguar car crash in Odisha||Three youths including the only son of former Congress MP Amarnath Pradhan, travelling in a Jaguar car, died after the vehicle fell into a roadside canal near Telengapentha of Cuttack district on National Highway 16 early Saturday morning after hitting the road divider. Police suspect the driver lost control over the vehicle, that was registered in the name of one Kishore Kumar Swain.Cuttack sadar police station inspector SB Jena said the mishap took place at around 3 am today when the Jaguar car was on its way to Bhubaneswar. Apart from Pradhan’s son Ankur, his friends Goutam Dash and Pranit Madhu Pati are the other two deceased. After the accident, the car got locked from inside and fell into the roadside ditch full of water. The three were puled out from the mangled vehicle after breaking the window glass.Police rushed them to the SCB Medical College and Hospital, where a doctor declared them dead on arrival.Ankur Pradhan, 30, was recently engaged and the marriage was postponed due to the Covid pandemic. Amarnath Pradhan, a former minister in JB Patnaik cabinet and Congress MP of Sambalpur between 2014 and 2019 had lost his wife Mousumi in a road accident in Angul district 10 years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-dead-as-jaguar-car-falls-into-roadside-canal-near-bhubaneswar/story-OYH6kEfo0BlgZCS2otjI3H.html
17-10-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh: Man kills wife and daughter, cuts bodies into 22 pieces||A 35-year-old man allegedly killed his wife he accused of infidelity in a fit of rage after an argument before strangling their one-year-old daughter and chopping their bodies into 22 pieces in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa district, a police officer said. Chindalal Saket, the accused, was arrested on Friday when he was allegedly trying to dispose of the bodies.Rewa police superintendent Rakesh Singh said Saket allegedly killed his 30-year-old wife by slitting her throat with a sharp-edged weapon and strangled their daughter on Wednesday night. “He cut the bodies into at least 22 pieces and covered it in a piece of cloth. He cleaned the room where he killed them. He pretended to be normal and interacted with villagers throughout the day on Thursday.” Singh said he ignored the villagers’ queries about his wife and daughter, who had not been seen for a day.Singh said villagers stopped Saket and asked him what was he carrying in the cloth as the bodies had started stinking when he left home on Thursday night to throw them in a forest. “He tried to dodge them but villagers caught him and checked the cloth where they found the pieces.”The villagers informed the police. “He confessed to his crime on Friday. He told police that his first wife died by suicide eight years ago. He later married his brother’s widow. Saket is suffering from Tuberculosis and the second wife worked as a farm labourer to earn money. Saket suspected her of infidelity. On Wednesday night, they fought over an issue and later he killed her. Her daughter was crying so he killed her too.”He was produced before a court on Friday that sent him to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-man-kills-wife-and-daughter-cuts-bodies-into-22-pieces/story-zM4NqsvHrJVZfZhCHKr6AP.html
17-10-2020||India||India ranks 94 in Global Hunger Index: Full list here||India ranked 94 among 107 nations in the Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2020 and is in the serious hunger category with experts blaming poor implementation processes and lack of effective monitoring in tackling malnutrition and poor performance by large states behind the low ranking.According to the report, 14% of India’s population is undernourished. It also showed the country recorded a 37.4% stunting rate among children under five and a wasting rate of 17.3%. The under-five mortality rate stood at 3.7%.The Global Hunger Index is a tool for comprehensively measuring and tracking hunger at global, regional, and national levels. Check full list here: GHI scores are based on the values of four component indicators: undernourishment (share of the population with insufficient caloric intake), child wasting (share of children under age five who have low weight for their height, reflecting acute undernutrition), child stunting (share of children under age five who have low height for their age, reflecting chronic undernutrition), and child mortality (mortality rate of children under age five, partly reflecting the fatal mix of inadequate nutrition and unhealthy environments).Based on the values of the four indicators, the GHI determines hunger on a 100-point scale where 0 is the best possible score (no hunger) and 100 is the worst. Each country’s GHI score is classified by severity, from low to extremely alarming.For the 2020 GHI report, data were assessed for 132 countries. Out of these, there were sufficient data to calculate 2020 GHI scores for and rank 107 countries (by way of comparison, data availability allowed for the ranking of 117 countries in the 2019 report). For 25 countries, individual scores could not be calculated and ranks could not be determined owing to lack of data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-ranks-94-in-global-hunger-index-full-list-here/story-wXo7eOCL0xj5P2iAJ3R7PL.html
17-10-2020||India||Rajasthan man arrested for trying to kill father to get government job, say police||A 28-year-old jobless man has been arrested in Rajasthan’s Udaipur for allegedly attempting to kill his father to get his government job after getting the idea from a real-life crimes’ show on television, a police officer said. DP Dadich, the officer, said Ankit Paliwal allegedly plotted the murder with the help of his friend Nikhil.Dadich said Ankit Paliwal hatched the plan to kill Rakesh Paliwal to get his government schoolteacher’s job. There is a policy for compassionate appointments of kin of government employees who die before their retirement.Dadich said Nikhil has told them that he and Ankit Paliwal were planning to start a restaurant but did not have enough money for it. He added Ankit Paliwal allegedly came up with the idea of killing his father. Dadich said he thought after he gets his father’s job, they would able to start the restaurant. He added as part of the plan, Nikhil on Tuesday allegedly threw a stone at Rakesh Paliwal while he was riding back home on a two-wheeler. But as he was wearing a helmet, he sustained minor injuries. Dadich said Nikhil did not get a second chance to execute his plan as people gathered on the road after the incident.Rakesh Paliwal’s colleague, Mahipal Singh Chandrawat, who happened to be near the scene, noted the registration number of Nikhil’s scooty as he fled after throwing the stone. Chandrawat shared the number with the police. A First Information Report was lodged on the basis of his information and police on Friday tracked down Nikhil based on the number. Dadich said Nikhil allegedly confessed to plotting the murder with Ankit Paliwal.Dadich said Nikhil told them that his friend was unhappy with his father as the latter would never give him money. The father also did not approve of his son’s relationship with a woman, Dadich added.Dadich said the two were presented before a court that has remanded them in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-man-arrested-for-trying-to-kill-father-to-get-government-job-say-police/story-dtuVyCWLSaS6jWNcc1V8sK.html
17-10-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Sputnik V to undergo trial in India, Dr Reddy’s gets DCGI approval||After striking down the first proposal, the Drug controller General of India has finally allowed Dr Reddy’s to conduct phase 2/3 clinical human trial of Sputnik V, the Covid-19 vaccine that makes Russia the first country to have come up with a vaccine. “This will be a multi-center and randomized controlled study, which will include safety and immunogenicity study,” a joint statement issued by Dr Reddy’s and Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said. Also Read: India decides to reassess Covid-19 treatment protocolSince Sputnik V was tested on a small number of people in Russia before it got registered as a vaccine, the DCGI raised questions over Dr Reddy’s initial proposal of testing it among a bigger population in India. At present, Sputnik V is currently undergoing post-registration phase 3 clinical trial engaging 40,000 participants. In September, Dr Reddy’s and RDIF entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V vaccine and its distribution in India. As part of the partnership, India will get 100 million doses of Sputnik.“We acknowledge DCGI’s scientific rigour and guidance in the entire process. This is a significant development that allows us to commence the clinical trial in India and we are committed to bringing in a safe and efficacious vaccine to combat the pandemic,” G V Prasad, co-chairman and managing director, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, said.Also Read: Russia says its third Covid-19 vaccine is ‘almost ready’On August 11,the Sputnik V vaccine developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology was registered by the Ministry of Health of Russia and became the world’s first registered vaccine against COVID-19 based on the human adenoviral vectors platform.A second vaccine — EpiVacCorona — has been registered in Russia. The third vaccine has received permission to conduct the first and second stages of clinical trials at medical facilities in Novosibirsk, St Petersburg and Kirov. During the first stage, 15 volunteers were inoculated with this vaccine on October 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v-to-undergo-trial-in-india-dr-reddy-s-gets-dcgi-approval/story-SgK62pX7oxHOCUlS9tPB8H.html
17-10-2020||India||UP Governor launches Safe City Project, a women’s safety campaign, in Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel on Saturday said the movement of women police personnel in Lucknow will inculcate a feeling of pride and safety for women in the city here. The Governor spoke while inaugurating the ‘Safe City Project’, a 180-day-long campaign under which the police and other departments will work towards safety of women. In a statement issued here, the UP Raj Bhavan said the Governor flagged off 100 pink scooties and 10 four-wheeler police vehicles. Lucknow is among eight cities in the country selected for the ‘Safe City Project’. The central government has approved the project for Lucknow at a total cost of Rs 194 crore with an aim to strengthen security of women in public places. Patel said, “Crime against women is increasing, and in this scenario, the responsibility of society increases. If the schemes meant for woman are not properly implemented, they will lose their importance. Till such time that women are dependent on others socially or monetarily, they will be exploited. The women have to become empowered.” She also said, “There are people with criminal and perverted mindset, who derive pleasure by committing crime. Girls are harassed while going to schools. It is because of these people that women do not feel safe in the family. Police must identify these people, and act before they could commit crime.” The UP Governor also said that the responsibility of the universities and educational institutes is not confined only to admission, teaching, examination and results. “Discussions should also be held as to whether the daughters are safe or not, and whether they have information about their rights,” she said. Throwing light on the ‘Safe City Project’, Additional Director General of Police (Women and Child Security) Neera Rawat said, “The cost of the projects is shared between the Centre and the state in 60:40 ratio. These vehicles have first-aid kit, flashlights and other facilities. The women personnel will combat crimes against women, which will make them feel secured.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-governor-launches-safe-city-project-a-women-s-safety-campaign-in-lucknow/story-mmUKJB1xPZvXxrnRmw4X3K.html
17-10-2020||India||Under 800,000 active cases in India for 1st time, experts have a word of caution||Continuing the downward trend, the number of active cases or of those infected currently dipped below 800,000 on Friday. This has happened for the first time since September 1 when the number of active cases was still on the rise, with fewer recoveries and more new cases getting registered daily. On an average, over 84,000 new cases were reported each day during the first week of September while only about 69,000 recoveries happened. A decline in the active cases – the patients who need treatment or some care – was seen during the third week of September after hitting the grim milestone of reporting over 1 million cases a day. On Thursday, only 62,212 cases were reported and there were 70,816 recoveries, data provided by the union health ministry shows. Of the new cases, 79% were reported from 10 states and union territories – Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, and Odisha. Maharashtra accounted for more than 18% of the new cases. There were 837 deaths reported due to the infection on Thursday, of which 82% were from ten states; Punjab and Madhya Pradesh were the two states that did not report very high cases but had high fatalities, whereas Delhi and Odisha had high caseload but did not report as many deaths. Also Read: For first time in 1.5 months, India’s active Covid-19 cases below 8 lakh: Govt“Enhanced countrywide medical infrastructure, implementation of the standard treatment protocols, and total dedication and commitment of doctors, paramedics and frontline workers have led to a persistent increase in the number of total recoveries with a dip in the fatality rate. India continues to record high recoveries and one of the lowest fatality rates globally,” the ministry said.Also Read: Vaccines against Covid-19 may not need to be administered annually: WHO OfficialIndia’s case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who tested positive – stands at 1.52% against a global average of 2.8%. Experts fear a rise in cases again with the festival season ahead. “The number of cases is likely to go up again if people increase their interactions during the festival season and do not follow the preventive measures. Although the decline that we are seeing is good news, the fear is that the infection has now travelled to smaller cities and villages where there are inadequate testing and treatment facilities, meaning many of the cases and deaths that happen there might not be reported. The current declining trend that we are seeing is the decline in the number of cases in the bigger cities,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-800-000-active-cases-in-india-for-1st-time-experts-have-a-word-of-caution/story-qeFfaQQfkeJVaogRp4axCK.html
17-10-2020||India||‘For many, one family is party’: BJP’s Nadda hits out at Congress, regional parties||Launching a veiled attack against Congress’s dynasty politics, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Saturday said if the party office runs from a leader’s house, then the organisation becomes the person. He was speaking at the foundation stone-laying ceremony of BJP office in Uttarakhand through video-conferencing.“You must have seen that the other parties have become the party of the family, whereas in the BJP the party is the family,” Nadda added.“BJP, the world’s largest party with 18 crore members, stands as a family today,” he also said.Also Read | ‘Dirty tricks before Bihar elections’: JP Nadda berates Congress over tweetsTargeting Sonia Gandhi led-Congress and other family-ruled regional parties, Nadda said, “People are busy in protecting brother-sister, mother-son, or the son. There is infighting with nephews.”Continuing his attack against the opposition parties, Nadda further said, “All the parties were locked during the lockdown and still in a dormant state.”“But BJP workers distributed about 29 crore food packets and about 5 crore rations, that too in just 3 months. On the call of Modi ji, all BJP workers went out for public service,” he added.Lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his latest reforms, Nadda said he is “moving forward with the mantra of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas.’”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-many-one-family-is-party-bjp-s-nadda-hits-out-at-congress-regional-parties/story-Q179cFeY1QS2M6OALgQxQM.html
17-10-2020||India||Under criticism over Hathras case, UP launches ‘Mission Shakti’ for women’s safety||Uttar Pradesh chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Saturday launched a government campaign on focusing on women’s safety, saying the Yogi Adityanath-led administration was working to ensure a secure environment for women and was open to introducing a new law, if needed.The ‘Mission Shakti’ campaign -- which will run from October 17-25 in its first phase and will involve awareness programmes -- comes in the wake of criticism against the UP government and the police for its handling of the case related to the gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras last month. Police have been accused of hurriedly cremating the woman’s body without consent, not reacting in a timely manner, raising doubts on the rape allegation and blocking the woman’s family from speaking to the media -- triggering nationwide outrage and protests.  “The government has made up its mind to be unsparing in dealing with sex offenders, molesters... a lot of things are under consideration in this regard. The government may even think of bringing a new law for this purpose, if needed at all,” Tiwari said on Saturday, adding that the 180-day statewide campaign launched on the first day of the Navratri festival was a significant step in empowering women. Tiwari said the state government would ensure that the laws related to sexual offences were implemented in letter and spirit, and that the victims got justice in a time-bound manner.“We will also ensure that medical check-up of every rape victim is necessarily done within 24 hours of the crime and FIRs are lodged in every rape case reported to the police, failing which an FIR will be lodged against the concerning police personnel for dereliction,” he said.Experts had previously pointed out the Hathras victim’s forensic report -- which was cited by the UP police to say that the sexual assault allegation could not be verified -- may not have confirmed rape as the medical samples were taken days after the alleged incident. The chief secretary also spoke of the advisory that the BJP-led central government issued to all states and Union territories on the mandatory actions to be taken in cases pertaining to crimes against women. “We will strictly follow the advisory, besides enforcing the state’s own laws to protect women from sexual crimes,” Tiwari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-criticism-over-hathras-case-up-launches-mission-shakti-for-women-s-safety/story-va2oIh4zO9baoA7T4Syn5L.html
17-10-2020||India||India ranks 94 in Hunger Index; experts blame poor implementation, siloed approach||India ranked 94 among 107 nations in the Global Hunger Index 2020 and is in the ‘serious’ hunger category with experts blaming poor implementation processes, lack of effective monitoring, siloed approach in tackling malnutrition and poor performance by large states behind the low ranking.Last year, India’s rank was 102 out of 117 countries.The neighbouring Bangladesh, Myanmar and Pakistan too are in the ‘serious’ category but ranked higher than India in this year’s hunger index. While Bangladesh ranked 75, Myanmar and Pakistan are in the 78th and 88th position.Nepal in 73rd and Sri Lanka in 64th position are in ‘moderate’ hunger category, the report showed.Seventeen nations, including China, Belarus, Ukraine, Turkey, Cuba and Kuwait, shared the top rank with GHI scores of less than five, the website of the Global Hunger Index, that tracks hunger and malnutrition, said on Friday.According to the report, 14 per cent of India’s population is undernourished.It also showed the country recorded a 37.4 per cent stunting rate among children under five and a wasting rate of 17.3 per cent. The under-five mortality rate stood at 3.7 per cent.Wasting is children who have low weight for their height, reflecting acute undernutrition. Stunting is children under the age of five who have low height for their age, reflecting chronic undernutrition.Data from 1991 through 2014 for Bangladesh, India, Nepal, and Pakistan showed that stunting is concentrated among children from households facing multiple forms of deprivation, including poor dietary diversity, low levels of maternal education, and household poverty.During this period, India experienced a decline in under-five mortality, driven largely by a decrease in deaths from birth asphyxia or trauma, neonatal infections, pneumonia, and diarrhoea, the report stated.“However, child mortality, caused by prematurity and low birth weight, increased particularly in poorer states and rural areas. Prevention of prematurity and low birthweight is identified as a key factor with the potential to reduce under-five mortality in India, through actions such as better antenatal care, education, and nutrition as well as reductions in anaemia and oral tobacco use,” it said.Experts think that poor implementation processes, lack of effective monitoring and siloed approaches to tackling malnutrition often result in poor nutrition indices.Purnima Menon, a senior research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute, New Delhi, said the performance of large states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh need to be improved to see an overall change of India’s ranking.“The national average is affected a lot by the states like UP and Bihar... the states which actually have a combination of high levels of malnutrition and they contribute a lot to the population of the country.“Every fifth child born in India is in Uttar Pradesh. So if you have a high level of malnutrition in a state that has a high population, it contributes a lot to India’s average. Obviously, then, India’s average will be slow to move,” she told PTI.Menon said big states with large population and a high burden of malnutrition are those which are actually affecting India’s average.“So, if we want a change in India then we would also need a change in Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar,” she said.Shweta Khandelwal, the head of Nutrition Research and Additional Professor at Public Health Foundation of India, said the country has one of the most impressive portfolios of programmes and policies in nutrition in the books.“However, the ground realities are quite dismal.” “Research shows that our top-down approach, poor implementation processes, lack of effective monitoring and siloed approaches in tackling malnutrition (missing convergence) often result in poor nutrition indices. We must integrate actions to make public health and nutrition a priority across each sector,” she told PTI.Khandelwal suggested five measures to prevent exacerbation of hunger because of the pandemic.“Safeguard and promote access to nutritious, safe and affordable diets; invest in improving maternal and child nutrition through pregnancy, infancy, and early childhood; re-activate and scale-up services for the early detection and treatment of child wasting; maintain the provision of nutritious and safe school meals for vulnerable children and expand social protection to safeguard access to nutritious diets and essential service,” she said.She said it is important to aim at curbing multiple forms of malnutrition holistically in a concerted manner rather than single short-sighted fixes. “Hunger and undernutrition cannot and should not be fixed by mere calorie provision. All stakeholders steered by robust leadership must pay attention to making balanced healthy diets which are climate-friendly, affordable and accessible to all,” she added.GHI score is calculated on four indicators -- undernourishment; child wasting, the share of children under the age of five who are wasted-- who have low weight for their height reflecting acute undernutrition); child stunting, children under the age of five who have low height for their age reflecting chronic undernutrition; and child mortality -- the mortality rate of children under the age of five.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-ranks-94-in-hunger-index-experts-blame-poor-implementation-siloed-approach/story-EP7DxFziMP9V0OOyhJMguI.html
17-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi says Modi govt busy ‘filling pockets of its special friends’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday attacked the Narendra Modi government, saying it is busy “filling the pockets of its special friends” and that is why the country’s poor are hungry. He was reacting to the Global Hunger Index 2020 report which has ranked India 94 among 107 countries. “India’s poor are hungry because the government is busy in filling the pockets of some of its special friends,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.  भारत का ग़रीब भूखा है क्योंकि सरकार सिर्फ़ अपने कुछ ख़ास ‘मित्रों’ की जेबें भरने में लगी है। pic.twitter.com/MMJHDo1ND6 He also put out a graph which showed India ranking lower than its neighbours including Pakistan (88), Nepal (73) and Bangladesh (75). According to the report, only 13 countries are behind India, which include Rwanda (97), Nigeria (98), Afghanistan (99), Libya (102), Mozambique (103), Chad (107).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-says-modi-govt-busy-filling-pockets-of-its-special-friends/story-HqsMDmOFwhyBFo0B0XuqWJ.html
17-10-2020||India||All-weather Zojila tunnel connects Srinagar and Leh: All you need to know||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday launched the blasting of the Zojila tunnel, which will provide for all-year connectivity between Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar valley and Ladakh’s Leh on National Highway-1 that otherwise remains closed for six months due to snowfall.Union minister for road transport, highways and MSMEs Gadkari said that the tunnel will improve socio-economic scenario in the region and during the ceremony informed that about Rs 4,000 crore was saved with the redesigning of this tunnel. “With honest efforts, we can take our country forward at lower costs,” he said.Gadkari also hinted towards the completion of the project before the tenure of the incumbent NDA government ends, i.e. before the scheduled period of six years.Here is everything you need to know about the Zojila tunnel:1. The 14.15km long tunnel will be built at an altitude of about 3000 m under Zojila pass (presently motorable only for 6 months in a year) on NH-1 connecting Srinagar and Leh through Dras & Kargil. The stretch is one of the most dangerous in the world to drive and so the project is also geo-strategically sensitive.2. While Zojila Tunnel will be 14.15m long, the approach road’s length will be 18.63km which means the entire project’s length is 32.78 km.3. Gadkari said this will be the longest tunnel of Asia and added that it will improve the socio-economic scenario in the region.4. The project will make the travel on the Srinagar-Kargil-Leh Section of NH-1 free from avalanches and enhance safety. It will also reduce the travel time from more than 3 hours to 15 minutes, the government said in a statement.5. The Kargil administration has said that the tunnel will also benefit the Indian Army. The remarks come in the backdrop of India’s standoff with China People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. Kargil district commissioner (DC) Baseer-ul-Haq Choudhary said the tunnel will add more teeth to the army’s defence operations in the strategic region. “It will be of great importance to the defence forces. This project shall bring to fruition 70 years of overwhelming public demand of Ladakh region,” he added.6. Choudhary also pointed to the importance of the tunnel from tourism point of view saying, “Ladakh being a tourist destination, the tunnel will give impetus to tourism, winter sports like ice hockey, skiing and other activities.”7. “It was a long pending demand of the people of Ladakh. It will be a strategic tunnel that will keep the region connected with the rest of India all year, not just physically, but emotionally too,” he said.8.Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone at Leh in May 2018 but work could not progress after July 2019 as IL&FS, the firm which was given the contract, ran into financial problems. The project was terminated on January 15, 2019. In February this year, Gadkari reviewed the project and approved it afresh in May and the contract was given to Megha Engineering & Infrastructure Ltd (MEIL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-weather-zojila-tunnel-connects-srinagar-and-leh-all-you-need-to-know/story-SSZL5R5tvdIyONwJktOJWO.html
17-10-2020||India||Mumbai court orders FIR against Kangana Ranaut, Rangoli Chandel for ‘offensive’ tweets||Bandra Magistrate Metropolitan Court orders registration of police complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut (in file photo) and her sister Rangoli Chandel on allegations of a complainant that they tried to create a divide between communities with social media posts.A magistrate court in Bandra has ordered an FIR to be registered against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel, based on a complaint that accused the duo of “trying to create hatred and communal tension” through their tweets. The complaint was filed by casting director and fitness trainer Munnawarali Sayyed.Also Read: Book Kangana Ranaut: Karnataka court directs police over her ‘anti-farmer’ tweet“On prima facie perusal of complaint and submissions… I found the cognizable offence has been committed by the accused. Total allegations are based upon comment on electronic media — Twitter and interviews. The accused used social media like Twitter. The thorough investigation is necessary by the expert… search and seizure is necessary in this case,” metropolitan magistrate Jaydeo Khule said in his order.In his complaint, Sayyed appealed to book the sisters under Sections 153A, 295A, 124 read with 34 of the Indian Penal Code. Sayyed also specified the tweets that he found inciting where Kangana compared Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. The complainant, who claimed to have worked with eminent film directors, said the real motive behind these tweets should be investigated. Also Read: Tanishq ‘deeply saddened’ by reactions to ad: Kangana Ranaut claims it promotes ‘love jihad’The court order comes at a time Kangana is engaged in a battle with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, which razed a portion of her Mumbai office alleging that it was illegally constructed.Following actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death on June 14, Kangana started garnering attention on social media as she raised questions over nepotism in Bollywood. Her attack veered off as she slammed the Shiv Sena government for targetting her over her PoK tweet. While the battle with Mumbai’s civic authorities is going on in the court, the Bollywood actor has been tweeting on several issues. The concept wasn’t as much a problem as the execution was,the fearful Hindu girl apologetically expressing her gratitude to her in-laws for the acceptance of her faith, Isn’t she the woman of the house? Why is she at their mercy? Why so meek and timid in her own house? Shameful. https://t.co/LDRC8HyHYI Hindus lives don’t matter, west till this date makes movies on 5-6 millions Jews genocide, so it’s not repeated, through the slavery of hundreds years do we know how many Hindus were killed? 100 times more than Jews in WW2, but no movies on Hindu genocide #parisbeheading https://t.co/SQYu2XVbpQOn Saturday, Kangana tweeted about the Paris incident where a history teacher who had shown caricatures of the Prophet was found decapitated.“A teacher is beheaded for a caricature, we can only imagine what those invaders must have done to our people during invasion, in today’s digital age with education and exposure they act like demons what they must have done to Bharat when they were Nomads?” Kangana tweeted.A Karnataka court had also ordered an FIR against Kangana over her tweet in which she had slammed the protests against the Centre’s farm laws. “People who spread misinformation and rumours about CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) that caused riots are the same people who are now spreading misinformation about Farmers bill and causing terror in the nation, they are terrorists,” she had tweeted on September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bandra-court-orders-fir-against-kangana-ranaut-rangoli-chandel-for-offensive-tweets/story-AlBO47OrjYrCwIiEHBhKWI.html
17-10-2020||India||NEET 2020 Result: How a topper is selected||Odisha’s Soyeb Aftab has scored 720 out of 720 marks to emerge as the topper of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2020 exam, the results for which were declared on Friday. Akanksha Singh, from Delhi, has also scored 720 marks but bagged All India Rank (AIR) 2 as she is younger to Soyeb.In line with the criteria for the exam, Soyeb was ranked first while Akanksha was ranked second. Age is the last on a list of factors used to break a tie -- the elder of the two candidates gets the higher rank, according to National Testing Agency’s (NTA) policy. According to officials, the tie-breaking policy takes into account factors such as age, subject-wise marks and number of incorrect answers.“Soyeb Aftab of Odisha and Akanksha Singh of Delhi have both scored perfect 720 score in the NEET examination. However, as Aftab is older, he has been ranked at the top in the national ranking,” an official said, according to news agency PTI.The official added that the ranking of the candidate is initially determined based on the scores obtained in biology and chemistry. “Following these, in cases where the candidates cannot be shortlisted using the scores obtained in the examination, candidates are further shortlisted taking into consideration the number of answers that are incorrect, following which they are then shortlisted depending on their age. The elder one gets the preference,” the official said.Tummala Snikitha from Telangana, Vineet Sharma from Rajasthan, Amrisha Khaitan from Haryana and Guthi Chaitanya Sindhu from Andhra Pradesh have scored 715 out of 720 marks. However, they have been ranked third, fourth, fifth and sixth respectively. Those ranked from 7th to 20th have scored 710 marks and those ranked from 25th to 50th have scored 705 out of 720 marks. The same tie-breaking policy has been used for deciding further ranks.The NEET exam was conducted on September 13 amid strict precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The exam was postponed twice due to the pandemic and the government decided to go ahead with it, despite opposition by a section, to mitigate any further academic loss.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neet-2020-result-how-a-topper-is-selected/story-2OM4COrTVOk9GxEQoXdSmI.html
17-10-2020||India||PM Modi to deliver keynote address at Grand Challenges Annual Meeting on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the keynote address at the inaugural function of Grand Challenges Annual Meeting on Monday evening at 7:30 pm via video conferencing.The Grand Challenges Annual Meeting, for the last 15 years, has fostered international innovation collaborations to address the biggest challenges in health and development, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a statement on Saturday.It added the Grand Challenges Annual Meeting will convene this year virtually from October 19 to 21, bringing together policymakers and science leaders.It will call for deepened scientific collaborations in solving global health problems with great emphasis on Covid-19 with an India for the World framing, the statement said.The Grand Challenges Annual Meeting 2020 will be co-hosted by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science and Technology, the Indian Council of Medical Research and NITI Aayog, along with the Grand Challenges Canada, the United States Agency for International Development and Welcome, it added.World leaders, eminent scientists and researchers from across the globe will join this annual meeting to discuss key priorities for accelerating progress across the sustainable development goals in the post-pandemic world and elaborate on addressing the challenges to manage Covid-19. Approximately, 1,600 people from 40 countries will participate in this meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-deliver-keynote-address-at-grand-challenges-annual-meeting-on-monday/story-Ah7AsKdG7GbgzhhZAdFL5H.html
17-10-2020||India||Uddhav claimed conspiracy to move Bollywood, Saamana says it’s no cakewalk||Shiv Sena on Saturday took a veiled dig at Bharatiya Janata Party and said that shifting Bollywood out of Mumbai is as not as easy as moving the proposed International Financial Service Centre (IFSC) from the financial capital. The editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana came two days after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that attempts to finish off the Hindi film industry in Mumbai or to shift it from the state capital will not be tolerated.“Attempts are made to defame and demoralise Bollywood. In a way, it is an attempt from behind the curtains to finish off Mumbai and Maharashtra’s identity. It’s not as easy as moving the International Financial Service Centre out of Mumbai. Mumbai is not only the financial capital but also the entertainment capital. The chief minister has spoken to prominent people from the industry and has assured them,” said the Saamana.Maharashtra government had planned IFSC at Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai. However, the Center gave permission for an international finance center at Dholera near Ahmedabad in Gujarat. Sena was referring to the move while alleging a conspiracy to shift or kill the Hindi film industry from Mumbai as stated first by Uddhav. “Bollywood enjoys a following across the globe. The film industry generates huge employment, while actors get popular because of the movies. However, in the past few days, attempts have been made to malign the image of the film industry by certain quarters, which is painful. Moves to finish-off the Bollywood (film industry) or shift it elsewhere will never be tolerated,” Thackeray had said on Thursday.Also Read: Delhi advocate arrested for abusive tweets against Maharashtra CM, AadityaThe Sena mouthpiece stated that the attempts to discredit the film industry started after actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in Mumbai.“Sushant Singh Rajput’s death by suicide was shocking as well as unfortunate. But the drama that followed on the small screens (TV news) was unbearable... Allegations of drug abuse was made against Bollywood, Daily lies were screamed [on channels] but no evidences were ever presented,” the article argued.Also Read: PM Modi speaks to Uddhav over Maharashtra flood, assures Centre’s supportAfter Bengaluru police raided actor Vivek Oberoi’s Mumbai home in connection to a drug probe against the actor’s brother-in-law, the Sena editorial said, “We are not saying that Vivek Oberoi, who is known to be a BJP supporter, has any connection to the drug probe but nobody can trust nowadays, who is connected to what.”The reference to Oberoi came a day after Sena’s coalition partner in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government, the Congress party, demanded that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) probed Oberoi and producer Sandeep Ssingh’s alleged link to illicit drugs trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-claimed-conspiracy-to-move-bollywood-saamana-says-it-s-no-cakewalk/story-MXxXK9W3YlKuniZQuRA8qK.html
17-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Kerala softens stand on GST issue after Centre’s decision on borrowing and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala softens stand on GST issue after Centre’s decision on borrowingThe Kerala government on Saturday deferred its high-level meeting to discuss a legal option to resolve the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess issue days after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the central government will borrow Rs 1.1 lakh crore from the market on behalf of states and pass the same as a loan to them. Read more LJP sticks to pro-Narendra Modi, anti-JD(U) stance in 2nd list despite BJP snubLok Janshakti Party (LJP) continued to provide a platform to candidates left out by the BJP by accommodating them in the party’s second list of 53 candidates released Friday, though this time it has banked heavily on its own cadre. Read more Harris slams Republicans for rushing Barrett’s nomination instead of helping Covid-19 struck USDemocrat vice-presidential nominee Kamala Harris criticised Republican leaders on Friday for channelling their resources to nominating Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court instead of helping people in their states facing the coronavirus pandemic and not addressing the economic downturn in the country. Read more Islamophobia sees an alarming rise in France as 73 mosques and Islamic schools shut downThe rising intolerance despite Covid-19 pandemic grips France which witnessed an alarming spike in Islamophobia since January 2020 and shut down 73 mosques and private Islamic schools. Read more IPL 2020, RR vs RCB Preview: Time for overseas stars to hold fort for struggling Royals against Kohli’s well-oiled unitWith the wickets slowing down massively, AB de Villiers will be crucial as he can get quick runs on any surface and it is essential for RCB to ensure he gets as much time in the middle as possible. Chris Morris’ hitting power was evident in the last over against KXIP and Kohli would do well to get Morris in at number 5 ahead of the Indian lower order players. Read more NASA tweets that Moon is Earth’s ‘protective BFF’. Here’s whyNASA has got quite the fan following on Twitter and often the posts shared by the space agency create a buzz among people. Their latest post is no different. In this tweet NASA explained why Moon is Earth’s BFF and always had the Blue Planet’s back. Read more From Sushmita discussing affair with Vikram Bhatt to Aishwarya admitting SRK had her removed from films, the top scoops Simi Garewal extractedSimi Garewal hasn’t acted in a movie in many years, but in her own words, her talk show -- Rendezvous with Simi Garewal -- over the course of nearly 150 episodes, gave her career a new lease of life. Read more Navratri 2020: Devotees visit temples, UP CM Yogi Adityanath offers prayersThe nine-day long Navratri festival has begun. UP CM Yogi Adityanath offered prayers at Devi Patan temple on the first day of Navratri. In Kanpur, devotees offered their prayers at the city’s Vaibhav Lakshmi and Durga temple. Priests performed ‘aarti’ donning masks at Jhandewalan Temple in Delhi. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-kerala-softens-stand-on-gst-issue-after-centre-s-decision-on-borrowing-and-all-the-latest-news/story-OEZSBwjenjxjDTzdOVFgdP.html
17-10-2020||India||Udit Raj deletes then restores Kumbh tweet, told to apologise to Dalits||The chairperson of Scheduled Caste Finance and Development Corporation in Uttar Pradesh, Lalji Nirmal, has asked Congress national spokesperson Udit Raj to apologise to Dalits over the latter’s comments questioning state support and funding to 2019 Kumbh Mela.By criticising the religious event, Nirmal claimed, the Congress leader had hurt the faith of Dalits.Udit Raj in a tweet on Thursday had questioned government’s spending on Kumbh Mela inviting a counter attack from the BJP. Raj deleted the tweet later on Thursday but restored it on Friday. In the Friday tweet Udit Raj wrote: “I am restoring my tweet & ready to debate. INC wasn’t tagged & it was my personal (comment).”The restored tweet says: “No religious teachings and rituals to be funded by the government. The state doesn’t have its religion. The UP government spent Rs 4200 crore in organising the Kumbh Mela in Allahabad and that too was wrong.”After questioning the government expenditure and participation in Kumbh, Udit Raj tweeted to say that Bhim Rao Ambedkar was against the mixing of politics and religion.Also Read: Top Hindu body upset with Uddhav govt, also has advice for Udit RajIn response, Lalji Nirmal, however, didn’t spare Congress either and claimed that Udit Raj’s statement reflected Congress’ policies and its negative mindset about Hindu religion and culture.“Mahakumbh (that was organised under the Yogi government in 2019) was historic. In that Mahakumbh, a Dalit seer was bestowed with ‘Mahamandaleshwar’ title and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had honoured Dalit sanitation workers by washing their feet,” Nirmal said.Also Read: Mahakumbh 2021: Coin pickers of Ganga to be deployed as lifeguardsNirmal further added that Udit Raj had done little for Dalits except for politics in their name to get a ticket. He claimed that Raj would have never made it to Lok Sabha had the BJP not given him a ticket once. When the party did not give him a ticket the second time, he went to the Congress, Nirmal stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/udit-raj-deletes-then-restores-kumbh-tweet-told-to-apologise-to-dalits/story-8zvx2UYaLX4yKuKYpjfUGK.html
17-10-2020||India||Venkaiah Naidu calls for building equitable society on International Day for Eradication of Poverty||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday called for building a more equitable society on International Day for the Eradication of Poverty. The theme for the Day this year addresses the challenge of achieving social and environmental justice for all, according to the United Nations.  “Today, let us strive together for the uplift of the downtrodden & build a more equitable society. We need to address the root cause of poverty in all its dimensions, be it economic, social, legal or environmental,” the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/venkaiah-naidu-calls-for-building-equitable-society-on-international-day-for-eradication-of-poverty/story-o3OxStQAmwnm5iINjgZz9J.html
17-10-2020||India||Bengal gears to host Ganga-Sagar Mela amid Covid-19 pandemic||Several safety arrangements are being made to host the Ganga-Sagar Mela amid the COVID-19 pandemic, besides the authorities are also planning to send the holy water to the devotees by post and live-stream the rituals, a senior official said on Saturday.Every year on Makar Sankranti, lakhs of Hindus flock the Sagar Island in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district to take the holy dip and offer prayers at the Kapil Muni temple.This January, around 50 lakh people visited the mela, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic the authorities expect the number of devotees to go down drastically, said P Ulaganathan, the district magistrate of South 24 Parganas.The administration has decided to live-stream the rituals on Facebook, Twitter and Youtube so that the devotees can witness them from home, he said.Also, the devotees can get the holy water delivered to their homes if they book in advance, he said.Several arrangements are also being made for those who will visit the mela, Ulaganathan said.Covid safety protocols will be put in place, he said.Thermal scanners will be put up in railway stations, bus stands and ferry ghats to check the temperature of devotees on arrival, he said.They will also have to undergo sanitisation, he said, adding that masks will be distributed among the devotees.Different NGOs and organisations will be roped in for assisting the district administration, he said.In addition to the existing Covid hospitals, planning is underway for setting up a designated facility in Kakdwip or Sagar Island, the official said.Also, quarantine centres, safe homes and testing facilities will be set up, he said.Dedicated ambulances will also be deployed for dealing with Covid cases, Ulaganathan said.The number of buses, vessels, barges will be increased to ensure social distancing, he said.Devotees from different parts of the country, and neighbouring Bangladesh and Nepal, visit the Sagar Island to take holy dip at the confluence of the sacred Ganga and the Bay of Bengal on the occasion of Makar Sankranti.Makar Sankranti marks the end of the month with the winter solstice and the start of longer days.It is known by various names in different parts of the country and in West Bengal it is celebrated as Poush Sankranti, after the Bengali month Poush.Hindus believe that taking dip at the Ganga-Sagar, the confluence of the sacred river and the sea, will help one achieve “moksha” or salvation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-gears-to-host-ganga-sagar-mela-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-MNk3qoeXwTIejUE4RpIYuL.html
17-10-2020||India||For first time in 1.5 months, India’s active Covid-19 cases below 8 lakh: Govt||India’s active cases of the coronavirus disease dropped below the 8,00,000-mark for the first time in one and a half months, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Saturday.Saying that the nation has crossed a significant milestone, the ministry pointed out that the active caseload was only 10.70% of total positive cases.“India crosses a Significant Milestone. Active caseload below 8 lakh for the first time after 1.5 months. Active caseload only 10.70% of Total Positive Cases,” the ministry said in a tweet and shared data reflecting the decline curve of active cases. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here On September 1, there were 785,996 cases in the country and were on the rise from then till September 18 when the active caseload stood at 1,017,754. Post this, the figures started to drop gradually and remained below nine lakh after September 28. On Saturday, the number of active cases finally came down to 795,087. The government also brought to light the steady rise in the number of recoveries from the viral infection. Currently, 6,524,595 people have recovered either in home isolation or have been discharged from Covid-19-designated hospitals. The recovery rate is now at 87.78%. Also Read: 4 states that are defying dip in India’s Covid-19 cases“There has been a consistent growth in the %Recovered Cases combined with a steady decline in %Active Cases, leading to falling number of Active Cases in the country,” the ministry tweeted. Earlier in the day, it said, “This significant achievement is the outcome of Centre-led targetted strategies leading to high number of RECOVERIES and steadily falling number of FATALITIES.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-first-time-in-1-5-months-india-s-active-covid-19-cases-below-8-lakh-govt/story-KwoWRoQQVu4JC3K8XRzv2J.html
17-10-2020||India||China turns Indian proposal on its head, wants de-escalation first and then disengagement||The India-China military and diplomatic talks over resolving the Ladakh stand-off remain confidential, but HT learns that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has turned the dis-engagement, then de-escalation formulation on its head by proposing that tanks and artillery support should be mutually withdrawn first so that vertical escalation is averted in case of an accident.The Indian position on the other hand is that there should be comprehensive disengagement of troops through a phased withdrawal, a verification process, and then a de-escalation. The disengagement, New Delhi has maintained, should involve troops going back to their pre-April 2020 positions along the 1597 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. Once this happens, de-escalation can follow. Experts say that in pure military terms, thinning out of artillery and tank support from the friction points does not work in favour of the Indian Army as the PLA has built roads right up to Beijing’s perception of LAC and has the capacity and capability to deploy much faster than Indian armour.According to senior officials, the Indian Army will have to remain deployed in the heights of East Ladakh through the winter, till the PLA decides in favour of disengagement and restoring status quo ante. “ The Indian Army has been trained in high altitude deployments and will be on guard till the situation is mutually resolved. The Indian position is comfortable and well-defended,” a senior official said on condition of anonymity. While the PLA has come up to its perception of the LAC on the north banks of Pangong Tso and Gogra-Hot Springs, the Indian Army has come up to its perception of the LAC on the south bank of the high altitude salt lake with troops sitting on the Rezang La-Rechin La ridgeline.India’s national security planners are debating how the tense situation will play out in the future. One school of thought is that the PLA will try and placate India though talks till the November 3 US presidential election but then increase hostilities all along the 3488 km LAC if President Trump does not return to White House. Essentially this means that right now, China is focused on US moves vis-a-vis Taiwan and will focus on India after the result in the US Presidential elections.The other school of thought among is that the PLA aggression on LAC has nothing to do with the US Presidential elections as the friction started in Galwan-Gogra-Hot Springs in April, when the American elections were not even on the horizon. People believe that the PLA move on LAC is aimed at restoring the November 7, 1959 line and punishing India for publishing the Ladakh map on November 2, 2019. The aggression has partly to do with the internal situation in China with the spread of coronavirus from Wuhan, the resulting impact on the economy, and the ensuing political ferment. While China’s internal political situation is expected to ease rather than exacerbate, the pressure on LAC will continue for time to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-turns-indian-proposal-on-its-head-wants-de-escalation-first-and-then-disengagement/story-QfovDFhWPRjDKvGw5eyHQI.html
17-10-2020||India||Kerala softens stand on GST issue after Centre’s decision on borrowing||The Kerala government on Saturday cancelled its high-level meeting to discuss a legal option to resolve the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess issue, days after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the central government will borrow Rs 1.1 lakh crore from the market on behalf of states and pass the same as a loan to them. The move indicates that the Kerala government -- one of the seven dissenting states that had objected to the Centre’s previous borrowing options for meeting the GST shortfall and had threatened to approach the Supreme Court over the matter -- is softening its stand on the issue. HT reported on Saturday that with the Centre agreeing to borrow Rs 1.1 lakh crore from a special window of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and on-lend it to the states, some of the seven states that disagreed to the initial plan might now sign on. The Union government’s move, announced on Saturday, was expected to allay the primary concern of paying higher interest costs if states had to individually approach the market.“Kerala’s CM puts away scheduled high level meeting to discuss approaching SC [Supreme Court] on GST issue, in the light of new initiative by Union FM. Having amicably settled question of who should borrow, we hope she will address question of how much to borrow through dialogue with state FMs,” Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac said in a tweet on Saturday.A Union finance ministry official said the Centre and the GST Council, the apex federal body for the indirect tax, are open for discussions. “Members can raise any issue in the Council that would be discussed. But, stopping willing states from borrowing was not possible under Article 293,” the official said requesting anonymity.On August 27, the Centre had given states the choice of borrowing Rs 97,000 crore (the shortfall resulting from GST implementation issues) without having to pay principal or interest or the entire estimated Rs 2.35 lakh crore revenue deficit from the indirect tax (including that arising from the Covid-19 pandemic) projected for this fiscal year. The Rs 97,000 crore amount was subsequently raised to Rs 1.1 lakh crore on October 5. Some states objected and insisted the borrowing would have to be done by the Centre. While 10 states originally opposed the plan, this number came down to seven by Wednesday, with some saying they would consider legal options. The seven dissenting states were: Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana and West Bengal. Puducherry had earlier indicated its preference for the borrowing option, but the Department of Expenditure is yet to receive a formal communication, the official said.The official said all states would eventually agree as there is “no dispute” and the GST council is committed to resolve “all differences”.“Borrowing of Rs 1.1 lakh crore is in progress, which will help cash-strapped states. Meanwhile, GST collection is expected to improve in coming months. It will not only reduce the revenue shortfall, but also increase compensation cess collection. A review of financial position in the Council after the third quarter [December] could see significant reduction in the need for further borrowing. This is a dynamic situation and will be reviewed,” the official said. HT reported it on Saturday.The GST Council is a federal body, chaired by the Union finance minister, and whose members include the finance ministers of states.This is the body that decides tax rates and other issues related to GST. Until the recent controversy, all its decisions had been arrived on the basis of a consensus.The Centre’s decision on Thursday followed by Sitharaman’s letter to states softened the stand of some dissenting states on the issue of compensation cess, a state government official said requesting anonymity.Sitharaman on Thursday wrote to the states, saying: “I am also sensitive to the fact that States need to be protected from the adverse consequences of higher borrowing in the form of interest liability and addition to debt. Under Option-I the Union Government will arrange the borrowing in such a manner that the cost will be at, or close to, interest rate of the Union Government.”The finance minister’s letter said the Central government faces “very serious” budgetary constraints. “Long-term macroeconomic stability is the responsibility of the Centre; but it is also in the interest of the States who are partners in our system of cooperative federalism. The bona fide opinion of the Central government on this macroeconomic issue is that borrowing on the books of Centre will not be optimal in the national interest,” Sitharaman wrote.Commenting on the single window borrowing mechanism announced on Thursday, she said, “We have now worked out some key aspects of the special window. Based on suggestions of many States, it has now been decided that the Central government will initially receive the amount, and then pass it on back-to-back to the States as loan. This will enable ease of coordination and simplicity in borrowing, apart from ensuring a favourable interest rate.” She assured state governments that the entire arrears of compensation will “eventually” be paid to states. She thanked states for their “collaborative” approach that resulted in a “constructive and practical solution” to this issue of compensation cess.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-softens-stand-on-gst-issue-after-centre-s-decision-on-borrowing/story-ldgPmjrkUP6BLMIbNQ6UhP.html
17-10-2020||India||73 years since Operation Gulmarg, Pak continues its attempt to seize J-K: Report||The darkest day in the history of Jammu and Kashmir was the intervening night of October 21-22, 1947, when Operation Gulmarg was launched in a bid to seize and destroy the territory, and 73 years have gone by, but Pakistan’s template has remained the same, according to a European think tank.European Foundation for South Asian Studies (EFSAS), in a commentary, recalled the horrors of the tribal invasion that left between 35,000 and 40,000 dead, besides, a grim mark on the fate of J-K. “The day marked the first and most critical step in the erosion of the Kashmiri identity with the state and its people being torn apart by an UN-drawn LoC (Line of Control) that divides the erstwhile princely state and its inhabitants,” EFSAS said.According to the think tank, the Operation Gulmarg had been conceived as early as August 1947 under the command of Major General Akbar Khan (who recently spoke about this in a book).Washington DC-based political and strategic analyst Shuja Nawaz has listed 22 Pashtun tribes that were involved in the invasion.Besides General Khan, the other prominent person who planned and led the operation was Sardar Shaukat Hayat Khan, a close aid of Pakistan’s founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah.Shaukat, later in a book, The Nation that Lost its Soul, accepted that he had been appointed supervisor of the Kashmir operation, adding that Rs 300,000 were given from the Pakistani treasury by then finance minister Ghulam Muhammad for this operation.“Major General Akbar Khan fixed October 22, 1947, as the date on which the attack on J-K would be launched. All lashkars were asked to converge at Abbottabad near the border with J-K by October 18. They were moved in civilian buses and trucks that had been commandeered for this purpose... under the cover of night,” the EFSAS said.According to the European think-tank, “Pakistan has perpetuated the myth that the tribal raiders were liberators and came to Kashmir to fulfill their religious obligation of jihad because Muslims were being killed in Jammu in communal riots. However, the reality was that it was not as if Muslims had been spared (by them).”The intruders massacred about 11,000 residents of Baramulla on October 26, 1947, alone, and destroyed the Mohra power station that supplied electricity to Srinagar.Sheikh Abdullah, the first Prime Minister of J-K, described the invasion at the UN in 1948, saying: “The raiders came to our land, massacred thousands of people -- mostly Hindus and Sikhs, but Muslims, too -- abducted thousands of girls, Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims alike, looted our property and almost reached the gates of our summer capital, Srinagar”.As a result of the trampling of lives running in thousands, Maharaja Hari Singh appealed to India in a letter dated October 26, 1947, “With the conditions obtaining at present in my state and to the great emergency of the situation as it exists, I have no option but to ask for help from the Indian Dominion. Naturally, they cannot send the help asked for without my state acceding to the Domination of India. I have accordingly decided to do so and I attach the Instrument of Accession for acceptance by your government.”“The other alternative is to leave my state and my people to diabolical killers and beasts. On the basis of this, no civilised government can exist or be maintained. The alternative I will never allow to happen as long as I am the ruler of the state and I have a life to defend my country”.In conclusion, the EFSAS called out those who tend to go for the Pakistani propaganda and its concern about the welfare of the Muslims in J-K: “They must not forget the policy adopted by Islamabad in October 1947, attempting to grab the territory by force, which dealt the greatest blow possible to the existence of J-K.”“The planners and perpetrators of the tribal invasion were, and remain, without doubt the foremost enemies of the Kashmiri people. The day the invasion began on October 22, 1947, has to be the darkest day in the history of the J-K,” the European think tank said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/73-years-since-operation-gulmarg-pak-continues-its-attempt-to-seize-j-k-report/story-OqAm2ekqYeNAkcvNvEDWfN.html
17-10-2020||India||Dasara festivities begin in Mysuru amid Covid-19 shadow||The famous 10-day long Dasara festivities commenced in this palace city on Saturday with religious fervour, amid the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic.Celebrated as ‘Nada Habba’ (state festival), the festivities began with Dr C N Manjunath, Director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, Bengaluru and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa showering flowers on the idol of goddess Chamundeshwari, the presiding deity of Mysuru royals, atop Chamundi Hill.Dr Manjunath, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19 testing was chosen for Dasara inauguration, in recognition of the service of doctors and front line Covid-19 warriors.Six coronavirus warriors were also honoured at the inaugural to recognise their service in the fight against the pandemic.With Covid-19 pandemic casting shadow, the government had decided to organise the 410th Dasara festivities in a “simple” way, by and large restricting it to keep up with the traditions.The 10 day event that every year showcases Karnataka’s cultural heritage resplendent with folk art forms, and attracts large crowds and tourists, has been scaled down this time due to Covid-19.The Mysuru administration has restricted people at most of the events and has arranged for live telecasts.With Mysuru having a large number of cases, the focus is on strict enforcement of SOPs for controlling the spread of virus and to mark safe Dasara.‘Jumbo Sawari’ or procession of well decorated elephants carrying the idol of Goddess Chamundeshwari placed in a golden Howdah on Vijayadashmi or the 10th day of the festival, which marks the culmination of celebrations on October 26, has been restricted to the palace premises.At the palace too, the royal family has decided to hold the celebrations in the simple way with select gathering, due to Covid-19 pandemic.The Navaratri celebrations at the palace include several rituals, most remarkably Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, the scion of Mysuru royal family, dressed in grand attire, conducting Khasagi durbar (private durbar) by ascending the golden throne, amid chanting vedic hymns.The royal palace and several parts of Mysuru city will be illuminated with thousands of bulbs glowing during the evenings, all through the festival.Dasara was celebrated by the rulers of the Vijayanagar empire and the tradition was inherited by the Wadiyars.Festivities were first started in Mysuru by the Wadiyar King, Raja Wadiyar I in the year 1610.However, with the abolition of the institution of the kings and the announcement of privy purse, the state government took over the mantle of celebrating Dasara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dasara-festivities-begin-in-mysuru-amid-covid-19-shadow/story-YXOnmPYlTMMsLuinyacwBP.html
17-10-2020||India||Kerala’s Sabarimala temple reopens: Covid-19 negative proof, online booking must for entry||The Sabarimala temple in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district opened to devotees early on Saturday after nearly seven months due to the coronavirus pandemic as worshippers wore masks and carried certificate that showed they did not have Covid-19. The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), which runs the hill shrine dedicated to Lord Ayyappa, opened the temple on Friday for a five-day monthly pooja.The temple, one of the richest in the country, was closed for devotees on March 18, days before the first national lockdown was enforced. There were plans to reopen in June but many organisations and tantri (chief priest) of the temple were against it.The temple trust has said it will allow pilgrims to offer prayers from Saturday, the first day of Malayalam month of Thulam, till October 21. As many as 246 devotees, only 250 people will be allowed inside the temple in a day, have booked through the virtual queue system for darshan on Saturday. TDB has said all pilgrims will have to carry Covid-19 negative certificates obtained just 48 hours before reaching Pambha.Devotees can forego masks while trekking with experts warning that masks cause breathing problems for pilgrims scaling heights. Pilgrims below 10 and above 60 years of age are still not allowed on the trek and will have to wait for the Covid-19 situation to improve, said the TDB. The pilgrims will not be allowed to stay at Sannidhanam, Nilackkal or Pamba due to the pandemic.Special showers have been set up as customary bathing at Pamba river will not be allowed this time. Devotees will be allowed to enter through the Vadasserikara and Erumeli routes and all other forest routes will be sealed, TDB has said.The shrine will be closed after ‘Hari Varasanam’ rendition on October 21. Devotees from five south Indian states throng the temple and 500,000-800,000 visit the shrine on a day during peak season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-sabarimala-temple-reopens-covid-19-negative-proof-online-booking-must-for-entry/story-eeUDbKq6zYSaz62ldJWKVJ.html
17-10-2020||India||Grand Alliance releases manifesto for Bihar election; focus on employment, farm laws||The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)-led Grand Alliance (GA) on Saturday released its joint manifesto — titled ‘Badlav Ka Sankalp’ (commitment to change) — for the upcoming assembly elections in the state, promising to offer jobs to thousands of youngsters and repealing the new farm laws recently enacted by the central government if they are elected to power. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, at the press conference on Saturday, launched a campaign of party nominees in the fray for the first phase of polling on October 28. As many as 71 seats out of 243 are going to the polls in the first phase. Releasing the manifesto in the presence of All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala and other GA leaders, Tejashwi said that their government, if elected, would first approve the process for appointments on about 1000,000 jobs in the government. “Contractual teachers would be entitled for same pay for same work, for which they have been agitating for long,” said Yadav, who is the alliance’s chief ministerial candidate. Assuring the people that the alliance will stand by its commitments, Tejashwi said that they were not leaders who conveniently forget their promises and that the state has still not been accorded a special status -- a demand echoed for years by political parties in Bihar. “Trump will not come to accord special status to Bihar, which was once promised by the Prime Minister,” said Yadav, in an apparent reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ties with US President Donald Trump. Congress leader Surjewala too said that the first assembly sitting of the GA government would see annulment of the three controversial farm acts that, he alleged, defeat the objectives of green revolution in the state. “Where would the farmers get the minimum support price (MSP) of their produce if there is a market,” the Congress leader questions, saying that the people of Bihar might forgive everything but not betrayal. “If we form the government, under the leadership of Tejashwi Yadav, we will pass a Bill in the first Vidhan Sabha session to scrap the three anti-farm laws. Can PM Modi and Nitish tell us that if all mandis are destroyed then how will the farmers get MSP,” Surjewala asked. The Centre last month enacted three farm reforms to liberalise agricultural markets and end local monopolies of regulated markets known as agricultural produce marketing committees by opening up to private competition. Assurances by the Centre that the new measures give farmers the options to sell their produce to private buyers while the government would continue to purchase staples at MSPs have done little to dissipate concerns. Big farmers’ groups, who usually produce substantial surpluses, fear deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses. Focusing on crimes against women and children in the state, the GA leaders said many perpetrators of gang rape against minors at Muzaffarpur shelter home were still at large. Waiver of fee for competitive examination for jobs and helpline for migrant workers have also been promised in the manifesto. Countering charges of “inexperience”, Yadav said that the vision for development did not necessarily come with age. “As the deputy CM, we have laid the foundation of development with great vision. I ,as a minister of road construction department, proposed development of dedicated expressway to connect the Bihta airport. Many state highways were converted as the national highways (NHs),” said the RJD leader who was the deputy CM before JD(U) left the Mahagathbandhan grouping. Yadav further alleged that more than 60 scams have taken place under chief minister Nitish Kumar’s government in Bihar and that the Janata Dal (United)-BJP combine had stabbed the state’s people on their backs. Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha, chairman of BPCC campaign committee Akhilesh Prasad Yadav, national RJD spokesperson Manoj Jha and CPI(ML) leader Shashi Yadav were also present during the release of manifesto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grand-alliance-releases-manifesto-for-bihar-elections-focus-on-employment-farm-laws/story-ZfmcOecnHmLfeFQX54ZFvM.html
17-10-2020||India||UP: Five, including brother of main accused, held for firing at Ballia meeting||Five people have been arrested in connection with a 46-year-old man’s killing at a meeting for the allocation of two fair price shops in Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia district on Thursday. The killing triggered outrage as it allegedly took place in the presence of top district and police officers.Additional director general of police, Brij Bhushan, said Narendra Pratap Singh, the brother of the main accused, Dheerendra Pratap Singh, is among the five arrested on Friday.Jaiprakash Pal was shot dead after officials decided to cancel the meeting because of a dispute.Dheerendra Pratap Singh, who is on the run, is the Ballia unit president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Sainik Prakosht (servicemen’s cell), according to BJP lawmaker Surendra Singh, who represents Bairia constituency in Ballia. The lawmaker described the incident as “a casualty” and said the law will take its own course.The two brothers have been named in the First Information Report (FIR) filed in the case. A police officer said raids were being conducted to arrest the accused, which include 22 unnamed people.Tej Pratap Pal, the brother of the 46-year-old, on Friday said there were 10 policemen on the spot, who were saving the culprits and beating them. “When Dheerendra Pratap Singh was fleeing after firing, the police caught him... But they later took him to a nearby embankment and let him go,” news agency Press Trust of India quoted him as saying.Ballia district magistrate Hari Pratap Shahi said the process of cancellation of arms licences of the accused was underway.Additional police superintendent Sanjay Kumar Singh said nine police personnel have been suspended for inaction in the case.Police said the meeting was held for the allocation of two fair price shops at Durjanpur and Hanumanganj villages. Two women self-help groups, Maa Shayar Jagdamba and Shivshakti Sahayata Samuh, had applied for the right to operate the shops. At the meeting, it was decided that voting will be held to determine the allocation of the shops.Police said officials arranged for only people with Aadhaar or other valid identity cards to participate in the voting. The meeting turned chaotic as even those without the ID cards insisted on voting. The meeting was then cancelled. Police said both the parties shouted slogans against the administration and one person opened fire in which the 46-year-old was killed.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-five-including-brother-of-main-accused-held-for-firing-at-ballia-meeting/story-9LZLKLLIuthIQpP7u1nxhJ.html
17-10-2020||India||Nine killed, 32 injured in bus-SUV collision in Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit||At least nine people were killed and 32 others injured when a bus they were travelling on collided with an SUV at Puranpur in Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit district on Saturday.Pilibhit police superintendent Jai Prakash said the bus was on its way to Puranpur from Lucknow. “The bus rolled down the road into a nearby field after the collision. A total of 50 passengers were in both the vehicles ...” he said. “In the early morning accident, nine persons were killed, while around 32 were injured.” The six of those killed were identified as Shakeel, 28, Gayadeen, 45, Kalavati, 40, Mohan Bahadur, 45, Deepa Vishvas, 50 and Shyam, 12. Prakash said the identity of three others was yet to be ascertained.Prakash said the accident seems to have occurred due to the bus driver’s negligence. “Some of the passengers of the bus have informed us that the bus driver failed to see the SUV and collided with it. The matter will be probed and action will be taken against the guilty,” said Prakash, who visited the injured in the hospitals they have been admitted to.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath offered his condolences to the families of those killed in the accident and directed officials to ensure proper treatment of the injured. He announced Rs 5 lakh compensation each for the families of those killed in the accident. Police said the accident happened near a blind turn around 4 am and a team was rushed to the scene within minutes for rescue operations. The injured were rushed to hospitals in Pilibhit and nearby Bareilly district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-killed-30-injured-in-bus-suv-collision-in-uttar-pradesh-s-pilibhit/story-JxJRL6YCffwhkxGjgfb2FK.html
17-10-2020||India||With 62,212 Covid-19 cases and 837 deaths, India’s tally surges past 7.4 million||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) stood at 7.4 million on Saturday after 62,212 fresh infections were reported from across the country in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed. Deaths from Covid-19 infections rose by 837 to 112,998, the health ministry said.There were 70,816 patients of the coronavirus disease who were cured between Friday and Saturday, taking the number of recoveries in the second worst-hit country to 6,524,595, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am. The national recovery rate is now 87.78%The health ministry has said that India continues to report one of the lowest deaths per million population which was 81 on Friday. It sad that there have less than 1,100 deaths since October 2. “These results are boosted by 22 States/UTs which had demonstrated better performance and are reporting even lower deaths per million compared to the national average. The case fatality rate has been on the downslide continuously. At the current figure of 1.52%, it is the lowest since 22nd March 2020,” it said in a statement on Friday.Also read: India’s daily coronavirus cases reflect slight rise but remain below 70,000-markIt also said that there has been a sharp focus of the Centre on not only containing the spread of the coronavirus disease, “but to reduce deaths and to save lives by providing quality clinical care to the critical and severe patients of COVID”.“Collaborative efforts of the Union and State/UT governments have resulted in the strengthening of the health facilities across the country. 2212 Dedicated COVID Hospitals are providing quality medical care. The Central Government has also issued the Standard of Care guidelines incorporated in the Clinical Treatment Protocol which has ensured the standardized quality of medical care for all COVID patients in the government and private settings,” it added.Also read | 4 states that are defying dip in India’s Covid-19 casesThere are 795,087 active cases in the last 25 hours, the health ministry’s dashboard also showed, as the gap between recovered and active cases has crossed 5,729,508. The recovered cases are eight times more than the active case now, which the ministry has said are “sliding continuously”.On Friday, 78% of the recovered cases were concentrated in 10 states and Union territories with Maharashtra alone contributing the maximum with more than 13,000 single day recovery. And, 79% of the new cases were from 10 states and Union territories on Friday. Maharashtra continued to be the state reporting a very high number of new cases with more than 10,000 cases followed by Karnataka with more than 8,000 cases.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayOf the 895 deaths on Friday, nearly 82% are concentrated in 10 states and Union territories of Maharashtra, Karnataka, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Odisha and Delhi, the health ministry said. More than 37% of new fatalities are reported are from Maharashtra with 337 deaths, it added.Thirteen states and Union territories are reporting deaths per million population more than the national average.India is the second worst-hit country in the world after the United States, which has 8,048,724 cases of the coronavirus disease. Globally, 39,266,777 people have contracted the viral disease and 1,103,509 have died, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s Covid-19 tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-62-212-covid-19-cases-and-837-deaths-india-s-tally-surges-past-7-4-million/story-WaQNVyvfByHvPGxzjsQ0UL.html
17-10-2020||India||India’s daily coronavirus cases reflect slight rise but remain below 70,000-mark||The cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have shown signs of decline across India in the last week as the number of fresh infections did not cross the 70,000-mark since October 12. This week, India recorded the lowest number of daily cases on October 13 with 55,342 infections, according to daily data released by the Union health ministry.A number of states across the country have shown a dip in the number of cases--Haryana, Mizoram, Nagaland, Goa and Sikkim among them. However, a few states continue to record a high number of cases and have not followed the national trend. Kerala, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have not been able to lower the number of Covid-19 cases. Even though the nation’s doubling rate of cases has increased, these few states are finding it difficult to lower the number of cases.Deaths due to Covid-19 have also remained lower this week. The highest number of deaths were recorded on October 11 and October 16 with 918 and 895 fatalities respectively. Maharashtra, West Bengal, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh have seen a spike in fatalities.Government has asked citizens to exercise caution as elections, festive season and winters pose a risk and can lead to a surge in the number of cases of the coronavirus disease. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has reiterated that people need to follow Covid-19 preventative measures to ensure that the infection does not spread.As winter sets in the United States and across Europe, several states and cities in the US have recorded spikes in cases. Germany, France and the United Kingdom have seen a rise in the number of cases as well indicating that lower temperatures could lead to the spread of infections.Authorities continued to ramp up testing throughout the last two weeks. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) told news agency PTI that 9,22,54,927 samples have been tested up to October 15 and 10,28,622 samples were tested as of October 16.India has recorded 7,370,468 Covid-19 cases and 112,161 people across the country have died due to the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-coronavirus-cases-reflect-slight-rise-but-remain-below-70-000-mark/story-cZIMsHBjnIQAb6bFemWRdJ.html
17-10-2020||India||Odisha opposition slams Naveen Patnaik govt for ‘harassing’ OTV reporter||A day after Odisha police picked up a journalist employed with Odisha Television Ltd (OTV) from near his residence in Bhubaneswar in connection with a viral video case, opposition leaders from BJP and Congress decried the action calling it a case of political vendetta. Editor’s guild of India has also condemned the police action, calling it an act of “harassment” of OTV.On Thursday, Ramesh Rath, a senior reporter with OTV in Bhubaneswar was summoned by a team of police from Keonjhar district over his alleged involvement in a 2019 case of obscene viral video allegedly involving a female BJD MP.The police team took away the journalist’s mobile phone and later went to the OTV office in the city to confiscate his workstation in connection with the investigation of the viral video case.Rath was later released and asked to report to a police station in Keonjhar district on October 21. However, a team of police from Keonjhar as well as Bhubaneswar commissionerate was deployed inside the OTV office campus since Thursday.Leader of the Opposition in the Odisha assembly and BJP leader Pradipta Naik said the action smacked of intolerance. “Media has a big role to play in a healthy democracy. However, the present trend of intolerance by the government against the media in our state was never seen before. OTV which is highlighting the loopholes of the government is being targeted. This is a blatant misuse of power by a dictatorial regime and it seems the whole machinery is against the media house for breaking stories that do not favour the government. They should have the patience to tolerate the criticism and accordingly correct its course if the media brings its drawbacks to the fore,” said Naik.Similarly, BJP MLA from Paralakhemundi, K Narayana Rao said the TV channel was being targeted at the direction of CM Naveen Patnaik. Senior Congress MLA Sura Routray also slammed the CM for harassing OTV.The editors guild of India, too, expressed its dismay over police action against OTV reporter saying it threatened as well as undermined the independent functioning of the media organisation. The case, in which the OTV reporter was picked up, dates back to April last year, when five persons including a web portal journalist were arrested over their alleged involvement in uploading an obscene video on social media platforms alleged to be that of a female BJD MP. The video had gone viral just before last year’s Lok Sabha polls. Police had registered a case under section 292-A, 354-A, 500, 509, 465, 469, 120-B, 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 66D, 67 and 67-A of Information Technology Act, 2000 and Representation of Peoples Act.The BJD MP said OTV owner Jagi Mangat Panda and her husband and BJP leader Baijayant Jay Panda had no valid reason to call police action on Rath an attack on OTV and its journalists.Also Read: Odisha’s new bill to define norms for hospitality industry “I am an unmarried lady who has been mentally harassed and tortured by OTV reporters and others who had made a morphed, obscene video of mine viral on social media with a malicious intent to defame, harass and mentally torture me. If a daughter from your family was in my place and her morphed obscene video had gone viral, would you have saved a man like OTV reporter Ramesh Rath, who had perpetuated it? As a tribal lady, my honour and dignity were defamed in public. When will I get justice,” she asked.Keonjhar SP Mitrabhanu Mohapatra said the name of OTV journalist who was picked up yesterday had come up during the investigation of the case last year. “When we examined his ex-colleague who was arrested in the cases, we got more information about the involvement of Ramesh Rath and that’s why he was picked up. We are doing the investigation as per CrPC procedures. We have filed a charge sheet in the case against those who were already arrested and kept the investigation in the case open,” said the SP.Also Read: NEET Results 2020: Odisha’s Soyeb Aftab is the topper, scores 720 out of 720OTV’s chief operating officer Litisha Mangat said the TV channel was being harassed for the last 3 months, ever since it broke the story of alleged corruption in the Odisha government’s handling of Covid funds.“Baseless allegations and FIRs are being filed. The senior journalist was picked up without any notice or warrant. We have been co-operative towards investigation but if they’re going to attack our journalists and our office without any reason, we should not be taken advantage of. We refused to let them search or ransack our office without any grounds.He refused to say anything about the viral video case stating that the law should take its own course in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-opposition-slams-naveen-patnaik-govt-for-arresting-otv-reporter/story-iYIPXpJhigq3MacepmO0TL.html
17-10-2020||India||UP BJP leader shot dead by bike-borne men, 3 detained: Police||Three people have been detained in connection with the death of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, who was shot dead by motorcycle-borne men outside his shop in Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad, police said on Saturday.DK Gupta was shot at by the unidentified men while he was leaving after closing his shop on Friday, according to news agency ANI. A police official said his family members tried to take him to Agra for treatment but the BJP leader could not be saved.“Three people, including the main accused, have been detained and are being questioned,” Ajay Anand, additional director general Agra, was quoted as saying by ANI.The detentions were made following the family naming suspects with whom Gupta had disputes.“The family members have given the name of some suspects with whom the victim had some disputes. We will conduct investigations and arrest them soon,” senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sachindra Patel had said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-bjp-leader-shot-dead-by-bike-borne-men-3-detained-police/story-wfU9L92uGENGM776PV0mhK.html
17-10-2020||India||IRCTC’s Tejas trains resume services from today. Here are the safety protocols||Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) Limited restarted the first set of “private” Tejas Express trains from Saturday, seven months after the services were suspended amid the coronavirus pandemic. IRCTC had started the Lucknow-Delhi-Lucknow Tejas Express on October 4, 2019, and the Ahmedabad-Mumbai-Ahmedabad on January 19 this year.The two Tejas Express services are the first set of trains run by a corporate entity, IRCTC, a subsidiary of the Indian Railways. The Tejas trains were suspended on March 19 and will now run from October 17. However, the third IRCTC-operated train, the Kashi Mahakal Express between Indore and Varanasi will not begin its services as of now.“On getting approval from the Ministry of Railways to again start the operation of the two popular corporate trains, IRCTC is making all-round preparations to ensure that the trains once started to match the expectation of the people in terms of levels of services and safety and health protocols amidst the ongoing pandemic,” IRCTC said in a statement.Here are the safety protocols being followed:1. According to the state-run company, every alternate seat on the two trains will be kept vacant to ensure social distancing.2. Passengers will be thermally screened before entering the coach and will not be allowed to exchange their seats.3. It also said passengers will be provided with a “Covid-19 protection kit” with a bottle of hand sanitiser, one mask, one face shield and a pair of gloves.4. Coaches, including the pantry areas and lavatories, will be disinfected at regular intervals. The luggage and baggage of the passengers will also be disinfected.5. “Use of face covers/masks will be mandatory for passengers and staff. 6. All travellers will have to install the Aarogya Setu contact tracing app and will have to show it as and when demanded. 7. Detailed instructions were also given to the passengers at the time of booking of tickets, IRCTC has said.8. IRCTC said it has conducted an extensive training programme to educate and train its team of employees of Tejas trains to manage the operations of the trains and provide services amid the coronavirus pandemic and to follow the standard operating procedures to ensure passengers’ safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-s-tejas-trains-resume-services-from-here-are-the-safety-protocols/story-2iSsZZXYSDb8kpYO8erW9J.html
17-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Despite assurances farm fires increase unabatedly in Punjab, Haryana and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farm fires increase in Punjab, Haryana despite assurancesThis year, the stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana has gone unabated primarily because of the reluctance of the local administration to act against offenders due to ongoing farmer protests in the two states. Read more here.Happy Navratri 2020: History and significance of the 9 days of celebration of the Hindu festival Navaratri, also called Sharada Navarati or Navrata, is a major Hindu festival that is celebrated by Hindus around the world and in India over a span of nine nights post monsoon autumn. Read more here. IPL 2020, MI vs KKR: MI regain top spot with clinical win over KKRMumbai Indians regained the top spot on the points table as they defeated Kolkata Knight Riders by 8 wickets. KKR won the toss and elected to bat first. Watch. IPL 2020, DC vs CSK: ‘He is like baby Sehwag,’ Graeme Swann’s huge praise for Delhi Capitals batsmanSpeaking in an episode of Star Sports’ Cricket Connected, Prithvi Shaw received a massive compliment from former England spinner Graeme Swann, who compared the young opener with India legend Virender Sehwag. Read more here. Brother uses sister’s shampoo thinking it’s body wash. Tweeple can’t help share similar experiencesHave you ever met someone who finds it too confusing to figure out which bottle contain what and the purpose it’s used for? Read more here. NEET results 2020: Four students from Maharashtra make it to top 50This year, four students from Maharashtra made it to the top 50 rank. 18-year-old Ashish Zantye from Malwan in Sindhudurg district became the state topper this year with his 710 out of 720 score. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-despite-assurances-farm-fires-increase-unabatedly-in-punjab-haryana-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qWDEQn888hBo76j4i5TiZL.html
17-10-2020||India||Terrorist killed in encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag||A terrorist was killed in a gunfight with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag on Saturday, police said.The forces recovered an AK-47 from him during the joint operation in the Larnoo area of the district. More details are awaited.On Wednesday, two unidentified terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in Shopian district of the Union territory. Security forces had launched a search operation in the district’s Chakura area based on inputs about the presence of terrorists there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-anantnag/story-onCTSuRys6gQX8oYK0S0IM.html
17-10-2020||India||NSG trained 21 men protecting Sri Lankan PM; he wrote to PM Modi with praise||India’s elite commando force National Security Guard (NSG) has trained a select group of personnel who protect the Sri Lankan Prime Minister, NSG chief S S Deswal said on Friday. Speaking at the 36th raising day function of the NSG, Deswal, who is currently holding additional charge of the force, also said that the elite force has most modern weapons and equipment to distinguish itself as a world class zero-error force. “The NSG close protection force has trained 21 personnel of Sri Lanka’s PM security division in close protection skills. The honourable Prime Minister of Sri Lanka wrote to the honourable Indian PM and praised the training,” Deswal said. Deswal, however, didn’t go into the specifics as to when these Sri Lankan personnel were trained by the NSG. Popularly known as ‘black cat’ commandos, NSG was raised as a federal contingency force in 1984 to undertake specialist counter-terrorist, counter-hijack and hostage rescue operations. It has a special component called the CPF (close protection force) that provides security to high-risk VIPs under the top category Z+ cover including defence minister Rajnath Singh, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah. Also Read: Drones being used to drop arms, drugs from across international border: NSG DGDeswal said the CPF, during the Covid-19 outbreak, provided security to its VIPs in about 4,000 events held in various states. “The force has enhanced its mobility, training, weaponry and equipment by many times as terrorism is a complex and global problem in this century and the tactics of terrorists were changing and terror groups were possessing modern weapons. We are determined to adopt modern technology and specialisation,” Deswal said. He added that NSG was training special combat units of state police forces so that they are better prepared to combat terrorist incidents. Also Read: Presence of Chinese troops along LAC poses a challenge, says Jaishankar“Post 26/11 Mumbai attacks (2008), we have corrected and upgraded in many areas...the force has remotely operated vehicles, satellite communications system, armoured robots, unmanned aerial vehicle detection radar system and anti-drone capabilities,” Deswal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsg-trained-21-men-protecting-sri-lankan-pm-he-wrote-to-pm-modi-with-praise/story-aA65RvrxJSwKFmway6mSdO.html
17-10-2020||India||SC appoints ex-judge to monitor stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana, UP||The Supreme Court on Friday appointed a one-man monitoring committee headed by former Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan B Lokur to address the issue of air pollution in the National Capital Region (NCR), giving him wide powers to direct states of Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh to take additional measures to control stubble burning , a significant contributor to the capital’s bad air. It also put him in charge of other bodies and agencies trying to do this — such as the statutory authority assisting the Court, the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority or EPCA.Lokur, who has heard several cases on the capital’s bad air during his tenure in the apex court has also been given powers to inspect farmland where incidence of stubble burning is likely to take place. He is expected to file a report on October 26, when the matter will be heard next.In effect, the former judge is Delhi’s informal Air Commissioner. The annual issue about the bad air in NCR usually gets bounced around various state governments and the Centre, with each blaming the other. This year, for instance, Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar attributed the rise in pollution over the Capital to local factors, following which Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted that “staying in denial will not help”. Speaking to HT, Justice Lokur said, “I am yet to go through the order. I will only comment after reading the Court’s decision.”Also Read: Farm fires increase in Punjab, Haryana despite assurancesAir Quality in the capital entered the poor category with the Air Quality Index (AQI) recorded at 207 on October 6, and very poor category (304) on October 14. On Friday, the AQI was 235 (poor), according to the System of Air Quality, Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). Data from the Indian weather office shows a sharp increase in farm fires in Punjab and Haryana, with 3,517 incidents till October 15 in this harvest season, compared to a third that number last year.The Supreme Court’s decision was welcomed by the Delhi government with Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj saying at a press conference: “We welcome the Supreme Court’s decision in the matter. The formation of the panel proves...stubble burning is the main cause of pollution in Delhi.” On Friday, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said: “It is necessary that there must be some monitoring of stubble burning with a view to its prevention before it assumes abnormal proportions. We accordingly appoint Justice Madan Lokur, a former Judge of this Court, to act as the one-man Monitoring Committee to monitor the measures taken by the States to prevent stubble burning.” So far, this function was being carried out by EPCA. According to senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, who is a regular practitioner in environment-related laws, the step from the Court is one in positive direction. “With the appointment of Justice Madan Lokur, the Court will be ably assisted in tackling the issue of stubble burning. But experience has shown that states hardly cooperate in such efforts. We already saw today Solicitor General opposing the Court’s decision to appoint Justice Lokur.”The bench directed the Chief Secretaries of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi to render all assistance to Justice Lokur to enable physical surveillance of fields where stubble is likely to be burnt and devise additional means and methods for preventing the burning of stubble.For carrying out surveillance, the Court left it open to the one-man Committee to engage services of National Cadet Corps, National Service Scheme (NSS), and Bharat Scouts and Guides to be deployed for assisting in the monitoring of stubble burning . However, the constitution of the Committee will not mean that other authorities in the state and EPCA will remain muted.Also Read| Behind Delhi’s polluted air: Early stubble fires, weatherThe bench said, “Teams already in existence in the States, which are meant for the purpose of preventing stubble burning shall report to and take instructions from Justice Lokur.”EPCA as well as state and Central authorities working on stubble burning will continue their functions and provide assistance to the Committee, the order said.The order was passed by the court while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by two young environmental activists who demanded ban on stubble burning due to its harmful effects on health of citizens. Senior advocate Vikas Singh who argued the petition suggested the name of Justice Lokur. “A person of that stature who has dealt with the issue of stubble burning while a judge can be given powers to direct states to enforce Supreme Court’s past orders,” he said. Punjab filed an affidavit detailing how the state had employed a mobile app to track stubble burning through satellites. Senior advocate PS Narsimha appearing for Punjab government said, “We have 8000 nodal officers on the field to respond to any communication received about stubble fires.” Uttar Pradesh was not a party to the petition and hence did not appear but Haryana argued that sufficient steps were in place in the state to prevent stubble burning as compared to previous years.VIkas Singh pointed out : “On the contrary, crop burning has increased by five times this year. There is a grave concern about the quality of air in the National Capital Region (NCR) and the quality is dropping rapidly. If urgent steps are not taken, the situation will become unmanageable.”As the Court was breaking for Dusshera holidays on October 17 and will reopen on October 26, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati representing the Centre urged it to have the matter posted then along with the MC Mehta case where the issue of stubble burning has been dealt with over the past six years. She pointed out that a statutory authority appointed by Central Government , EPCA , is monitoring the issue with states. After the order was passed, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta tried convincing the court to change its mind but the bench stuck to its order.The bench, which also comprised Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said: “We are concerned that citizens of Delhi-NCR should breathe good, clean air. Since we will not be in session for about nine days, we do not want the situation to get worse. The object of appointing a committee is more to facilitate and coordinate the activities of different authorities so that the problem is resolved.”The order made it mandatory for states to extend all facilities to the committee, including transportation for physical surveillance, security of committee and mobile inspection teams, and secretarial assistance for preparing fortnightly reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-appoints-ex-judge-to-monitor-stubble-burning-in-punjab-haryana-up/story-w3qMgflJkOG62uo8DnWi3N.html
17-10-2020||India||PM Modi wishes on Navratri, hopes for positive change in lives of the poor||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday wished people on the first day of the nine-day festival of Navratri, hoping for a safe, healthy and prosperous planet as the country and the world battles the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has affected and killed millions across the globe.“Many congratulations on the auspicious festival of Navratri. May jagat janani Ma Jagadamba bring happiness, peace and prosperity to all of you. Jai Mata Di!” PM Modi tweeted.The Prime Minister also invoked Goddess Shailaputri, meaning the daughter of the mountains and one of the nine manifestations of Durga, who is worshipped the first day of Navratri.“Pranams to Maa Shailputri on Day 1 of Navratri. With her blessings, may our planet be safe, healthy and prosperous. May her blessings give us strength to bring a positive change in the lives of the poor and downtrodden,” he added. ॐ देवी शैलपुत्र्यै नमः॥Pranams to Maa Shailputri on Day 1 of Navratri. With her blessings, may our planet be safe, healthy and prosperous. May her blessings give us strength to bring a positive change in the lives of the poor and downtrodden. pic.twitter.com/0iIMFx8cZzAuthorities and health experts have urged people to follow Covid-19 guidelines strictly during the upcoming festival season, saying flouting of norms could bring about a surge of cases in coming weeks as the country celebrates Navratri and Dussehra in October and Diwali and Chhatth in November.Also read | Navratri 2020: Fasting for the first time? Here are some tips to help you sail through“If we falter in following Covid-19 guidelines during the festivals then corona can again assume a dangerous shape and become a big trouble for us. This is the truth, in any religion, no dharmic leader will say that people’s lives should be put at risk to celebrate festivals. No God has said that one needs to go to puja pandals to worship,” Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan has said.Also read | DDMA allows Durga Puja, Ramlila with Covid-19 ridersOn Friday, India’s Covid-19 tally went up to 7,370,468, rising by more than 100,000 since the beginning of this month, according to the Union health ministry. The death toll in the country, which is the second worst-hit in the world, has gone up to 112,161, the health ministry’s dashboard showed on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-wishes-on-navratri-hopes-for-positive-change-in-lives-of-the-poor/story-eSkuTOIBHsHGtDIm5wASAK.html
17-10-2020||India||4 states that are defying dip in India’s Covid-19 cases||As daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across India continue to dip, states such as Kerala, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have been bucking the national trend, shows data analysed by HT. These four states all have fast-rising case numbers, rising positivity rates and the last three also test poorly.To analyse the intensity of the outbreak and identify regions that are still displaying characteristics of growing outbreaks, HT analysed data from India’s 20 most populous regions, looking for three factors — a rising positivity rate, a high growth rate of daily cases, and low tests per million residents — that have marked all hot spots regions globally.With the festive season starting and the winter approaching, it becomes all the more crucial that states across the country (and in particular states that face the immediate danger of becoming the next hot spots) monitor infection rates to stop the curve from rising again if people let their guard down during the celebrations.RATE OF NEW INFECTIONS The rate of increase in cases for a region is generally measured by what is known as doubling rate — the number of days it takes for the total infections in the region to double (the higher the number, the better). All states analysed have improved their doubling rate over between September 1 and October 15 – a statistic that is a reflection of how the national case curve has turned over the last month. But Kerala, which has seen a massive spurt in new cases over this period, not only has the worst doubling rate in the country (24 days as on October 15), it also is the state which has improved the least (doubling rate improved by only a day). For context, the national average of doubling rate is 74 days as on October 15, an improvement of 43 days from September 1. Other than Kerala, six states have performed worse than the national doubling rate average. At 37 days, Chhattisgarh has the second worst doubling rate and is followed by Madhya Pradesh (50 days), Rajasthan and Karnataka (53 days), West Bengal (57 days) and Odisha (69 days).Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayDelhi’s doubling rate of 75 days is slightly better than the national average, but it features among the states with the least improvement (11 days). Only Kerala has improved less than the national capital. In early September, a similar analysis by HT found that Delhi had the highest doubling rate in the country (59 days).POSITIVITY RATE AND TESTING In six of the 20 states, the average positivity rate – the proportion of people testing positive to those tested – increased in the last month. The higher the positivity rate of a region, the more widespread the virus . According to WHO recommendations, the positivity rate in a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control there.Kerala again features as the worst performing states with 15.9% of all tests conducted in the last week coming back positive. The state’s seven-day average of positivity rate has worsened by 8.4 percentage points from September 1 – again the highest rise in the country. Maharashtra, which had consistently been reporting the highest positivity rate in the country over the past three months, has seen the figure drop by 7.3 percentage points (from 21.1% to 13.8%). The western state, which has the highest number of cases in the country, still has the second highest proportion of tests returning positive in the last week.Rajasthan saw the third highest positivity rate in the last week — 11.3%. For the week ending September 1, 6.1% of tests returned positive in the state. In Madhya Pradesh, the positivity rate worsened by 2 percentage point (from 5.7% on September 1 to 7.7% on October 15), while it worsened by 1.6 percentage points in West Bengal (from 7% to 8.6%).On average, 6.1% of all tests in the country have come back positive over the past week. Although the positivity rate has improved over the past 45 days in three states – Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh – all of them still have an average positivity rate over the last week higher than the national average: 9.5%, 8.9% and 6.4% respectively.Also Read: India decides to reassess Covid-19 treatment protocolIn terms of testing, Madhya Pradesh remains the worst-performing state in the country, with 30,507 tests performed per million of the population, followed by West Bengal (39,844) against the national average of 71,892. Rajasthan comes third from the bottom (44,472 tests per million) followed by Chhattisgarh (51049 tests per million) and Uttar Pradesh (55,602).Interestingly, the testing rate of Maharashtra (64,793 per million residents) has dropped below the national average – an alarming trend for a state with such a high caseload and one that has the worst positivity rate in the country.Kerala, meanwhile, had performed well in this front with 107,527 tests performed per million residents in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-states-that-are-defying-dip-in-india-s-covid-19-cases/story-Os1IcdvpjYdHE3bYRyDTIO.html
17-10-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: CMO’s ex-principal secy hospitalised after complains of ‘uneasiness’||M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to chief minister, has been hospitalised after he complained of uneasiness while he was summoned for questioning by customs in connection with gold smuggling case. He is admitted to Intensive Care Unit and customs officials are also in the hospital.Earlier on Thursday the Kerala High Court had directed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) not to arrest Sivasankar till October 23 in connection with the gold smuggling case.A single-judge bench of Justice Ashok Menon issued the interim order on the anticipatory bail plea filed by Sivasankar seeking protection from arrest in the ED case.The counsel appearing for Sivasankar submitted before the court that the applicant is willing to appear before the agency and cooperate with the investigation in the case registered under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in the alleged smuggling of gold through diplomatic channels.Sivasankar had filed the anticipatory bail application after the ED submitted a chargesheet in the case before the special PMLA court. He submitted that the central agency’s chargesheet had allegations and imputations against him, making him apprehensive of an arrest.The case, which is currently being probed by the ED, NIA and the Customs department, pertains to the smuggling of gold in the state through diplomatic channels.The matter had come to light after 30 kg gold worth Rs 14.82 crores smuggled in a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage was busted by the Customs in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-cmo-s-ex-principal-secy-hospitalised-after-complains-of-uneasiness/story-4rQnIeLzyuRi1vE6knQ1mM.html
17-10-2020||India||7 killed, over 30 hurt as bus and pickup collide in UP’s Pilibhit||Seven people were killed and more than 30 were injured after a bus coming from Lucknow collided with another vehicle in Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit district, news agency ANI reported on Saturday. The agency cited Jai Prakash, Pilibhit’s superintendent of police, as saying that the vehicles collided in Puranpur area of ​​the district.“The bus was coming to Pilibhit from Lucknow and the pickup was coming from Puraipur. The accident happened at the borders of Puranpur. The bus overturned in the fields as a result of which several people in the bus got crushed. Some occupants of the pickup also received injuries in the accident,” Jai Prakash told reporters.According to ANI, the injured were rescued and taken to a nearby hospital and some of them were then referred to the district hospital after primary treatment. Police officials also said that most of the victims belonged to Pilibhit, the agency addedFurther details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-killed-32-hurt-as-bus-and-bolero-collides-in-uttar-pradesh-s-pilibhit/story-YhJ4pg2gGLdFwB9BBzZCTP.html
17-10-2020||India||Police add rape charges to Barabanki case||Charges of rape were added to the FIR after the post-mortem report revealed injuries on the private parts of a 17-year-old Dalit girl whose body was found in a paddy field in Pipri village under Satrikh police limits of Barabanki district, said police officials on Friday. Police had initially lodged a murder case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Later in the day, the police arrested one Dinesh Gautam, 19, who stays a few metres from the girl’s house, on the basis of electronic as well as manual surveillance. Additional superintendent of police, Barabanki, RS Gautam said the accused had confessed to his involvement in the crime and that the police were further trying to verify the details of the crime extracted from him.Circle officer, Barabanki Sadar, Ram Surat Sonker confirmed that rape charges under IPC Section 376 were added on Thursday night on the basis of the post-mortem report .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-add-rape-charges-to-barabanki-case/story-AFr7YxfTHoxL25kw6McMfI.html
17-10-2020||India||Experts tell DCGI to permit Dr Reddy’s for phase 2,3 clinical trial of Sputnik V||The expert committee of Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Friday recommended granting permission to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for conducting phase 2 clinical trials of Russian Covid-19 vaccine candidate, Sputnik V, in India, government officials said.According to the government official, Dr Reddy’s Lab has stated that in phase 2 clinical trial--”would include 100 subjects and for phase 3, it would take 1400 subjects.”“Once the pharma company would submit the safety and immunogenicity data of phase 2, it would be analyzed by the expert panel and then they can proceed for the phase 3 trial,” the official added.On October 13, ANI had reported that Dr Reddy’s Laboratories re-applied fresh protocol to DCGI in order to seek its approval for conducting phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the Russian Covid vaccine.It may be noted that on October 5, the Subject Expert Committee had done a thorough evaluation of the previous application submitted by Dr Reddy’s lab. Thereafter, the SEC had directed the pharma company to apply with a revised protocol along with more information.The Indian drug maker has joined hands with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine as well as its distribution.As per RDIF, it will supply 100 million doses of its potential Covid-19 vaccine to India drug company Dr Reddy’s Lab.“Before giving permission, the drugs regulator will conduct a technical evaluation of the application submitted by Dr Reddy’s lab to conduct phase 2,3 clinical trial in India of Russian Covid-19 vaccine ,” said the official.Last month, Kirill Dmitriev, CEO, RDIF informed that Russia is in close dialogue with the Indian government and drug manufacturers of India regarding localization of production of its Sputnik V vaccine in India.Also, a prestigious medical journal The Lancet had published the results of clinical trials of Phase I-II of the Russian vaccine demonstrating its safety and efficacy.On August 11, the Sputnik V vaccine candidate developed jointly by RDIF and the Gamaleya National Research Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology was registered by the Ministry of Health of Russia and became the world’s first registered vaccine against Covid-19.According to Russian researchers, Sputnik V is a human adenoviral vector vaccine that fights against coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-panel-recommends-dcgi-to-permit-dr-reddy-s-lab-to-conduct-phase-2-3-clinical-trial-of-russian-covid-19-vaccine-candidate/story-Up81KgpbH1Vefak74P5Y7K.html
17-10-2020||India||India has involved people, motivated them to deal with Covid-19 challenge: Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday said that the Indian government had dealt with the challenge posed by Covid-19 pandemic in many ways like a people’s movement by involving people and motivating them.“In many countries, people look at it like a public health response or a governance challenge. We have actually dealt with it in many ways like a people’s movement, that you actually get people involved and motivate them,” he said an event hosted by Asia Society.The minister said that the Indian government had done right things such as stopping international travel and a nationwide lockdown in the early stages of the pandemic.“When it came initially, we did all the right things, we stopped international travel much before most countries did, and we had our lockdown much before most countries did. When the pandemic hit India, there was not a single producer of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), there were about two producers of masks, and there were no producers of ventilators. So if you look at typically the kind of equipment you regard as critical to COVID-19 response, it just wasn’t there,” he told Asia Society Policy Institute (ASPI) President Kevin Rudd, a former Australian Prime Minister.  “Today, we have more than 100 major producers of PPE, there are 25 plus companies producing ventilators, and there are 10 big domestic manufacturers of N95,” Jaishankar added.He mentioned that in the initial weeks and months, India was looking for equipment, and today it was exporting a lot of this equipment to the world.“We have set up almost 15,000 COVID-19 centres by converting hospitals and other public buildings as dedicated facilities for COVID-19 treatment,” he said.Jaishankar lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi calling him a great motivator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-involved-people-motivated-them-to-deal-with-covid-19-challenge-jaishankar/story-WWsA5yLPeNQaMtmOBoaOUL.html
17-10-2020||India||Jharkhand rejects Centre’s loan offer in lieu of GST compensation||The Jharkhand government on Friday rejected the Centre’s latest offer of borrowing an estimated ₹1.1 lakh crore shortfall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess and passing it on to the states, even as it hit out at the Centre over its direction to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to auto-debit Rs 1,417 crore from the state’s account. A statement issued by chief minister Hemant Soren’s office said the central government was trying to trap the Jharkhand government to increase borrowings from markets in the times of economic instability. The central government has asked RBI to auto-debit Rs 1,417.50 crore as the first installment from Jharkhand’s account towards Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) dues.The remarks came a day after the Union finance ministry said that the ₹1.1 lakh crore estimated shortfall in GST compensation cess will be borrowed by the central government and “passed on to the states as a back-to-back loan”.Hitting out at the offer after a state cabinet meet, Soren said he will write and speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the issue. “This is first instance in my knowledge that the Centre has invoked such a rule to directly deduct money from consolidated fund of a state. Our condition financially is grim due to the pandemic and the Centre knows about it. This act is an attack on the federal structure,” Soren said.Also Read: Dissenting states likely to accept GST solution“Yesterday the Union finance minister wrote to us and also called up to consider the loan offer. This is a strange situation. On the one hand they are deducting our funds and on other they are pressuring us to accept loan. Things won’t work this way. The cabinet today has decided to outrightly reject the loan offer,” the CM added.The finance ministry’s statement on Thursday said that the borrowing will “not have any impact on the fiscal deficit of the Government of India” and “be reflected as capital receipts of the state government as part of the financing of the respective fiscal deficits”. As a result, this borrowing doesn’t go into what is called general government borrowings (the debt of the Centre and the states).“We will be deliberating on the next possible steps in the best interest of the state. We need to understand in detail what could be potential fiscal implications of this proposal on our state coffers which is facing severe onslaught both from pandemic and of non-clearance of multiple dues, central share dues, GST dues etc by Centre, including the unilateral decision to deduct Rs 1,417 crore from the state govt’s account with RBI,” the CM said in a separate statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-rejects-centre-s-loan-offer-in-lieu-of-gst-compensation/story-CcE4vOzn6UWhUGizpeS0uN.html
17-10-2020||India||Will take call on legal age of marriage for women: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that the government will soon take a decision on revising the minimum age of marriage for women after the task force set up to examine these matters submits its report. The Prime Minister, while addressing a video conference after releasing a commemorative coin of ₹75 denomination on the 75th anniversary of the Food and Agriculture Organisation, highlighted the efforts taken by the central government over the last six year for maintaining the health of women and all-round development of girl children. “Discussion is underway to decide the right age for marriage of our daughters. From across the country, daughters have written to me asking why the concerned committee has not given its decision yet. I assure you that as soon as the report comes, the government will act on it,” the PM said. The central government on September 22 had said that a task force has been constituted to examine the issues pertaining to the age of marriage, motherhood and imperatives of lowering maternal mortality rate.“The recommendations have been formulated and are in the process of being compiled,” said a person familiar with the matter. “Nearly 15 meetings, including conversations with experts, townhalls with stakeholders and even questionnaires sent to students across universities have been held.The report is likely to be submitted by the end of this month,” this person added. Co-founder of HAQ Centre of Child Rights, Enakshi Ganguly, said, “This will just result in an increase in the number of penal provisions. The focus should be on women empowerment and creating a conducive environment where women can make their own decisions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-take-call-on-legal-age-of-marriage-for-women-pm-modi/story-WOWvXfx1E1ufDrBUAGmFUO.html
17-10-2020||India||Drones being used to drop arms, drugs from across international border: NSG DG||Drones are being used to drop arms and drugs from across the border, however, our security agencies have the ability to neutralize the threat, said Director General (DG), National Security Guard (NSG) SS Deswal.“Drones are a security threat at the western border as they are being used to drop arms and drugs from across the international border. We have the system to identify and neutralize them,” Deswal told ANI here on Friday.Friday also marked the 36th Raising Day of the NSG, one of the premier security forces in the country.The NSG is Federal Contingency force to deal with anti-terrorist activities.The NSG is a force equipped and trained to deal with specific situation and is therefore used in exceptional circumstances to thwart serious acts of terrorism.Deswal who was already the DG of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) was given the additional charge of DG, NSG last month by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-being-used-to-drop-arms-drugs-from-across-international-border-nsg-dg/story-mk9fTxVb573Y2VDeYeDFeI.html
17-10-2020||India||Sanjay Bhandari tried to alienate assets in UK, says ED||Fugitive arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari, after fleeing to the UK in 2016, met certain people in London and tried to alienate (or transfer ownership of) his foreign assets and companies by creating backdated documents in the name of a trust in the UAE, according to the charge sheet filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against him. His Chartered Accountant, Sanjeev Kapoor, even travelled to London in February 2017 along with Sumit Chadha to meet Bhandari and get his signatures on the documents so that his assets could be linked to the trust, identified as Alrahma Trust, the charge sheet adds. A Delhi court on Thursday took the cognizance of charge sheet, filed by ED on June 1, and directed the anti-money laundering probe agency to expedite extradition proceedings against Bhandari in the UK so that he can be brought to India to face trial. Bhandari is under investigation by multiple agencies – including ED, Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Income Tax department, and Delhi Police for money laundering , violation of the foreign exchange , black money, and official secrets laws (he had access to sensitive defence documents). He fled to the UK via Nepal in December 2016. UK authorities arrested him on July 15 on India’s extradition request after which he secured bail. A UK court has set June 7, 2021 as the date for the start of proceedings for Bhandari’s extradition. Proceedings to declare him as Fugitive Economic Offender (FEO) are also pending in an Indian court. According to the ED charge sheet, details of which have been accessed by HT, companies linked to Bhandari – including Offset India Solutions FZC, Santech International FZC and others -- were receiving foreign income and owned foreign assets. “Bhandari intentionally didn’t disclose his foreign income and assets before the Income Tax department including the fact that he held shares worth 1,17,000 dirham, in Santech International,” says the ED charge sheet. Undisclosed foreign properties such as those at C-303 Maurya Grandeur, Palm Jumeirahm, Dubai and 6 Grosvenor Hill Court, 15 Bourdon Street London were found to be in his name, the charge sheet added. “Sanjay Bhandari tried to alienate these properties from those foreign assets owned by him and the company in which he is beneficial owner and controlled by him creating certain back dated documents related to a trust,” it added. ED says that Bhandari was trying to use the trust structure in order to alienate his foreign assets and properties to conceal proceeds of crime and to project that those foreign assets were held by him in fiduciary capacity as a trustee of the trust. For this purpose, Alrahma Trust in the UAE was identified, it said. Bhandari is also under the scanner for allegedly laundering money related to properties allegedly linked to Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s son-in-law Robert Vadra in London, an investigation in which a NRI businessman C C Thampi was arrested by the ED in January this year. Vadra, who was questioned by ED in May last year, has repeatedly denied all the allegations against him.CBI is also probing Bhandari’s roles in the Rs 2,895 crore deal for acquiring Pilatus basic trainer aircraft for the Indian Air Force in 2009. An Interpol red notice is also pending against him. Legal representatives of Bhandari, Kapoor, and Chadha could not be located by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjay-bhandari-tried-to-alienate-assets-in-uk-says-ed/story-uyoEmkwo4E0y5GvIa6whkM.html
17-10-2020||India||‘Diversity Built Britain’: New coin to honour non-white contribution||The Boris Johnson government will release 2.5 million 50 pence coins on Monday with the words ‘Diversity Built Britain’ to mark what is described as ‘profound contribution’ of minority communities to the history of the United Kingdom, and a shift in the nature of coinage.It is the first of a series of such coins to be issued. Chancellor Rishi Sunak’s office previously confirmed that Mahatma Gandhi’s image is being considered by the Royal Mint on one of the coins. There is also a demand to so honour Indian-origin World War II British spy, Noor Inayat Khan.The background of the new coin features a geodome with a series of interconnecting lines and triangles that form a network. Each part is equal, and symbolises a community of connection and strength.Sunak said: “I have seen first-hand the contribution made by ethnic minority communities to Britain’s history…This coin, and the rest of the series, will act as a fitting tribute to the very profound impact ethnic minority communities have made on Britain”.,Prime Minister Boris Johnson added: “Congratulations to Dominique Evans the designer of The Royal Mint’s new 50 pence coin…Her design is the first in a series of coins The Mint will be producing, celebrating those who have helped shape our national history and culture”.Officials said that the new coin signals the intent of the Royal Mint and Sunak to include a wider range of people on coins and notes in the future. Sunak commissioned the coin following talks with ‘We Too Built Britain’ campaign, which seeks fair representation of minority communities’ contributions across all walks of life. Anne Jessopp, CEO of the Royal Mint, said: “This is one of the most significant coins produced by The Royal Mint, and signals a change in our nation’s coinage”.“For over 1000 years the nation’s story has been told on coins struck by The Royal Mint, but often the contribution of ethnic minority communities has been unrecognised – this marks the beginning of a new chapter with more coins to follow”, she added.Zehra Zaidi of the ‘We Too Built Britain’ campaign said: “Ethnic minority people, as well as all under-represented groups, need to see themselves represented in British institutions. They need to see their contributions to Britain recognized”.“It is a part of an invisible social contract and it can build cohesion, promote a sense of belonging, inspire young people and unite us as a nation, showing that we all have an equal stake in society. We are a diverse, modern and global Britain – let’s show that. This coin helps bridge our nation’s past, its diverse present and its future, looking outward, positively, together”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diversity-built-britain-new-coin-to-honour-non-white-contribution/story-WUR1QbMfyFKBI1c6tz5ZbN.html
17-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India completed its 100 millionth test for Covid sometime on Friday, according to the HT dashboard. By the Indian Council of Medical Research’s count, the number was marginally lower, 92.25 million tests (ICMR has a counting protocol that isn’t followed by all states), which means that the 100-million mark will be crossed in a week, maybe sooner.Still, I’m going to stick with the 100-million-on-Friday mark because the test numbers on the HT dashboard are the ones we use for measuring the positivity rate.Only the US (around 122 million) and China (160 million) have done more tests than India. Even in terms of tests per million, at 100 million tests, India has conducted around 77,000 tests per million of the population. That translates into 7.7% of the population — adequate according to most experts if the trace-isolate-treat protocol that follows the tests is stringent enough. Unfortunately, it rarely is, not just in India, but in most parts of the world. Also Read| Covid: Daily RT-PCR tests touch record 15,000-mark, cases above 3,000 in DelhiThe 100 million number also includes retests. And it includes not just molecular tests such as the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests but also rapid antigen tests (RATs). I’ve written extensively about the indiscriminate use of the latter, in contexts in which it doesn’t make sense for them to be used, and in huge numbers (especially in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh where they account for most of the tests conducted; even Delhi uses far too many rapid tests for its own good — and for the good of its people). Still, 100 million is 100 million, and for a country that started with the capacity of a few laboratories and a few thousand tests in late February and March, the number marks a tremendous achievement. India, as Dispatch 176 on October 7 pointed out first, has seen off the first wave and is in the lull between that and the sure-to-come second wave. Given this, and the testing milestone, how are Indian states doing?The table accompanying this piece lists 11 states that together account for 79% of India’s cases, 82% of its tests and 70% of its tests as of Thursday evening. Sure, 10 is a better number but I picked 11 because Bihar is the 11th on the list in terms of number of cases and its numbers are interesting.Of the 11, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have the lowest positivity rates — the number of people testing positive to tests conducted, 2.3% and 3.6%, respectively. The average of these 11 states is 8.3%, a number skewed upward by Maharashtra’s high case number and positivity rate. The national average is 7.4% (according to the HT dashboard). Interestingly, if the case fatality rate is a proxy of the quality of a state’s health system — it should be — then Bihar, Kerala, Odisha and Telangana are more similar than most people would expect. Kerala has the lowest case fatality rate of 0.34%; Odisha’s is 0.43%; Bihar’s is 0.48%; and Telangana’s 0.57%. The only other state among the 11 with a case fatality rate lower than 1% is Telangana. The case fatality rate of these 11 states is 1.56%, marginally higher than India’s 1.52%. Uttar Pradesh’s case fatality rate, at 1.46%, is actually lower than the national number.It’s difficult to explain Uttar Pradesh and Bihar’s low positivity rate (and we won’t try to). There might be a possible explanation for the low case fatality rates in Kerala because the state does have an excellent public health system. And there might be a possible explanation for the low case fatality rates in Bihar because the infections started showing up in the state well after they did in many others, and both nationally and internationally, health care systems have become better at saving lives as the pandemic has progressed. Does that explain rates as low as 0.34% and 0.48%? Uttar Pradesh’s numbers are at least internally consistent — it has few cases, but the proportion of deaths is almost the same as the national number.Just like the mystery surrounding Africa’s numbers — I wrote about this in Dispatch 154 on September 10 — that surrounding Uttar Pradesh and Bihar’s extremely low positivity rate and Bihar’s low case fatality rate need studying, for it could hold answers on managing the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-2qMdKRSm4XrDaHOg0Gcd1L.html
17-10-2020||India||Construction of New Parliament building unlikely to start this year: Officials||The construction of the new Parliament building proposed to come up on plot number 118 of the Parliament House Estate may not begin this year, officials familiar with the development said.Tata Projects Limited emerged as the lower bidder for the tender to construct the new Parliament complex by quoting a bid of ₹861.90 crore when the financial bids for the project opened on September 16 and it was awarded the contract to construct the building on September 29. Officials involved in overseeing the project say the construction may begin by early next year around January or February after the winter session of Parliament .The winter session of Parliament is usually held around mid-November to mid- December.“Construction work is yet to begin. Tata Projects has just been awarded the contract and the work for civil construction will take time. It will take at least two months for them to mobilise labour and begin construction work on the site. As per the order, at least 60 days are provided for mobilising. We will work on shifting the reception area of the Parliament building to clear space and some small structures and offices will also have to be shifted,” a senior government official said on condition of anonymity.Tata Projects did not respond to a request for comment on the issue. The deadline for completing the new Parliament complex is 2022. According to Central Public Works Department’s (CPWD) order, the construction is required to be completed strictly within the prescribed time limit of 21 months with the “highest standards of quality and workmanship”.CPWD has specified that 50% of the workers will need to be skilled in stone masonry, carving, and fresco, and adequate health and safety measures will need to be taken in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic.CPWD, which is the project implementation arm of the ministry of housing and urban affairs, specified that the existing Parliament building shall continue to function during the entire period of execution of this project.The contractor may have to execute the work in three shifts with a large number of workers, supervisors and professional engineers, the bid document had said. “In view of high degree of security concerns at site and the work itself, stringent access control measures shall be exercised for entry and exit of manpower, material and construction equipment,” it stated.The new Parliament building with a built-up area of approximately 60,000 metre square, is set to come up on plot number 118 of the Parliament House Estate, which currently houses a reception, boundary walls and other temporary structures. The design for the ground plus two-storey triangular-shaped building is also in its final stages.India’s national emblem is likely to sit atop the new Parliament building, according to the latest design iteration prepared for the tendering process, replacing a spire that was meant to come up in an earlier version, HT reported on September 16.The central foyer will have a Constitution Hall that will display an original copy of the Constitution for public viewing. A library will also come up near the central foyer.The triangular complex is designed to include 120 offices with six separate entrances for members of the public, MPs and VIPs, including the Speaker and the vice president. The new Parliament will house larger chambers for the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha; the latter has been designed to accommodate 1,350 MPs in case of joint sessions. The public gallery will seat more than 336 persons.The Centre will also begin work on construction of a common secretariat proposed under the Central Vista redevelopment plan by next year, officials said. A plot of 15 acres has been identified by the Centre to relocate IGNCA near Jamnagar House work on which will begin soon.Experts also cautioned against construction as the air quality deteriorates in the region. “The environment clearance for the Parliament was not based on a detailed environment impact assessment... More than any other project, the construction of Parliament should have taken into account air quality concerns before initiating construction activity. Both the project proponents and government are aware of air quality concerns in the country, and in this particular case, Delhi-NCR. Yet they have risked initiating construction only based on a pre-determined timeline that is economically fragile, environmentally unsound and socially unjust,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/construction-of-new-parliament-building-unlikely-to-start-this-year-officials/story-7MkyHv9qAcQXHZygZpMb9L.html
17-10-2020||India||Farm fires increase in Punjab, Haryana despite assurances||New Delhi/Karnal/Chandigarh: This year, the stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana has gone unabated primarily because of the reluctance of the local administration to act against offenders due to ongoing farmer protests in the two states. The result: Delhi and its neighbouring areas are grappling with deteriorating air quality that could aggravate the Covid-19 pandemic in the region, officials said.On Thursday, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh claimed that Delhi’s air pollution problem was because of local factors, but data from the Punjab University’s Remote Sensing Centre, Ludhiana, shows a three-fold spike in stubble burning incidents in Punjab as compared to 2019 (3,996 incidents from September 21 to October 15 as compared 1,266 in same period last year), with just six farmers booked for farm fires. These numbers are higher than the India Meteorological Department’s own, but are directionally similar -- that too points to a three-fold increase in farm fires in Punjab and Haryana this harvest season. Haryana has done slightly better that Punjab with 71% more stubble burning incidents for same period. According to Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC), until October 15, 1,835 active fire locations (AFL) were reported from the state against 1,072 during the same period last year.Officials in the two states also said on condition of anonymity said stubble burning started at the time farmer bodies were protesting against three farm bills approved in the winter session of Parliament and any action against the stubble burners could have aggravated the situation on the ground.Also Read: AAP, BJP trade charges over farm fires, pollution“We have to act with caution as tempers were high,” explained a Punjab government official, when asked that why not many farmers were booked for stubble burning. A Haryana government official added that there was reluctance to act against the farmers as it could have added “fuel” to the farmers’ ongoing agitation.Farmers burn paddy stubble to clear the fields for sowing of winter wheat crop, 90% of which is procured by the government to sustain the Public Distribution System (PDS). The fires send fumes into air causing massive pollution across the entire northern plains.Also Read| Residue to riches: Stubble no trouble for Punjab’s change agents Almost all of south Punjab, which includes districts such as Bathinda, Mansa and Fazilka, and Haryana’s Rohtak, Sonepat and Panipat districts, abutting Delhi, showed a spurt in farm fires on the fire map of the US National Aeronautics and Space Administration . According to air pollution experts, the north easterly winds brings pollutants from farm fires in the two states and smoke, which mix with local emissions causing a spike in pollution levels in the National Capital Region. “We are seeing a spurt as local emission load in area within a 70 km radius of Delhi is also very high,” said an air pollution scientist at Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, who asked not to be named. He added that the stubble burning has resulted in an increase in pollution levels across northern plains.On Friday, several NCR towns such as Baghpat, Rohtak, Faridabad, and Gurugram reported poor to very poor air quality. This was actually a marginal improvement from Thursday, as wind speed improved helping in quicker dispersal of pollutants. Delhi has been in the poor or very poor category for the past week.There are several reasons for the spurt in farm fires this year. The paddy harvest season this year in the two food bowl states of India started earlier than in 2019 because of long dry period that started in early September. Last year, the monsoon rains lashed the northern plains till October 15 delaying the peak harvest season to the first week of October. This year, harvest started from September 18 and procurement from September 26.Paddy procurement commenced in Punjab and Haryana from September 26 due to early arrival of the crop, while in other states, it started from October 1, said a food ministry statement. Until Thursday 4.358 million tonnes of paddy had arrived in the markets of Punjab, exactly double of the last year’s corresponding arrivals In Haryana also, the paddy procurement is double of last year.The early harvest resulted in an early spike in farm fires. According to Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) the period from September 21 to October 5, saw a five-time increase in farm fires as compared to 2019. Haryana reported double the number of farm fires for same period.S Narayanan, member secretary Haryana State Pollution Control Board said the rise in farm fires was because of early harvest. “We have issued advisories to district collectors to take action against offenders,” he said.Punjab pollution board member secretary Krunesh Garg said that it is too early to reach a conclusion even though the present scenario was worrisome. “I am sure the current season will end with fewer number of cases as compared to previous year,” he said, adding that over 50,000 cases of stubble fires were reported from the state in the last two years. The reluctance of the two states to act against farmers shows in the number of those booked for stubble burning this year. In Punjab, only six farmers have been booked against 1,706 booked in 2019. According to officials, environment cess of Rs 21 lakh has been collected from 806 farmers as compared to 14,200 on whom this penalty was imposed last year. “Police is not taking any chances especially when farm bodies are agitating in state over new farm laws enacted in the Parliament last month,” said a senior agriculture department official.In Haryana, the number of farmers booked this year is about 60% less than last year. Even as 374 incidents of farm fires were reported from Karnal district, only two FIRs have been registered and around 30 farmers have been fined for Rs 68000.Local officials also said as ground level functionaries were busy in procurement of the record paddy harvest in the two states, the monitoring of farm fires was poor. Agriculture and revenue department officials are deployed to check farm fires but this year because of record harvest they were posted for quick procurement. “Farmers were protesting and procurement was becoming a political issue,” said a Haryana agriculture department official, pointing at farmer protest in Kurukshetra over delay in paddy procurement.But, then some farmers also cleared their fields quickly for growing vegetables which are fetching a good price in retail markets.“The increase in the prices of vegetables in retail markets have lured the farmers to burn the crop waste and prepare the fields to grow vegetables such as potato, cauliflower, reddish, peas and carrot,” said Rajiv Kumar, a farmer from Haryana’s Shahsbad.A farmer of Punjab’s Bathinda district, Paramjit Singh, said he has already cleared farms to grow cabbage, which is fetching a good price in the market. The price of cauliflower in Delhi’s Azadpur market on Friday was between Rs 30 to Rs 60 per kilogram and for potato it was between Rs 17 to Rs 40 per kilogram, about 40% higher than the price in the same period last year.However, officials in two states claimed that subsidised machines were provided to farmers for stubble management.Garg said the farmers were using machines supplied by the government for crop residue management to clear stubble and said the impact would be visible in the coming days. Punjab’s former secretary agriculture Kahan Singh Pannu, said 23,500 machines were supplied to the farmers this season out of which 15,000 are super seeders. “With this machine crop residue management would become very easy,” said Pannu who retired on August 31, after working on stubble management since 2010. But some officials admitted that only big farmers were getting benefit of the subsdised machines. “Providing subsidised implements will not help as most of the subsidies are being taken by the big farmers and the benefit does not reach small farmers. The government must reach out to small farmers who are around 80% (of all farmers),” said a senior official of Haryana agriculture department, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-fires-increase-in-punjab-haryana-despite-assurances/story-Mz3Rpc1l1p4tDftDoySQCK.html
17-10-2020||India||CBI, US dept unearth ₹190 crore tech fraud||New Delhi: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the US Justice Department cracked down on a technical support fraud scheme allegedly masterminded by an American citizen and recovered assets worth ₹190 crore in raids conducted last month on six companies involved in the fraud.Michael Brian Cotter (59) of Glendale, California, allegedly worked with accomplices in call centres in several Indian cities over the past decade on the scheme that is believed to have defrauded hundreds of elderly American citizens, the US Justice Department said in a statement. The CBI moved in parallel with the US justice department filing a complaint in a court in Florida. The anti-corruption probe agency recovered assets worth ₹190 crore apart from gold worth ₹55 lakh, ₹25 lakh cash and a plethora of digital evidence indicating alleged nefarious activities of at least six companies based in Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. These companies were raided by the CBI last month. The agency is collaborating with other friendly countries as well against the fraudsters who allegedly took control of computers remotely of the users by sending them a pop-up message of malware presence on their systems, said CBI spokesperson R K Gaur in a statement on Friday. Praising CBI, the US Justice Department described the operation as the first parallel action by the US and Indian governments against defrauding of elderly American citizens. The statement cited CBI officials as saying that the agency would continue its close collaboration with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and promote cooperation with US law enforcement agencies on cybercrime and cybersecurity. CBI has been working to identify and dismantle networks of transnational cyber fraud operated out of India, the officials said. In response to the complaint filed in the US, a federal court issued a temporary restraining order that directed Cotter and five companies to stop engaging in the technical support fraud scheme. The complaint was filed by the civil division’s consumer protection branch and the US attorney’s office for the southern district of Florida and the action was coordinated by the Transnational Elder Fraud Strike Force established last year to combat foreign fraud schemes targeting American senior citizens. According to the complaint, those engaged in the scheme contacted US consumers via internet pop-up messages that falsely appeared to be security alerts from Microsoft or another reputed company. These messages fraudulently claimed the consumer’s computer was infected by a virus, and then purported to run a scan that “falsely confirmed the presence of a virus and malware”. The consumers were provided a toll-free number to call for assistance and were connected to India-based call centres allegedly participating in the fraud. Call centre employees asked the victims to give them remote access to computers and said they had detected viruses or malware. Then, the employees falsely diagnosed non-existent problems and allegedly asked the victims to pay hundreds of dollars for unnecessary services and software. Cotter allegedly facilitated the scheme through several companies, including Singapore-registered Global Digital Concierge Pte Ltd, formerly known as Tech Live Connect Pte Ltd, Nevada-registered companies Sensei Ventures Incorporated and NE Labs Inc, New York-registered Kevisoft LLC, and UK-registered Kevisoft UK Ltd. The restraining order issued by the court dismantled the US-based infrastructure, including websites and payment processing relationships. The complaint alleged that, since at least 2011, Cotter worked with co-conspirators in India to operate the scheme, including registering website domains, setting up shell companies, and entering into relationships with banks and payment processors to facilitate collection of funds from the victims. The scheme was brought to the Transnational Elder Fraud Strike Force’s attention by Microsoft. Acting assistant attorney general Jeffrey Bossert Clark said: “The department of justice sincerely appreciates CBI’s efforts to disrupt and prosecute technical support fraud, government imposter fraud, and all other schemes directed at the American public.” “The FBI works with its local, state, federal and international partners to combat technical fraud schemes,” said Charles Spencer, assistant director of the international operations division, FBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-us-dept-unearth-190-crore-tech-fraud/story-YrQxV88ryuIf1dsaT8cdLJ.html
17-10-2020||India||Hathras case: STF likely to probe ‘ploy’ to incite caste violence||The Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) is likely to probe the case related to the alleged conspiracy to incite caste violence in the backdrop of the alleged gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, senior government authorities said on Friday. A state government official said on condition of anonymity that the government is considering asking UP STF to conduct a detailed investigation of the alleged conspiracy on the basis of initial findings by a three-member Special Investigation Team headed by home secretary Bhagwan Swaroop in the incident. This person added that the probe would likely focus on 19 first information reports (FIR) lodged in seven districts in connection with allegations that some political groups and other organizations were trying to incite caste-related violence. According to him, the main FIR, filed at the Chandpa police station in Hathras, invoked charges of sedition, promoting enmity, inciting caste-based violence and other sections of the Indian Penal Code against unknown people and groups.Also Read: ‘Blood-coloured’ clothes found at Hathras rape accused’s house, kin say it’s red paintThe UP government, which forcibly cremated the body of the woman , with her immediately family not present, has maintained that much of the outrage following the woman’s death from injuries sustained during the assault, and the forced cremation, was orchestrated by enemies of the state. The Allahabat High Court has already come down hard on the state for the forced cremation and said this was a violation of the human rights of the victim as well as the family. The government official claimed an initial probe into the matter has revealed that some people raised funds through a website, which had now been taken down, to foment caste violence in the backdrop of the Hathras incident. Four people including a journalist, allegedly linked to the Popular Front of India (PFI) and its associate body, Campus Front of India (CFI, were arrested in Mathura on October 5. The official said the STF probe would also focus on people and groups behind justiceforhathrasvictim.carrd.co that hosted information about date, time and location of protests that swept India over the past week. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is already probing the monetary angle and sources of illegal funds raised through the website while the case of gang rape and murder is being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation. The Central Bureau of Investigation meanwhile, found clothes with what look like blood-stains at the house of Luv Kush Sikarwar, one of the four accused in the gang rape. Also Read| ‘We want to be safe’: Hathras rape victim’s family wants to be shifted to DelhiHowever, the family members of Luv Kush claimed that Ravi Sikarwar, the elder brother of the accused is employed as a painter in a factory, and thus his clothes had red stains. “The CBI team stayed for two-and-a-half hours and kept on searching our house. They found clothes with red stains on it and took that along,” said Lalit Sikarwar, the accused’s younger brother The CBI team has been in the village for four days and has interacted with the father and brothers of the victim. On Tuesday, it visited the crime scene, The CBI team was at the house of all four accused on Thursday and extensively interrogated their family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-stf-likely-to-probe-ploy-to-incite-caste-violence/story-xNrgfkU3Ge5Z1CuZsdzG3H.html
17-10-2020||India||Govt offices resume work in full force after order||A majority of the workforce in government offices from the under-secretary level and above has resumed work from office following an order from the Department of Personnel and Training. “The Government servants at the level of Under Secretary and above to attend offices on all working days,” the order dated October 7 stated.“As regards Government servants below the level of Under Secretary, at least 50% of attendance is to be ensured. The Heads of Department may mandate attendance of more than 50%, if required in public interest, while strictly ensuring that social distancing is maintained under all circumstances,” it said. HT has seen the DoPT order.The officials have been directed to follow staggered timings to avoid over-crowding in offices and been advised to follow two shifts -- from 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, and from 10.00 am to 6.30 pm. The department has exempted officials residing in containment zones from attending officer till such a zone is denotified. “Persons with Disabilities and Pregnant women employees shall continue to work from home till further orders,” the DoPT order stated. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“Those officers/staff who are not attending office shall work from home and they should be available on telephone and electronic means of communication at all times,” it added. It has also asked all heads of departments to ensure that the ‘National Directives for the Covid-19 management, which include instructions issued for regular sanitization/cleaning of working places, maintenance of social distancing norms, wearing of masks etc. are strictly complied with’. “Meetings, as far as possible, shall be conducted on video-conferencing and personal meetings with visitors, unless absolutely necessary in public interest, are to be avoided,” the order said. In pursuance with the DoPT directives, the ministry of home affairs in a separate memorandum, issued on October 9, has asked “All Divisional heads to ensure 100% attendance of the officers of the level of US & above and also to mandate the attendance of officials below the level of US as per exigencies of work subject to strict observance of Social Distancing Norms”. Until now, a 100% strength was only required from officials at the level of director and above, with other officials being asked to attend office on alternate days. The government was also considering a work from home policy, but it seems to have been put on hold over privacy concerns regarding confidential documents. “Now its practically 100% attendance in offices, everyone has returned to work,” said a government official on condition of anonymity. “The government has opened up theatres and cinema halls, there are km-long lines outside the Delhi metro. Everyone is taking precautions, sanitisers, masks and Aarogya Setu is compulsory. Work is back in full swing,” the official said.“There were a few Covid-19 cases in our ministry just last week. Since under-secretaries share spaces, it may increase the risk. But people have to return to work at some point,” a second official said, requesting anonymity.More than six months after the Centre imposed a hard lockdown to arrest the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Union home ministry on October 1 moved closer to unlocking almost all activities by allowing a graded restart of schools, partial reopening of movie theatres, and large gatherings including political and religious events.The latest easing of curbs has permitted more activities in areas outside the containment zones including opening up cinemas, theatres and multiplexes with up to 50% of their seating capacity from October 15. In the latest guidelines, the government also allowed flexibility to states and Union Territories to decide on reopening schools and coaching institutions from mid-October in a phased manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-offices-resume-in-full-force-after-order/story-UT57ZqOIQl2u9Rk3meSlaO.html
