18-10-2020||India||Bengal governor Dhankhar gives ‘last warning’ to officials, CM Mamata on law and order||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said on Sunday night that law and order in the state had collapsed and he was giving his “last warning” to the government. “I want to tell the chief minister to follow the Constitution. I am here to protect it. They are playing with fire. They (bureaucrats and police) cannot be political workers and shall not be allowed to be political workers. Those who are sleeping like Kumbhakarna have no idea that there is something called destiny,” Dhankhar said. “This is my last warning,” he added. A mythical demon mentioned in the Ramayana, Kumbhakarna used to sleep for six months and wake up for 24 hours to eat. Dhankhar made the statement after meeting Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and the brother of Madan Ghorai, a BJP worker, who died in hospital while in judicial custody on October 13. Lok Sabha MP Locket Chatterjee took relatives of Ghorai to the Raj Bhawan at about 7 pm. Swapan Ghorai, the brother of the deceased, fainted when he was standing with the others near the stairs leading to the entrance of the Raj Bhawan. Dhankhar was coming down the stairs when the incident happened. He talked to Ghorai after he recovered. “Do not think that you can stop the governor by trolling him. This is the last warning. If rule of law is not established be ready to face the music,” said Dhankhar. “Tearful Swapan Ghorai brother of custodial death @WBPolice victim Madan Ghorai pleaded for probe #CBI for justice. Delegation including MPs #LokSabha @me_locket @ArjunsinghWB said that this custodial death is political vendetta. There is lawlessness and anarchy @MamataOfficial,” Dhankhar tweeted after 8 pm. Incidentally, Union home minister Amit Shah told a national television channel in an interview telecast on Saturday that law and order in the state has reached a dangerous level and Bengal BJP leaders must have enough reasons to demand President’s rule. Shah, however, said the Centre follows the law and the Constitution when he was asked whether the Centre would enforce Article 356 of the Constitution. TMC Lok Sabha member and a party spokesperson, Saugata Roy said, “The governor is rude. He is acting like a BJP spokesperson. He is clearly crossing his limits. If someone has died in custody, then the court and the administration is there to look into it and take steps.” “The governor is picking up isolated incidents to show that law and order is collapsing. That can only be said when there are mass killings and upheavals. Nothing of that nature is happening in Bengal. Amit Shah recently warned the governor of a state for his language. Shah should warn Dhankhar too,” Roy said. Reacting to Shah’s comment, CPI (M) Politburo member Md Salim said, “This is a trick before the assembly elections. It has been proved that Trinamool Congress (TMC) is affiliated to the BJP. It is being offered a safe passage by Amit Shah. The Centre is dangling Article 356 like a carrot. We don’t want a safe passage.” The Calcutta high court on Friday issued back- to-back orders on separate petitions moved by the BJP and the government in connection with the BJP worker’s death at SSKM hospital in Kolkata on October 13. The man was brought from East Midnapore district while he was in judicial custody. He was arrested on September 27 in connection with a criminal case. After hearing a plea moved by the brother of the deceased, who demanded investigation into the custodial death, the single-judge bench of Rajasekhar Mantha on Friday afternoon ordered a second post mortem examination. The government told the court that the deceased, Madan Ghorai, fell ill in judicial custody in East Midnapore district and was taken to a local hospital and later shifted to SSKM Hospital. The body was handed over to the family on Friday morning after post mortem examination. The BJP alleged that Ghorai died because he was tortured by the police. Challenging the single-bench ruling, the state government moved the divisional bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee in the evening. The division bench ordered a stay on the second post mortem examination till Monday and referred the case back to the single bench, saying the government should be given time to prepare its reply and in the meantime the body must be preserved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-dhankhar-gives-last-warning-to-officials-cm-mamata-on-law-and-order/story-H4b4jKVTh79pOxD7FmaLGK.html
18-10-2020||India||BJP banks on rainbow coalition of castes to bag votes in Bihar polls||NEW DELHI: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is counting on the support of a rainbow coalition of castes including the Dalits, who weren’t traditionally considered to be part of its support base, to ensure the return of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to power in the upcoming Bihar assembly elections.The party has allocated 50% of seats to contestants from so-called non-upper castes, which is a reinforcement of its acceptance across caste groups, a senior BJP functionary said on Sunday. The party has also fielded 51 candidates from the Kayastha, Rajput, Bhumihar and Brahmin communities who belong to the upper castes that are traditionally considered BJP supporters. “Of the 110 names announced so far, 50 are from the Dalit, Mahadalit and the ST {scheduled tribe} communities. We have the support of each of these communities for the pro-development policies of the BJP,” the functionary said, requesting anonymity. With Mahadalit leader and former chief minister Jitin Ram Manjhi and his Hindustani Awam Morcha {HAM} and Mukesh Sahni of the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) joining the NDA, which also has chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janarta Dal (United), or JD (U) among its constituents, the BJP says the alliance has an appeal cutting across caste lines. “The BJP believes in empowerment of all castes and groups and has a larger social base as compared to other political parties,” said national general secretary and in-charge of Bihar, Bhupender Yadav. Support from the Dalits and the iother backward classes (OBCs) is not the only reason for the BJP’s optimism about its performance in the three-phase election spread over October 28, November 3 and November 7. The party also believes that the so-called lower castes are distancing themselves from the opposition Mahagathbandhan, or grand alliance comprising the Rashtriya Janata Dal, Congress and Left parties. “There are four important social groups, the Mahadalits, the EBCs {economically backward classes}, the OBCs and the tribals; and all of these have quit the Mahagathbandhan. The Mahadalits are with the BJP; RLSP {Rashtriya Lok Samta Party} that represents the OBCs walked out of the alliance, the EBCs (VIP) said they were stabbed in the back and the JMM {Jharkhand Mukti Morcha}, which represents the STs, has also kept away. This is an indication that the aspirations of these communities cannot be met by any other entity other than the NDA,” said the functionary quoted above. EBCs that make up 30% of the electorate are among the most courted voters. While the BJP has given five seats to EBC candidates, it also gave 11 seats from its share of 121 to the VIP. In 2015, the BJP gave 25 seats to EBC candidates, of which 12 won. The OBCs that make uo 22% of the electorate have been fielded from 15 constituencies in a bid to create a dent in the RJD’s vote bank. The NDA is expected to gain from the BJP’s largely upper caste vote bank and the JD (U)’s clout with the EBC and OBC voters. The JD (U)’s focus on the Mahadalits is expected to give the NDA a shot in the arm. There are around 100-odd seats, where the Dalits and the Mahadalits hold sway. And the NDA will make the most of a recent Supreme Court ruling that SC and STs do not constitute a homogenous group and sub-categorisation of these groups can be considered by the states.Since the general election of 2014, there is a perception that the BJP has been trying to shed its image as a party of Brahamins and Baniyas; which is why it has made assiduous attempts to woo the non-dominant OBCs. “The BJP’s agenda of development overrides caste. Unlike the BSP or the RJD that thrived on caste consolidation and were unabashed about catering only to the Dalits, the Yadavs and the Muslims; the BJP chose to focus on empowerment of all and winnability of the candidates,” said a second BJP functionary. The second functionary said that even the JD (U) and the Lok Jan Shakti Party that were considered partial to the OBCs, Dalits and the Muslims have fielded 18 and 16 upper caste candidates and the RJD has 12 upper caste contestants. Commenting on the BJP’s outreach towards the Dalits, OBCs and EBCs, political commentator and Jawaharlal Nehru University professor Ajay Gudavarthy said: “Under Amit Shah’s leadership, BJP moved beyond the Brahmin-Bania base and extended it to Dalits and non-Yadav OBCs by giving them greater representation. This makes their pan-Hindu claims real strong. Not offering seats to Muslims gives them this ironical advantage of having more seats to spare for different sections of the Hindus unlike the Mahagatbandhan. It also makes it an exclusive Hindu party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-banks-on-rainbow-coalition-of-castes-to-bag-votes-in-bihar-polls/story-eYlRfTKJyX5PGQhvdHilVI.html
18-10-2020||India||Gadchiroli police guns down 5 Maoists in one of the biggest ops against rebels this year||Left-wing extremists of the Communist Party of India (CPI) (Maoist) suffered a big major jolt when Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli police gunned down five of its active armed members, including three women, near Dhanora of north Gadchiroli, bordering Chhattisgarh, on Sunday evening. According to reports, the incident took place at Kosmi-Kisneli forest area around 4.30 pm. The deceased included three women members of the banned CPI (Maoist). The district police informed that the red rebels, who were camping in Kosmi-Kisneli forest area, suddenly opened fire at a C-60 team, an elite anti-Naxalite squad of the district, which was conducting a combing operation in the forest region. The left-extremists, however, fled the spot after the jawans launched a retaliatory attack. Later, the police recovered bodies of three female and two male activists of the CPI (Maoist) from the spot. They are yet to be identified. The police also seized a large number of arms and ammunition and Maoist literature from the area. Bhausaheb Dhole, deputy superintendent of Gadchiroli police claimed that there were no casualties on the security side in what he described as the first major encounter of the year. The district police have intensified anti-Maoist operations in a big way in the region in recent months. A search operation has also been launched in the area after the incident. Sunday’s anti-Maoist operation is considered as one of the biggest operations against the rebels in the district this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gadchiroli-police-guns-down-5-maoists-in-one-of-the-biggest-ops-against-rebels-this-year/story-Q9rJd4SW2glIQHe6Wj74OK.html
18-10-2020||India||Manipur reports 5 more Covid-19 fatalities in 24 hours, death toll at 116||Manipur reported five Covid-19 deaths - one each from Imphal East and Imphal West districts and three from Churachandpur district - in the last 24 hours, official sources said on Sunday. The cumulative number of Covid-19 deaths in the state has now touched 116.Dr Kh Sasheekumar, spokesperson of the health department, said five men had died of Covid-19 in the state in the past 24 hours. The deceased included 40-year-old from Imphal East, 76-year-old (Imphal West), 84-year-old (Churachandpur), 67-year-old (Churachandpur) and another 70-year-old male from Churachandpur district. In the past 24 hours, 309 people from the general population and 13 Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) personnel were confirmed for Covid-19, the state health department release said. The new Covid-19 cases were confirmed across 24 testing facilities in the state.The positive cases from were reported from Imphal West (140), Imphal East (36), Thoubal (60), Jiribam (1), Noney (26), Kangpokpi (2), Ukhrul (3), Kakching (2), Chandel (8), Churachandpur (7), Tengnoupal (3), Senapati (11) and Bishnupur(10), the release added.Also read: ‘Covid-19 deaths in India could have exceeded 25 lakh in August’All are locals without any significant travel history, it said, adding that the patients are being moved to the Covid care facilities. All necessary medical precautionary measures, like containment and contact-tracing, are in place, the release added.In the past 24 hours, 298 people were discharged from 17 Covid care facilities after they were found free from infection on RT PCR testing.The cumulative number of positive cases of Covid-19 in the state stands 15,463 while the number of active and recovered cases are 3,606 and 11,761 respectively, it added. The recovery rate in the state is 75.92 percent.So far, 412,333 people were screened at various entry points of the state while 320,798 samples were tested for Covid-19, according to the latest official reports.The state health department has also urged the public to self-isolate and contact Covid control room or the chief medical officer for testing on coming in contact with a Covid-19 positive person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-reports-5-more-covid-19-fatalities-in-24-hours-death-toll-at-116/story-YLW0LJM9oZM51rLLFQKjWN.html
18-10-2020||India||Days before his death, Pranab Mukherjee penned an article recalling fond memories of Sheikh Mujib||In an article penned days before his death, former president Pranab Mukherjee had fondly remembered Bangladesh founder Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and recalled how in 1972 the then Pakistan President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto had tried in vain to pressure him into issuing a joint statement to show that Pakistan remained undivided. Mukherjee, in his article that is published in the book ‘Voice of Millions’ to mark the centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, also reminisced how he, as a young Rajya Sabha MP, had called in Parliament for granting recognition to the then Bangladesh government in exile, as part of a political solution. The former President quoted from Sheikh Mujib’s book ‘Unfinished Memoirs’, published by his daughter 29 years after his death, to note how the Bangladeshi leader was not even aware of the independence of his country and was in exile in the Mianwali Jail near Rawalpindi at that time. He was thereafter taken to London on a special flight on the night of January 8, 1972, after Bhutto failed in his attempts to woo him. “Bhutto informed Mujib that he was the President and needed Mujib’s help. During the few days between 1st and 8th January, Bhutto spoke to him at various times and pressured Mujib to sign a joint statement. He showed Mujib many drafts...,” Mukherjee wrote.“Meanwhile, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto made repeated appeals to Mujib to establish a relationship between Pakistan and Bangladesh. A relationship that would keep Pakistan undivided. “Mujib simply informed Bhutto that he would not be able to say anything to him without first conferring with the people of his country. “In the end, a frustrated Bhutto decided to send Mujib to Britain. In the middle of the night on 8th January 1972, a special Pak Airlines plane flew Mujib, its sole passenger, to London’s Heathrow airport. When he landed at Heathrow, the local time was 6:30 am,” he said, noting from his book. Mukherjee also recollected in his article how his mind was filled with memories of the events of 1971. He was 36 years old and an MP when the people of Bangladesh were engaged in their liberation struggle. “I recall that, on June 15, 1971, I had the privilege to initiate a discussion on the floor of Rajya Sabha, the upper house of the Indian Parliament, when I suggested that India should accord diplomatic recognition to the Government of Bangladesh in exile in Mujibnagar. My words are on the record in the proceedings of Rajya Sabha. “When a Member sought my suggestion on how to tackle the problem, I responded by saying: ‘I am talking of a political solution which means categorically recognising the sovereign democratic Government of Bangladesh. “Political solution means giving material help to the democratic, sovereign Government of Bangladesh.... I reminded the House of the many instances in world history when intervention on similar grounds had taken place in the past,” Mukherjee wrote in the article which, his close associates said, was his last. He also wrote about how Mujib worked hard for creation of Pakistan, but intense disagreements arose between him and the Muslim League leadership as he began to oppose various policies and their applications. “Because of this, he was imprisoned shortly after liberation for criticizing and opposing government policies at different times. If the 9 months in 1971 are included, then Mujib’s total period of imprisonment comes to 3,053 days, he said.Describing the ‘Father of Bangladesh’ as “a tireless Statesman”, Mukherjee said the legacy of ‘Bangabandhu’ and Bangladesh are intertwined together.“There are very few individuals in history who have a profound impact in the creation of Nations, indeed a subcontinent’s identity. “Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujbir Rahman stands tall amongst those few. His unbound love for his people and his struggle for them is a testament to his legacy. “As the sub-continent observes his birth centenary, we not only remember a Statesman but a man who lived and died for his great nation, in the process reaffirming the culturally ingrained values of freedom and liberty, composite secularism and inclusive development,” he said in his article. He wrote about the days of Sheikh Mujib’s schooling, before becoming the leader of Bangladesh.The former President, who is the only one from outside Bangladesh to have written in the book, said his dream of a ‘Sonar Bangla’ lives on.He also talked about how Sheikh Mujib made the ‘Chhatra League’ a mass movement that also helped in achieving the dream of Bangladesh’s independence. Mukherjee said he was in Kolkata when Sheikh Mujib was assassinated. “Of the brutal annihilation of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman with his entire family (except his two daughters Sheikh Hasina and Sheikh Rehana) at the dawn of 14th /15th August 1975, the most vivid memory I have is of unbelievable shock and anger,” he remarked .Mukherjee died on August 31 at the age of 84.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/days-before-his-death-pranab-mukherjee-penned-an-article-recalling-fond-memories-of-sheikh-mujib/story-9DLcNzxYXFkzl0k4zZeNVL.html
18-10-2020||India||Punjab govt to table bill in special assembly to boost investment||The Punjab government will table a bill in a special assembly session beginning Monday to improve the State’s investment climate and generate employment. The state cabinet approved the conversion of the Factories (Punjab Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, into a Bill at a meeting chaired by chief minister Amarinder Singh, an official statement said.The Bill is aimed at amending a relevant section and inserting a new section in the Factories Act, 1948. It provides for changing the existing threshold limit for small units.The change has been necessitated by the increase in manufacturing activities by small units in the state and is aimed at promoting small manufacturing units. This would help create more employment opportunities for workers, it said.In view of the absence of any provision in the existing law for compounding of offences for violations found at the time of the inspection of factories by the Inspector, the Bill will also incorporate a relevant section in the Act. This will facilitate faster settlement of cases and reduction in court action, the statement added.On October 14, the state Cabinet decided to convene a special session of the state assembly here to bring in a legislation to counter the Centre’s new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-govt-to-table-bill-in-special-assembly-to-boost-investment/story-Daz9e5ylTORme1YwgAtmeN.html
18-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand adds 376 new Covid-19 cases; state tally crosses 58,000-mark||With 376 fresh Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand on Sunday crossed the 58,000-mark, taking the state’s coronavirus tally to 58,024. According to the bulletin released by the state health department on Sunday evening, a maximum of 128 new cases were reported from Dehradun district. The fresh cases reported in other districts included Almora (4), Bageshwar (11), Chamoli (29), Champawat (16), Haridwar (28), Nainital (34), Pauri (42), Pithoragarh (8), Rudraprayag (10), Tehri (31), US Nagar (22) and Uttarkashi (13). Dehradun district has reported the maximum of 16,120 Covid-19 cases so far followed by Haridwar (10,590), US Nagar (9,178) and Nainital (6,852). Out of 58,024 people who have tested positive so far, a total of 50,982 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 87.86%. Of the 162 Covid-19 patients who were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Sunday, a maximum of 42 were from Haridwar district. The state reported the death of three Covid-19 patients. With this, the death toll of Covid-19 patients increased to 927 in the state. Out of the 927 deaths, 244 are due to coronavirus, while the others died due to co-morbidities. The state has so far tested over 9.02 lakh samples of which results of over 13,700 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 80 containment zones in eight districts including a maximum of 32 in Dehradun district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-adds-376-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-crosses-58-000-mark/story-Nj9dmeH6FvUpR8txCfITAN.html
18-10-2020||India||PM Modi to address centenary convocation of University of Mysore on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the centenary convocation of the University of Mysore via video-conferencing on Monday.A statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Saturday said the Karnataka governor, along with other dignitaries, would be present on the occasion with members of the syndicate and the academic council, MPs, MLAs, MLCs, statutory officers, district officers and students and parents set to witness the ceremony online.The university said that it will confer honorary doctorate on Infosys Foundation chairperson and author Sudha Murty during the convocation.“Honourable Chancellor has approved one candidate for an honorary degree.Sudha Murty, Chairperson of Infosys Foundation, will be conferred,” Vice Chancellor prof G Hemanth Kumar told reporters in Mysuru on Friday.The University of Mysore was established in 1916. It was the sixth university in the country and the first in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-centenary-convocation-of-university-of-mysore-on-monday/story-p11SPqcqTZUUspe8I0w22H.html
18-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Haryana records zero fatality day, second sero survey from Monday||The Haryana government will conduct sero survey on Monday and Tuesday (October 19 and 20) to find out the extent of the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). This will be the second round of sero survey in the state.During this period, samples of 720 people from rural and urban areas of each of the 22 district will be collected, Haryana health minister Anil Vij said.He further informed that nodal officers have been appointed at the district level and they will monitor the survey-related activities.Vij said the serological survey is an antibody test and will help identify the penetration of coronavirus at the community-level and monitor its transmission trends.The results of the survey are likely to be made public by October end, officials said.In an earlier sero-survey conducted nearly two months ago, antibodies against Covid-19 infection were found in eight per cent of people in Haryana and those living in urban areas and National Capiral Region (NCR) districts were found to be more affected.A total of 850 samples each were collected during the first sero survey.Meanwhile, Haryana recorded 952 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, which took the state’s tally to 1,50,033. The districts which reported a huge spike in cases include Gurgaon (249), Faridabad (177) and Hisar (131).But, in a major relief, the state didn’t record any fatality due to the disease. This was for the first time in four-and-a-half months that Haryana witnessed zero fatality day.“The Haryana Health Department is happy to announce that no death due to Covid-19 has been reported today (24-hour period),” Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajeev Arora said on Sunday.The death toll in the state stands at 1,640, according to state health department.Haryana reported its first case of Covid-19 on March 17 after a 29-year-old woman from Gurgaon tested positive for the infection. She had a travel history to Malaysia and Indonesia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-haryana-records-zero-fatality-day-second-sero-survey-from-monday/story-ZJPAd3SSxBORfjCvpsFmAP.html
18-10-2020||India||In Hathras, anti-Romeo squads back in action to check crimes against women||Nearly a dozen teams with over 50 police personnel are part of the anti-Romeo squads that have been reactivated in Hathras to check crimes against women, officials said on Sunday. The development comes as part of the “Mission Shakti” campaign of the Uttar Pradesh government, which has faced flak over a string of rape incidents, including the alleged gangrape and death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman here, recently. “There are 11 police stations, including the Mahila Thana, in the district. There are 11 anti-Romeo squads with five police personnel in each team. One team includes three women and two men personnel. These squads would keep an eye on miscreants harassing or troubling women and girls in the district,” Hathras Superintendent of Police, Vineet Jaiswal, told PTI. The district police chief on Sunday held a meeting with all members of the squads and stressed on the need to put a check on crimes against women and girls. These squads would patrol public places like markets, the vicinity of schools and colleges, coaching institutes, bus stands, parks, among others, to prevent harassment of women and girls, and indecency against them by miscreants, a police spokesperson said. “The squads would also raise awareness among women and girls about the helpline numbers being operated by the state government and the state police. For example, they can dial 112, 181 and 1090 (women helpline), 1076 (chief minister’s helpline), 1098 (child helpline), 102 and 108 (healthcare and ambulance),” the spokesperson said. The squads will also apprise the women and children about mobile phone apps like the ‘UP COP’ and how they could be used by distressed persons, the official added. The anti-Romeo squads were constituted to check stalkers and eve-teasers in Uttar Pradesh soon after Yogi Adityanath had assumed the office of the chief minister in 2017. Facing flak over crimes against women in the state, Adityanath on Saturday had launched the ‘Mission Shakti’ campaign that focuses on ensuring the safety and dignity of women and girls, with a stern warning that perpetrators of crimes against females will be dealt with an iron hand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-hathras-anti-romeo-squads-back-in-action-to-check-crimes-against-women/story-3aM6da0LWbq3w4SDwFv7lO.html
18-10-2020||India||Akhilesh Yadav starts preparations to take on incumbent govt in 2022 polls||Samajwadi Party National President and former Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav has started preparations for the Assembly elections in 2022.Applications are being invited by the Samajwadi Party from potential candidates for the State Assembly Elections of 2022. Which will be taken from October 19 2020, said party chief spokesperson Rajendra Choudhary.The last date for applying is January 26 2021. Applications will be submitted to the State headquarters, 19 Vikramaditya Marg, Lucknow. Candidates’ applications will not be taken from the constituencies where the assembly by-elections are being held and from the constituencies of the current Members of Legislative Assembly (MLA).Right now the emphasis of Samajwadi Party is on strengthening the organisation up to the block and booth level. The party’s national president Akhilesh Yadav has instructed party workers and leaders to carry out intensive public relations starting from now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-starts-preparations-to-take-on-incumbent-govt-in-2022-polls/story-LcKlY78kBJ2BPujBuxeKaJ.html
18-10-2020||India||Delhi doctors defer strike over salary, cite inconvenience to patients||Municipal Corporation Doctor’s Association has deferred its strike that was to begin on Monday in protest against non-payment of salaries “to avoid inconvenience to patients and considering the appeal of the north MCD Mayor.”The Association has stated that if salaries are not paid in a week they may be forced to reconsider decision.The Municipal Corporation Doctor’s Association in a letter to the Commissioner, North Delhi Municipal Corporation wrote, “with due respect, it is submitted that this Association, which represents permanent senior doctors of all three Municipal Corporations of Delhi, gave strike notice dated October 14 for indefinite strike w.e.f. October 19 to protest against nonpayment of our salaries of last three months.”Thereafter, with a view to avoid any inconvenience to patients due to impending strike, we made fervent appeals to our Prime Minister, Union Health Minister and Hon’ble Mayor/North MCD to help find some permanent solution, the Association stated. “In order to avoid the likely inconvenience our strike will cause to patients and considering the appeal of the Mayor/North MCD to senior doctors to give him some time to arrange funds, this Association reconsidered its decision to proceed on scheduled strike. After having detailed discussion with our members on the subject, it has been decided that Corporation should be given some more time to arrange funds and to find permanent solution to this recurring salary problem with the help of Central or State government,” the Association wrote. Accordingly, it has been decided to defer the indefinite strike for time being in general public interest with the hope that in the meanwhile Corporation will find permanent solution of the salary issue.“If our three months salaries are not paid within a week time, then this body may be forced to reconsider its decision,” the Association stated. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-doctors-defer-strike-over-salary-cite-inconvenience-to-patients/story-fYDLPXHdc4oxrruaoL3KvL.html
18-10-2020||India||‘Sexual assault at gunpoint’: Woman presses rape charges against jailed MLA, his kin||A woman in her mid-thirties lodged a gang-rape case against jailed Gyanpur-Bhadohi MLA Vijay Mishra, his son and another relative at Gopiganj police station in Bhadohi district of eastern Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, the police said.The woman alleged that Mishra sexually assaulted her several times at gunpoint in 2014, adding that his son Vishnu Mishra and his relative Vikas Mishra also raped her.Krishnanand Rai, inspector of Gopiganj police station, said the case was registered against Vijay Mishra, his son Vishnu Mishra and relative Vikas Mishra under sections 376D (gang-rape), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The alleged victim was sent for a medical examination.In 2017, Mishra won the assembly election as a candidate of the Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal (NISHAD) party.Also read: Delhi’s water supply to be affected for next 4-5 days due to maintenance workA senior police officer said the woman, who belonged to Varanasi, alleged that she was called for campaigning in Bhadohi during the 2014 general election. She alleged that when she tried to resist rape, the accused threatened to kill her.The officer said the woman moved to Mumbai due to MLA’s fear but came back to the state to file the case on learning that he was in jail in another case. Vijay Mishra was arrested in August in an alleged case of property grabbing and is currently in Agra jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sexual-assault-at-gunpoint-woman-presses-rape-charges-against-jailed-mla-his-kin/story-qcQ9Am6LhGkr8NLCI8meeP.html
18-10-2020||India||BJP offered bribe to Congress MLAs to switch sides in Gujarat: Congress||The Congress on Sunday alleged that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) offered monetary and other inducements to its legislators in Gujarat to switch sides, and demanded a judicial inquiry into the matter. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi claimed that Akshay Patel, Pradyumnsinh Jadeja and J V Kakadiya, who joined the BJP in June this year after resigning from the Congress, had purportedly accepted on camera to have been offered inducements for switching over. He cited their interviews to the media to allege the BJP had offered them monetary or other inducements to woo them to their side. The three have been fielded by the BJP in Gujarat for the upcoming by-polls. “The legislature, it is clear from these proofs, has become a pawn, a business plaything for the BJP, which aggressively indulges in the 3Ts -- Trading, Trafficking and Transaction-ing with MLAs and legislators,” Singhvi said. Five of the eight Congress legislators have got tickets from the BJP for the forthcoming bypolls, he added. “The issue at all is not whether he accepted it or took the bribe or not. Obviously, those speaking have denied it. The issue is the true colours of the offeror, the true moral constitutional and legal level, political level at which the offeror is functioning, namely the BJP,” Singhvi said about Patel. “The true issue is about the limitless capacity of this party to offer money. I repeat - limitless capacity, matched only by their limitless greed for power by hook or by crook, more by crook, less by hook,” he said. The Congress leader alleged that the BJP ensures the election mandate, which is the constitutional and democratic mandate, is actually a mandate for only two or three years. “It is curtailed, interrupted, obstructed to 2-3 years by ‘A’ large sums of money, ‘B’ large number of resignations, ‘C’, re-offering of ministerships and ‘D’, offering of MLA tickets,” he alleged. Singhvi alleged that this is the political morality practiced by the ruling party at the Centre and in Gujarat. “You (BJP) create an artificial majority, an artificial majority is negation of the democracy, which functions on majority, true majorities and you do it by the naked use of monetary power,” he said. The Congress spokesperson demanded a Supreme Court sitting judge probe into the matter or at least by a sitting Chief Justice of a High Court at the minimum. There should be an immediate registration of a Prevention of Corruption Act, FIR and related sections of the Indian penal codes on the criminal sides, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-offered-bribe-to-congress-mlas-to-switch-sides-in-gujarat-congress/story-MNo3rdYv8bWeXzIS64o4mN.html
18-10-2020||India||Houses torched, 7 injured in Assam-Mizoram border clash||Three persons were injured and several huts were torched on the Assam-Mizoram border on Saturday night in a flare up of border dispute between the two states, officials said. Seven persons from Mizoram side were injured when villagers of Lailapur in Cachar district of Assam clashed with residents of Vairengte in Kolasib district, Mizoram’s Directorate of Information and Public Relations said.The clashes reportedly started after some people from the Mizoram side torched some huts made by Lailapur residents on a disputed portion of the border between the two states. Assam forest and environment minister Parimal Suklabaidya along with senior bureaucrats and police officers reached the spot on Sunday and took stock of the situation there. Blaming the incident on “miscreants from the other side of the border”, the minister urged everyone to remain calm and assured the state government would provide necessary security to the residents. “We got a report last night that some temporary huts were burnt. Police were immediately rushed to the spot and the situation was brought under control. Security has been beefed up in the area and we are engaged in talks with our Mizoram counterparts,” said Cachar’s superintendent of police Bhanwar Lal Meena. Saturday’s incident comes a week after a similar flare up between both states on the border along Karimganj district of Assam and Mamit district of Mizoram. In Mizoram, the state cabinet met on Sunday and “expressed regret at the unilateral and provocative acts of disturbing peace and harmony in the border areas at three locations”. The cabinet blamed the Karimganj and Cachar district administrations in Assam as being responsible for the flare up and urged the Assam government to take urgent measures to restore normalcy in the border areas. “The government of Mizoram appeals to all persons not to attempt to use the present crisis to further their personal or collective motives,” said a statement issued by Mizoram’s home department. On Sunday Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal called up the offices of the Prime Minister and Union home minister Amit Shah and apprised them about the situation. He also spoke with Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga and both agreed to resolve the issue through talks, officials said. Both Assam and Mizoram have approached the Centre to intervene in the matter and resolve the long standing border dispute between the two states. Chief secretaries of both states will have a meeting through video conference with union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Monday to discuss the latest flare up. Assam and Mizoram share a 165 km long boundary. Mizoram was part of Assam till 1972 when it became a union territory and a state in 1987. Border disputes between the two states keep occurring intermittently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/houses-torched-3-injured-in-assam-mizoram-border-clash/story-wZ38ZZYQcG3sI7x0qvvPqJ.html
18-10-2020||India||MP man dies by suicide day after brother’s arrest for killing wife, daughter||The younger brother of a man accused of killing his wife and minor daughter in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa district, 536 km north east of Bhopal, allegedly died by suicide on Saturday shortly before he was to be questioned in the double murder case, police said Sunday.The 35-year-old accused, a resident of a village in the district, got into an argument with his wife on Wednesday suspecting her of infidelity and allegedly killed her and their toddler daughter. The accused allegedly chopped his wife and daughter’s bodies into pieces and was going to dispose of them when he was spotted and arrested on Friday. Mauganj police station in-charge Vinod Singh said, “Before murdering his wife and daughter, the accused had a drink with his 30-year-old younger brother and a friend. Police suspected the role of the other two men in the double murder. The younger brother of the accused might have felt traumatised by the incident that drove him to end life on Saturday evening. Police went to his house and found him hanging.” The accused’s 13-year-old son who is now being cared by the village headman and other villagers said his uncle was disturbed after the murders and arrest of his brother. “Some villagers told my uncle that he would have to go to jail as he was present with my father when my mother and sister were killed. My uncle locked himself in a room after a villager informed him that a police party was coming to nab him,” said the son. Rewa, superintendent of police, Rakesh Singh said, “During investigation in the double murder police wanted to know if the accused’s brother had helped him in the crime. We are trying to find out what drove the accused’s brother to suicide.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-man-dies-by-suicide-day-after-brother-s-arrest-for-killing-wife-daughter/story-g3sPEsJmoXVeBYQR89v44O.html
18-10-2020||India||CBI questions youth who was first to reach crime spot in Hathras case again||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team probing the gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, on Sunday, once again questioned a 19-year-old youth who was the first to reach the crime scene on the day of the incident on September 14.The CBI had questioned him earlier as well as he was considered to be an important ‘witness’. The youth is said to be from the family which owns the millet field where the woman was assaulted. He was called to the CBI’s camp office in Hathras.The 15-member CBI team had reached Hathras on Tuesday and had gone directly to the crime scene in the millet field. The brother of the victim, her mother and aunt also reached the spot.The CBI team, which has been in Hathras for six days, had interacted with the father and brothers of the victim on Wednesday.The CBI team also went to the houses of all four accused on Thursday and extensively interrogated their family members. The team found clothes with blood-like stains at the house of Luv Kush Sikarwar, one of the four accused.However, the family members of Luv Kush denied that they were blood-stained clothes. They claimed that Ravi Sikarwar, the elder brother of the accused is employed as a painter in a factory, and thus his clothes had red stains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-questions-youth-who-was-first-to-reach-crime-spot-in-hathras-case-again/story-XgpTzp2duBubjmGz3XWqTP.html
18-10-2020||India||Covid-19 continues to head north in Kerala with another surge of 7,631 cases||Kerala reported 7,631 Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the state’s tally to 3,41,859 out of which 2,45,399 have recovered while active cases climbed to 95,200, the health department said.There were 22 casualties on Sunday, taking the death in the pandemic to 1,161. Ahead of the release of Sunday’s figures, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said in Delhi that Kerala had squandered its early advantage and paid a big price for its laxity during the Onam festival.The minister said that the state was paying a huge price for negligence during Onam festivities and asked other states to learn a lesson from Kerala’s bitter experience. His criticism came hours after a government-appointed expert committee cautioned that relaxing curbs during the festive season could lead to a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases. But executive director of the Kerala Social Security Mission, Dr Mohammad Asheel criticised the Union minister’s comments saying it will only help create panic.“What the minister said is wrong. Death rate is lowest here and we have a high recovery rate also. Politics should be kept away from pandemic,” he said.But opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said like the minister he was pointing out ‘pitfalls’ for some time but the government failed to heed them. He asked the government to double the tests rather than finding refuge in outdated records. Statistics show things are not going right in the state. Kerala is one of the six worst affected states with high test positivity rate (TPR) and heavy load of active cases at 95,200. On Sunday, the TPR stood at 13.06%. Once lauded for its model pandemic control measures, Covid-19 cases surged after the first week of September following Onam festivities. Though the ground situation is grim, the state government said it has the lowest mortality rate in the country, 0.40 against the national average of 1.50 %. But many experts and opposition parties have criticised the government in finding refuge in mere records without seeing the writing on the wall. Experts have asked the government to increase the test rate considerably and give more emphasis on RT-PCR tests. Out of 39 lakh tests at least 60% have been antigen tests. They also asked the state not to include repeat tests in the tally and provide more ICU beds and ventilators. They warned critical care medical infrastructure will suffer badly if cases continue to increase at the current rate. A central health team is currently visiting the state to gauge the situation and recommend remedies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-continues-to-head-north-in-kerala-with-another-surge-of-7-631-cases/story-wbuxAGAD8hTCyyc4ryt8uK.html
18-10-2020||India||‘Covid-19 deaths in India could have exceeded 25 lakh’: What expert panel says about lockdown, festivals||The Centre had appointed a 10-member committee, headed by NITI Aayog member VK Paul, to study the mathematical progression of Covid-19 virus in India. The committee submitted its report on a day Union health minister Harsh Vardhan admitted community transmission of Covid-19 in certain pockets of a limited number of states in the country.The study sheds light on where India stands in its fight against Covid-19 and what lies ahead.1. India may see an exponential increase of 26 lakh cases in a month because of the festival season if precautions are not followed.2. Kerala, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal are still seeing a rise in the number of cases, while elsewhere the pandemic has stabilised.3. A second wave of coronavirus can’t be ruled out in winter. Also Read: Cannot rule out possibility of a second wave of Covid-19 during winters: NITI Aayog’s VK Paul4. Local lockdown are not effective now, but had there been no lockdown in March-April, India’s total deaths could have exceeded 25 lakh in August. The death toll now stands at 1.14 lakh.5. Only 30 per cent of the population has developed immunity so far.6. India reached the peak of Covid-19 in September and is now on the downward slope.7. The crisis is likely to be over by February 2021. By that time, there could be 10.5 million cases.8. Migrants didn’t make much difference to the number of overall infections.9. We have to be careful in the coming months also because of pollution on north India.10. The curve is flattened and early lockdown bolstered by better-equipped health care system helped in flattening the curve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-deaths-in-india-could-have-exceeded-25-lakh-what-government-panel-says-about-lockdown-festivals/story-6uzinfG3gmDS2jUK0J8txO.html
18-10-2020||India||BrahMos supersonic cruise missile: India’s latest addition to series of successful missile tests||The Indian Navy today test fired the supersonic cruise missile BrahMos, from INS Chennai, the indigenously built stealth destroyer. The test was declared a success after the missile hit its target with pinpoint accuracy by performing high level and extremely complex manoeuvres, as informed in a press release from the Ministry of Defence. Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO), the R&D wing of the Ministry of Defence, in a tweet confirmed the successful test. It also said that Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO and the Indian Navy for the successful launch of the missile. Here is a list of five things that you need to know about the BrahMos missile test-fired today -• All variants of the BrahMos missiles are developed by the BrahMos Aerospace, a joint venture between the DRDO of India and NPO Mashinostroyenia (NPOM) of Russia. • The missile has three variants that could be launched from air, land and water. A press release from the Defence ministry today, said that the presence of BrahMos as ‘prime strike weapon’ will enhance the capabilities of the Indian Navy’s indigenous destroyer.• Designed to attack naval surface targets, the missile has a range of 290 km. However India also successfully tested an extended 400-km range surface-to-surface BrahMos missile on September 30, this year. • Ability to extend the range of BrahMos missiles was obtained by India after its entry into the Missile Technology Control Regime or MTCR in 2016. • The missile tested today belongs to the supersonic variant and could clock top speeds of Mach 2.8, which is approximately 3 times the speed of sound. India has been in a missile testing spree recently, amidst ongoing border tensions with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Also, the missile test today comes at the backdrop of Home minister Amit Shah’s recent comments about the situation at the LAC. He said that the army is ready at any time to respond to all forms of aggression and the government is remaining vigilant about every inch of India’s land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brahmos-supersonic-cruise-missile-india-s-latest-addition-to-series-of-successful-missile-tests/story-rSnc32KNTOJxrmcyPJuoeP.html
18-10-2020||India||Government deliberating on making special card for trans members to link them to welfare schemes||The government is deliberating on making a special identity card for transgender community members that will help in linking them with various social welfare schemes, a member of the recently-constituted National Council for Transgender Persons said.The Centre had in August constituted the National Council for Transgender Persons (NCTP) to formulate policies, programmes, draft legislation and projects regarding members of the community for achieving equality and full participation by them.The first meeting of the NCTP was held through video conference on Thursday. It was chaired by Social Justice Minister Thaawar Chand Gehlot.Meera Parida, a member of the transgender community, representing the east region in the council, said discussions were held on various issues faced by the community in the hour-long meeting.“Discussions were also held on introducing a transgender identity card that will link with them the social welfare schemes for the community. There will be a transgender identity card which will be linked to social welfare schemes. The plan has not been finalised yet but deliberations were held on the identity card,” Parida told PTI.Parida, the BJD’s Odisha state secretary, further said making such a card is one of the demands of the community and it will help in their upliftment. “India is the first country which has taken such a step to form a department and a council for the community. The government is taking the transgender community forward and trying its best to remove the social stigma associated with the community members,” Parida said.The council was established in August by the Centre in exercise of the powers conferred by the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019.According to the Act, the functions of the council include advising the Centre on the formulation of policies, programmes, legislation and projects with respect to transgender persons; monitoring and evaluating the impact of policies and programmes designed for achieving equality and full participation of transgender persons.The other functions of the council are to review and coordinate the activities of all the departments of government and other governmental and non-governmental organisations dealing with matters relating to transgender persons, to redress the grievances of transgender persons, and to perform such other functions as may be prescribed by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-deliberating-on-making-special-card-for-trans-members-to-link-them-to-welfare-schemes/story-m4JY3E8JoSAsnvGHTj6hnL.html
18-10-2020||India||‘Democracy passing through most difficult time’: Sonia Gandhi attacks Centre||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday presided over a meeting of the party’s general secretaries and state in-charge where she attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government, saying the democracy was passing through “most difficult time”.In a video message posted on Twitter by Congress from its official handle, Gandhi is heard saying that her party’s aim is to keep struggling for the country. “Our root mantra is to serve people. Today, the democracy is passing through its most difficult time, the voice of the victim is being suppressed.” देश के लिये लगातार संघर्ष करना ही कांग्रेस संगठन का लक्ष्य रहा है। देश की सेवा करना ही हमारे संगठन का मूल मंत्र है। आज देश का लोकतंत्र कठिन दौर से गुजर रहा है, देश में पीड़ित परिवारों की आवाज को दबाया जा रहा है।कांग्रेस अध्यक्षा श्रीमती सोनिया गांधी जी का वक्तव्य:- pic.twitter.com/Nllx5LtuGTShe also exhorted party leaders to wage a struggle for people’s issues.Also read | ‘For many, one family is party’: BJP’s Nadda hits out at Congress, regional partiesCongress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had earlier tweeted about the meeting which began at 4 pm. “Sonia ji exhorted everyone to wage a struggle for people’s issues and ameliorating their sufferings as our democracy is passing through most difficult times,” Surjewala said in his tweet.The meeting assumes significance as it comes ahead of the crucial Bihar polls and key bypolls in various states, including in 28 Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh.The Congress has been vehemently raising issues like the passage of farm bills, the alleged gang-rape and death of a Dalit girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh, the state of the economy and the government’s handling of it.The party has been carrying out nationwide protests against the farm bills. Earlier on Sunday, the party’s former president Rahul Gandhi had slammed the BJP over incidents of crime against women.Also read | ‘Brute repression’: Sonia Gandhi, in video message, attacks BJP over CAA protests“How it started: ‘Beti Bachao’ (save the daughter), how it’s going: ‘Apradhi Bachao’ (save criminals),” the Congress leader said using popular social media trend how it started, how it’s going.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/democracy-passing-through-most-difficult-time-sonia-gandhi-attacks-centre/story-Wor7HKdVBLAGuTgnn1uafK.html
18-10-2020||India||40 fall ill in Uttarakhand’s Roorkee after eating buckwheat chapatis||About 40 people fell ill and reported symptoms of food poisoning in the rural belt of Roorkee in Haridwar district after eating chapatis made of buckwheat flour (Kuttu ka atta) on Saturday, officials said Sunday. Buckwheat flour is considered healthy and pious by devotees who fast on Navratri and do not eat food items made of grains. On the first day of Navratri on Saturday, many people had eaten chapatis made from buckwheat flour. By the evening, many of them complained of food poisoning like symptoms and were rushed to nearby health facilities, officials said. Forty patients were admitted at the government civil hospital and other private hospitals out of which 20 were discharged on Sunday.According to Circle Officer, Roorkee, Chandan Singh Bisht traders selling buckwheat flour have been directed to stop selling them and officials concerned are collecting samples from various shops. Haridwar’s food safety officer Santosh Kumar Yadav said that considering the festive season, the checking of food supplies at the border in particular buckwheat flour sweets, khoya, cheese and other items will be done more intensely. People should avoid buying buckwheat flour from open sacks and ensure the expiry date is checked before buying, Yadav added. Officials said that legal action will be taken against violators, and investigation by respective agencies is going on. “Patients admitted to civil and other hospitals were from Bhagwanpur and Dhandera areas of Roorkee. Legal action will be taken against violators, after an investigation by officials is completed,” said joint magistrate Namami Bansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-fall-ill-in-uttarakhand-s-roorkee-after-eating-buckwheat-chapatis/story-8xavqyXv85DY3QQcgEEKNN.html
18-10-2020||India||TRP scam: Republic disclosing confidential communications, misrepresenting them, alleges BARC India||In the ongoing TRP scam where three channels have been accused of manipulation their television rating point, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) on Sunday expressed its disappointment with Republic Network for “disclosing their private & confidential communication” and “misrepresenting the same”. Issuing a statement, it said, “BARC India has not commented on the ongoing investigation and it is providing necessary assistance to the law enforcement agency, BARC India is highly disappointed with the actions of the Republic Network by disclosing private and confidential communications and misrepresenting the same. BARC India reiterates that it has not commented on the ongoing investigation and without prejudice to BARC India’s rights, it expresses its dismay at the actions of the Republic Network.” pic.twitter.com/T1ocUYJvaKThe Mumbai Police had claimed three channels, including Republic Media Network, were allegedly influencing TRP numbers. The channel has strongly denied the allegations.The complaint against TRP manipulation was filed by Hansa Services Private Limited, which is a contractor of BARC. Mumbai Police, which is investigating the case, arrested a former executive of Hansa Research as well. The Republic Network meanwhile has revealed an email from BARC where BARC apparently did not allege any malpractice against Republic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-scam-republic-disclosing-confidential-communications-misrepresenting-them-alleges-barc-india/story-IHG5CW9Om101KQp4vySOGP.html
18-10-2020||India||American woman arrested for alleged obscene photoshoot in Rishikesh’s Lakshmanjhula||A 30-year-old American woman was arrested for allegedly participating in an obscene photoshoot on Rishikesh’s famous landmark and tourist attraction Lakshmanjhula, Uttarakhand police said Sunday. The arrest was made on Saturday in the ongoing investigation of a case against a 27-year-old French woman who was arrested for an alleged obscene photoshoot at the same place in August. She had later uploaded the photos on social media platforms, police said. RK Saklani, station house officer, Muni Ki Reti police station of Rishikesh which is probing the case said, “The American woman was wanted in the aforementioned case as she was accused of assisting the French woman in the photoshoot. She was also involved in the photoshoot along with her.” “She was, however, booked on charges of only obscene act in public as she didn’t upload them on the social media which could have also attracted the charges under IT Act,” said Saklani. The police officer said the American woman after being arrested was presented before the magistrate who then released her on a fine of ₹2,000.“During questioning, she told police that, she was asked by the French woman to assist her in the photoshoot to promote her beads’ garlands business after she had met her during the lockdown in Rishikesh,” said Saklani. “The probe against the French woman will continue,” said Saklani The French woman who has also been granted bail is currently staying in Rishikesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/american-woman-arrested-for-alleged-obscene-photoshoot-in-rishikesh-s-lakshmanjhula/story-wvUHcCg1Vlgx1XacDd7NVK.html
18-10-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine tracker: Trial of nasal vaccines soon in India; Ongoing trials cover all age groups, assures Harsh Vardhan||Though at present there is no nasal vaccine under trial in India, Pune’s Serum Institute of India and Hyderabad’s Bharat Biotech will soon start clinical trials of intranasal Covid-19 vaccines, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said. Bharat Biotech, which is developing an indigenous vaccine in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research, has entered into an agreement with Washington University and St. Louis University for the trials of the nasal vaccine candidate.Serum Institute of India, which is conducting the phase 2/3 clinical trial of Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine, has an agreement with Codagenix for its nasal vaccine. Nasal vaccines are shots which can be administered through the nose thereby requiring no doctor or nurse for the administration of this. Answering a question on the inclusivity of the vaccines presently under trial, Harsh Vardhan said participants in the vaccine trial include young and old people as well. Serum Institute’s phase 3 trial includes people up to 99 years old. The lower age limit 1s 12 for most of the ongoing trials, the minister informed.A day after, Dr Reddy’s got approval for the clinical trial of Russia’s Sputnik V, it has been learnt that Mankind pharma has collaborated with the Russian Direct Investment Fund for sale and distribution of Sputnik V in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-tracker-trial-of-nasal-vaccines-soon-in-india-ongoing-trials-cover-all-age-groups-assures-harsh-vardhan/story-0fj1nxNb2IqdWWx0iDzLUO.html
18-10-2020||India||India set to lose Farzad-B gas field in Iran||India has all but lost the ONGC Videsh Ltd-discovered Farzad-B gas field in the Persian Gulf after Iran decided to prefer domestic companies over foreign firms for development of the field, sources said. ONGC Videsh Ltd (OVL), the overseas investment arm of state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC), had in 2008 discovered a giant gas field in the Farsi offshore exploration block. OVL and its partners had offered to invest up to USD 11 billion for development of the discovery, which was later named Farzad-B. After sitting over OVL’s proposal for years, the National Iranian Oil Co (NIOC) informed the firm in February this year about its intention to conclude the contract for Farzad-B development with an Iranian company, sources with direct knowledge of the development said. OVL, however, continued its engagements with NIOC over the development of the field and sought terms and conditions of the proposed contract for its evaluation, they said, adding that Iran has so far not responded to the Indian firm’s request. Farzad-B holds total reserves of around 21.7 trillion cubic feet of which around 60 per cent is recoverable, and production is slated to be around 1.1 billion cubic feet per day. Sources said unconfirmed information suggests that Iran has identified a local firm for the development of the field, but OVL has not yet given up hopes and continues to chase Iranian authorities for the contract. The 3,500 square kilometre Farsi block sits in water depth of 20-90 metres on the Iranian side of the Persian Gulf. OVL, with 40 per cent operatorship interest, signed the Exploration Service Contract (ESC) for the block on December 25, 2002. Other partners included Indian Oil Corp (IOC) with 40 per cent stake and Oil India Ltd (OIL) holding the remaining 20 per cent stake. OVL discovered gas in the block, which was declared commercially viable by NIOC, on August 18, 2008. The exploration phase of the ESC expired on June 24, 2009. The firm submitted a Master Development Plan (MDP) of Farzad-B gas field in April 2011 to Iranian Offshore Oil Company (IOOC), the then designated authority by NIOC for development of Farzad-B gas field. A Development Service Contract (DSC) of Farzad-B gas field was negotiated till November 2012, but could not be finalized due to difficult terms and international sanctions on Iran. In April 2015, negotiations restarted with Iranian authorities to develop Farzad-B gas field under a new Iran Petroleum Contract (IPC). This time, NIOC introduced Pars Oil and Gas Company (POGC) as its representative for negotiations. From April 2016, both sides negotiated to develop Farzad-B gas field under an integrated contract covering upstream and downstream, including monetization/marketing of the processed gas. However, negotiations remained inconclusive. Meanwhile, on the basis of a new studies, a revised Provisional Master Development Plan (PMDP) was submitted to POGC in March 2017, sources said, adding that in April 2019, NIOC proposed development of the gas field under the DSC and offtake of raw gas by NIOC at landfall point. However, due to imposition of US sanctions on Iran in November 2018, technical studies could not be concluded which is a precursor for commercial negotiations. The Indian consortium has so far invested around USD 400 million in the block.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-set-to-lose-farzad-b-gas-field-in-iran/story-Y3u7M36m2M4flQ3o3asREN.html
18-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand to set up four Centres of Excellence to promote apples, spices||Uttarakhand will set up four Centres of Excellence in the state to promote apples, spices and dry fruits, the government said Sunday. Subodh Uniyal, minister for agriculture and horticulture in the state said that the Centres of Excellence will act as one stop centre for research and development on high-yielding seeds for the crops and fruits, studying effects of climate change on the product, promotion of the produce and making a brand. “We are working on building four Centres of Excellence in the state for apples, ginger and turmeric, walnuts and vegetables.The Central government has a scheme where states can get Rs 10 crores of financial assistance for making a Centre of Excellence. Using this scheme, we have started working on a proposal which will be sent to the Central government,” said Uniyal. The minister further said that the Central government has assured the state that financial assistance will be provided to the state for the project. The Uttarakhand government currently has one centre of excellence for aromatic plants in Selaqui. The construction of another centre of excellence is underway for organic farming in the Narendra Nagar area of Tehri Garhwal district. This project was approved in 2017 under the National Agricultural Development Plan. A centre of excellence for research and development on new techniques of farming is also being set up in Chaubatia town of Almora district, which will be equipped with laboratories, latest machinery and research apparatus. “In the long run, we are aiming to have a total of ten Centres of Excellence for different products in the state. With different centres dedicatedly working on different products, building a brand would be easier giving Uttarakhand’s Himalayan produce a separate identity,” added the minister. Last year, to promote organic farming, the agriculture department had selected an area of 78,000 hectares with most part in the hilly districts, which was divided into 3,900 clusters for growing different kinds of traditional and commercial crops of the state. Each cluster was divided into 20 hectares of land for practicing organic farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-set-up-four-centres-of-excellence-to-promote-apples-spices/story-Qpdjt8urSjRx394yvK0rDJ.html
18-10-2020||India||Judiciary’s greatest strength is people’s faith in it, judges should be fearless in their decision: SC Justice NV Ramana||The seniormost judge of the Supreme Court Justice NV Ramana has said the greatest strength of the judiciary is the faith of people in it and judges must be “steadfast in holding on to their principles” and “fearless in their decisions” to withstand all pressures and odds. Justice Ramana’s comments hold importance in the backdrop of a recent unprecedented move by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy of making allegations against him in a letter to Chief Justice of India SA Bobde. Speaking at a condolence meet on Saturday for former Supreme Court judge AR Lakshmanan who passed away on August 27, Justice Ramana said, “The greatest strength of the judiciary is the faith of people in it. Faith, confidence and acceptability cannot be commanded, they have to be earned”. Justice Ramana’s remarks at a public function are the first since the controversy broke out after the Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister wrote the letter. The senior judge added that “there are innumerable qualities that a person needs to live what can be called a good life: humility, patience, kindness, a strong work ethic and the enthusiasm to constantly learn and improve oneself”. “Most importantly, particularly for a judge, one must be steadfast in holding on to their principles and fearless in their decisions. It is an important quality for a judge to withstand all pressures and odds and to stand up bravely against all obstacles,” he said. Recalling the former judge, Justice Ramana said, “We should all take inspiration from his words and should strive to commit a vibrant and independent judiciary which is required in the current times”. He said his belief is that Justice Lakshmanan epitomized all the required qualities of being one of the best judges the country has seen. Justice Ramana said, “Our values are ultimately our greatest wealth, and we must never forget the same” and added that Justice Lakshmanan wore his values on his sleeves and he has learnt immensely from him about being a good person and a judge. Justice Lakshmanan, who hailed from Tamil Nadu, was appointed as a Permanent Judge of the Madras High Court in 1990 and he became Chief Justice of Rajasthan High Court and also served as Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. He was elevated as a Judge of the Supreme Court in 2002 and served till his superannuation in 2007. During his tenure as Supreme Court judge, Justice Lakshmanan was part of several Constitution benches and contributed in more than 200 judgments touching upon wide-ranging issues, including taxation, management of religious institutions, service matters, labour laws and employee welfare. After his retirement, he was appointed as the Chairman of the 18th Law Commission of India and submitted 32 comprehensive reports to the Government of India recommending various measures to improve the judicial system in the country. Several lawyers’ bodies from across the country including Bar Council of India, Supreme Court Bar Association, Supreme Court Advocates-On-Record Association (SCAORA) and Delhi High Court Bar Association have condemned the act of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister of writing the “unwarranted” letter to the chief justice making allegations against the sitting apex court judge. In an unprecedented move, the chief minister wrote the letter dated October 6 to the CJI, alleging that the Andhra Pradesh High Court was being used to “destabilise and topple my democratically elected government.” He had requested the CJI to look into the matter and consider initiating steps “as may be considered fit and proper to ensure that the state judiciary’s neutrality is maintained”. The chief minister had alleged that the senior apex court judge had proximity to TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu and that a “former judge of the honourable Supreme Court placed this fact on record”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judiciary-s-greatest-strength-is-people-s-faith-in-it-judges-should-be-fearless-in-their-decision-sc-justice-nv-ramana/story-qKdE2fbdTnFlS1m2R9vFKL.html
18-10-2020||India||No fresh lockdowns recommended at local level: Government-appointed panel on Covid-19||No fresh lockdowns should be imposed on district or state level to contain the spread of Covid-19 unless there is an imminent danger of healthcare facilities being overwhelmed, according to a government-appointed committee chaired by IIT Hyderabad professor M Vidyasagar.The committee has also claimed that if all protocols are followed, the pandemic can be controlled by early next year with minimal active symptomatic infections by the end of February. The 10-member panel which conducted a study on “Progression of the Covid-19 Pandemic in India: Prognosis and Lockdown Impacts” has pointed out that with no lockdown, the pandemic would have hit India very hard with a peak load of over 1.40 crore cases arriving in June.The committee has developed an evidence based mathematical model for Covid-19 progression. The national level ‘super model’ is based on various parameters such as timing of the lockdown, alternative lockdown scenarios, impact of migrant workers returning to their homes, and future course of the pandemic including impact of not following safety protocols.“If all of us follow these protocols, the pandemic can be controlled by early next year with minimal active symptomatic infections by February-end. We do not yet know the weather-specific perturbations of this pandemic (in general, viruses tend to be more active in colder environment) and the effects of possible future mutations in the virus. Hence, the existing personal safety protocols need to continue in full measure. Otherwise we will see a sharp rise in infections. Fresh lockdowns should not be imposed on a district or state wide level, unless there is imminent danger of the healthcare facilities being overwhelmed,” Vidyasagar said.The committee including professors from IITs and IISc besides scientists, said that upcoming festival and winter seasons may increase the susceptibility to the infection but all activities can be resumed provided proper safety protocols are followed. It also noted that the imposition of an early and comprehensive lockdown pushed the peak of cases far into the future and also reduced the peak load on the system.“With no lockdown, the pandemic would have hit India very hard, with a peak load of over 140 lakh cases arriving in June. Given our lack of preparedness back then, the healthcare system would have been overwhelmed, leading to many additional deaths. Had India waited until May to impose the lockdown, the peak load of active cases would have been around 50 lakhs by June,” the panel report said.“In actuality, the peak of active cases came in late September at around 10 lakhs. By this time, we were far better equipped to handle the pandemic in terms of diagnostics and vital equipment inventories. Without a lockdown the number of deaths in India would have overwhelmed the system within a very short time frame, and would eventually have crossed 26 lakhs fatalities,” it added.Based on temporal profiles of analyses done for Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, the committee concluded that the impact of labour migration on the total number of infections in these states was minimal. The committee also asserted that the imposition of various safety protocols such as wearing masks and social distancing, together with a comprehensive lockdown has allowed India to fare better than many other countries.“India has one-sixth of the world’s population (one-fifth excluding China), and one-sixth of the reported cases. However, India accounts for only 10% of the world’s deaths, and its case fatality rate of less than 2% is among the lowest in the world,” it said.The committee has recommended that the existing personal safety protocols need to continue in full measure, otherwise the country will see a sharp rise in infections. “Avoiding congestion especially in closed spaces and special care of those above 65 years and children is even more significant. Personnel with co-morbidities need to be extra cautious,” it said.The Department of Science and Technology had in June constituted a committee comprising eminent scientists and academicians to evolve a national supermodel for Covid-19 progression.The mandate of the committee was to create an evidence-based mathematical model for the pandemic after taking inputs from various groups working in the domain in the country and use it to analyse past events and future trajectories of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-fresh-lockdowns-recommended-at-local-level-government-appointed-panel-on-covid-19/story-VPbCk5XYJq2F1r1h5h4zLP.html
18-10-2020||India||Eye on 2022 assembly polls, Samajwadi Party announces Uttarakhand executive body||Eyeing the 2022 assembly elections in Uttarakhand, after month-long deliberations, Samajwadi Party has finally announced its state executive body.Headed by party state president Satyanarayan Sachan, the newly formed 39-member state executive body comprises three vice presidents and two general secretaries.An announcement was made in this regard by party national president Akhilesh Yadav in Lucknow on Sunday.Abha Barthwal, widow of former Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister, and ex-Samajwadi Party state chief Vinod Barthwal have been inducted into the committee as vice presidents.The move is being linked with Samajwadi Party eyeing the hill areas of the state owing to late Barthwal being one of the recognised political faces of the state.Also read: Can never forget what PM Modi has done for me, says Chirag PaswanThe new state unit president Satyanarayan Sachan exuded confidence and said that with the new working committee, the party will solely focus on the 2022 Assembly polls. Sachan said that local issues, such as migration, unemployment, lack of basic facilities in hill-rural areas, among others, will be firmly raised.“We thank party president Akhilesh Yadav for reposing faith in me and thirty-eight other state working committee team members. The party has decided to contest maximum seats both in Kumaon and Garhwal divisions. Soon, a new membership drive will be initiated across all thirteen districts,” said Sachan.Lashing out at the Congress and the BJP for failing to fulfil the wishes of the local people, Sachan said that both these national parties have failed to provide good governance despite being in power for the past twenty years.“With Bahujan Samaj Party and Uttarakhand Kranti Dal being hand in gloves and sharing power with these parties earlier, local public have now realised the real face of these parties. Samajwadi Party is the only one with a difference and Akhilesh Yadav has assured of personally monitoring the working of the state committee and its progress regularly,” said Sachan.Not giving much weight to Sachan’s claims, BJP legislator Suresh Rathore pointed that Samajwadi Party has not won a single seat since Uttarakhand was carved out in November 2000.“It is the Samajwadi Party which has been rejected thoroughly by people of the hill state. They sit and decide in Lucknow, affairs of Dehradun, Gairsain, Pauri and Nainital. Suh is the case with the Bahujan Samaj Party. These parties once used to dominate Uttar Pradesh but are now surviving for their very existence,” said Rathore.The new state committee includes Avtar Singh, Suresh Parihar as vice presidents, SA Siddiqui as chief general secretary, Dr Rakesh Kumar and Dr Rajendra Parashar as general secretaries, SK Rai as treasurer, Subhash Pawar as chief spokesperson, Abdul, Hema Bohra, Ramesh Gaud, Chandra Mundappi as secretaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-2022-assembly-polls-samajwadi-party-announces-uttarakhand-executive-body/story-CQ2aKeVnDkmowWHLunL0lK.html
18-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: BJP following ‘coalition dharma’ by attacking me, says Chirag Paswan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP following ‘coalition dharma’ by attacking me despite ‘anger’ against Nitish: Chirag PaswanLok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan on Sunday downplayed the BJP’s recent attacks on him, claiming that it was only following the “coalition dharma” as an ally of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar. Read more here.Hyderabad rains: 6-year-old killed in wall collapse in Turkapet areaA six-year-old child was killed after a wall collapsed in Hyderabad’s Turkapet area following rains in the city, which have caused water logging in several parts, according to news agency ANI. Heavy rains had lashed Nampally, Abids, Kothi, Basheerbagh, Khairatabad, Goshamahal and Vijayanagar areas of Hyderabad on Saturday night. Read more here.Why Covid-19 cases in India may increase in winter. All you need to knowAhead of the onset of winter, experts are warning that the number of Covid-19 infections may see a sudden jump as the mercury dips. Russia and the United Kingdom are experiencing a second wave of Covid-19 aggravated by winter. There is no reason to dismiss the possibility of the same in India, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said earlier. The Covid-19 expert panel, headed by VK Paul, also asserted that India must be ready to face a second wave during the winter. Read more here.‘Look forward to working together’: PM Modi congratulates Jacinda Ardern for poll winPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday congratulated his New Zealand counterpart Jacinda Ardern for securing a second term in office. PM Modi said he looked forward to working together for taking the bilateral relationship to a higher level. Read more here.IPL 2020: Shilkhar Dhawan explains how Ravindra Jadeja bowling final over was ‘advantage’ for DCShikhar Dhawan played a magnificent innings on Saturday night, helping Delhi Capitals defeat Chennai Super Kings by 5 wickets in Sharjah. Notching up his maiden IPL ton, the left-hander scripted DC’s win with his unbeaten 101-run knock. Read more here.Aditya Narayan confirms Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh’s wedding, invitation card leakedEven as speculation surrounding the wedding of singers Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh mounts, what appears to be an invitation card to their reception has been leaked online. The invite reveals the reception date to be October 26. The venue is mentioned as The Amaltas, near Mohali in Punjab. Read more here.Nora Fatehi looks drop dead gorgeous in a black leather jumpsuit on the new poster of Naach Meri RaniSetting all hearts aflutter as fans await her new music album, Moroccan stunner and Bollywood diva Nora Fatehi looked scintillating in the latest poster of Naach Meri Rani. Bringing back the classy faux leather jumpsuit that passioned her body grace, Nora looked drop dead gorgeous and out of this world with her latest fashion stint. Read more here.Xiaomi clears the cloud around its Weather app not showing details on Arunachal Pradesh: Here’s what it saysXiaomi is out with a statement, clearing the air around the controversy that was brewing up around the Mi India Weather app and why it wasn’t showing the weather details of Arunachal Pradesh. According to the Chinese tech firm, there was a ‘technical error’ that led to the app not showing the information. The firm adds that it is working on the issue and improving the app. Read more here.Maruti unveils special offers for government employees ahead of festive seasonThe country’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India on Sunday announced special offers for government employees with benefits up to ₹11,000 over and above the ongoing festival consumer offers across its models. Read more here.Owl hitches ride on aircraft fighting California wildfires, pic surprises netizensA pilot flying an aircraft while battling the California wildfires came across a rather unusual passenger - an owl. A picture of the bird inside the craft has created a buzz among netizens. Shared on Facebook by Sky Aviation, an aviation company, the post may leave you surprised and amazed too. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-bjp-following-coalition-dharma-by-attacking-me-says-chirag-paswan-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2MTwKN3YNpQnRnp4sz96ZO.html
18-10-2020||India||BrahMos test-fired: List of missiles India has tested in last two months||India on Sunday tested a naval version of the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile. The missile was fired from the indigenously-built stealth destroyer, INS Chennai.With the successful testing of BrahMos, India has now tested 11 missiles within a period of two months. The test-firing of these missiles comes at a time when India is involved in a bitter row with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh. The standoff also led to clashes in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley in June in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed.India has test-fired a new version of the surface-to-surface supersonic cruise missile BrahMos and anti-radiation missile Rudram-1. It has also test-fired Shaurya which is a laser guided anti-tank guided missile and nuclear capable hypersonic missile.India has also deployed a sizeable number of BrahMos supersonic missiles at the LAC.Here is a list of missile and weapons system India has tested in the last two months: September 7: Indigenously-developed hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV), which is essential to power cruise missiles and long-range missile systems, was tested off the coast of Odisha.September 22: ABHYAS - High-speed Expendable Aerial Target (HEAT) vehicles - were tested off the coast of Odisha. These can be used as target for evaluation of various missile systems.September 23: DRDO test-fires indigenously developed laser-guided anti-tank guided missile at Ahmednagar in Maharashtra. It can be used to defeat “armoured vehicles protected by explosive reactive armour (ERA)”, according to DRDO.September 23: Prithvi-II test fired from Balasore, Odisha. It is an indigenously developed nuclear capable surface-to-surface missile which uses an advanced inertial guidance system with maneuvering trajectory to hit its target, according to DRDO.September 30: Extended range of BrahMos supersonic cruise missile tested from a land-based facility in Odisha.October 1: Laser-guided Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) fired from a MBT Arjun Tank in Ahmednagar, Maharashtra.October 3: India successfully test-fires new version of nuclear-capable Shaurya missile off Odisha coast.October 5: India develops anti-submarine warfare and successfully test-fires indigenously developed SMART torpedo system which is essential for anti-submarine warfare (ASW) operations far beyond the torpedo range.October 10: India successfully test-fired Rudram-1, its first indigenous anti-radiation missile which can detect enemy radars on the ground.October 18: A naval version of the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile fired from the indigenously-built stealth destroyer INS Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brahmos-test-fired-list-of-missiles-india-has-tested-in-last-two-months/story-8zDJjBrZkdVpEQ1qHl12eI.html
18-10-2020||India||Dispute over room rent of Rs 50 leads to murder in Kolkata slum||A quarrel over room rent between a landlord and his tenants at a slum on DC Dey Road in the Tangra area of central Kolkata led to a murder on Saturday night. Ashok Das, his son Anil Das and five other members of his family were arrested for assaulting some of their tenants and stabbing Manoj Ram with a pair of scissors. Ram succumbed to his injuries at a local hospital. The tenants used to pay Rs 50 on an average for the rooms, local residents told the police. “Ashok Das and his family rented out rooms to around one dozen families many years ago. There are allegations that he recently started misbehaving with members of these families and demanded that the rent be increased to Rs 1500. This allegedly led to the quarrel. We have started an investigation,” an officer from Tangra police station said on condition of anonymity as he is not authorized to talk to the media. Eyewitnesses told the police that Ram was stabbed when he tried to save another tenant, Sunil Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dispute-over-room-rent-of-rs-50-leads-to-murder-in-kolkata-slum/story-ye5sNhoEKbccpcCqAaNKON.html
18-10-2020||India||‘Will play as long as I live’: 82-year-old picks up his drum as Durga puja in Darjeeling turns 100||Eighty two may not be the age to pick up the traditional Bengali drum but for Kohor Singha Das, the Durga and Kali puja festival at Shankar Niwas in Darjeeling’s Tindharia is special this year. Started by some Bengali priests who settled down in the hills in the last century, the puja has turned 100. Although the Covid-19 pandemic has affected the festive spirit in most parts of the country, Tindharia, a small town in the hills of Darjeeling, is all set to celebrate the festival with grandeur. Bringing back memories of the old tradition, the puja committee has constructed the idol on the site instead of buying one from the artisans in Siliguri, north Bengal’s biggest town located 27 kilometres away in the plains. It was in 1962 when the idol was made at Shankar Niwas for the last time. Also read: Study links Covid-19 with organ impairment in healthy people, offers proofThough troubled by ailments, Das is all set to play the drum which is an integral part of Durga puja festivities. “I have been doing this since 1962. I will play as long as I live,” said the octogenarian. Although the puja was started by Bengali priests, people from different communities are now part of the festivities at Tindharia, said the organisers. It is the third oldest Durga puja in the region. The puja held at Nripendra Narayan Bengali Hindu Hall in Darjeeling enters its 106th year while the one at Raj Rajeswari Hall in Kurseong turns 104. Unlike the one at Tindharia, the other two festivals have been scaled down this year because of the pandemic. People will not be allowed to have prasad or any kind of food items at these sites. Nowraj Chettri, secretary of the Durga and Kali puja committee at Tindharia, said, “We will perform the puja with more sincerity and seek blessing from the Goddess. All health protocols will be strictly followed.”The head priest of the puja, Keshari Prasad Bandopadhyay, lives in Kolkata but comes to the hills every year. In 2017, when life in the hills was paralysed by a 104-day general strike called by the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha in demand for a state of Gorkhaland, the puja was scaled down. Bandopadhyay however did not fail to turn up. Das, too, played the drums in 2017. “If people in Tindharia could organize puja despite the strike, no power can stop this puja. It is part of my life,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-play-as-long-as-i-live-82-year-old-picks-up-his-drum-as-durga-puja-in-darjeeling-turns-100/story-sReBd32PACBrU1e2RtgAZP.html
18-10-2020||India||13-year-old boy abducted, body found days later in MP’s Jabalpur: Police||A 13-year-old boy, the son of a transporter, was found dead in a canal on Sunday morning, days after he was abducted in Jabalpur district, around 370km from Madhya Pradesh’s capital Bhopal, said the police. The teenager, whose body was found floating in the canal 15km away from the district headquarters, was allegedly kidnapped and the abductors had demanded a ransom of Rs 2 crore from his parents, including his father, Mukesh Lamba.The victim was abducted on Thursday evening, when he had stepped out of his home at Dhanvantari Nagar in Jabalpur town to buy potato chips from a local grocery store.Later, the abductors made calls to the victim’s parents on their mobile phones demanding a ransom of Rs 2 crore for return of their son safely and threatened them with dire consequences if they report the incident to the police. “The body of the boy was found floating in a canal near Bichhua village under the jurisdiction of Panagar police station on Sunday morning. A towel was found tied around the neck of the body, suggesting he was strangled to death. The accused will be arrested soon,” said Alok Sharma, city superintendent of police (CSP), Jabalpur.Later, Adarsh Katiyar, additional director general (ADG) (intelligence), said in Bhopal that “an accused has been arrested”. Kamal Nath, the chief of the MP Congress committee (MPCC), took a dig at the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government over the incident. “A boy is killed in Jabalpur by kidnappers after the liquor mafia took the lives of 14 people. The mafia raaj was extinguished from the state, when the Congress was in power. However, the BJP is sparing them (mafia) for reasons best known to the state government,” alleged the former MP CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-year-old-boy-abducted-body-found-days-later-in-mp-s-jabalpur-police/story-Q1Za95eeY260AyLlapY9cI.html
18-10-2020||India||Covid-19 community transmission limited to certain districts, admits Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday admitted that community transmission of Covid-19 virus has occurred in certain districts in a limited number of states. “But this is not happening countrywide,” the minister said as he was addressing his weekly social media programme Sunday Samvaad.On being asked to comment on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s admission that community transmission started in some areas of the state, the Union minister admitted and said it is expected to occur in some densly populated areas. “Community transmission has been reported in different pockets of various states. It is not happening across the country,” he said.Also Read: Why Covid-19 cases in India may increase in winter. All you need to knowThough the Centre has so far denied community transmission of Covid-19 in India, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had confirmed community transmission in the state in July. Poonthura and Pullivila were the two coastal hamlets that, as the CM confirmed, saw community transmission. Assam,too, hinted at community transmission during July-August.Also Read: Cannot rule out possibility of a second wave of Covid-19 during winters: NITI Aayog’s VK PaulOf late, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has confirmed this transmission in the state. Ahead of Durga Puja, the CM cautioned people and said there are instances of community transmission of Covid-19.There are four stages of Covid-19 invection. First in import of coronavirus which happened in India in January. On January 30, the first case of Covid-19 was detected in Kerala. The second stage is local transmission which is stage when people with no travel history abroad got infected. The third stage is community transmission where the origin of the infection can’t be easily identified. the fourth stage is epidemic.India so far maintained that it has not entered the stage of community transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-community-transmission-limited-to-certain-districts-admits-harsh-vardhan/story-MtyUl6M77RMTTvRLHSkddN.html
18-10-2020||India||In line with PM Modi’s vision, sacred forest patch set up en route Badrinath||In line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision to highlight spiritual legacy and history of Char Dham shrines on the way to the sacred pilgrimage, Uttarakhand forest department has set up a special sacred forest patch called Badrivan--the forest of lord Badrinath-- where four sacred plant species associated with lord Badri--the deity enshrined at Badrinath-- have been grown and put up for pilgrims’ viewing. Pilgrims can now visit this forest patch en route to know more about the sacred trees associated with lord Badrinath. Forest officials said Adi Guru Shankaracharya, during his visit to Badrinath shrine, around year 815 AD, is said to have named the forests around Badrinath as ‘Badrivan’ because of the predominance of trees like Badri, Bhojpatra, Badriphal and so on. Earlier in July this year, the state forest department developed a Green Ramayana Park, where 30 plant species mentioned in Valmiki’s Ramayana and associated with lord Rama have been grown. The plant species that have been grown and showcased in the special forest patch include Juniperus Macropoda (Badri Tree), Betula Utilis (Bhojpatra), Hippophae Salicifolia (Badriphal) and Origanum Vulgare (Badri Tulsi) Sanjiv Chaturvedi, chief conservator of forests and in-charge, research wing of the state forest department said this research demonstration plot has been set up in the form of a small sacred forest patch with the sole objective to showcase the peculiar ancient flora associated with lord Badrinath. “It is spread in an area of one acre on the main highway at Badrinath. Pilgrims can visit this forest patch and know more about these sacred trees. We have put boards with detailed information about these trees there”, he said “This will not only help pilgrims to know more about these sacred plants but also create more awareness about the rich Himalayan flora which has been revered since ancient times and needs to be protected and conserved at a time when many factors like habitat fragmentation, climate change, forest fires, illegal tree cutting and so on are emerging as threats to their existence,” he said. Also Read: Char Dham panel meets without chairman’s nodAll these four plant species have some sort of mythological significance attached to them. “Badri Tree has a characteristic aroma and its fruits and leaves are used to make dhoop (incense). Bhojpatra is one of the important ethnobotanical species of Badrinath area, outer bark of which has been used historically for writing as well as for making medicines. People walking to Badrinath shrine used to tie its bark under their feet for making their journey comfortable,” said Chaturvedi. The third plant species--Badriphal-- has been traditionally associated with lord Vishnu, who is believed to have survived on Badriphal while doing penance, he said.“Badri Tulsi enjoys special religious status as it is offered to Lord Badrinath. This plant is considered lord Badrinath’s favourite one and garlands made from its fresh leaves and twigs are offered at the Badrinath shrine,” he said. Also Read: Leopard kills 11-year old girl in Uttarakhand, 6th child killed in last 1 monthPrime Minister Narendra Modi has been keenly following and reviewing the development works of Char Dhar shrines. On September 10, when Badrinath shrine master plan was presented before him, Modi emphasised that the Badrinath shrine area should be developed as a mini smart spiritual city, adding that the focus of Badrinath master plan should be on the spiritual legacy of the shrine. Badrinath and Kedarnath, along with Yamunotri and Gangotri, collectively called Uttarakhand’s Char Dhams, are one of the most revered pilgrimages in the Hindu tradition and attract lakhs of pilgrims each year. Badrinath is located along the banks of the Alaknanda river in Chamoli district at a height of over 10,000 feet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-line-with-pm-modi-s-vision-sacred-forest-patch-set-up-en-route-badrinath/story-oV1RsRgRBx4qUkk921qhyH.html
18-10-2020||India||BJP following ‘coalition dharma’ by attacking me: Chirag Paswan||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) president Chirag Paswan on Sunday reiterated his party’s stand of supporting the BJP, but not the Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal (United) in the upcoming Bihar assembly elections, saying that the party is “committed” to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision even as he criticised the JD(U). “The Bihar first, Bihari first vision has become a stranglehold for the JD (U). I am committed to the development mantra of the PM with the idea of Bihar first, Bihari first,” he tweeted on Sunday.His statement comes a day after Union home minister Amit Shah said in an interview to a TV news channel that the LJP had left the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar on its own accord. Since LJP’s decision to contest the election on its own, BJP leaders have repeatedly backed Nitish Kumar and said that their alliance is with the JD(U). Paswan on Sunday also downplayed BJP’s recent attacks on him, saying that the BJP was only following “coalition dharma” as an ally of chief minister Nitish Kumar.“I do not need to exhibit my relations with the prime minister. From the time when my father was in the hospital to his last rites, I can never forget what he (PM) has done for me,” Paswan said in a series of tweets in Hindi.Paswan said the chief minister, also the JD(U) president, should be thankful to his ally for following the coalition dharma by giving him a “certificate” every day that it has no links with the LJP president despite “so much anger” against Kumar.“I do not want Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be in any dilemma due to me. He should follow his coalition dharma. He can say anything against me without any inhibition to satisfy chief minister Nitish Kumar,” he said.He added that he is committed to Modi’s mantra of development.Experts say Paswan’s move to be vocal about his support for the BJP are timely ahead of elections. “His [Paswan’s] politics is more in keeping with likely post-poll scenario that he visualises, while the attacks are aimed at making an impact on the upcoming elections,” said Professor NK Choudhary, a Patna-based political analyst. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said there was no confusion within the NDA’s ranks. “Ram Vilas Paswan was accommodating and flexible and understood the merits of the coalition dharma. Chirag has shown a lack of understanding of issues,” he said, referring to the late Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. Manoj Jha, the main opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)’s Rajya Sabha (RS) member and the party’s national spokesperson, said, “The posturing of the BJP and the LJP seems to be an attempt to keep Kumar in his comfort zone till the very end and not let him see the writing on the wall, which the two NDA allies at the Centre have scripted against the third. Election is a perception battle. The perception on the ground is not easy to dispel.”The 243-member Bihar legislative assembly goes to polls on October 28, November 3 and 7. Election results will be declared on November 10.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-following-coalition-dharma-by-attacking-me-chirag-paswan/story-GG258NsezUvVxBGMjyfniN.html
18-10-2020||India||Why Covid-19 cases in India may increase in winter. All you need to know||Ahead of the onset of winter, experts are warning that the number of Covid-19 infections may see a sudden jump as the mercury dips. Russia and the United Kingdom are experiencing a second wave of Covid-19 aggravated by winter. There is no reason to dismiss the possibility of the same in India, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said earlier. The Covid-19 expert panel, headed by VK Paul, also asserted that India must be ready to face a second wave during the winter.Here is all you need to know about Covid-19 predictions in winter:1. In the United Kingdom, Covid-19 cases registered a 40 per cent spike with the onset of winter.2. Prediction is the UK will see 120,000 deaths in this winter.3. During early months — just after the outbreak of the infection — it was rumoured that hot and cold weather can kill coronavirus. But the virus has survived summer and monsoon and is likely to escalate in winter.4. Though there has been no confirmation on this, Covid-19 is likely to function like other flu viruses which thrive in winter conditions.5. Studies suggest all respiratory pandemics including Spanish Flu, Asian Flu, Hong Kong Flu did encounter a second wave after six months of the breakout. But for Covid-19, it will coincide with winter.6. It will also be a year this November as the virus was first detected in Wuhan in November 2019.7. Swine flu cases in Maharashtra had surged during winter, a study says.8. People with respiratory problems suffer during winter. In India, pollution is likely to add to this as major cities are highly polluted.9. Covid-19 has so far shown no behavioural change because of season change. But as the number of cases is increasing in countries where the temperature has started dipping, it is expected that Covid-19 will become more active during winter in India as well.10. In November-December, there is likely to be more unlocking in India. The spillover of festive unlocking will continue in November and December with more trains, flights, inter-state travel, which might push Covid-19 cases higher. Many European countries are going under second lockdown now to check the number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-will-covid-19-cases-increase-in-winter-all-you-need-to-know/story-8PPkHQpiBT3q2MOQazjM3L.html
18-10-2020||India||National medalist karate player in Ranchi sells rice beer for survival||Crushing poverty has forced national medal winner karate player Bimla Munda (26) to sell hadia (rice beer) to eke out a living in the outskirts of Ranchi as she waits for a government job for which she has been elected.Munda had brought several laurels for Jharkhand. She was a silver medalist at the 34th National Games in 2011 in Jharkhand. She had started coaching classes to train budding karatekas in February this year for her livelihood. But she had to shut it down in March due to the lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.“I had to shut the coaching after a month due to the lockdown. So I have no option but to sell hadia for livelihood,” said Bimla who was also a gold medalist at Bollywood star Akshay Kumar 4th International Kudo Championship in 2012.A commerce graduate Bimla stays with her 84-year-old maternal grandfather at Patragonda village in Ranchi’s Kanke block. Her parents live in Sagrampur village in the same block.Her father Ranthu Munda, 45, is a small farmer who also used to work as a daily labourer to provide for six other members of the family including four brothers and sisters of Bimla. “But my father’s health is not good now. So, he doesn’t go out for labourer’s jobs,” she said.“I have been living with my grandfather since childhood. My grandfather retired before 2000 when Jharkhand was not separated from Bihar. He gets pension around Rs 6,000 a month but most of his pension amount goes into his medicine,” she added. “I sell hadia at my home in the village. Average 70-80 glass of hadia is sold every day. Each glass costs Rs 4. The money I earn from selling hadia goes on buying household needs,” said Bimla, gold medalist of All India Karate Open Championship in 2015 and Federation Cup organized by All India Karate-Do Federation in 2019,.She claimed that she is among 33 players, who have been selected for Jharkhand government’s direct job scheme for sportspersons but she is yet to receive the appointment letter.“I applied for the direct job scheme in 2019, while verification was done in February this year. We were told that we would get a job by March. But, we are still waiting for the appointment letter,” she said.When sports secretary Puja Singhal was contacted, she said, “They would get their jobs in a month.”Meanwhile, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren took cognizance of Bimla’s condition. In a tweet on Sunday, Soren asked Ranchi deputy commission to provide the player all possible help in coordination of sports secretary.“When our upcoming sports policy will come into effect, the future of players will change,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-medalist-karate-player-in-ranchi-sells-rice-beer-for-survival/story-YBfpGQ3GYplL1VhBUM2jUP.html
18-10-2020||India||‘Look forward to working together’: PM Modi congratulates Jacinda Ardern for poll win||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday congratulated his New Zealand counterpart Jacinda Ardern for securing a second term in office. PM Modi said he looked forward to working together for taking the bilateral relationship to a higher level.“My heartiest congratulations to the PM of New Zealand @jacindaardern on her resounding victory. Recall our last meet a year ago and look forward to working together for taking India-NZ relationship to a higher level,” PM Modi said on Twitter. My heartiest congratulations to the PM of New Zealand @jacindaardern on her resounding victory.Recall our last meet a year ago and look forward to working together for taking India-NZ relationship to a higher level. pic.twitter.com/8C4OS1LVMQArdern won a second term in office on Saturday in an election landslide of historic proportions.Ardern’s liberal Labour Party got 49 per cent of the vote, crushing the conservative National Party, which got 27 per cent. Ardern said the margin of the victory exceeded their expectations.The Labour Party will now get an outright majority in Parliament, the first time any party has achieved that since New Zealand implemented a proportional voting system 24 years ago. Typically parties have formed alliances to govern but this time Labour can go it alone.A day after winning the second term, Ardern said on Sunday that she sees the election result as an endorsement of her government’s efforts to stamp out the coronavirus and reboot the economy.Speaking at a cafe near her Auckland home, Ardern said she expects to form a new government within three weeks and to prioritise work on the virus response.“We’re cracking on very quickly with the work we need to do as a new team,” Ardern said.Ardern’s popularity soared earlier this year after she led a successful effort to halt the spread of the virus by implementing a strict lockdown in late March. New Zealand has had fewer than 2,000 cases of the virus including 25 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/look-forward-to-working-together-pm-modi-congratulates-jacinda-ardern-for-poll-win/story-aqdMFzTBAxBuegwVOztWqM.html
18-10-2020||India||Meerut: 15-year-old girl allegedly raped in car, accused held||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped in a car in TP Nagar neighbourhood of Meerut on Friday, police said on Sunday.Police have arrested the accused, Pulkit Saini (20), following a complaint by the girl’s father. “A case of rape was registered against the accused and he was arrested on Saturday night,” said Dinesh Kumar, station house officer (SHO), TP Nagar police station.The girl used to practise judo and karate at a college ground, where the accused also practised the martial arts.She had left her house on a two-wheeler on Friday evening, but Saini stopped her outside a shopping complex, convinced her to park the vehicle there and accompany him in his car to the practice venue.He allegedly drove the car to a secluded road and raped her in the vehicle. He threatened to harm her if she narrated the incident to anyone else.The girl returned home and told her family members about the incident after which a first information report (FIR) was lodged at TP Nagar police station. A forensic team also visited the spot and collected evidence from the car, where the teenager was allegedly raped.Wile the accused’s car had a BJP flag on it, the party’s Meerut chief Mukesh Singhal said the accused was not a member of the party and he was fraudulently using the Goraksha Samiti sticker and the party flag on his car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meerut-15-year-old-girl-allegedly-raped-in-car-accused-held/story-kjV1kbE37xxPpTjRax7cyH.html
18-10-2020||India||‘Long COVID’ linked to organ impairment in young people without pre-existing conditions: Study||Scientists, including one of Indian-origin, have assessed more than 200 people infected with the novel coronavirus and found that there was significant evidence of heart, lung, liver and pancreas impairment four months post-Covid-19 in young individuals without risk factors or pre-existing disease. The yet-to-be peer-reviewed study, published in the preprint repository medRxiv, assessed 201 individuals enrolled at two UK sites -- Perspectum, Oxford and Mayo Clinic Healthcare, London -- following infection with the novel coronavirus between April and September 2020. According to the researchers, including Sandeep Kapur from Mayo Clinic Healthcare, the average age of the participants was 44, and they completed the assessments 105-160 days after initial symptoms. They said the prevalence of pre-existing conditions such as obesity and hypertension was low among the participants, and only 18 per cent of the individuals had been hospitalised with Covid-19. Nearly four months after the initial symptoms, the study found that the participants still reported fatigue, muscle aches, breathlessness, and headaches. In this low-risk population with persisting “long COVID” symptoms, almost 70 per cent of the individuals have impairment in one or more organs, four months after initial symptoms of the coronavirus infection, the researchers said. “In this young cohort with low prevalence of comorbidities, the extent of symptom burden and organ impairment is concerning,” the scientists noted in the study. Months after the initial symptoms were reported, the participants still experienced ongoing cardiorespiratory (92 per cent) and gastrointestinal (73 per cent) symptoms, and 42 per cent of individuals had ten or more symptoms, they said. According to the researchers, there was evidence of mild organ impairment in heart (32 per cent), lungs (33 per cent), kidneys (12 per cent), 63 liver (10 per cent), pancreas (17 per cent), and spleen (6 per cent). “Single and multi-organ impairment was observed, and was significantly associated with risk of prior Covid-19 hospitalisation,” the scientists wrote in the study. Citing the limitations of the study, the researchers said the cause-effect relationship between organ impairment and infection could not be deduced, “but may be addressed by longitudinal follow-up of individuals with organ impairment.” They added that the study population was limited by ethnicity despite disproportionate impact of Covid-19 in non-white individuals. However, the researchers believe the findings have implications not only for the burden of long COVID but also for public health approaches which have assumed low risk in young people with no comorbidities. “There is urgent need for further multi-organ assessment, including blood and imaging analysis in the Covid-19 context, as well as linkage with primary and secondary care data, so that long COVID can be properly defined,” the researchers noted in the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/long-covid-linked-to-organ-impairment-in-young-people-without-pre-existing-conditions-study/story-kPff4z9qikg5AO6ckkcXMP.html
18-10-2020||India||Tripura asks Mizoram to back off from border village, claims jurisdiction||A day after the Mizoram government imposed prohibitory orders at Phuldungsei, a disputed village at Tripura-Mizoram inter-state border, due to a row over construction of a temple, the Tripura government on Saturday requested the Mizoram government to withdraw the orders and claimed that the disputed areas falls under the North district of Tripura.In a letter written to Mizoram government’s deputy secretary David H Lalthangliana on Saturday, Tripura government’s additional secretary AK Bhattacharya said the prohibitory order is “highly objectionable” as Betlingchhip, also known as Thaidawr Ylang, is currently under the Tripura government’s control. Accordingly, he requested the Mamit district magistrate to withdraw the prohibitory order at the earliest.“ …. District Magistrate, Mamit has erroneously mentioned Betlingchhip (as also referred to as Thaidawr Ylang by few Mizos) which is currently under complete administrative control and possession of the State of Tripura under North Tripura District,” the letter said.To further bolster its claim, the letter cites construction of a watch tower done previously by Tripura government at Betlingchhip.“Tourism Department, Government of Tripura constructed a watch tower at the peak of Betlingchhip long back. It can be safely said that District Magistrate, Mamit in his prohibitory order has erroneously included Phuldungsei para/village (in Jampui) under Sabual VC of Jampui Hills RD Block in Kanchanpur Sub-Division of North Tripura District,” the letter reads.In the prohibitory order, Mizoram’s Mamit district magistrate Lalrozama stated that a Tripura-based organisation SONGRONGMA planned to construct a Shiv temple at Thaidawr Ylang falling in Mamit district without seeking permission from the Mizoram government.Also Read: Mizoram govt objects to temple construction at disputed border with Tripura, imposes prohibitory orders Stating that this would go against the interest of the local community that could disturb peace and tranquillity in the region, he imposed restrictions on assembly of five or more persons in the village and surrounding areas of Phuldungsei Zampi and Zomuantlang of Mizoram’s Mamit district since October 16 till further orders.Phuldungsei village, located at Kanchanpur sub division of North district of Tripura, has over 600 residents. Despite the eastern side of Phuldungsei village falling in Mizoram, the village has traditionally been considered a part of Tripura.Also Read: BJP ousts Congress from 3rd Mizoram autonomous council, looks at Centre to consolidate In August, Kanchanpur sub divisional magistrate Chandni Chandran informed her higher officials that 130 residents of the village, who have Tripura’s ration cards, were found in Mizoram’s voters’ list.Earlier on October 10, Mizoram home secretary Lalbiaksangi sought Tripura home secretary BK Sahu’s intervention to stop construction of the temple and all kinds of activities within the disputed interstate border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-asks-mizoram-to-back-off-from-border-village-claims-jurisdiction/story-e2gB86U9FzX8qA45pcgz1N.html
18-10-2020||India||Patnaik calls up NEET topper Soyeb Aftab, wishes him bright future||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Sunday called up NEET topper Soyeb Aftab and congratulated him on his success. Patnaik also wished him a bright future, a CMO release said.Aftab was elated on receiving a call from the chief minister and thanked him.Aftab of Rourkela topped the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), results of which were declared on Friday. He created history by scoring 720/720.He is the first student from Odisha to have topped the NEET.Patnaik also congratulated all the students from the state who succeeded in the examination and wished them a bright future.Governor Ganeshi Lal also congratulated Aftab.“Hon’ble Governor congratulates SoyebAftab of #Odisha for creating history by scoring 720 and topping the merit list. Hon’ble Governor wishes Soyeb many more laurels in future,” his official Twitter handle posted.Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who is from Odisha, also congratulated Aftab on his success and hoped he will bring laurels to the state in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patnaik-calls-up-neet-topper-soyeb-aftab-wishes-him-bright-future/story-FlOQEKzPoHX4y5DQ9ioQPJ.html
18-10-2020||India||Kerala is paying price of gross negligence during Onam, says Harsh Vardhan on spike in Covid-19 cases||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday blamed Kerala’s negligence during Onam festival for the sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. Addressing his weekly social media programme Sunday Samvaad, the minister said every state should take a lesson from Kerala situation. “The state is paying the price of its gross negligence. There were huge congregations during Onam and adequate safety measures were not taken,” the minister said.Between January 30 and May 3, Kerala reported only 499 cases and two deaths and the cases were concentrates in only a few districts, the minister said adding the resumption of interstate and intrastate travel started triggering the number.The first confirmed Covid-19 case in India was reported in Kerala on January 30. It took 203 days to breach the 50,000-mark in total Covid cases as the state managed to rein in the spread of the infection with stringent surveillance. However, the next 50,000 was reached within the next 23 days. And on October 13, Kerala’s Covid-19 tally crossed the three lakh-mark.On Saturday, 9,016 new cases of infection were reported from the state. A central team was sent to the state to examine why the situation has worsened over the past few weeks. Health experts said the next few weeks are critical for the state and asked officials and public not to lower their guard during the festive season.The state, however, government has claimed that the situation is not yet grim as Kerala’s recovery rate is high — daily recoveries are higher than daily infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kerala-is-paying-price-of-gross-negligence-during-onam-says-harsh-vardhan/story-6WdbGdBTM1F2VhktEDu81M.html
18-10-2020||India||Centre to soon issued guidelines for scaling up cycling infrastructure in India||The central government is drafting guidelines to scale up cycling infrastructure in the country, including interventions such as segregated lanes, shared streets, and intersections. The guidelines will be shared with cities as the part of the Smart City Mission of the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs by Tuesday (October 20), officials aware of the development said.“The design guidelines contain national standards and processes to create cycle-friendly streets, including interventions such as segregated lanes, shared streets, and intersections. It also contains details about parking management and additional design elements such as parking of cycles, signage, and street lighting...The next phase of the document will contain implementation details and methods to measure the impact of interventions,” said an official.The ministry had launched the Cycles4Change Challenge on June 25. The challenge is aimed to help cities connect with the public and experts to develop a unified vision to promote cycling. Cities are encouraged to collaborate with experts and volunteers, as they develop and implement their plans. Citizen collaboration will also be a key metric in the evaluation of proposals submitted by the cities. India Programme of the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) is helping the government in drafting the guidelines.Earlier, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi authorities had prepared a masterplan for cycling for the national capital around a decade ago. The masterplan was never implemented. “Besides planning standards for cycling infrastructure, we need to recalibrate traffic lights in cities to factor in mass movement of cycles at traffic intersections. We can integrate landscape planning with cycle infrastructure,” said KT Ravindran, an urban designer and a former chairman of Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC).On June 10, HT had reported the Centre’s recommendation to states to plan cities with pedestrian-friendly markets and more cyclists in a post-coronavirus disease (Covid-19) world.Read: Better infra may boost cycle use post-Covid, projects study“While the lockdown restrictions are is being gradually relaxed, the need for social distancing, especially in market places, will remain. The pandemic presents us with an opportunity to re-imagine streets for the public. To make market areas Covid-19 safe and people-friendly, the cities should consider the use of pavements in a big way. The need for personalised forms of transport is also expected to increase as a response to Covid-19. Cities around the world are leveraging the opportunity to expand their cycling network substantially,” the ministry had said in its letter to states.According to a survey conducted in June by the India Programme of the ITDP to understand public’s travel choices post-Covid-19, results had showed that cycling would increase up to 65%, as cities emerge out of lockdown restrictions. According to the ministry, out of the 107 registered cities, 54 had formed an official core team to work on cycling infrastructure. These cities had carried out perception surveys to understand the public’s views about cycling. Among the respondents, 95% and 95% of women and men, respectively, had said they would use cycle if their cities had better infrastructure for this mode of transport.“Cities are encouraged to contextualise these resources by using the test-learn-scale approach and present their learning as part of the workshops. The challenge has also emphasised key steps of the process, such as forming an official team, ensuring participation from women, and gathering feedback from the public at every step. Cities are also encouraged to initiate other interventions such as public bicycle sharing (PBS), rental programmes, repair clinics, and parking projects. These should be well integrated and connected with transport stations, public spaces, institutions etc,” the official said. Read: Cycling in Delhi rides high in Covid-19 era, but safety still a concernThe challenge is open to all cities under the Smart Cities Mission, capital cities of states/union territories (UTs), and all cities, which has a population of over five lakh. The challenge will be held in two stages.“Stage 1 of the India Cycles4Change Challenge mandates that cities consider at least one corridor to test segregated cycle lanes and a neighbourhood to make it safe for the use of this mode of conveyance. A minimum of five kilometres (km) of continuous corridor and a neighbourhood area up to five square (sq) km qualifies as a pilot intervention. By December 14, cities need to test the pilot along with their community and document the impact of interventions,” said the official.Around 370 km of streets and 210 sq km have been identified for pilot corridor and neighbourhood area, respectively. At least 35 cities have initiated work to this effect. Work is in progress in creating and testing the design solutions, he said.“All cities under the Smart Cities Mission are encouraged to use the project’s funds for interventions in both stages of the challenge. We will reward 11 cities with a prize of Rs one crore each as we graduate to the second stage,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-soon-issued-guidelines-for-scaling-up-cycling-infrastructure-in-india/story-g576y2tSOlx3rUrzNMX8IM.html
18-10-2020||India||Hyderabad rains: 6-year-old killed in wall collapse in Turkapet area||A six-year-old child was killed after a wall collapsed in Hyderabad’s Turkapet area following rains in the city, which have caused water logging in several parts, according to news agency ANI. Heavy rains had lashed Nampally, Abids, Kothi, Basheerbagh, Khairatabad, Goshamahal and Vijayanagar areas of Hyderabad on Saturday night.“A six-year-old child died after a wall collapsed due to heavy rains at Turkapet area, A case has been registered,” G Ranaveer Reddy, inspector of police with the Mangalhat Police Station, was quoted as saying by ANI.Extremely heavy rainfall had lashed Telangana, along with Karnataka and Maharashtra, between October 14 and 16. It caused massive urban flooding in Hyderabad and killed at least 30 people in Telangana. Several people lost their lives due to floods in parts of Maharashtra as well.Rescue operations were carried in the city and in one such mission Abdullapurmet Police pulled out a car stuck in overflowing water using an earth-moving machine in Rachakonda. Heavy flooding was also reported in Chandrayangutta area of Hyderabad on Saturday. Eight members of a family had been washed away in the floods in the area, caused by heavy rains in the recent days.Also read | Heavy rains expected in Telangana and other areas, days after Hyderabad floodingAbdul Wahab, Chandrayangutta Corporator, urged people to stay safe by moving to the first floor of their own or other buildings in the neighbourhood. “People in Balapur, Baba Nagar and nearby areas should not stay at the ground floor of their houses, they have to shift to the nearby first floor in the same buildings or that of others in the neighbourhood,” Wahab said in the message, according to ANI.A rain alert for six days up till Wednesday in Hyderabad was issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), saying thunderstorms accompanied by lightning and heavy rain are ‘very likely’ to strike across Telangana, days after at least 50 people were killed in the state.Also read | In Telangana, sudden surge of water from Krishna River submerges Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation SchemeThe weather bureau has said Hyderabad will see a partly cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers on Sunday. There will be generally cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers on Monday and on Tuesday the city will see heavy rain. On Wednesday, a generally cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers have been predicted and rains have been forecast for Thursday and Friday by the bureau.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-rains-6-year-old-killed-in-wall-collapse-in-turkapet-area/story-KYehiDaqO7lUNLb9J0xASK.html
18-10-2020||India||Schools, metros to resume in these states from tomorrow. Check guidelines||From October 19, India will see more unlocking as several states are preparing to resume schools, public conveyances from tomorrow. The ministry of home affairs has allowed maximum activities including movie theatres and swimming pools which were closed till October. However, it has asked the respective state governments to decide on reopening based on the Covid-19 situation of the state. Here is all that is opening from tomorrow:SchoolsSchools in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab will partially reopen from October 19. Senior students of class 9 to 12 will be allowed to come to the schools with parental consent. Himachal Pradesh will also reopen schools for students of Class 10 and 12. Uttar Pradesh1. Classes will be held in shifts and all necessary protocols including social distancing and proper sanitisation of premises will have to be followed by schools.2. 50 per cent of the students should be called in every class on one day and the remaining 50 per cent the next day.3. In case of symptoms of cold or fever in any student, teacher or other employees, they will be sent home after primary treatment.4. No student should be forced to come to schoolPunjab1. Staff and students belonging to containment zones shall not attend the school and other educational institutions2. The schools will open for three hours a day3. Only one student will be allowed to sit on one bench.4. All school gates to remain open at the time of entry and exit to avoid overcrowding.SikkimThe Sikkim government has decided to reopen all schools from October 19 in a graded manner. The state partially opened schools on September 21. The state government has come up with a new academic calendar doing away with winter vacation and Saturday holidays to make up for the lost time. MetroThe Maharashtra government on October 14 permitted the resumption of metro services in the state from October 15. Mumbai Metro, however, took a few days extra to be Covid-ready and is coming back on track from October 19.1. The trains will ply from 8.30 am to 8.30 pm2. Use of mask, maintaining social distancing mandatory.3. Children, elderly people advised not to travel by metro.4. Passengers with cards, e-tickets are to be allowed.5. Carry minimum luggage and avoid metallic items.National ParkOdisha’s Bhitarkanika National Park will be open for day visitors from October 19 after remaining closed for about seven months. Tourists for night stays were allowed from October 1. From tomorrow, 500 visitors per day will be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-metros-to-resume-in-these-states-from-tomorrow-check-guidelines/story-0r7AkRCJYXPAaMnMWQN65J.html
18-10-2020||India||BrahMos missile test-fired from destroyer INS Chennai in Arabian Sea||India on Sunday successfully test fired the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile from the indigenously-built stealth destroyer INS Chennai, with the weapon hitting a pre-designated target in the Arabian Sea, the defence ministry said in a statement. The 290-km range missile --- an Indo-Russian joint venture --- has land, air and naval variants. “The missile hit the target with pin-point accuracy after performing high-level and extremely complex manoeuvres. BrahMos as prime strike weapon will ensure the warship’s invincibility by engaging naval surface targets at long ranges, thus making the destroyer another lethal platform of Indian Navy,” it said. The missile has a top speed of Mach 2.8 --- nearly three times the speed of sound. Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the Defence Research and Development Organisation, BrahMos and the Indian Navy for the successful launch. India has test-fired a string of weapons during the last two months in the midst of the ongoing tensions with China in the sensitive Ladakh sector. Sunday’s test came days after India test-fired an extended-range BrahMos supersonic cruise missile that can hit targets 400 km away. The range has been increased from the existing 290 km. The extended-range variant was tested from the Integrated Test Range at Balasore in Odisha on September 30. The configuration of the existing missile --- the world’s fastest supersonic cruise missile --- has been tweaked to enhance its range. Increasing the missile’s range became possible after India’s induction into the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) in June 2016. Commissioned into the navy in November 2016, the 7,500-tonne INS Chennai incorporates new design concepts for improved survivability, stealth and manoeuvrability. The warship can carry 16 BrahMos missiles in two eight-cell vertical launch systems, besides other sophisticated weapons and sensors, officials said. Other weapons recently tested by India include a new version of the nuclear-capable hypersonic Shaurya missile with a range of 750 km and the anti-radiation missile to take down enemy radars and surveillance systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brahmos-missile-test-fired-from-indian-navy-s-stealth-destroyer-hits-bull-s-eye/story-oX4w1oTNtgAv2WOnsuBzmL.html
18-10-2020||India||Ballia firing incident: UP Police arrest main accused from Lucknow||The Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) arrested the main accused in the Ballia firing case -- in which a 46-year-old man was shot dead during a meeting attended by several district and police officials -- from Lucknow on Sunday morning, officials said. Dhirendra Pratap Singh, a local BJP leader, was arrested from the Polytechnic crossing on the Lucknow-Ayodhya highway, said STF inspector general of police Amitabh Yash.Singh had been on the run since Thursday even as a video circulating on social media purportedly showed him saying he had been framed in the case. So far, 7 people including Singh and his brother Narendra Pratap Singh have been arrested in connection with the incident. Around 22 other unidentified people are also named in the FIR.On Thursday, Singh allegedly shot dead Jai Prakash after a fracas broke out at the meeting at Durjanpur village in the Reoti Police Station area of the district over allotment of ration shops. The issue also triggered a political controversy after BJP MLA from Bariya assembly seat, Surendra Singh, came out in support of the main accused.Uttar Pradesh Police had said on Saturday they would invoke the stringent National Security Act (NSA) and Gangster Act against those accused in the case. Under the NSA, one can be detained without a charge for up to 12 months if authorities believe the person is a threat to national security or law and order. Under Section 14 of the UP Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, a district magistrate can order attachment of property, whether movable or immovable, if there is reason to believe that it has been acquired as a commission for an offence tried under this law.BJP MLA summoned by party On Sunday, BJP state chief Swatantra Dev Singh summoned party MLA Surendra Singh, who had attempted to defend Dhirendra Pratap Singh. “Yes, he has been summoned for his outspoken remarks. The party isn’t happy with him,” an aide of the state BJP chief told HT. After backing the accused and describing him as a BJP worker, Surendra Singh had on Saturday visited the Reoti police station and demanded that an FIR be registered as the main accused’s family had been injured in Thursday’s incident as well. It isn’t clear if the party leadership was contemplating taking action against Singh. “He hasn’t come so far,” a BJP leader said on condition of anonymity. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ballia-firing-incident-up-police-arrest-main-accused-from-lucknow/story-6sclsotRBsqPfSkVGtUiNP.html
18-10-2020||India||Delhi-Katra Expressway: ‘First-of-its-kind road corridor’ to cut travel time between Delhi and Vaishno Devi||The government has decided to improve connectivity to the Vaishno Devi shrine, an important religious site in the Katra town of Jammu and Kashmir which is visited by lakhs of pilgrims every year, via road from Delhi.The Delhi-Katra expressway project has commenced connecting the two places, as announced by Union minister of state for personnel public grievances and pensions Jitendra Singh. He had announced the project on August 12 this year.Here is all you need to know about the Delhi-Katra Expressway:• In the announcement, the expressway was described as a “first-of-its-kind road corridor” and that the project upon completion would reduce the travel time between Delhi and Katra to six-and-a-half hours. Also, the travel time between Jammu and Delhi would be reduced to six hours, thus making it the preferred choice of travel via road for people, over train and air routes.• Katra and Jammu in Jammu and Kashmir and Amritsar, Ludhiana, Kapurthala and Jalandhar in Punjab are some of the important cities that would be covered by the corridor.• The project is estimated to complete by 2023, a timeline of three years from now, and at a projected cost of Rs 35,000 crore.• “The hallmark of this road corridor is that it will connect the holy cities of Katra and Amritsar, and at the same time offer connectivity for some other major important religious shrines between the two destinations,” Singh was quoted as saying by PTI.• Approval for the corridor came along with the plans for multiple other projects that the government has kicked-off. Widening of the national highway between Jammu and Pathankot, which will be upgraded to a six-way lane from a four-way lane, is currently underway to ease the route for travellers between Jammu, Katra and Pathankot.• Initial plans for the project were proposed nearly three years ago in 2018, by Singh, who represents Udhampur in the Lok Sabha.• Hailed as a “path-breaking revolution in promoting industry and investments in the entire region,” Singh has said that the project will catalyse the boom of multiple economic hubs in cities like Katra and Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-katra-expressway-first-of-its-kind-road-corridor-to-cut-travel-time-between-delhi-and-vaishno-devi/story-cZORnVOnYMoQPyrluOkCXI.html
18-10-2020||India||15-year-old raped in UP’s Jaunpur, accused on the run||A 15-year-old teenager was allegedly raped by two men in a paddy field outside a village in Sikarara area of eastern Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Jaunpur district on Friday evening. The accused are on the run, police said.The incident occurred when the girl was returning home after buying medicines from a local market. “Her family members have informed that the youths caught her while she was returning home from a medical store, which is located on the outskirts of the village,” a police officer said. She later told her parents, who filed a complaint with the local police station. Angad Prasad Tiwari, station house officer (SHO) of the police station, said a first information report (FIR) has been filed under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-year-old-raped-in-up-s-jaunpur-accused-on-the-run/story-yC9Z5IXLN00f3eMbfeZIvN.html
18-10-2020||India||Ram temple construction behind schedule, testing of foundation pillars continues||The testing of the foundation pillars for the Ram temple continued at Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya on Saturday since it could not be completed before the start of Navratri, when the construction of the temple was supposed to begin.“Testing work of the foundation pillars of Ram temple is still continuing. It is expected to be over by the end of this month,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, the successor- designate to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust.“Navratri is considered auspicious and saints wanted to start construction work of the Ram temple on this occasion,” Das added.The trust had planned to start the construction work from Navratri, which began on Saturday. About 12 foundation pillars have already been laid at Ram Janmabhoomi. Larsen and Toubro, the company carrying out construction of the Ram temple, is conducting this testing under the guidance of IIT-Madras experts.On September 11, the trust had started the piling work for testing the foundation pillars. Also Read: Top Hindu body upset with Uddhav govt, also has advice for Udit RajAround 1,200 pillars will be laid 100 feet below the surface to prepare the temple’s foundation. In technical terms, this process is called piling. To begin with, one pillar, a metre in diameter, was laid 100 feet below the ground. These pillars are being subjected to various tests to check their strength and durability. Also Read: Covid-19: RSS Vijayadashami event in Nagpur to be low-keyThe testing was expected to be completed by October 15 but this did not happen.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had presided over the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5. On November 9, the Supreme Court had paved the way for construction of the Ram temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-construction-behind-schedule-testing-of-foundation-pillars-continue/story-6KXRRLQDWURs4jHKqNfuCK.html
18-10-2020||India||To capture tiger, Maharashtra forest dept deploys staff members near main trap||The Maharashtra forest department has started an unorthodox method to trap an elusive male tiger RT1 -- who is believed to have killed eight people since January 2019 -- at Rajura (Central Chanda forest division) in Chandrapur district of Maharashtra.Since October 11, forest staff members are stationed inside two camouflaged cages near a trapping area located under a bridge. A calf has been left as bait for the tiger.At compartment number 170 in the core Rajura forest area, the caged forest staff is perched on elevated structures covered by leaves on either sides of the main trapping area. The small cages are situated 40 metres away from the bridge. The employees are holding onto a rope pulling up the steel gate of the main cage that is to be used for trapping the tiger. The plan is to pull the ropes the moment the tiger steps into the cage, shut the gate, and then mobilise the a team of veterinarians who will tranquilise the feline.Clarification after controversyHowever, the method drew flak after a letter issued by the Rajura range forest officer (RFO) stated that the forest staff would be deployed daily between October 11 and 18 between 8pm and 6am and “seated in bait cages”. “The cages are being used for the staff’s own safety and not as bait. This strategy has been adopted, as it is difficult to get close to the tiger,” NR Praveen, chief conservator of forest (CCF), Chandrapur, said clarifying that humans aren’t being used a bait. On Saturday, the Nagpur-based Forest Guard and Forester Association of Maharashtra responded to the Rajura RFO’s letter. It alleged that the guidelines of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) were being violated, as any tiger capture operation was supposed to be performed during the day. “The timing should be changed and due care must be taken for the safety of the forest staff,” the association said. It also pointed out that the department should consider its staff’s safety while expressing concern about long shifts that could harm their health condition.Arvind Mundhe, deputy conservator of forest (Central Chanda), said, “There is confusion over the fact that the forest employees are being kept as bait in place of the calf. No human being is being kept as bait... The first phase of this experiment ends on Sunday. We will take a call, whether we need to extend it.” At present, the forest department authorities are unable to spot the tiger during the day, said Mundhe. The department has roped in 25 Special Tiger Protection Force (STPF) officers, 35 employees from the Central Chanda forest division and three veterinarians, each of whom will be assisted by seven staff members to catch the elusive tiger. Rajura forest area is spread across around 1,100 square (sq) kilometres. “We spotted the tiger after sunset on October 12 and 13 moving through its usual route. This is where the trap and cages have been put up,” said Mundhe. Independent experts also told forest officials about the ambiguous content of the letter. “I spoke to CCF Chandrapur. The forest department employees are not being used as bait. The bait site is under the bridge, while other cages will have tiger monitoring teams, who will pull the rope and shut the steel gate. The employees will feel safe due to the camouflaged cages provided to them for protection,” said Kishor Rithe, founder, Satpuda Foundation and a member of the State Board of Wildlife (SBWL).Department not considering shooting down tigerA state forest official said there has been growing demand from local residents to shoot RT1 but the department has not considered the idea yet. RT1 is believed to have killed eight people and injured three others since January 2019, although the figures aren’t confirmed. “All kills cannot be attributed to RT1. Of the eight deaths, the samples for five were sent for DNA analysis. The results have confirmed two cases due to a large male tiger. However, in other incidents, there has been no conclusive evidence,” said Mundhe.HT had reported on October 3 that Maharashtra reported the loss of the highest number of human lives due to tigers over the past decade. So far, 33 people have been killed in the state as cases of human-animal conflict continue to rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-capture-tiger-maharashtra-forest-dept-deploys-staff-members-near-main-trap/story-eAlXT4Mzzgw1pfLHmePMZM.html
18-10-2020||India||India-China prepare for 8th round of military commanders’ talks next week||The eighth round of India-China military and diplomatic level talks is expected to take place next week to discuss disengagement in Ladakh even as armies of the two countries prepare for snow and winter deployment along the 1,597km Line of Actual Control (LAC).According to senior officials, both sides are not impatient over a resolution on the friction points but have decided to keep the dialogue channels open at both military commander and diplomatic levels. The talks are also aimed at preventing any vertical escalation on the friction points either due to an accident or aggressiveness of an individual commander.While the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has proposed that both sides withdraw armoured and artillery units as part of de-escalation first and then go for dis-engagement of infantry, the Indian side is very clear that armoured units cannot be withdrawn as it will give advantage to the adversary due to terrain and capability.Also read | No one can take away Indian land: Amit Shah says amid border row with ChinaAs a senior military commander explained, the issue is that the Indian Army’s approach to both north and south bank of Pangong Tso is through two very high mountain passes-- the 17,590 feet Chang La and 18,314 feet Marsimik La. While Chang La lies between the road from Leh to the contested south bank of Pangong Tso, Marsimik La lies between the contested north banks of the lake and Kongka La. The road from contested Gogra-Hot Springs near KongKa La to north Pangong Tso runs through Marsimik La.Also read | China turns Indian proposal on its head, wants de-escalation first and then disengagement“If India were to withdraw its armoured units from south of Pangong Tso to beyond Chang La or beyond Marsimik La, then they will never reach back to the contested points in a worst-case scenario as both the passes are blocked by heavy snow till April every year. The PLA, on the other hand, have an advantage as they have a six-lane Kashgar-Lhasa highway just 10 km from both Marsimik La and Kongka La with roads running right up to their posts,” said a senior official.Also read | Need to restore peace along LAC: S JaishankarWhile PLA launched aggression in Galwan Valley, Gogra-Hot Springs and north banks of Pangong Tso in April-May this year, the Indian Army was able to pre-empt their moves south of Pangong Tso to occupy the Rezang La -Rechin La ridgeline in last week of August. The situation continues to remain tense as the PLA is deployed in full in occupied Aksai Chin as well as in-depth areas up to Chengdu and Kashgar. PLA’s air force is continuing with its combat patrols in the area with nearby airbases active.Given the circumstances, the Indian Army and the PLA are deployed on the contested points with distance being maintained so that any chance of an accident is ruled out. Indian medical facilities have come up along the LAC so that victims of high-altitude sickness get immediate treatment and not wait for heli-lift to a specialised hospital at Hundar in Partapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-prepare-for-8th-round-of-military-commanders-talks-next-week/story-5jAws27EnLb76a8yTGSr9H.html
18-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 7.49 million, more than 6.59 million have recovered||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went up to 7,494,551 after 61,871 new cases and 1,033 deaths were recorded between Friday and Saturday morning, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard. The number of new infections reported in the past week has been below the 70,000 mark, with the lowest on October 13 at 55,342, data shows.The country, which is the second worst-hit country in the world in terms of numbers of infections, added 374,013 Covid-19 cases in the last week. However, the daily deaths rose to over 1,000 on Sunday after remaining below 900 between Monday and Saturday. On October 15, it was the lowest for the week when 680 Covid-19 patients succumbed across the country. India’s death toll now stands at 114,031, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am.Also read | Coronavirus infects nearly 40 million globallyThe number of recoveries also went up to 6,597,209 as 72,614 people were cured of the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the national recovery rate to a little over 88%. There have been 447,674 recoveries in the week and the government has said that “enhanced countrywide medical infrastructure, implementation of the Centre’s Standard Treatment Protocol by the States/UTs, and total dedication & commitment of doctors, paramedics and frontline workers have led to a persistent increase in the number of total recoveries with a commensurate dip in the fatality rate.”It has also said that India is the only country with the highest recoveries and continues to have one of the lowest fatality rates globally.Also read | Covid-19: PM Modi pushes poll-like vaccine distributionThere are 783,311 active cases of the coronavirus disease as of Sunday and the active caseload in the country fell below 800,000 for the first time after one-and-a-half months on Saturday. The active caseload was at 7,85,996 last on September 1.The health ministry said on Saturday that 78% of the new recovered cases were observed to be concentrated in 10 states and Union territories. “Maharashtra contributes more than 13,000 to the single-day recoveries followed by Karnataka with more than 8,000 recoveries,” it said in a press release.Of the 62,212 new confirmed cases on Saturday, 79% are from 10 states and Union territories. Maharashtra, the ministry said, is still reporting “a very high number of new cases with more than 11,000 cases” and is followed by Karnataka and Kerala with more than 7,000 cases each. There were 837 fatalities reported on Saturday morning and nearly 82% were concentrated in 10 states and Union territories. Maharashtra had reported the maximum single-day deaths with 306 deaths, it added.“The Centre continues to support the State and UT Governments in the collective fight against the global pandemic. Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has deputed high-level Central teams to Kerala, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal. These States have been reporting a surge in the number of new COVID cases in the recent days,” the ministry said.“The teams will support the State efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, infection prevention and control measures, and efficient clinical management of the positive cases. The Central teams shall also guide in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow up,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-over-7-49-million-more-than-6-59-million-have-recovered/story-V1cX5GWOkb8HYcQkvgBdgP.html
18-10-2020||India||Assam Covid cases cross 200,000-mark; nearly 900 fatalities recorded||The total number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in Assam crossed the 200,000-mark on Saturday, when 642 fresh cases were reported,State health and family welfare minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted late on Saturday night that the total Covid-19 cases in Assam stood at 200,391. At present, the state has 28,442 active cases. The Covid-19-related death toll has risen to 865, including 12 new fatalities on Saturday, and a case fatality rate (proportion of deaths to cases) at 0.43%. So far, 171,081 people have recovered from their viral infection, and the recovery rate is 85.37%. The positivity rate has dropped in from around 8% in September to around 2% in the state. The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases has also improved from 12 days in July to 51 days as of Saturday. “At one point, we had around 36,000 active cases in the state. Now, the number of active Covid-19 cases has come down to around 28,000. The positivity rate has also dropped to around 2%,” Sarma told media persons on Saturday. “I appeal to the people of Assam to maintain all Covid-19 protocols during the upcoming Durga Puja,” he added. The first Covid-19 positive case was detected in Assam on March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-covid-cases-cross-200-000-mark-nearly-900-fatalities-recorded/story-qKzR7FJHcNnFxidafC6l7K.html
18-10-2020||India||Heavy rains expected in Telangana and other areas, days after Hyderabad flooding||A fresh low-pressure area over the central Bay of Bengal on Monday (October 19) is likely to bring heavy to very heavy rainfall to several places in Odisha, Telangana, coastal Andhra Pradesh and parts of Tamil Nadu between Sunday and Wednesday (October 18 to 21), weather scientists have said. The low-pressure area is likely to become more marked during the subsequent 24 hours, as it starts to bring rainfall to the east coast -- just days after extremely heavy rainfall, measuring over 20cm, occurred over coastal AP, Telangana, Karnataka and Maharashtra between October 14 and 16. It caused massive urban flooding in Hyderabad and killed at least 30 people in Telangana. Several people lost their lives due to floods in parts of Maharashtra as well.On Saturday evening, several areas in Hyderabad received heavy rain, triggering traffic snarls and water logging.Read:Hyderabad to witness more rains after days of downpoursThe depression over east-central and adjoining north-east Arabian Sea has moved westwards and lay centred around 540km south-west of Veraval in Saurashtra, Gujarat and 1,320km east and north-east of Salalah in Oman. It is likely to move nearly westwards during the next 24 hours and gradually weaken.Fishermen are advised not to venture into the northern parts of the central and north-west Arabian Sea on Sunday.Meanwhile, monsoon is unlikely to start withdrawing at least for the next one week and may prolong until the end of October, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“We are not expecting a change in the wind regime from south-westerly to north-easterly, when the north-east monsoon sets in for at least the next one week due to consecutive development of low- pressure systems,” Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general (D-G), IMD, had said based on his presentation “monsoon 2020—scientific issues and challenges” on Friday.The withdrawal line of monsoon is passing through Faizabad, Fatehpur, Nowgong, Rajgarh, Ratlam, Vallabh Vidyanagar and Porbandar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-expected-in-telangana-and-other-areas-days-after-hyderabad-flooding/story-qideMSNODOOWbpwil6hZOO.html
18-10-2020||India||‘Could have exercised restraint in his words’: Amit Shah on Maharashtra guv Koshyari’s letter to Thackeray||Union home minister Amit Shah has said Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari should have his chosen his words carefully in the letter he wrote to the western state’s chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over the issue of reopening of religious places amid the coronavirus pandemic.“I have read the letter. He has made a passing reference. I believe some restraint could have been exercised,” Shah said in an interview to News18 Group on Saturday in Hindi.No one can take away Indian land: Amit Shah says amid border row with ChinaKoshyari had written to Thackeray last week raising the issue of reopening of places of worship in Maharashtra. “I wonder if you are receiving any divine premonition to keep postponing the reopening of the places of worship time and again or have you suddenly turned ‘secular ‘ yourselves, the term you hated?” Koshyari asked Thackeray in his letter.In his response, Thackeray said he does not need a “certificate” on Hindutva from the Governor. “Do you mean that opening up religious places is Hindutva, and not opening them means being secular? Secularism is a crucial base of the oath you took as Governor. Do you not believe it?” the chief minister said.Thackeray also raised the issue of Kangana Ranaut comparing the state to Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) but he did not name the Bollywood actor. “Sir, you mention Hindutva in your letter, but I do not need any certificate or any teaching on Hindutva from you. My Hindutva does not permit me to welcome home a person who called my Maharashtra or Mumbai Pakistan occupied Kashmir,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/could-have-exercised-restraint-in-his-words-amit-shah-on-maharashtra-guv-koshyari-s-letter-to-thackeray/story-C0Gb9ossoSODUJk06mSZCM.html
18-10-2020||India||No one can take away Indian land: Amit Shah says amid border row with China||Union home minister Amit Shah has said the government is taking all possible military and diplomatic steps to resolve the ongoing border standoff in Ladakh with China and is committed to protecting the sovereignty and security of the country.Shah said in an interview to a television news channel on Saturday that Indian defence forces are always ready to respond to any form of aggression. His comments came days after Chinese President Xi Jinping asked troops of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to be prepared for war amid ongoing tensions with India in eastern Ladakh.“We are vigilant for every inch of our land, no one can take it away... Our defence forces and leadership are capable of defending the country’s sovereignty and border,” he said in an interview with News18 Group. “Every nation is always ready (for war). That’s the purpose of maintaining armies — to respond to any form of aggression. I am not saying this in reference to any particular comments, but India’s defence forces are always ready,” he said.Also read | Analysis: Prez Xi Jinping pushes limits, not just with neighbours but at home tooThe Union home minister also added that militaries of both countries are talking to each other and the diplomatic channels of communication are also open. The seventh round of talks between Indian and Chinese diplomats and military officials was held on October 13, which lasted more than 12 hours. A day after the seventh round of talks between senior military commanders at Chushul India and China said in a joint press statement that both sides have agreed to continue their dialogue to arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for early disengagement in the eastern Ladakh theatre.Also read | China turns Indian proposal on its head, wants de-escalation first and then disengagementThey said they had a better understanding of each other’s position in the sensitive sector after the latest round of talks, even as the border row is in its sixth month and efforts to disengage and de-escalate have made no breakthrough. “The two sides had a sincere, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in the western sector of India-China border areas. They were of the view that these discussions were positive, constructive and had enhanced understanding of each other’s positions,” said the statement.Shah was also asked if India should change its policy towards Tibet and Taiwan in a tit-for-tat response to China’s claim on Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh. “It’s not right to discuss this here. It’s a very complex issue with far-reaching implications. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and foreign minister S Jaishankar have cleared India’s position (on China) on Parliament’s floor. I think that’s enough. Talks with China are underway...” he said.Both the countries have deployed more than 50,000 soldiers each along with advanced weapons and systems in eastern Ladakh. The Indian Army and PLA have made preparations for a long haul in the sector even as talks at military and diplomatic levels are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-one-can-take-away-indian-land-amit-shah-amid-border-row-with-china/story-hfgOuH7H2yMCM8bJO9Io4J.html
18-10-2020||India||Minister urges opposition to let trains carrying Vaishno Devi pilgrims pass during Navratri||Union minister Jitendra Singh has appealed to the opposition including the Congress party to allow trains to pass through to Katra in Jammu to facilitate devotees’ visiting the holy Vaishno Devi shrine during the ongoing Navratri festival. Railway tracks in Punjab have been blocked by farmer groups supported by political parties like the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal in protest against three agriculture laws passed by the Parliament. Singh underlined that pilgrimage is a religious and sentimental issue for the devotees and all parties should respect it.He further said that the railway ministry on October 15 announced special trains to Katra in view of anticipated rush to the holy Hindu shrine on the occasion of Navratri festival, but it had to be cancelled at the last minute due to farmers’ protest in Congress-ruled Punjab.“Protest is their democratic right but keeping in mind religious sentiments of the devotees, it should be suspended till the festival gets over,” he added. He also said that the administration has made all possible arrangements to facilitate the pilgrims visiting Vaishno Devi in Trikuta hills.Also Read: Maha Yagya at Vaishno Devi shrine as Navratri begins, Vedic hymns fill airA special prayer ‘Shat Chandi Maha Yagya’ marked the commencement of Navratri festival at the famous shrine in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday and around 7,000 devotees reached Katra to pay their obeisance at the shrine.CEO of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, Ramesh Kumar said the shrine has been decorated with flowers and fruits on the occasion of first Navratri and renowned ‘bhajan’ singers will take part in morning and evening ‘Atta arti’. Mess has been functional for devotees who are visiting the shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-urges-opposition-to-let-trains-carrying-vaishno-devi-pilgrims-pass-during-navratri/story-8rNoVGYnthFolll6YUWMIL.html
18-10-2020||India||Maha Yagya at Vaishno Devi shrine as Navratri begins, Vedic hymns fill air||The nine-day long Navratri festival at Vaishno Devi shrine began with Shat Chandi Maha Yagya and chanting of Vedic hymns along with other rituals organised by the Vaishno Devi shrine board amid tight security and strict Covid guidelines.The ‘Maha Yagya’, being performed at the holy cave shrine nestled in Trikuta hills in Katra town of Reasi district of Jammu division for peace, prosperity and health of humanity, will conclude with Purna Ahuti on Mahanavami or the ninth day of the Navratri festival.Ramesh Kumar, chief executive officer, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board; other officers of the board and a large number of pilgrims were present on the occasion. The Shat Chandi Maha Yagya will be telecast from 12.30 p.m. to 1.30 pm daily from during Navratri festival.It is pertinent to mention that like in the past, the ‘Bhawan’ of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Ji, ‘Atka’ and the area surrounding it have been profusely decorated with flowers during the Navratri. The shrine board has also made elaborate arrangements for facilitating a large number of pilgrims who are expected to pay their obeisance at the sanctum sanctorum during the Navratri.Also Read: Day 1 of Navratra Mela: 16,000 devotees visit Mata Mansa Devi temple in Panchkula; ₹23.79 lakh cash in offerings receivedThese arrangements include ensuring round the clock water and power supply all along the tracks leading to the shrine, sanitation and the availability of special food made for devotees etc. Besides, all the routes leading to the holy cave shrine have been serviced for smooth movement of pilgrims. Also Read: Ramlila takes an online turn to guard against Covid-19The CEO of the shrine board interacted with several pilgrims and took their feedback on the arrangements. An official said that nearly 7000 pilgrims reached Katra on the first day of the festival for ‘darshan’ at the cave shrine.Earlier, on Saturday morning, Jammu divisional commissioner Sanjeev Verma inaugurated the festival in Katra town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-yagya-at-vaishno-devi-shrine-as-navratri-begins-vedic-hymns-fill-air/story-cNkL9fJ8iARjCmNpXdGzFJ.html
18-10-2020||India||Hyderabad to witness more rains after days of downpours||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a rain alert for six days up till Wednesday in Hyderabad and said thunderstorms accompanied by lightning and heavy rain are ‘very likely’ to strike across Telangana, days after at least 50 people were killed.For Sunday, the weather bureau has said Hyderabad will see a partly cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers. There will be generally cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers on Monday and on Tuesday the city will see heavy rain. There will be a generally cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers on Wednesday and rains have been predicted for Thursday and Friday.Several areas in Hyderabad received heavy showers on Saturday evening, triggering traffic snarls and water-logging, days after downpours that devastated parts of the city earlier this week and killed 11 people. However, according to unconfirmed reports, the death toll in Hyderabad alone crossed 20, with more bodies being recovered from flood-affected areas.Official data from 8.30am to 10 pm on Saturday showed that Singapur Township in Medchal Malkajgiri district received 157.3 mm of rainfall, followed by 153 mm of rain at Bandlaguda near Uppal in the city. Several other areas in the city also witnessed heavy rain.Vishwajit Kampati, director of vigilance and disaster management of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), said in a tweet that Disaster Response Force (DRF) personnel of the civic body were continuously working on the field clearing water stagnations and inundations and all possible measures were being initiated in view of the rainfall.KT Rama Rao, the state’s municipal administration minister, has directed officials and public representatives to distribute the chief minister relief kits with provisions and essential commodities sufficient for a month and three blankets at the doorsteps of people in the rain-affected areas across the city.The minister also reviewed the progress of relief measures, including dewatering and restoration activities being taken up by GHMC in inundated areas of the city on Saturday. “Expedite all the relief and restoration measures and bring back normalcy at the earliest,” he told the officials, according to news agency ANI.Officials have also been asked to hire additional manpower, equipment and machinery, wherever necessary, and to complete enumeration of houses and other property damaged during the heavy rains. Rama Rao also asked for emphasising on sanitation and spraying disinfectants in rain-affected areas along with organising mobile medical camps.The state government said on October 15 that 50 people had lost their lives due to heavy rains and flash floods across the state and put the losses, as per preliminary estimates, at over Rs 5,000 crore. It has been carrying out relief measures in the rain-affected areas, even as some localities, close to water bodies, remained under water.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-to-witness-more-rains-after-days-of-downpours/story-W2itAHzvFq9C0CzaUSHUJI.html
18-10-2020||India||Barabanki case: UP Police makes second arrest||The police have made a second arrest in the Barabanki rape-and-murder case of a Dalit teenager, whose body was found in a field here, and also added charges under the POCSO Act on discovering she was a minor, official said Saturday.Additional Superintendent of Police R S Gautam said 21-year-old Rishikesh Singh alias Rishu was arrested on the basis of information provided by his associate Dinesh Gautam (19), who was held on Friday in connection with the case.The ASP said the date of birth provided by the primary school has revealed that the victim was a minor, and, therefore, charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act have also been included.Police had earlier said she was 18 years old. The ASP said Saturday that Dinesh confessed his role in the crime on persistent interrogation and also provided several vital inputs on the basis of which Rishikesh, who runs a shop in the village, was arrested.He said that the two accused committed the alleged crime in a planned manner. On the day of the incident, which took place under Satrikh police limits of Barabanki district, Rishikesh allegedly informed Dinesh that the girl had gone to the agriculture field alone, indicating a plan behind the crime, the ASP said.The post-mortem examination had confirmed that the girl was raped before she was strangled and charges related to rape were included in the FIR registered at Satrikh police station, he said.On Friday, the ASP had said, “We have detained Dinesh Gautam (19), who is a relative of the victim. He has confessed to the crime. We are interrogation him.” The father of the girl had informed police on Wednesday evening that she had gone to the fields but did not return home. Later, her family members found her dead.A police team had visited the village and collected evidence before lodging an FIR, the police officer had said.This rape-and-murder case came days after a 19-year-old Dalit woman died after she was assaulted and allegedly gang-raped in Hathras district, triggering nationwide outrage.The Hathras woman died at a hospital in Delhi on September 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/barabanki-case-up-police-makes-second-arrest/story-q2l7txca4OWNDO5eLz6bIM.html
18-10-2020||India||Cooperating with Mumbai Police in TRP scam probe: BARC||Hit by the alleged fake TRP scam, TV ratings measurement body BARC on Saturday said it believes channels are committed to maintaining a clean ecosystem and its efforts are focused on “individuals” responsible for infiltrating homes to influence the data. The body said it is cooperating with the Mumbai Police in the probe, which has so far arrested six people for allegedly influencing ratings .“Our efforts on combating infiltration are focused on the individual(s) responsible for these activities and we firmly believe that television channels are committed to maintaining a clean and transparent ecosystem,” BARC said in a statement. Also Read: Amid TRP ‘scam’, ratings for news channels halted for nowThe Mumbai Police had claimed three channels, including Republic Media Network, were allegedly influencing TRP numbers. The channel has strongly denied the allegations. Meanwhile, ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd, which owns Republic TV, and its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami have moved the Bombay High Court seeking to quash the FIR lodged against the channel in the alleged fake TRP scam. The petition has also sought a direction to transfer the case to the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cooperating-with-mumbai-police-in-trp-scam-probe-barc/story-0fTZpvB1JyZP2m8bpT51kI.html
18-10-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh: 9 killed, 32 injured in bus-SUV collision||At least nine people were killed and 32 injured when a state roadways bus collided with an SUV near a blind turn in Western UP’s Puranpur area in Pilibhit district around 4am on Saturday, police said.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has announced Rs 5 lakh ex gratia for the next of kin of the passengers who were killed in the accident.Expressing grief over the loss of lives, he directed district officials to ensure proper medical treatment of the injured.Superintendent of police (Pilibhit) Jai Prakash Yadav said, “The bus was going to Puranpur from Lucknow and the SUV was coming from Puranpur when they collided. The bus rolled down from the road to a nearby field after the collision. A total of 50 passengers were travelling in both the vehicles.”“In the accident,which took place early morning, nine persons were killed, while around 32 persons were injured,” he said. “Most of the passengers are from Pilibhit and nearby areas,” he added.He added that the deceased include passengers of the bus as well as the jeep.Police officials said that the accident site was approximately 40 kilometres away from the district headquartersThe officer added that the accident seemed to have occurred due to the negligence of the bus driver.“Some of the passengers of the bus have informed us that the bus driver failed to see the SUV and collided with it. The matter will be probed,” he said.The deceased have been identified as Shakeel, 28, the driver of the bus, Gayadeen, 45, Kalavati, 40, Mohan Bahadur, 45, Deepa Vishvas, 50 and Shyam, 12. The identity of three others was yet to be ascertained, he said.A local police team reached the spot within minutes and began rescue operations. The injured were rushed to hospital in Pilibhit and Bareilly district nearby.The SP visited the hospitals where the injured were taken and asked them about their wellbeing.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-9-killed-32-injured-in-bus-suv-collision/story-buFk88QHZl4QOMIWio8huI.html
18-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh target Centre over farm laws||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday stepped up their attack on the Central government over the recently enacted farm laws, stating that they are an attack every farmer and that such legislation “weaken” the country’s foundation.“These three laws are an attack on the soul of every farmer of this country, they are an attack on their sweat and blood. And farmers and labourers of this country understand this,” Gandhi said.Referring to his “tractor rallies” against the laws during his recent visit to Punjab and Haryana, Gandhi said, “I came to Punjab and Haryana a few days ago and every farmer and labourer knows that these three laws are an attack on them.” He said he was happy that the Punjab government has decided to convene a special session of the Assembly on these laws on October 19 where MLAs will “decide about these farm laws”.Gandhi was delivering a virtual address at the launch of the second phase of ‘Smart Village Campaign’ in Punjab. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, some of his cabinet colleagues were among those present at the launch.Hitting out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government over the farm laws, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, according to an official statement, said: “Whatever time I have left with me, I will fight for the farmers and every other section of the state’s people.”“Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday joined Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in pledging to force the Union Government to revoke the draconian Farm Laws, which they said will be debated in the special session of the Vidhan Sabha on Monday with the aim to aggressively and effectively combat the damaging impact of the legislations on farmers,” read a press statement from Punjab chief minister’s Office (CMO) on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-target-centre-over-farm-laws/story-aAGP30ajMBVpXpDP8GICFK.html
18-10-2020||India||Centre extends union home secy Ajay Kumar Bhalla’s tenure till Aug 22, 2021||The Central government on Saturday extended union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla’s term till August 22, 2021, according to a notification issued by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT). Bhalla would have superannuated next month.An 1984-batch IAS officer of Assam-Meghalaya cadre, Bhalla took charge as the union home secretary on August 22, 2019, succeeding Rajiv Gauba, who is currently the cabinet secretary. Bhalla currently also holds the additional charge of secretary of DoPT. During his tenure, the union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has taken several key decisions in the last one year including, amending the National Investigation Agency (NIA) Act-which empowers the agency to probe terror cases abroad as well; bringing in the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) which was passed by the parliament in December 2019. The decision to abrogate article 370 from the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and its bifurcation into two union territories - J&K and Ladakh- has been implemented by the MHA under his close supervision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-extends-union-home-secy-ajay-kumar-bhalla-s-tenure-till-aug-22-2021/story-CO50qLlphpou5g90UP0NqM.html
18-10-2020||India||Punjab: Four of family found dead in Faridkot district||A 40-year-old brick-kiln supervisor, his wife, and their two children were found dead at their house in a village near Faridkot early Saturday morning.The police suspect that the family members had set themselves on fire.They said a three-page suicide note signed by the supervisor, wherein he mentioned the hardship faced by the family due to the pandemic induced lockdown as the reason behind taking —was also recovered from their house.Superintendent of police(SP), Faridkot, Sewa Singh Malhi said the family was originally from Rajasthan. “The supervisor had sent text messages to villagers before ending his life, but everyone was sleeping at that time. The villagers found him and his family, including his 36-year-old wife, dead later,” Malhi said.“Investigation is on. A forensic team is at the spot. We are trying to ascertain if the children, a 15-year-old daughter, and a 10-year-old son, were awake or if they were burnt alive in their sleep,” he said.The suicide note also disclosed the details of the dwindling financial conditions of the family, the police said.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-four-of-family-found-dead-in-faridkot-district/story-AjOlyOJz2DRTHoKgJtguuJ.html
18-10-2020||India||Need to restore peace along LAC: S Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday the immediate focus should be on restoring peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as settling the complicated boundary issue with China will require more time.India and China were developing cooperation in areas such as trade, tourism and societal activity since the late 1980s because of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and this year’s border standoff has “deeply disturbed” the situation, he said during an online conversation with former ambassador Gautam Bambawale for the Pune International Centre.“It’s not our position that we should solve the boundary... question. We understand that’s a very complicated, very difficult issue. There have been many negotiations on this at different levels over a different period. That’s a very high bar for a relationship,” Jaishankar said.“I’m talking of a much more basic bar, which is [that] there must be peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the border areas and that has been the case since the late 1980s. If peace and tranquillity is deeply disturbed, then obviously there will be an impact on the relationship and that is what we are seeing.”Also Read: China turns Indian proposal on its head, wants de-escalation first and then disengagementThe standoff, currently in its sixth month, has taken India-China ties to a new low, with troops firing warning shots at friction points – the first time guns have been used along the LAC since 1975. The two sides have also been unable to push forward a disengagement and de-escalation process despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks.Jaishankar said the “big question” in the current scenario was how two large and developing countries such as India and China could find equilibrium.India had sought to normalise “what was a very difficult relationship” by developing cooperation with China since the late 1980s “on the premise that there will be peace and tranquillity in the border areas”, he pointed out.Asked if India could learn from China’s rise, Jaishankar said there were basic differences in the governance, polity and society of the two countries.In recent years, India had depended on imports and failed to create support systems that would boost manufacturing and industrial activity, the minister said.India will have to expand small and medium enterprises and strengthen its industrial base, innovation and manufacturing, he said, adding that looking to the services sector to solve all problems “is a fantasy”.A turning point in the modern era was 2008, marked by the global financial crisis and the rise of China, India and Asean, which led to economic rebalancing, he said.Also Read: Presence of Chinese troops along LAC poses a challenge, says JaishankarThis process took an even sharper turn in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which accelerated trend lines and led to greater multi-polarity, he said.India’s ability to “step up and assume global responsibility to do good” is a very important part of the country’s rise, Jaishankar said. It is also in India’s strategic interest to facilitate and partner in the rise of Africa. “If Africa becomes one of the poles of the global polity, it is better for us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-restore-peace-along-lac-s-jaishankar/story-Y5lisQ6UJrsWpnZwKAQB3O.html
18-10-2020||India||Covid-19: PM Modi pushes poll-like vaccine distribution||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday suggested developing a vaccine delivery system that is on the lines of how elections are conducted in the country and disaster management work is conducted, even as he discussed ensuring speedy access to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines for every Indian citizen.The Prime Minister chaired a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation and the arrangements for vaccine delivery, distribution, and administration. During the meeting, the PM noted that the growth of Covid-19 cases in the country was showing signs of slowing down but he warned against any complacency before the deadly pandemic was brought under control.“Three vaccines are in advanced stages of development in India, out of which 2 are in Phase II and one is in Phase-III,” a statement by the Prime Minister’s Office said. “The Prime Minister further directed that keeping in view the geographical span and diversity of the country, the access to the vaccine should be ensured speedily. The Prime Minister stressed that every step in the logistics, delivery, and administration should be put in place rigorously,” the statement added. It must include advance planning of cold storage chains, distribution network, monitoring mechanism, advance assessment, and preparation of ancillary equipment required, such as vials, syringes, etc., the PMO quote Modi as saying.Also Read: Under 800,000 active cases in India for 1st time, experts have a word of cautionTop functionaries including health minister Harsh Vardhan, principal secretary to the PM PK Mishra, NITI Aayog member VK Paul and principal scientific adviser Vijaya Raghavan were present at the meeting held to chart out the future path for handling the pandemic. There has been a clear decline in daily cases, growth rate and number of deaths over the past three weeks, the PMO statement said. The Prime Minister suggested that the vaccine delivery system be developed on the lines of the conduct of elections in India. In the world’s most populous democracy, elections, especially those for the Lok Sabha, are a massive affair, with security forces, teachers, administrative officials and others being involved along with the active participation of political parties, organisations and millions of citizens.“The Prime Minister said that in a similar manner, vaccine delivery and administration systems should be put in place. This should involve the participation of States/UTs/District Level functionaries, civil society organisations, volunteers, citizens, and experts from all necessary domains. The entire process should have a strong IT backbone...” the statement said. Experts said that by pointing to the election model, the PM gave an indication of the scale at which the government plans to take the vaccination drive to the people.At the meeting, it was also discussed that Indian scientists and research teams were collaborating with and strengthening the research capacities in neighbouring countries such as Afghanistan, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Maldives, Mauritius, Nepal and Sri Lanka. There are further requests from Bangladesh, Myanmar, Qatar and Bhutan for clinical trials in their countries, the statement said.Also Read| Vaccines against Covid-19 may not need to be administered annually: WHO OfficialModi directed top officials that India should not limit its efforts to its immediate neighbourhood but should reach out to the entire world in providing vaccines, medicines and information technology platforms for vaccine delivery systems.The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) in consultation with state governments and all stakeholders has prepared a detailed blueprint of vaccine storage, distribution, and administration, which was presented at the meeting. The expert group is working actively on vaccine prioritisation and distribution in consultation with the states.“The Prime Minister further directed that keeping in view the geographical span and diversity of the country, the access to the vaccine should be ensured speedily,” the PMO said.The Prime Minister said that in a similar manner vaccine delivery and administration systems should be put in place. This should involve the participation of states, union territories, district level functionaries, civil society organisations, volunteers, citizens, and experts from all necessary domains.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAs the work continues to develop an effective vaccine for Covid-19, the government said two nationwide studies on the genome of the virus in India suggest it is genetically stable and has shown no major mutation. There have been concerns that any major mutation detected in the coronavirus could hinder the development of an effective vaccine. However, some recent global studies have said the vaccines currently being developed for Covid-19 should not be affected by recent mutations.Asked about the Prime Minister’s call to learn from the experience of elections and disaster management, political scientist Neelanjan Sircar said there were many areas in which the understanding can be augmented. “There is undoubtedly a large scope for learning. Elections is a little bit different because technically, election management is done by one particular body, the Election Commission, which has a particular set of resources available,” he said.Sircar said one of the aspects which came to the fore was regarding coordination vis-à-vis disaster management, which is a state subject. Sircar said many problems or issues may require coordination that may not immediately exist. This is definitely also an opportunity for us to learn, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pm-modi-pushes-poll-like-vaccine-distribution/story-9hYj9LsAFhm5qAEBNKRp8O.html
18-10-2020||India||In a narrow Kolkata bylane, a group of poor children play host to city’s smallest Durga Puja||Durga Puja – the biggest annual festival of the Bengalis – begins next week and 14-year-old Sneha Mondol is too busy now-a-days to find time to sleep and eat. The 1.5 feet high idol of Goddess Durga, which she and her friends have made, is almost complete and the children just need to give a few final touches before they take it to Kolkata on Sunday. “We are all so excited. On Sunday we will be going to Kolkata for the first time with the idol. Everything is set and a car has been hired which will take us to Kolkata and bring us back by evening,” said Mondol, a resident of Bhandarkhali, a remote village in North 24 Parganas, around 80 km east of Kolkata. While the focus will be on the biggest Durga Puja pandals in Kolkata, a group of poor children will be organising a Durga Puja in a narrow bylane in south Kolkata, perhaps the smallest puja in the city. These are children whose parents were once migrant workers and have lost their jobs because of the Covid-19 pandemic, children from remote villages of rural Bengal whose families have been hit hard by Cyclone Amphan, children of sex workers from Asia’s biggest red-light area and children from a local slum. Mondol’s father, Dibakar, used to work as a carpenter at Vrindavan in Uttar Pradesh earning around Rs 15,000 per month. But he had to return home during the pandemic and is now almost jobless. The idol is being made by Mondol and her friends at Bhandarjhali village, while another group of children in Mathurapur village in south Bengal is busy making the decorations with sholapith. Every day they work for two to three hours in the afternoon to complete the job. It is almost done. “We are making all kinds of flowers – rose, lotus and lily among others - with sholapith. We are also making various designs in which small fairy lights would be tied. These would decorate the pandal where the puja would be done,” said eight-year-old Teesha Purkait. The simple pandal, a cubicle measuring four feet on all sides, made out of bamboo sticks is being made by a group of children whose mothers work as sex workers at Sonagachi, touted to be the oldest and largest red-light area in India. Children living in a local slum are assisting them to decorate it with face-masks, empty sanitizer bottles and face shields. A couple – Swaguna Mukherjee and Joydeep Mukherjee – who run a NGO to promote Indian art and culture is behind this initiative. The Mukherjees identified the qualities of these children during their trips to the villages and brought them together on one platform. The children are being guided in idol making and sholapith work by craftsmen in their villages. “We have been providing relief to the villagers and needy people in the city, including slums dwellers and sex workers during the pandemic and in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. It is then that we came across these children. The idea of organizing a Durga Puja with these children was taken lately,” said Swaguna Mukherjee. A girl who earns her living by singing on the roads in the heart of Kolkata will be the sole performer of this puja. Mondol and her friends will be visiting Kolkata with the idol to set up the pandal and the idol inside it. Purkait, on the other hand along with her friends will arrive in the city to fit the sholapith lights and decorations on October 21, the day of Panchami. The annual festival starts on October 23. While the budget of the city’s mega pujas run into several lakh rupees and has even got grants from the state government, the puja organized by Mondol and Purkait along with their friends has a budget of less than Rs 10,000 which is being donated by the couple. “Please come and see our puja,” Purkait signed off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-narrow-kolkata-bylane-a-group-of-poor-children-play-host-to-city-s-smallest-durga-puja/story-03NYzXBOo2Tv2a6o9PhKmL.html
18-10-2020||India||‘I’m being framed,’ alleges main accused in Ballia shooting case||The Ballia shooting case saw new developments on Saturday with the main accused Dheerendra Pratap Singh claiming in a video message that he has been framed. This comes while Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Surendra Singh on Saturday visited Revati police station and demanded an FIR on an application moved by Dheerendra’s women relatives who, he alleged, sustained injuries in stone-pelting during the Thursday incident.The women suffered injuries in stone-pelting in Durjanpur village after a dispute over allocation of two fair price shops in the village on Thursday led to a man, identified as Jaiprakash Pal, being shot dead in the presence of officials.A senior police officer said the National Security Act (NSA) and the Gangsters Act would be invoked against the accused. Claiming to be an ex-serviceman, Dheerendra said he did not know whose bullet killed Jaiprakash Pal. He blamed officials for the incident, saying that they had ignored his plea for security.46-year-old Jaiprakash Pal alias Gama was killed when Dheerendra Pratap Singh, BJP’s district unit president of ex-servicemen cell, opened fire at a meeting convened for the allocation of two fair price shops in Ballia district on Thursday.Also read: Rahul to join electioneering from Oct 23, may share dais with TejashwiDheerendra said the police were not registering a case though his relatives also suffered injuries in the incident.BJP MLA Surendra Singh, who represents Bairia assembly constituency, too accused the administration of taking one-sided action. He said the three women who suffered injuries in stone-pelting should also get justice.Ballia superintendent of police Devendra Nath also reached the police station when the MLA was there. He, along with the women, later reached Ballia district hospital where the medical examination of the injured women was conducted. He was seen wiping his tears as the women in the group accompanying him wailed.“It is natural to get emotional on seeing the pain of others,” the BJP MLA said.Deputy inspector general (Azamgarh Range) Subhash Chandra Dubey said, “action will also be initiated under the National Security Act (NSA) and the Gangster Act against the accused (in the shooting).”Meanwhile, separate delegations of the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party met with the family members of Jaiprakash Pal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-m-being-framed-alleges-main-accused-in-ballia-shooting-case/story-WWcs9Fq7qchVTU863uBYDO.html
18-10-2020||India||Chhattisgarh bypolls: Amit Jogi’s nomination papers rejected||Nomination papers filed by the chief of Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (JCC) Amit Jogi for the upcoming bypolls on Marwahi constituency, a traditional seat of the leader and his father and former chief minister Ajit Jogi, was rejected by the district collector on Saturday. Jogi’s Scheduled Tribe (ST) certificate filed with the nomination papers was found “invalid”. The nomination papers of Jogi’s wife Richa Jogi, who had filed nomination for the same seat, was also cancelled by the district collector on the same ground. “After scrutiny, the nomination papers of Amit Jogi and Richa Jogi have been cancelled,” an election official of district said. A Chhattisgarh-government constituted scrutiny committee headed by DD Singh, secretary of state’s Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste development department, in its order dated October 15, 2020, had cancelled Jogi’s tribal caste certificate.The bypolls on the Marwahi assembly seat, which was empty after the death of former CM Ajit Jogi, will be held on November 3. The ruling Congress party has given a ticket to Dr KL Dhruve from the seat, while Dr Gambhir Singh is contesting on Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) ticket. Amit Jogi, reacting on the rejection of his and his wife’s nomination papers, in a written statement alleged that the district collector took the action on directions from chief minister Bhupesh Baghel. He said he challenge the decision legally. “I have full faith in the judiciary and the people’s court, and justice will be done with Jogi family as usual,” he said. “The high-level caste scrutiny committee had suddenly cancelled the certificate. Everyone, except me, was aware of the development. There is conspiracy going on against me at the behest of Chhattisgarh CM. The country functions according to law and constitution not by revenge. The government has finally admitted that it is impossible to defeat Jogi in people’s court,” Jogi stated. Congress has welcomed the decision of high-powered committee. “The tribals of the state have got justice after the decision. We welcome the decision of the committee,” said state Congress spokesperson RP Singh. The controversy over Ajit Jogi’s tribal status has been a political issue in Chhattisgarh since 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-bypolls-amit-jogi-s-nomination-papers-rejected/story-T6bV1qwmOROymqpWDRNbTK.html
18-10-2020||India||‘Air India Express will not take responsibility for onward connections’: Latest guidelines||Air India Express, a subsidiary of Air India, which is flying several international flights under Vande Bharat Mission has said it won’t accept passengers to Kuala Lumpur of their final destination is not Kuala Lumpur. “Air India Express will not take responsibility for any onward connections on other Carriers/ Airlines. IX is a point-to-point carrier and does not have an Interline/Codeshare agreement with any other Airlines. Hence, passengers who have booked on our flights shall ensure that they are holding visa and other travel-related documents requisitioned by the destination country,” it said.  #FlyWithIX : Attention⚠️Passengers travelling on IX flights to Kuala Lumpur (KUL) must ensure that their final destination should be Kuala Lumpur itself. ✈️Passengers who intend to travel onward via KUL should not book with us due to Covid-related travel restrictions. pic.twitter.com/ZfVgL9XHKM #FlyWithIX : IX will not take responsibility for any onward connections on other Carriers/ Airlines. IX is a point-to-point carrier and does not have an Interline/Codeshare agreement with any other Airlines. pic.twitter.com/uzWO5tRZSwIn another tweet, the airline said it will not accept passengers whose final destination is not Kuala Lumpur, due to Covid-19 related restrictions.Many passengers are halting at Kuala Lumpur before catching their flights to Australia.India does not yet have a air bubble with Malaysia.Interline flight is an agreement between airlines to coordinate passengers with an itinerary that uses multiple airlines, but there will be single check-in. Codeshare agreements are where one airline operates flights on behalf of another. In the aftermath of Covid-19, all countries have tightened rules to allow foreign travellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-flights-air-india-express-will-not-take-responsibility-for-onward-connections-latest-guidelines/story-sPlXWfyWMCGdiLvI4FQ2CI.html
18-10-2020||India||Depressed Ludhiana woman murders four-year-old daughter, lays body on roof||A woman suffering from postpartum depression allegedly murdered her four-year-old daughter by smashing her head against the wall of their rented accommodation in Navneet Nagar on Jassiyan Road on Saturday morning. Police said after murdering the child, Darpana, the accused, Priyanka Yadav, 25, gave the body a bath, changed the clothes and laid it on the terrace.A neighbour noticed the body and alerted Priyanka’s husband, Tinku Yadav, who informed the police.Following investigation, the woman was arrested and booked for murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.Tinku, who works as a labourer, told the police that his wife was depressed since the birth of their second daughter two months ago. He had noticed changes in her demeanor and she had also been suffering from insomnia and rarely slept at night.He claimed that Priyanka had tried to strangle Darpana around two weeks ago as well, but he had rescued her.On Saturday, Priyanka sent Darpana to an adjacent shop to buy a shampoo sachet for her. “On returning home, Darpana played in the street for some time and then came home and laid down on the bed next to her newborn sister for a nap. I was talking to neighbours in the street when one of them informed me that Darpana was lying dead on the roof,” Tinku told the police.“I rushed to the roof and found my daughter’s body on a folding bed and Priyanka sitting next to it,” he added, claiming that there, his wife confessed to having killed their daughter.Inspector Gopal Krishan, SHO at Salem Tabri police station, said the family hailed from Purniya in Bihar and had been living in Ludhiana for the past six years since the couple got married. “Darpana was their first child and they had another daughter two months ago. The woman’s husband has revealed that she had tried to kill Darpana 15 days ago also and has been mentally unstable,” he said, adding that the accused was under arrest and will be produced in court on Sunday.The child’s body has been sent to the Ludhiana civil hospital for post-mortem examination.‘She spilled all the shampoo while taking bath’Inspector Gopal Krishan said in her statement to the police, the woman claimed that her daughter had spilled all the shampoo in the bathroom while she was giving her a bath, which enraged her.She said Darpana was a naughty child and often got on nerves. When Darpana spilled the shampoo on Saturday morning, in a fit of rage, she smashed her head in the wall and on the floor, leading to the child’s death. Police found the accused’s broken bangles in the bathroom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/depressed-ludhiana-woman-murders-four-year-old-daughter-lays-body-on-roof/story-KGrOBILCco2DShYJ5fo3eJ.html
