19-10-2020||India||Mizoram withdraws prohibitory order imposed from village along disputed border with Tripura||The Mizoram government has withdrawn the prohibitory order imposed at Phuldungsei, a small village located on Tripura-Mizoram interstate border, following construction of a temple, after the Tripura government asked to withdraw the order terming it as “highly objectionable.”“Prohibitory order... hereby stands revoked with immediate effect as the proposed construction of Shiv Mandir at Thaidawr Tlang has been called off by SONGRONGMA organization,” a fresh order signed on Sunday by Mizoram’s Mamit district magistrate Dr Lalrozama read.Dr Lalrozama, earlier, imposed restrictions on the assembly of four or more people in the village and surrounding areas of Phuldungsei Zampi and Zomuantlang of Mizoram’s Mamit district since October 16 till further orders. He stated that a Tripura-based organisation named SONGRONGMA planned to construct a Shiv temple at Thaidaw Ylang falling in the same district. Lalrozama said that the organisation did not have any permission from the Mizoram government for the construction. Also read: Tripura asks Mizoram to back off from border village, claims jurisdictionThe official stated that the construction would have gone against the interest of the local community and could invite disturbance in peace and tranquillity in the region. Following the prohibitory order, Tripura government’s additional secretary AK Bhattacharya requested the Mamit district magistrate to withdraw the prohibitory order terming it as “highly objectionable” as Betlingchhip, also known as Thaidawr Tlang, is currently under Tripura’s control.Phuldungsei village, located at Kanchanpur subdivision of North district of Tripura, has been accepted as part of the state through its eastern side falls into Mizoram.The village came into news in August after Kanchanpur sub-divisional magistrate Chandni Chandran informed her higher officials that 130 residents of the village, also ration beneficiaries of Tripura, were found in Mizoram’s voters’ list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-withdraws-prohibitory-order-imposed-on-village-at-disputed-border-with-tripura/story-LX9D7MN60ReKT5rtGk6W7M.html
19-10-2020||India||Decision for Haj pilgrimage will be taken after Saudi govt’s call: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi||The decision of resumption of the Haj pilgrimage will rest on the Saudi Arabia government’s call and the national as well as international Covid-19 guidelines, Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Monday. Chairing a Haj review meeting he said though the pilgrimage is scheduled for June-July 2021, the final decision will be taken in due course keeping in view necessary guidelines to be issued by the Saudi Arabia government and the government of India in view of the pandemic. The minister said given the protocol for the Covid-19 pandemic and keeping in view the safety of the pilgrims, the entire Haj process might witness a significant change in view of necessary guidelines. “These include accommodation, transport, health and other facilities both in India and Saudi Arabia,” the minister said. In June this year India said it will not send pilgrims for the annual Haj pilgrimage in the wake of the pandemic. Naqvi while announcing the decision has also said the money collected for application from more than 2.3 lakh pilgrims will be returned without cancellation deductions through direct transfer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-for-haj-pilgrimage-will-be-taken-after-saudi-govt-s-call-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi/story-bvNFO0W5gQvaKt2ohZeXYL.html
19-10-2020||India||‘Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, discussion is on for imposition of total lockdown’: Manipur CM||Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh on Monday said the state government is discussing the possibility of the imposition of a state-wide total lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19.CM Biren was speaking to the media on the sidelines of the 222nd death anniversary of King Rajarshi Bhagyachandra - known for defending Manipur against Burmese emperors - at Shree Shree Govindajee Temple in Imphal on Monday.Responding to a question on the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, he said the whole nation has been badly affected by the virus and that it is hard to contain the pandemic as it is caused by a new virus which has no vaccine. Stating that the situation in the past few days is quite alarming in the state, the chief minister informed that the government has identified the affected areas and pockets. Total lockdown would be imposed in these areas to prevent further spread, he said.Urging local clubs to get involved in the government’s efforts to fight the disease, Singh said that the state has also sought advice from the centre regarding the imposition of a statewide total lockdown for a couple of weeks.Also read: By February, 50% of Indians may have had coronavirus - Govt panel estimatesMeanwhile, demanding a comprehensive state policy for effective combat against the Covid-19 pandemic, the representatives of six students’ bodies staged a sit-in demonstration while following necessary protocols at Keishampat in Imphal on Monday. In the last 24 hours, the state reported 315 new Covid-19 cases, including 30 personnel from the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) while a 53-year-old male died from the infection. The state’s total Covid-19 tally now stands at 15,778, official sources said. The cumulative number of deaths in the state is 117 while the number of active and recovered cases are 3,748 and 11,913 respectively. With the recovery of 172 patients in the past 24 hours, the recovery rate in the state is 75.50 percent.As of Monday, 413,612 people were screened at various entry points into the state while 322,852 individuals were tested for the disease, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-discussion-is-on-for-imposition-of-total-lockdown-manipur-cm/story-zfFgmiG7xU6Q3HyP551Q3M.html
19-10-2020||India||L&T lowest bidder for Rs 25,000 crore contract in Ahmedabad bullet train project||Infrastructure giant Larsen & Toubro has emerged as the lowest bidder for the design and construction of 237 km length of viaduct for 508-km Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project, the National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited said on Monday. According to sources, the contract is worth Rs 24,985 crore and the construction major is set to bag the largest civil contract of the bullet train project. Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train is the first high-speed train project of India, which is being built with the help of Japan. “Financial bids for the design and construction of 237 km length of viaduct for 508 km of Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail corridor were opened today and Larsen & Toubro Ltd is the lowest bidder,” a release said. A total three bidders involving seven major infrastructural companies had participated in the competitive bidding, the NHSRCL said. Others bidders were “Afcons Infrastructure Limited IRCON International Limited JMC Projects India Ltd-Consortium and NCC Limited Tata Project Ltd. - J.Kumar Infra Projects Ltd. - HSR Consortium,” it said in the release. The technical bids for the tender were opened on September 23 this year and in less than one month, the financial bids have also been opened, after rigorous evaluation of technical bids, it said. The tender covers about 47 per cent of total alignment of 508 km, between Vapi (Zaroli Village at Maharashtra- Gujarat Border) and Vadodara in Gujarat. This includes four stations namely Vapi, Billimora, Surat and Bharuch, and Surat Depot, it said. The Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train corridor is being built at a cost of Rs 1.08 lakh crore with funding from the Japan International Cooperation Agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/l-t-lowest-bidder-for-rs-25-000-crore-contract-in-ahmedabad-bullet-train-project/story-LRFwuvClRZFrCy2ooZH0aO.html
19-10-2020||India||‘Can admit it clearly’: Delhi health minister on govt’s stance on community transmission||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday asked what was the issue with the Centre in admitting that there was a community spread of Covid-19, even though lakhs of positive cases have been reported in the national capital.His remarks, in response to a query at a press conference, come a day after Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said community transmission of the coronavirus is restricted to certain districts in a limited number of states, clarifying that “this is not happening across the country”.The national capital recorded 31 Covid-19 fatalities on Monday, taking the death toll to 6,040, while 2,154 fresh cases took the infection tally to over 3.33 lakh.“I have been saying it for months. And, despite such a large number of positive cases, I don’t know what is their issue, they (Centre) can admit it clearly. If positive cases coming in lakhs are not termed community spread, when will it be called a community spread. Never saw positive cases in such a large number,” Jain told reporters.The Delhi health minister also asserted that the sero-prevalance survey in September found that 25 per cent of the sampled people had anti-bodies to Covid-19, meaning around 50 lakh people got affected and cured.“So, they (Centre) will know what is their problem in admitting that there is a community spread,” he said.Health ministry officials had said the World Health Organisation has not given any standard definition of community transmission. The WHO permits its member-nations to assess the spread of the disease, based on their own analysis of the situation, and do their reporting, which the global body shows on its website.On the ongoing October sero-prevalance survey, Jain said it started on October 15 and will go on for a few more days.The Delhi minister also asserted that the Covid-19 situation in the national capital was “better” than what it was a month or so ago.“The peak of cases seems to have got a bit lowered,” he said.On the festival season approaching and the chances of infection spread, Jain said, “I would once again appeal to people to wear masks and maintain social distancing, in markets and elsewhere, to contain the spread of infection”.Asked if there was any shortage of blood in its banks, he said, “Plasma is the main thing required for Covid-19 patient, blood bank situation is fine as of now”.“Also of the total number of beds at our disposal, only 30 per cent is occupied,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-admit-it-clearly-delhi-health-minister-on-govt-s-stance-on-community-transmission/story-lkKHf2vG4QmJ46hNMDah5L.html
19-10-2020||India||Four die after consuming spurious liquor in Kerala, 9 in hospital||Four people died and nine were admitted to the hospital after allegedly consuming spurious liquor in Walayar in Kerala’s Palakkad district, police said. All the victims belong to a tribal colony and the liquor is suspected to have been procured from Tamil Nadu. Initial reports suggest spurious liquor is behind the deaths but a clearer picture will emerge only after post-mortem, Palakkad police superintendent Siva Vikram said after visiting the village. Two women are among those who have been hospitalised. According to villagers, one of the deceased K Sivan (37) brought country-made liquor when he went to neighbouring Tamil Nadu and later distributed it among the villagers. His wife is among those hospitalised. They said after consuming it some of them complained of blurred vision and burning sensation in their stomachs. Last month in Idukki, one person had died and two were hospitalised after consuming spurious liquor. Later, the Excise Department found that sanitizer had been mixed with country-made liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-die-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-in-kerala-9-in-hospital/story-vpJhxVxU34pyg1zcKO2VPM.html
19-10-2020||India||Odisha to bring special law for managing 11th century Lingaraj temple||More than six and half decades after it brought in a special Act to manage the affairs of the 12th century Jagannath temple in Puri, the Odisha government has drafted a similar Act to manage the rituals and other activities of the 11th century Lingaraj temple, the biggest temple in Bhubaneswar.The Lingaraj Temple Act, 2020 (a draft of which is with HT) would free the temple in old Bhubaneswar area from the Odisha Hindu Religious Endowment Act and put the Shiva temple under the control of Lingaraj Temple Managing Committee with a full-time administrator looking after day-to-day affairs of the shrine. The Jagannath temple was the first temple in Odisha to have a special Act made for it in 1955 after being under British control for a long time.A law department official said the draft Act would be discussed on Tuesday before being brought in as a Bill in the winter session of the Assembly next month.Under Lingaraj Temple Act, a fund would be created in which the income derived from the movable and immovable properties of the temple would be deposited. Besides, donations and offerings by the pilgrims and devotees in Hundies would be deposited in that fund. The temple has around 1500 acre in various parts of the state and the land in most of the places are under encroachment.The move to have a special law for Lingaraj temple came after chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s tour to Puri on Saturday to take stock of the Rs 3,200 crore package for infrastructure development of the temple town. Patnaik on Saturday went around the Jagannath temple, which has been shut since March due to pandemic, and ordered quick completion of the beautification project around it.In January this year, Patnaik had visited the famous Maa Samaleswari temple in western Odisha district of Sambalpur to offer his prayers. Prayers over, Patnaik announced that an expert team will soon assess the requirements of the temple and the devotees and based on that the state government will take further steps.The same month, he visited Baripada town of Mayurbhanj district, announcing a grant of Rs 5 crore for the development of the temple. In December last year, the Odisha CM had announced a Rs 5 crore package each for the Baladevjew temples of Kendrapara town.Though some Congress workers on Saturday showed him black flag on his way, political analysts say the BJD’s temple moves are concerted efforts to portray a soft Hindutva image.“BJP is already the party’s main opponent in Odisha and by 2024 it would mount a major challenge to unseat the regional party. As BJP is likely to play the religious card in a deeply religious state like Odisha, the BJD may be trying to deny BJP the same. It’s a very calculated move,” said political science professor Gyana Ranjan Swain of Ravenshaw University in Cuttack.Swain said the move to have a special Act for Lingaraj temple and beautification of Jagannath temple would help the regional party set a separate narrative on religion. “BJD’s mobilisation on temples is an attempt in initiating a separate discourse on religion that would be different from BJP. The party surely does not want to give the BJP any edge on this matter.”Political analyst Rabi Das said while BJD’s moves on the temple were a tactic to stop the BJP’s growth in a religious place like Odisha, it wants to take advantage of BJP’s predicament in matters of religion. “While BJP may try to criticise BJD in demolition of some temples around Jagannath temple and Lingaraj temple, the truth is a majority of people in Odisha support the government’s move. The temple beautification drive also helps the state’s tourism as a large part of the domestic tourists come to Odisha for its temples,” said Das.However, BJP leader Sajjan Sharma said having special Act for Lingaraj temple or beautification of the temples would not hide the government’s failure in temple management. “The government is yet to account for the properties in Jagannath temple treasury as it is yet to be opened. For the last 9 months, Jagannath temple has been closed while thousands of devotees and priests want it to be opened. Merely beautifying temples would not give BJD any Hindutva appeal,” said Sharma.BJD leaders said the special Act for Lingaraj temple as well as beautification of the temples should not be seen from a religious angle. “If the government is taking steps for better management as beautification of the exterior of our temples then more and more tourists will come. These temples would be our growth engines,” said Bijay Nayak of BJD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-bring-special-law-for-managing-11th-century-lingaraj-temple/story-qtUVF49uPkZ4eHJtH2hsxK.html
19-10-2020||India||‘We have learnt to work in Covid-era’||Away from his ‘karmbhoomi’ Mumbai, actor Neeraj Sood has made Mandi, Himachal Pradesh his current base in the time of Covid crisis. Currently, the ‘Jabariaya Jodi’ actor is operating from his hometown. The actor recently wrapped up his first OTT series ‘Jackson’ in Lucknow and will be going to Agra for a film shoot in November. “Compared to Mumbai, it’s very safe in mountains and people are very much aware and cautious. I was surprised to see locals in Lucknow roaming around without masks as if corona period is over,” said the actor currently in self-quarantine. During his stay in the city he feared contracting the deadly virus. “Since I came from mountains to Lucknow, I had a bad cold and cough. I got scared! Thankfully, with steam inhalation and ‘khadha’ I recovered. People have learnt to work in the given conditions. There is no other option!” The actor has done a lot of work in UP belt. “Last I shot ‘Pati Patni aur Woh’ in Lucknow, ‘Yahan Sabhi Gyani Hain’ in Kanpur, TV show ‘Krishna Chali London’ in Malihabad (also by Jackson director Saurabh Tewari), a film in Agra and ‘Shubh Mangal Savdhan’ in Rishikesh. Again, I’ll return to Agra (for a film starring Pulkit Samrat) for a 20-day schedule and then I will be shooting another film in Bhopal. So, I’m on a work mode.” The actor has two theatrical releases coming up this year. “First to hit the screen is Abhishek Sharma’s ‘Suraj pe Mangal Bhari’ where I play a pandit who fixes marriages. It’s a comic role while in December Kabir Khan’s ‘83’ will release where I play a BCCI official which is a small yet powerful role.” Having done a lot of TV dailies he is avoiding small screen for now. “I have stopped doing TV for now to keep my dates free for films. Films that were stalled during lockdown are now being scheduled. Though a lot of small screen offers are coming my way but I’m avoiding taking up work in Mumbai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/we-have-learnt-to-work-in-covid-era/story-yyVRFl3mLhAa3pvXYoHbrL.html
19-10-2020||India||‘People thought I am some crazy guy!’||Actor Faissal Khan best remembered for his last film ‘Mela,’ is all elated to be back on screen with his directorial debut, a romantic-thriller. The film will mark his comeback almost after two decades. “You can call it a comeback but truly I was very much around working on ideas and scripting them. It was in 2016, that I got an idea from a newspaper for the subject of my upcoming film and that’s when I started working on it. Finally, after all pre-production I was able to start the shoot in 2019,” said Faissal. He has previously assisted on superhits like ‘Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak,’ and ‘Jo Jeeta Wohi Sikander’ for Mansoor Khan whereas ‘Tum Mere Ho’ with his late father Tahir Hussain. Faissal shares that working on his new film ‘Facctory’ was nowhere an easy task. “No one was ready to believe in my vision thinking I am some crazy guy. But I had to resurrect myself and leave behind those tough days. I gave my all to make people trust me. It was difficult to even find a team but I strongly feel all’s well that ends well. The film is complete and at present we plan for an OTT streaming. A few big production houses have monopoly on theatres but thanks to OTT that things are looking up for beginners like me.” For his film the actor has donned many hats. “I enjoy the creative process that goes in making a film. Multi-tasking kept me on my toes and I enjoyed directing, co-writing, singing and acting all of it but in future I will prefer directing on larger canvas,” Faissal said. Giving his take on various controversies doing round in the industry, Faissal said, “See we live in a country where film-stars have always been idolized so the expectations are too high so when that image of perfection gets tarnished a lot of hearts are broken. I believe if one has hurt someone somewhere, he or she should own up and let life move on. Audience here is too emotional and forgives. Though I am not into groupism or gangism but I’m sure it does exist like in any other industry that’s why I decided to fly solo as that’s the best way to be. I try my best to concentrate on my work and support my team…rest follows!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/people-thought-i-am-some-crazy-guy/story-ds8NZDfBnVST5Tighn2rcK.html
19-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘CAA delayed due to Covid-19, will be implemented soon’, says BJP chief JP Nadda and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘CAA delayed due to Covid-19, will be implemented soon’: BJP chief JP NaddaBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda on Monday said that the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) was delayed due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and will be implemented soon. Also readGlobal pandemic made us realise importance of teamwork: PM Modi at Grand Challenges Annual Meeting 2020While delivering the keynote speech at the inaugural function of 16th Grand Challenges Annual Meeting 2020, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the future will be shaped by societies that invest in science and innovation. Read moreBy February, 50% of Indians may have had coronavirus: Government panel estimatesAt least half of India’s 1.3 billion people are likely to have been infected with the new coronavirus by next February, helping slow the spread of the disease, a member of a federal government committee tasked with providing projections said on Monday. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘You spoke about it, that’s how I got to know,’ MS Dhoni on landmark feat of 200 IPL matchesChennai Super Kings captain MS Dhoni created history on Monday becoming the first player to play 200 IPL matches. Dhoni’s record was officially confirmed when he took the field against Rajasthan Royals in Match 37 of IPL 2020 in Abu Dhabi. Dhoni was there when it all started in 2008. Read moreKajol was once asked how she would respond if Aryan Khan were to elope with Nysa. Shah Rukh Khan gave a hilarious replyShah Rukh Khan and Kajol are not only one of the most popular on-screen pairings but also close friends in real life. Kajol was once asked how she would respond if her daughter, Nysa Devgan, and Shah Rukh’s son, Aryan Khan, were to elope in the future. Read moreApple iPhone 12 won’t run 5G if you have dual SIM cards installedAlthough 5G is yet to reach India, even after it arrives, the iPhone 12 users might not be able to make the full use of it. As mentioned by a user on Reddit and reported by Macrumors, Apple iPhone 12 models, all of which support 5G, won’t use 5G connectivity when using dual SIM cards – a feature many look out for, in India. As per the user, using dual SIM will drop the connectivity levels to 4G LTE on both. Read moreWatch: Smriti Irani Vs Digvijaya Singh over Kamal Nath’s ‘item’ jibe||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-caa-delayed-due-to-covid-19-will-be-implemented-soon-says-bjp-chief-jp-nadda-and-all-the-latest-news/story-7F11gB7LATP6TFlHl4aMvN.html
19-10-2020||India||Centre reviews Assam, Mizoram border situation after clashes||Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Monday held a meeting through video conference with chief secretaries of Assam and Mizoram to discuss the recent border tension between the two states and to try and find a solution. Details of the meeting are not available yet. Several persons on both sides were injured when villagers of Lailapur in Cachar district of Assam clashed with residents of Vairengte in Kolasib district of neighbouring Mizoram on Saturday night. The clashes reportedly started after some people from the Mizoram side torched some huts made by Lailapur residents on a disputed portion of the border between the two states.Meanwhile, officials from the two states also held talks on Monday at Lailapur in Cachar district of Assam along the border in a bid to resolve the flare-up amicably through confidence building measures. Superintendent of police Cachar Bhanwar Lal Meena held discussions with his counterpart from Kolasib district in Mizoram Vanlalfaka Ralte and agreed to ensure peace and decided to help resume movement of trucks immediately. The officials agreed to provide point-to-point escort to the trucks.Due to the flare-up and subsequent blockade of roads leading to Mizoram by some sections on the Assam side, hundreds of trucks had got stranded along the border in the past two days. Earlier today, Mizoram’s home department issued a release, assuring truck drivers from Assam and other parts of the country that their vehicles are safe within the state.Mukesh Aggarwal Special DGP (Border) Assam Police said that the border issue has to be addressed through a conciliatory approach and added the process might take some time as it has to go through certain process and mechanism.Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6 km long boundary. Mizoram was part of Assam till 1972 when it became a union territory and a state in 1987. Border disputes between the two states keep occurring intermittently. Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Monday called Prime Minister Narendra Modi and union home minister Amit Shah and informed them about the ground situation regarding the recent flare up along the border with Mizoram. Sonowal also informed PM Modi and home minister Shah about the steps taken to maintain peace and also about his discussion with Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga on the issue, said a statement issued by the chief minister’s office. Both the PM and Shah assured the CM of all the help needed to improve the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-reviews-assam-mizoram-border-situation-after-clashes/story-wUidWEpBiGYgUI0oATmZdO.html
19-10-2020||India||By February, 50% of Indians may have had coronavirus: Government panel estimates||At least half of India’s 1.3 billion people are likely to have been infected with the new coronavirus by next February, helping slow the spread of the disease, a member of a federal government committee tasked with providing projections said on Monday.India has so far reported 7.55 million cases of the coronavirus and is second only to the United States in terms of total infections.But Covid-19 infections are decreasing in India after a peak in mid-September, with 61,390 new cases reported on average each day, according to a Reuters tally.“Our mathematical model estimates that around 30% of the population is currently infected and it could go up to 50% by February,” Manindra Agrawal, a professor at the Indian Institute for Technology in Kanpur and a committee member, told Reuters.The committee’s estimate for the current spread of the virus is much higher than the federal government’s serological surveys, which showed that only around 14 per cent of the population had been infected, as of September.But Agrawal said serological surveys might not be able to get sampling absolutely correct because of the sheer size of the population that they were surveying.Instead, the committee of virologists, scientists and other experts, whose report was made public on Sunday, has relied on a mathematical model.“We have evolved a new model which explicitly takes into account unreported cases, so we can divide infected people into two categories – reported cases and infections that do not get reported,” Agrawal said.The committee warned that their projections would not hold up if precautions were not followed, and cases could spike by up to 2.6 million infections in a single month if measures such as social distancing and wearing masks were ignored.Experts have warned that infections could rise in India as the holiday season nears, with celebrations for the Hindu festivals of Durga Puja and Diwali due this month and in mid-November, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/by-february-50-of-indians-may-have-had-coronavirus-government-panel-estimates/story-Zgp0qGyVQNRqQlcWv1mg6N.html
19-10-2020||India||Malabar exercise will help Australia and partners uphold regional stability: Marise Payne||Australia on Monday said its participation next month in the Malabar naval exercise, which features the navies of India, the US and Japan, will bolster the ability of the four countries to uphold peace and stability across our region. India confirmed that it has invited Australia to participate in this year’s Malabar exercise, which began in 1992 as a bilateral drill between the Indian and US navies. Japan joined the manoeuvres as a permanent member in 2015, and this year’s edition will be the first military drill to include all members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad following its revival in 2017. Australia’s foreign minister Marise Payne said in a statement that the announcement was “another important step in Australia’s deepening relationship with India”. “This builds on the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, to which Prime Minister [Scott] Morrison and Prime Minister [Narendra] Modi agreed on 4 June 2020, and which I progressed with my counterpart, minister of external affairs Jaishankar, this month when we met in Tokyo,” she said. “It will bolster the ability of India, Australia, Japan and the United States to work together to uphold peace and stability across our region,” Payne added. During the virtual summit between the two prime ministers in June, India and Australia had signed the Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA) to facilitate reciprocal access to military bases, to allow for more complex joint exercises and to improve interoperability between the armed forces of the two sides. The Australian statement said this year’s exercise will bring together “four key regional defence partners” and defence minister Linda Reynolds said the Malabar 2020 marked a milestone opportunity for the Australian Defence Force. “High-end military exercises like Malabar are key to enhancing Australia’s maritime capabilities, building interoperability with our close partners, and demonstrating our collective resolve to support an open and prosperous Indo-Pacific,” she said. “Exercise Malabar also showcases the deep trust between four major Indo-Pacific democracies and their shared will to work together on common security interests,” Reynolds added. Australia last participated in the Malabar exercise in 2007 along with the navies of several other countries. The activities of the Quad have gained pace against the backdrop of China’s growing assertiveness and aggressive activities across the Indo-Pacific. India had held off on announcing Australia’s participation in the Malabar exercise because of sensitivities linked to ongoing negotiations with China on the border standoff, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malabar-exercise-will-help-australia-and-partners-uphold-regional-stability-marise-payne/story-nbYzdFxCEJhtJaI1FQUDHL.html
19-10-2020||India||Global pandemic made us realise importance of teamwork: PM Modi at Grand Challenges Annual Meeting 2020||While delivering the keynote speech at the inaugural function of 16th Grand Challenges Annual Meeting 2020, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the future will be shaped by societies that invest in science and innovation. “The future will be shaped by societies that invest in science and innovation. But, this cannot be done in a short-sighted manner. One has to invest in science and innovation well in advance,” the prime minister said. “That is when we can reap benefits at the right time.” While talking about the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic during his speech, PM Modi said, “It has taken a global pandemic to make us realise yet again the importance of teamwork.”During the introductory address at the annual meeting, which was to be held this year in India, the American business magnate Bill Gates spoke about coronavirus pandemic and how different scientists across the world are working towards developing the vaccine for the novel disease. The prime minister was addressing the event, which will go on till October 21, via video conferencing. The three-day programme will bring together policymakers and scientific leaders, calling for deepened scientific collaborations in solving global health problems, with special focus on coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.The event, which is being co-hosted by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, will feature leaders talks, panel discussions and virtual informal conversations on various topics. Here are the highlights from PM Modi’s keynote:- The future will be shaped by societies that invest in science & innovation. But, this cannot be done in a short-sighted manner. One has to invest in science&innovation well in advance. That is when we can reap benefits at the right time: PM Modi- Journey to innovations must be shaped by collaboration, public participation; Science will never prosper in silos: PM Modi- This meeting was to be held physically in India but in changed circumstances, it is being held virtually. Such is the power of technology that a global pandemic did not keep us apart: PM Narendra Modi- In India, we have a strong and vibrant scientific community. We also have good scientific institutions. They have been India’s greatest assets, specially during the last few months, while fighting Covid-19. From containment to capacity building, they have achieved wonders: PM Modi- Today, we are seeing a decline in the number of cases per day and the growth rate of cases. India has one of the highest recovery rates of 88 per cent: PM Modi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/future-will-be-shaped-by-society-that-invests-in-science-and-innovation-pm-modi-at-grand-challenges-annual-meeting-2020/story-tub4MIYWCeAlnDPLSkv45J.html
19-10-2020||India||SANT Missile successfully testfired from Odisha coast||India today successfully test fired the Stand-off Anti-tank (SANT) Missile off the coast of Odisha, sources said on Monday. The Missile is being developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for the Indian Air Force (IAF) and will have both Lock-on After Launch and Lock-on Before Launch capability, the sources informed. On the other hand, the IAF on Sunday congratulated the DRDO on the successful test-firing of BrahMos supersonic cruise missile.BrahMos supersonic cruise missile was successfully test-fired from the Indian Navy’s indigenously-built stealth destroyer INS Chennai, hitting a target in the Arabian Sea, the DRDO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sant-missile-successfully-testfired-from-odisha-coast/story-hEObviVjNXojxIW2ETupjM.html
19-10-2020||India||‘No political vendetta, Farooq questioned as per law’: J-K BJP chief||The Jammu and Kashmir BJP on Monday outrightly denied any political vendetta behind the questioning of the National Conference president and Lok Sabha member Farooq Abdullah in a multi-crore scam of the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA) by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The party maintained that the huge scam was probed on the directions of the High Court in accordance with the provisions of law. The ED on Monday questioned Farooq Abdullah in connection with a money-laundering probe related to a multi-crore scam in the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association. “There is no political vendetta behind the questioning of Dr Farooq Abdullah by the Enforcement Directorate in multi-crore JKCA scam. It is an old scam and it happened when he (Farooq) was the president of the cricket body. A petition was filed before the High Court and on its directions, action under law is being taken. If he was asked to appear before the ED then it was purely as per law. There is no political vendetta behind it,” said JK BJP president Ravinder Raina. Raina further said, “If someone has done something wrong and has misused public money meant for development then he has to be held accountable under the law and has to be punished under the law. We all are answerable to the law.” Former deputy chief minister Kavinder Gupta said that it was a long pending scam and none dared investigate it. “It was a big fraud and at that time the JKCA was divided into two factions. The probe should have been held long back. Where the heck crores of rupees have gone… it is a huge sum of money that belonged to taxpayers,” he said. Gupta also questioned that if Dr Farooq’s father was a government teacher then from where did they accumulate such huge wealth. Also read: ‘Farooq Abdullah kept at ED office for 5 hours despite his age’ - People’s Alliance attacks Centre“Those who misused power, they need to be exposed,” he added. Dr Farooq Abdullah’s son and vice president of the National Conference Omar Abdullah reacted acerbically to the development. “The party will be responding to this ED summons shortly. This is nothing less then political vendetta coming days after the formation of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. To set the record straight no raids are being conducted at Dr Sahib’s residence,” Omar posted on his Twitter handle. PDP chief and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti also expressed her anger. “ED’s sudden summon to Farooq sahab displays the extent of GOIs nervousness about mainstream parties in J&K fighting as one unit. Also reeks of political vendetta & wont in the least blunt our collective resolve to fight for our rights,” she posted on Twitter. People’s Conference chairman Sajad Lone posted, “What a sorry state of affairs. Dr Farooq sahib summoned by ED. Reeks of vendetta. Contrary to what they want to coercively achieve this will certainly have the opposite impact”. Several constituents of the newly formed People’s Alliance, comprising mainstream political parties from Jammu and Kashmir, described Abdullah’s questioning as a “witch hunt” and “political vendetta” by the Centre. The ED case is based on an FIR filed by the CBI which booked former JKCA office-bearers, including general secretary Mohammed Saleem Khan and former treasurer Ahsan Ahmad Mirza. The CBI later filed a charge sheet against Abdullah, Khan, Mirza as well as Mir Manzoor Gazanffer Ali (former JKCA treasurer) and former accountants Bashir Ahmad Misgar and Gulzar Ahmad Beigh for the “misappropriation of JKCA funds amounting to Rs 43.69 crore” from grants given by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to promote the sport in the state between 2002-11. The ED said its probe found that the JKCA received Rs 94.06 crore from the BCCI in three different bank accounts during financial years 2005-2006 to 2011-2012 (up to December 2011). The ED alleged that several other bank accounts were opened in the name of the JKCA into which the funds were transferred. The bank accounts, along with the existing bank accounts, were later used for laundering JKCA funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-political-vendetta-farooq-questioned-as-per-law-j-k-bjp-chief/story-18t3JVV429Eral63OLENzJ.html
19-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand to develop villages along major routes as ‘trekking clusters’||In another move to boost tourism in the state, Uttarakhand tourism department has now decided to develop villages near important trekking routes and sites as ‘trekking clusters’. The project will start from Chopta village near Tungnath shrine, the world’s highest temple dedicated to Lord Shiva. Dilip Jawalkar, secretary for tourism, during an inspection of developmental works being carried out in and around Tungnath, said that Chopta will be developed as a camping destination and proposals will be taken from the district magistrate and divisional forest officer for this. “Under Trekking Traction Home-stay Scheme, villages near important and popular trek routes will be developed by the tourism department as trekking clusters. This will give a lodging facility to the tourists and they will be able to enjoy the place by staying there itself,” said Jawalkar. Under this scheme, financial assistance of Rs 60,000 per room will be given to locals for building new rooms in their houses for the purpose of home-stay and Rs 25,000 for constructing new toilets with the rooms. The financial assistance will be provided for a maximum of up to six rooms. The state tourism department is currently selecting places to be developed for trek routes and clusters for the scheme through a committee constituted under the chairmanship of the district magistrate. “Tungnath is the highest temple of Lord Shiva in the world. It is a very old temple and we have requested the Archaeological Survey of India to help get the temple renovated. We are working to ensure that the route to the temple is made more accessible so that more people can visit the shrine and increase employment opportunities for locals,” said Jawalkar. To increase lodging facilities in the area, the secretary for tourism has also instructed district officials to renovate the old bungalow of Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam after permission is obtained from the state forest department.Tungnath shrine is considered to be the world’s highest temple for Lord Shiva located at a height of 12,070 feet above sea level. The temple is not only popular with devotees but also a tourist attraction as it is surrounded by lush green alpine meadows. Tungnath, 3 km uphill from Chopta, the last motorable road, is a beautiful tourist destination and very popular among tourists. On a steep climb of about 2 km from Tungnath temple lies Chandrashila, a famous tourist attraction that commands a breath-taking view of snow-clad peaks of Nanda Devi, Chaukhamba, Panchachuli, Bandarpoonch, Kedarnath and Neelkanth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-develop-villages-along-major-routes-as-trekking-clusters/story-v7cgYOPPRd6nrzmYjEp6UK.html
19-10-2020||India||PLA soldier strays across contested LAC in Ladakh, held||The Indian Army on Monday apprehended a Chinese soldier in eastern Ladakh’s Demchok sector after he strayed across the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), the army said a statement, amid the ongoing border tensions with China in the sensitive theatre where both armies have deployed more than 50,000 soldiers each along with advanced weapons and systems. The army identified the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldier as Corporal Wang Ya Long. It said it had received a request from the PLA about the whereabouts of the missing soldier. The army plans to hand over the soldier to the PLA soon. “As per established protocols, he will be returned to Chinese officials at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point after completion of formalities,” the army statement said. The Chushul-Moldo meeting point is where senior commanders from both armies have been holding military talks to reduce friction in the eastern Ladakh theatre. The army said Corporal Wang had been provided medical assistance including oxygen, food and warm clothes to protect him “from the vagaries of extreme altitude and harsh climatic conditions”. The soldier will undergo a thorough medical examination before he is handed over to the PLA in a day or two, officials said. Indian and Chinese military commanders met for the seventh time on October 12 in their latest attempt to defuse tensions. The Indian side demanded comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the talks. The two sides agreed to continue with the dialogue process to arrive at a mutually-acceptable solution for early disengagement in the eastern Ladakh theatre, said a joint press statement issued a day after the talks. They said they had a better understanding of each other’s positions in the sector after the latest round of talks. India and China are expected to hold the eight round of military talks this week, although a date has not been announced yet. The situation in the eastern Ladakh theatre will also figure prominently on the agenda for the upcoming Army commanders’ conference that will be held in New Delhi from October 26-29. The border row is in its sixth month and efforts to disengage and de-escalate have yielded no results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-soldier-strays-across-contested-lac-in-ladakh-held/story-bfzKlSn2R70O47kzPGFgwJ.html
19-10-2020||India||EPCA asks Haryana, UP to brace for closure of non-complying plants, expects increased dip in air quality||Expecting further deterioration in air quality in the coming days, the Environment Pollution Control Authority on Monday asked the Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments to be ready to close thermal power plants that do not meet the standards laid down in 2015.In two separate letters, EPCA chief Bhure Lal asked the two state governments to review the preparedness for closing thermal power plants and to inform EPCA of this review as well as the steps that will be taken to ensure compliance with the necessary shut-down during the peak winter period.“I had in this letter explained that we may have to direct the closure of thermal power plants, which do not meet the 2015 standards as air quality deteriorates in the coming days,” he said. “I am now writing to ask you to review the preparedness of this measure and to inform EPCA of this review and the steps that will be taken to ensure compliance with the necessary shut-down during the peak winter period,” he said.In the letter to the chief secretaries of the two states, Lal listed five power plants in Haryana and three in Uttar Pradesh and their status of compliance with the 2015 standards.Lal said additional measures will be required as the condition is expected to exacerbate.“Please treat this as urgent as we are expecting a further deterioration in air quality in the coming days. IMD has predicted that the ventilation index fund winds will see reduction and temperatures will also fall. These conditions will exacerbate the impact of local pollution and stubble burning and therefore, additional measures will be required,” Lal said in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/epca-asks-haryana-up-to-brace-for-closure-of-non-complying-plants-expects-increased-dip-in-air-quality/story-hA4Bd7OY5NLepXQZeNXGxI.html
19-10-2020||India||PM Modi to deliver keynote speech at inauguration of Grand Challenges Annual Meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday will deliver the keynote address at the inaugural function of Grand Challenges Annual Meeting 2020 shortly via video conferencing. The meeting commenced virtually and will go on till October 21.For the last 15 years, the Grand Challenges Annual Meeting has fostered international innovation collaborations to discuss the biggest challenges in health and development.The three-day programme will bring together policymakers and scientific leaders, calling for deepened scientific collaborations in solving global health problems, with emphasis on coronavirus (Covid-19).“World leaders, eminent scientists and researchers from across the globe will join this annual meeting to discuss key priorities for accelerating progress across the Sustainable Development Goals in the post-pandemic world and elaborate on addressing the challenges to manage Covid-19,” the Prime Minister’s Office had said earlier in a statement.The event, which will be co-hosted by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, will feature leaders talks, panel discussions and virtual informal conversations on various topics. Around 1,600 people from 40 countries will participate in this meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-deliver-keynote-address-at-inauguration-of-grand-challenges-annual-meeting/story-9QqpS7E9XSiHim4vIJGBfI.html
19-10-2020||India||‘CAA delayed due to Covid-19, will be implemented soon’: BJP chief JP Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda on Monday said that the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) was delayed due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and will be implemented soon, reported news agency PTI.He was addressing a meeting with social groups in West Bengal’s Siliguri. The state will go to polls next year along with Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam.Here are the key highlights from Nadda’s address:- The basic policy of BJP and Modi ji is of inclusivity - “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas”. The policy of the other parties is - divide the society, keep it separate and rule.- You must have seen the blows the Hindu community received in West Bengal under the Mamata government. Now, when she has realised this, attempts are being made to include every member of the society. These are the people who only do vote bank politics, only do politics to stay in power.- Every BJP worker is pained by the Debendra Nath Ray incident. He was a social representative. We assure you that we will take all steps to reach the right conclusion.- I call upon our MPs to make a list of local products of West Bengal, plan a roadmap and scheme for them and we assure you that Modi government will brand it right and bring the right market for the local traders in the state.- Under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package, Rs 1 lakh crore has been provided for FPOs and agricultural infrastructure. Cold storages and general storages will be built for our farmers.- The Mamata government has not allowed the implementation of PM-KISAN Samman Nidhi Yojana in West Bengal. We assure you that if we come to power in Bengal, we will provide the scheme for all farmers in the state.- Sadly, Mamta ji’s government did not allow the Kisan Samman Nidhi to be implemented in Bengal. Seventy six lakh farmers of Bengal have been denied the benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caa-delayed-due-to-covid-19-will-be-implemented-soon-bjp-chief-jp-nadda/story-qbnz31n2nMDU5v2vjGAYQP.html
19-10-2020||India||NCW writes to Election Commission, asks Kamal Nath to explain ‘derogatory remark’||The National Commission for Women has sought an explanation from former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh Kamal Nath over alleged derogatory remarks against a woman minister. The Commission has also forwarded the matter to the Election Commission for taking necessary action. “The NCW has come across several media reports where Shri Kamal Nath, Leader of Opposition in the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly made offensive and derogatory remarks against a woman minister in a political rally in Dabra,” the Commission said in a statement. “The Commission strongly condemns this irresponsible and disparaging statement made by the leader. The words used in the video are highly defamatory and shows disrespect towards the dignity of a woman.” Union minister Smriti Irani on Monday also slammed former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath for his “item” jibe against state minister Imarti Devi, and questioned the Gandhi family for keeping silent on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncw-writes-to-election-commission-asks-kamal-nath-to-explain-derogatory-remark/story-tg1PMT7h6ddYYz6GauEclJ.html
19-10-2020||India||Porn clip shared from Goa deputy chief minister’s phone, blames ‘miscreants’||Goa deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar has claimed that his mobile phone was hacked or tampered with after it came to light that he shared a pornographic clip in a WhatsApp group late on Monday Night.In a complaint with the Goa Police Cyber Cell, Kavlekar has blamed ‘miscreants,’ who he said sent a video containing obscene material to a WhatsApp group ‘Villages of Goa’.“The video was sent to this WhatsApp group where I am one of the members and it was intentionally masked in my name with some criminal intention. The message was sent to only this group out of the many WhatsApp groups where I am a member. Also, the time when this message was sent, I was nowhere near the phone and I was fast asleep,” Kavlekar said in his complaint to the police.“There have been many such attempts in the recent past to defame my name and project a wrong image of me in front of the public, he said demanding strong action against all such miscreants and unscrupulous individuals who have criminally hacked/ tampered with my mobile phone... and uploaded and transmitted obscene material,” he added.The message was sent at 1:20 am on Sunday night. The issue was highlighted by political opponents who accused him of demeaning the high office he holds.In a complaint to the Women’s Police Station, the women’s wing of the Goa Forward Party has demanded an FIR against the Deputy Chief Minister for ‘outraging a women’s modesty’ as well as for offences under the Information Technology Act.“Knowing full well that the video is completely lascivious in nature and containing sexually explicit content, was in fact porn, he still went ahead and shared it on a public group thereby transmitting it in electronic form,” the complaint states.The complaint also alleges that the women members of the group have been offended by the incident and therefore it also was a case of outraging their modesty.Elected on a Congress ticket, Kavlekar was one among ten Congress MLAs to switch over to the BJP in 2019 and was rewarded with the post of deputy chief minister at the expense of Goa Forward Party’s Vijai Sardesai, who was dropped from the cabinet.Kavlekar was the leader of Opposition in the Goa Assembly prior to his switch over to the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/porn-clip-shared-from-goa-deputy-chief-minister-s-phone-blames-miscreants/story-5c24bZbXLsbEvfXb9LFX8K.html
19-10-2020||India||Customs recovers Rs 33 lakh worth gold from two air passengers||Gold worth over Rs 33 lakh, concealed in petroleum jelly and hair gel by two international air passengers who arrived here on Sunday, has been recovered, the Customs said. A native of Andhra Pradesh, who arrived from Kuwait, was intercepted by its officials based on suspicion, a Customs release here said on Monday. On examination of his checked-in baggage, 16 gold cut bits concealed in two small plastic containers of petroleum jelly were found. The 365 grams gold, valued at Rs 19.14 lakh, was recovered and seized, it said. In another case, a city resident who landed from Dubai was intercepted and examination of his checked in-baggage revealed nine hair gel tubes in his possession. The tubes, on being checked, were found to be unusually heavy. They were cut open and found to contain a golden brown thick paste, suspected to be gold paste. A total of 270 grams of gold, valued at Rs 14.16 lakh, was recovered after extraction, the release added. The total seizure of 635 grams of gold was valued at Rs 33.30 lakh, it said, adding, further investigation was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/customs-recovers-rs-33-lakh-worth-gold-from-two-air-passengers/story-QWDZSwkR43mOHUkLttLwcN.html
19-10-2020||India||‘Farooq Abdullah kept at ED office for 5 hours despite his age’: People’s Alliance attacks Centre||The newly-formed People’s Alliance on Monday strongly condemned the summoning of National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah by Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association scam.In a statement, posted on Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti’s Twitter account, the Alliance termed the move as “vindictive politics practiced by the central government”.“The move is part of vindictive politics practiced by the central government to kill the dissent and disagreement across the country and in present case to silence the genuine demand for reversal of unilateral and unconstitutional decisions of 5th August 2019 and restoration of 4th August 2019,” the statement said.It also said that the Centre, unnerved by the unity of the people, is “resorting to witch-hunt and suppression”. In view of Farooq Sahab being summoned by ED, People’s Alliance issued a statement condemning use of agencies to browbeat mainstream parties in J&K. Despite his age & health issues, he was kept at ED office for five hours. pic.twitter.com/G6oQM1wpxiThe tweet accompanying the statement said that despite his age and health issues, Abdullah was kept at ED office for five hours.Also Read: I am not worried, says Farooq Abdullah on ED’s questioningAbdullah was questioned by the ED on Monday in connection with money laundering probe related to the multi-crore scam in the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA).The 82-year-old was questioned at the agency’s regional office at Raj Bagh in the case connected to the embezzlement of more than Rs 40 crore of JKCA funds. He received the summons a day after the formation of the People’s Alliance was announced in the Gupkar declaration on October 15.ED officials, quoted by news agency PTI, said that Abdullah’s statement will be recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The Lok Sabha MP and former JKCA president, who was also questioned in the case in July last year, is being asked about his role and decisions taken when the alleged fraud took place in the association, according to PTI.The ED case is based on an FIR filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which booked former JKCA office-bearers, including general secretary Mohammed Saleem Khan and former treasurer Ahsan Ahmad Mirza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-kept-at-ed-office-for-5-hours-despite-his-age-people-s-alliance-attacks-centre/story-N2krPj2JApzypn1JSBjMzN.html
19-10-2020||India||‘I am not worried’, says National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah on Enforcement Directorate’s questioning||The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah on Monday said he is not worried after the Enforcement Directorate questioned him in connection with a money laundering investigation linked to J-K Cricket Association scam. The National Conference chief said the questioning is nothing new. “This questioning has been going on for many years, it is nothing new. I am not going to say anything. The Court will decide what is to be done. I am not worried,” the leader said after leaving the ED’s office, as quoted by ANI.Abdullah said the political battle will continue whether he is alive or dead. “We have a long way to go, a long political battle that will continue whether Farooq Abdullah is alive or dead, on the stage or not on the stage. Our fight is for restoration of Article 370 & our resolve will never change even if I’ve to be hanged,” he added.The leader was quizzed on Monday at the agency’s regional office at Srinagar’s Raj Bagh in the probe connected to a money laundering scam of over Rs 40 crore of JKCA funds. The officials said the NC chief’s statement will be recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), according to PTI.Abdullah received the summons by the ED on October 16, a day after the People’s Alliance was announced in the Gupkar declaration. Several leaders from different political parties from Jammu and Kashmir of the newly formed alliance called the ED’s summons issued to Abdullah a “witch hunt”. The National Conference termed it as “political vendetta” by the Centre.“The BJP, after failing to politically fight party president Farooq Abdullah, has resorted to employing its agencies for the task,” a party spokesperson said on Monday in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-not-worried-court-will-decide-what-s-to-be-done-says-national-conference-chief-farooq-abdullah-on-ed-s-questioning/story-jXcHdsWCs8rrQz8txDhoxN.html
19-10-2020||India||Shivraj Chouhan leads BJP leaders in silent protest against Kamal Nath||Led by Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, BJP workers across the state on Monday observed a two-hour ‘Maun vrat’ (observance of silence) against the “item” remark used by Congress state chief Kamal Nath against state cabinet minister Imarti Devi. CM Chouhan also urged Congress president Sonia Gandhi to condemn the act and remove state Congress chief Kamal Nath from all party posts for his remarks against Imarti Devi, the state’s women and child development minister and a Dalit woman.The protesters were led by Chouhan in Bhopal, Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia in Indore and union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and state BJP president VD Sharma in Gwalior. The party workers held placards in their hands, condemning the remark, demanding an apology from Nath and action against him.   Nath was addressing an election meeting in Dabra (SC) legislative assembly constituency on Sunday in the Gwalior district, which is witnessing a bypoll, when he made the remark while comparing virtues of the Congress candidate Suresh Raje with those of the rival candidate Imarti Devi from the BJP.   Nath said, “Suresh Raje is a simple man. He is down to earth. He is not like the person. What is the name of the person?” As crowd responded to Nath’s question citing Imarti Devi’s name, Kamal Nath called her an “item”, saying, “Why should I name her? You know her better than I know. You should have warned me. Ye kya item hai...”   Chouhan said in Bhopal on Monday, “My Dalit sister Imarti Devi was insulted by the state Congress president Kamal Nath but what is more painful is that he is not remorseful for his act. Instead, he is trying to justify his indecent remark shamelessly.” Defending Nath, his media coordinator said it was a case of misrepresenting things to gain advantage for the bypolls, and reminded BJP of the “maal” jibe by its leaders. “The BJP is trying to create a controversy by misinterpreting a word for its political gains in bypolls. During an election meeting in Sumaoli constituency union minister said Congress didn’t have candidates, hence it took ‘rejected maal’ of BJP. Is this not an insult to women given the fact those from BJP who joined the Congress include women leaders too? For this, the union minister and entire BJP should tender an apology,”  said Narendra Saluja, Kamal Nath’s media coordinator. In his letter to Sonia Gandhi, Chouhan said, “I thought being a woman you would take notice of the news on insult to cabinet minister and scheduled caste woman leader Imarti Devi and take action against state Congress president Kamal Nath while condemning the indecent remark but you have not done it so far…She broke down while sharing her pain. Elections come and go but insult to a Dalit woman like this brings a bad name to the entire political arena.” He said, “I request you to condemn the indecent remark and remove your party’s former chief minister Kamal Nath from all the party posts to teach a lesson to leaders of your party who insult women. I wish to add that if you keep silent on the insult it would be considered that it has your consent.” In Indore, Scindia observed silence with a placard in his hand which read: “Mata bahano ka jo kare apmaan, Shastra kahen wo hai shaitan (Holy scriptures say those who insult mother and sisters are devils).”  Scindia said, “Kamal Nath has insulted the entire scheduled castes and Dalit community by calling Imarti Devi ‘item’. By making such an indecent remark he has brought a bad name to Madhya Pradesh.”  Demanding action from Sonia Gandhi, Scindia said, “If she doesn’t take action, people will come to know as to what is the difference between what Congress preaches and what it practises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-chouhan-leads-bjp-leaders-in-silent-protest-against-kamal-nath/story-TFmNV1tLO8KirGrxOkCyjP.html
19-10-2020||India||Kerala HC stops Customs from arresting IAS officer in gold smuggling case||The Kerala High Court on Monday stayed the arrest of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former secretary M Sivasankar, a senior Indian Administrative Service officer, till October 23 in the gold smuggling case. Sivasankar, who was admitted to a hospital on Friday, moved the HC saying the Customs department was harassing and planning to arrest him despite his cooperation with the ongoing probe. Last week, the HC had restrained the Enforcement Directorate from arresting him till Friday. The HC will hear both pleas (ED and Customs) on Friday. In his plea, Sivasankar contended that he was being made a dice in the political game and an intense media trial was on. He said he had undergone more than 90 hours of questioning and probe agencies had failed to detect any wrong-doing on his part. The court later stayed his arrest till Friday. On Friday Sivasankar was rushed to a hospital after he complained of uneasiness while customs personnel came to his house. Though he had some variation in his ECG, doctors alter said he was not suffering from any major health complications. Customs told the court that the hospitalization was a ploy to avoid arrest. It also informed the court that it has enough evidence to book him under money laundering and foreign exchange violation charges. The gold smuggling case surfaced on July 5 after 30 kg of yellow metal was seized by the Customs from a package camouflaged as a diplomatic consignment marked to the United Arab Emirates consulate in the state capital. Later, P Sarith Kumar, a former employee of the consulate who came to receive the luggage, was arrested by the Customs after it seized gold hidden inside bathroom fittings. Two other suspects, Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Sandip Nair, were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru five days later. Sivasankar was suspended after his alleged links with Suresh surfaced. Now, a multi-agency team is probing the case and 30 people have been arrested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-stops-customs-from-arresting-ias-officer-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-VY1WSQbsO0lI56y02Lr2lI.html
19-10-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah questioned by ED in multi-crore J-K cricket scam, party alleges ‘political vendetta’||National Conference (NC) president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah was summoned and questioned by the officials of the Enforcement Directorate on Monday in multi-crore J&K cricket scam.Dr Farooq was summoned by the ED at 11 am at its Rajbagh office where he was questioned regarding the money of Jammu and Kashmir cricket board. The case has been going on for the last two years.Farooq Abdullah’s questioning has drawn sharp criticism by the leaders of different political parties, especially the National Conference and the PDP.“The party will be responding to this ED summons shortly. This is nothing less than political vendetta coming days after the formation of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. To set the record straight, no raids are being conducted at Dr Sahib’s residence,” tweeted NC vice president and former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah.Another former chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said the summon to Abdullah depicts political vendetta.“ED’s sudden summon to Farooq sahab displays the extent of GOIs nervousness about mainstream parties in J&K fighting as one unit. Also reeks of political vendetta & wont in the least blunt our collective resolve to fight for our rights,” Mehbooba Mufti tweeted.Also read: Pak readies plan to sabotage J&K telecom blackout with new mobile towersPeoples Conference chairman Sajjad Lone also described the summon as vendetta which will have an opposite reaction.“What a sorry state of affairs. Dr Farooq sahib summoned by ED. Reeks of vendetta. Contrary to what they want to coercively achieve this will certainly have the opposite impact,” Lone tweeted.National Conference spokesman in a statement said that the ED’s summon to the NC president shows that BJP has failed to fight him politically and is now taking help from agencies.In a statement, a party spokesperson said the ED summon to Dr Farooq Abdullah is clearly the result of the unity that Dr Sahib has been able to forge among mainstream political parties in J&K.“This is the price one faces when opposed to BJP’s ideology and divisive politics. Recent history is a witness to how the BJP has been employing coercive and intimidating measures through various departments to target opposition leaders across the country. The recent ED summon to Dr Farooq Abdullah is a case in point,” the spokesperson added.The statement said the timing of the recent summon is very clear. “His previous summons were just before August 5 last year and today’s summon comes within days of forming the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration of which Dr Farooq Abdullah has taken a lead,” the spokesman said, adding that Dr Farooq Abdullah continues to maintain his innocence and will cooperate with the authorities in what is nothing but a witchhunt.Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesman Altaf Thakur said if Abdullah is clear on his part, he should face the probe. “Why has the ED summon created ripples in the NC? If Dr Farooq is clear, let him face the ED probe. I wonder why such a huge hullaballoo is in NC camp,” Thakur said.He said that linking ED’s summon with the BJP is nothing but a myopic vision of NC leaders. “BJP is a party of principles and doesn’t indulge in any act that goes against the party’s constitution and principles,” Thakur said.He said that the ED is perhaps probing the cricket scam and the NC should allow the agency to carry out the investigations in a transparent manner.Ten office-bearers of the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA), including Abdullah, are accused of turning the sports body into a lending agency and operating several bogus accounts between 2005 and 2012 when the scam was unearthed.The scam came to light in March 2012 when JKCA treasurer Manzoor Wazir filed a police complaint against former general secretary Mohammad Saleem Khan and former treasurer Ahsan Mirza. Soon, a list of around 50 names linked to the financial scandal was out. Abdullah lost the post of the JKCA president later after holding it for more than three decades.The ED attached assets worth Rs 2.6 crore in a money laundering case related to the alleged embezzlement of JKCA funds, the central agency said in a statement issued in February. A provisional order for attachment of assets was issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against the former JKCA treasurer Ahsan Ahmad Mirza and its finance committee member Mir Mansoor Gazanffer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-summoned-questioned-by-ed-in-multi-crore-j-k-cricket-scam-party-cries-foul/story-bHFro7LTqLxNdUkcRGaE7K.html
19-10-2020||India||Encounter breaks out in Melhora area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian, one terrorist killed||One terrorist was killed after an encounter broke out in Melhora area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian on Monday evening.Police and security forces are carrying out the operation, Kashmir Zone Police informed.More details awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-encounter-breaks-out-in-melhora-area-of-jammu-and-kashmir-s-shopian-one-terrorist-killed/story-IEwFlzLeQxSGOPxFfJkn7J.html
19-10-2020||India||Shashi Tharoor praises ‘brilliantly appropriate’ coronavirus-themed Durga Puja||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Monday showered praises on the creative spirit of a Durga Puja committee in Kolkata which has chosen coronavirus as its theme for the five-day festival starting from October 22.“Brilliantly appropriate #covid19-themed Durga Puja creativity from Kolkata, with the goddess slaying the virus! Salutations to the unknown designer & sculptor #DurgaPuja2020,” Tharoor tweeted. Brilliantly appropriate #covid19-themed Durga Puja creativity from Kolkata, with the goddess slaying the virus! Salutations to the unknown designer & sculptor #DurgaPuja2020 pic.twitter.com/Q8ZT8EtWfoThe organisers have chosen various themes for the event across West Bengal. Among the most talked-about themes is the one chosen by Kolkata-based Behala Barisha Club which has depicted the plight of the migrant workers during the Covid-induced lockdown.Dispossessed of traditional adorning, Durga here is seen walking back with her children and Ganesh, sitting atop a buffalo and lion head, holding her platform. She is surrounded by gunny bags of aids with the face of a traditional Durga idol reflected in the backdrop.Meanwhile, the Calcutta High Court on Monday effectively made Durga Puja pandals no-entry zones for visitors.The court said in its order that only organisers will be allowed inside the pandals, limiting the number to 25 for big pandals and 15 for the smaller ones in view of the coronavirus outbreak.West Bengal, which has been seeing record spike in its daily number of coronavirus cases for the past two weeks, has reported the second highest number of deaths among all states.The Covid-19 death toll in West Bengal went past the 6,000-mark on Sunday with 64 more fatalities, even as a record number of 3,983 fresh cases pushed the tally to 3,21,036, the health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-praises-brilliantly-appropriate-coronavirus-themed-durga-puja/story-sAHUeSahWVrqdpTsBh9lxM.html
19-10-2020||India||Mumbai artist creates 6-feet portrait of Goddess Durga with 31,000 push pins||A mosaic artist in Mumbai has created a six-feet portrait of Goddess Durga using 31,000 push pins during Navratri.“It took me 36 hours to create this mosaic art with the help of six people. I have used pins of six colours,” said Chetan Raut, the mosaic artist. Maharashtra: A mosaic artist in Mumbai has created a 6-feet portrait of Goddess Durga using 31,000 push pins during #Navratri."It took me 36 hours to create this mosaic art with the help of six people. I have used pins of six colours," says Chetan Raut, the mosaic artist. pic.twitter.com/pa7vetAphzNavratri started on Saturday amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across India.For Navratri and Durga Puja this year, every state government has placed strict guidelines to make sure social distancing is maintained. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan have appealed to people to enjoy the festivities at home with family and avoid crowded places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-artist-creates-6-feet-portrait-of-goddess-durga-with-31-000-push-pins/story-mXAySc47yI0kLJkqfVEBiN.html
19-10-2020||India||India sends Australia a Malabar invite that will give Quad a huge upgrade||New Delhi: The Narendra Modi government has invited Australia for the annual Malabar naval exercises next month with the United States and Japan already confirming their participation. The move is expected to further lay the foundations for the eventual formalisation of the QUAD grouping.According to people directly familiar with the matter, the Malabar exercises will take place in two stages on India’s eastern and western seaboard; the 2019 exercise took place from September 26 to October 4 off the coast of Japan. The naval exercise featuring the QUAD partners will be held on November 3-6 and November 17-20. The shared objective of all four countries is free and open navigation in Indo-Pacific.The decision to invite Australia was announced by the Modi government on Monday.“As India seeks to increase cooperation with other countries in the maritime security domain and in the light of increased defence cooperation with Australia, Malabar 2020 will see the participation of the Australian Navy,” the defence ministry announced in a statement.The Malabar 2020 exercises will take place in two parts; one would be in the Bay of Bengal, north of Andaman and Nicobar Islands and the other, in the Arabian Sea.The exercise comes after the QUAD Foreign Ministers meeting in Tokyo on October 6 and will follow shortly after the India-US two plus two dialogue on October 26-27 during which the geo-spatial agreement called BECA is expected to be signed by the two countries.The last time Australia was invited as a non-permanent partner by India for Malabar in 2007, Beijing issued a demarche to India, US, Japan and Australia (Singapore was the other partner) seeking details of the exercise in the context of QUAD initiative, which at that time existed only on paper. Both India and Australia were defensive back then.In the context of the emerging contours of QUAD, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi had no hesitation in speaking his mind about the grouping at a Question and Answer session after his meeting with Malaysian Foreign Minister Hishammuddin Hussein in Kuala Lumpur on October 13. He termed the US Indo-Pacific strategy a “ big underlying risk” designed to stir up confrontation among different groups, and stoke geo-political competition with the Cold War mentality. The same minister called QUAD a “sea foam” in 2018 in Beijing. While Wang visited Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Thailand and Singapore to secure Beijing’s interests in ASEAN from October 11 to 15, high ranking diplomat Yang Jiechi has been touring Myanmar and Sri Lanka to push the Chinese narrative on the Indo-Pacific and coronavirus.Meanwhile, the four QUAD members have signaled their intent to move away from the trope of blocs to describe their shared values. Their objective, the countries maintain, is to secure sea lanes for open trade and not be constrained by an expansionist Chinese Navy. “QUAD is a security architecture between democratic countries, which have military logistics as well as communication agreement. It is not an emotion or a Cold War-type alliance,” said a senior diplomat.According to a retired commander of Indian Navy’s Western Naval Command, who asked not to be named, the Malabar exercises are aimed at interoperability with an emphasis on humanitarian assistance, surface war manoeuvres, anti-submarines warfare, counter-terror operations, gunnery training and aerial surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sends-australia-a-malabar-invite-that-will-give-quad-a-huge-upgrade/story-L1v46CCm87rQcPCWvsl8UP.html
19-10-2020||India||Telangana CM K Chandrashekhar Rao announces relief packages for those affected by rains||Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao (KCR) on Monday announced assistance of Rs 1 lakh each to those who lost their houses in the havoc caused by the incessant rains in the state. The minister also announced Rs 50,000 each to people whose houses were partially damaged. “All the houses which were totally damaged in rain would be given an assistance of Rs one lakh each and partially damaged would be given Rs 50,000 each,” news agency ANI said citing a statement from the chief minister’s office.An assistance of Rs 10,000 each was also announced for people living in low-lying areas who were affected by rain-related incidents.“Hyderabad had not experienced such heavy rainfall in the last 100 years. We have decided to extend Rs 10,000 help to each affected poor household in low-lying areas,” KCR said.Telangana minister KT Rama Rao said that as many as 70 people so far have died in rain-related incidents in last one week in the state, according to news agency PTI. As India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted more heavy rains in the state for next couple of days, the minister urged people living in low-lying areas to evacuate and rush to relief and rehabilitation camps.“IMD (India Meteorological Department) has already warned us that there would be heavy rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms. We know exactly which areas would be inundated. We are going to evacuate those colonies. We will go house by house and evacuate them. Thousands of people will be evacuated today, tomorrow and day after,” he said at a press conference.In a preliminary estimate, the state government has totaled the damage at over Rs 5,000 crore due to the heavy rains. The Telangana government has requested an immediate release of Rs 1,380 crore from Centre, to which there has not been a response yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-cm-k-chandrashekhar-rao-announces-relief-packages-for-those-affected-by-rains/story-zBxNjGey12MMmlG15TzYCL.html
19-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Shashi Tharoor violated panel confidentiality, BJP MP writes to Om Birla and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Shashi Tharoor violated panel confidentiality, BJP MP Nishikant Dubey writes to Om BirlaBharatiya Janata Party MP Nishikant Dubey has written to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla saying that Information Technology parliamentary panel chair Shashi Tharoor has breached confidentiality rules by alleging that corporates are funding channels, a topic that is under discussion by the panel. Read more here.Chinese soldier apprehended in Ladakh’s Demchok sector, in army custodyA Chinese soldier has been apprehended by security forces in the Chumar-Demchok area of Ladakh and taken into custody by the Indian Army, officials said on Monday. Read more here.TRP scam: Arnab Goswami will first be summoned if accused, Mumbai Police informs Bombay HCMumbai Police on Monday told the Bombay high court that they will first issue summons to Arnab Goswami, the editor-in-chief of Republic TV, in case he is arraigned as an accused in the television rating point (TRP) scam unearthed by the crime branch. Read more here.PM Narendra Modi set to hold virtual summit with Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina, visit Dhaka next yearBangladesh is set to be among the first foreign destinations visited by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the aftermath of the Covid-19 outbreak, as he is expected to participate in celebrations marking 50 years of the country’s independence next March. Read more here.A beginner’s guide to US Elections 2020The US presidential elections take place every four years and the outcome is not only awaited in the United States but also throughout the world. Read more here.IPL 2020: Delhi Capitals name Pravin Dubey as replacement for Amit MishraDelhi Capitals have had a successful campaign in IPL 2020 so far but the franchise has also been hit hard by injury issues. DC on Monday announced their official replacement for seasoned leg spinner Amit Mishra, who had to return home after sustaining a finger injury during a match. Read more here.Vijay Sethupathi opts out of Muthiah Muralidaran biopic 800, acknowledges spin legend’s requestActor Vijay Sethupathi on Monday acknowledged Sri Lankan spin legend Muthiah Muralidaran’s request to opt out of the upcoming biopic 800 after a section of people protested against the film. Muralidaran made his request via a statement which Vijay acknowledged with a ‘Thank You’. Read more here.Mahindra Thar 2020 crosses 15,000 bookings, 57% are first-time buyersMahindra Thar 2020 has been an instant hit since it was officially launched on October 2 with the company on Monday announcing that over 15,000 units of the go-anywhere SUV has been booked so far. Thar 2020 had hit 9,000 units in bookings in the first four days of being launched. Read more here.Microsoft is downloading Office web apps on Windows 10 devices without permissionLooks like Microsoft is once again pushing Windows users to become a part of its software ecosystem as it has reportedly started installing Office progressive web apps (PWA’s). These are being installed on Windows 10 devices but without the user’s consent. The apps include Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Read more here.Viral: Kid’s classical singing lesson goes viral, even impresses Amitabh BachchanIf you learnt singing as a child, this viral video will send you on a trip down memory lane. Even if you didn’t, the sheer cuteness of the little boy featured in it is likely make your day. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-shashi-tharoor-violated-panel-confidentiality-bjp-mp-writes-to-om-birla-and-all-the-latest-news/story-1GS9eIeVcbZ6U9noQ2Rl2H.html
19-10-2020||India||Cannabis plantation busted in Goa, 3 arrested: Cops||The Goa police unearthed a cannabis plantation and arrested three people in this connection. The plantation was busted at Querim village in north Goa along the border with Maharashtra.“During the search, a cannabis plantation of 2.29 kgs worth Rs 5 lakh was seized along with 1.327 kg Ganja worth Rs 1.3 lakh approx and 2.556 kg charas worth Rs 1.02 crore was seized and taken into custody,” police spokesperson SP Shobit Saksena said. Three persons - Rama Kerkar, 22, Rashmi Kerkar, 44 and Shivaji Kerkar, 34 - have been arrested, said police. Team of Pernem PS made a significant Narcotics seizure in Keri Pernem with seizure of around 6.1 kgs of Cannabis plantation, Ganja and Charas, worth around ₹1 crore. Steadfast action against narcotics trafficking continues.@DGP_Goa @goacm pic.twitter.com/kZkcWDr168In another raid, a Russian national, 37-year-old Oleg Nazarov, has also been arrested for possession of hashish and marijuana worth Rs 25,000 and Rs 1.06 lakh, respectively, following a raid at his rented residence in the beach village of Mandrem in North Goa district.This is the third such raid in Goa. Earlier this month on October 5, two Russian nationalswere arrested for running a cannabis ‘nursery’ in a rented flat in Mandrem and cannabis plants weighing 2.5 kg were seized during the raid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannabis-plantation-busted-in-goa-3-arrested-cops/story-RkGFnyixDgh7LJw2C6md3O.html
19-10-2020||India||BJP using govt agencies to target Farooq Abdullah after failing to fight him politically, says NC||The National Conference (NC) on Monday said the BJP is employing government agencies to target party president Farooq Abdullah after failing to fight him politically.“The BJP, after failing to politically fight party president Farooq Abdullah, has resorted to employing its agencies for the task,” an NC spokesperson said in a statement here.The party was reacting to an Enforcement Directorate (ED) summons issued to the Lok Sabha member from Srinagar.The central agency questioned Abdullah, a former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister, on Monday in connection with a money-laundering probe in a case related to the alleged embezzlement of Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association funds, officials said.They said the NC president’s statement will be recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) as in the past.The NC spokesperson said the ED summons to Abdullah is clearly the result of the unity the party president has been able to forge among mainstream political parties in Jammu and Kashmir in the shape of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. “This is the price one faces when opposed to BJP’s ideology and divisive politics. Recent history is a witness to how the BJP has been employing coercive and intimidating measures through various departments to target opposition leaders across the country. The recent ED summons to Abdullah is a case in point,” the statement said.The NC said the timing of the summons is very clear as the previous summons was issued just before August 5 last year, when the BJP-led Centre abrogated Article 370 of the Constitution, and this summons comes within days of forming the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, of which Abdullah has taken a lead.“Abdullah continues to maintain his innocence and will cooperate with the authorities in what is nothing but a witch-hunt,” the statement added.Meanwhile, taking to Twitter, Abdullah’s son and NC vice-president Omar Abdullah described the ED summons as political vendetta.“The party will be responding to this ED summons shortly. This is nothing less than political vendetta coming days after the formation of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. To set the record straight no raids are being conducted at Dr Sahib’s residence,” he wrote on Twitter. The party will be responding to this ED summons shortly. This is nothing less then political vendetta coming days after the formation of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. To set the record straight no raids are being conducted at Dr Sahib’s residence.People’s Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti said the ED summons displays the extent of the Government of India’s nervousness about mainstream parties in Jammu and Kashmir fighting as one unit.“ED’s sudden summon to Farooq sahab displays the extent of GOIs nervousness about mainstream parties in J&K fighting as one unit. Also reeks of political vendetta & wont in the least blunt our collective resolve to fight for our rights,” she said in a tweet. People’s Conference leader Sajad Lone said the summons reeks of vendetta and will have an opposite impact to what the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wants to achieve.“What a sorry state of affairs. Dr Farooq sahib summoned by ED. Reeks of vendetta. Contrary to what they want to coercively achieve this will certainly have the opposite impact,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-using-govt-agencies-to-target-farooq-abdullah-after-failing-to-fight-him-politically-says-nc/story-58akCIt1D5tvtNdVlgJV8K.html
19-10-2020||India||On Kamal Nath’s ‘item’ jibe, Smriti Irani’s question for Gandhi family||Union minister Smriti Irani on Monday slammed former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath for his “item” jibe against state minister Imarti Devi, and questioned the Gandhi family for keeping a silence on the matter.“I can’t find any justification that Kamal Nath ji can give for using such derogatory word against a woman political leader. I can’t understand why Gandhi family chooses to be absolutely silent,” Irani said, as quoted by news agency ANI. Nath, while addressing an assembly bypoll meeting on Sunday in Gwalior’s Dabra town, made the purported remark, sparking a nationwide controversy.“I don’t think Gandhi family will take action against Kamal Nath for making such a derogatory statement against a lady. Be it Kamal Nath or Digvijaya Singh, these are the people who keep fire burning in Gandhi family’s kitchen,” the BJP leader added.The former chief minister, however, said the remark was not meant to insult anyone. “I said something, it wasn’t to insult anyone... I just didn’t remember the (person’s) name... this list (in his hand) says item number 1, item number 2. Is this an insult? Kamal Nath doesn’t insult anyone, he’ll only expose you with truth,” the Congress leader was quoted as saying by ANI.Meanwhile, Imrati Devi, BJP’s candidate in the Madhya Pradesh elections, said Sonia Gandhi should dismiss Nath.Condemning Kamal Nath’s remark, the National Commission for Women (NCW) on Monday sought an explanation from the Congress leader.“The commission strongly condemns this irresponsible and disparaging statement made by the leader. The words used in the video are highly defamatory and shows disrespect towards the dignity of a woman,” the NCW said in a statement.“At a time when we want more women to enter politics, such disrespectful remarks against a woman leader, that too from a person holding such a responsible position is very unfortunate,” the statement further said.The NCW has also asked the Election Commission to take necessary action against Nath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-kamal-nath-s-item-jibe-smriti-irani-s-question-for-gandhi-family/story-NM4PqkXhYArI2YVTTdbWdN.html
19-10-2020||India||Floods in Karnataka: Situation remains grim in northern areas, over 35K people evacuated||Many villages are still submerged in Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Yadgir and Raichur districts of North Karnataka and over 35,000 people have been evacuated, as the flood situation remains grim with the Bhima river continuing to flow above the danger mark, officials said on Monday. According to the Central water commission, the Bhima river has been in spate since October 14 due to torrential rain in Maharashtra and release of water from the dams there. The river, which is a tributary of the Krishna, has wreaked havoc in Kalaburagi, Vijayapura,Yadgir and Raichur, which are experiencing intermittent heavy rain. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) officials said as many as 97 villages in the four districts are worst affected and people residing there have been shifted to safety. “So far we have evacuated 36,290 people. We have opened 174 relief camps where 28,007 people are staying,” a KSNDMC official said. The Army and the disaster response force personnel are engaged in evacuating people from the flood hit areas, according to sources. Meanwhile, in Bengaluru the heavy downpour since Sunday night resulted in waterlogging in some places. According to the India Meteorological Department, the city recorded 39.6 mm rainfall at the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited based weather observatory in the 24 hour period ending 0830 am today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floods-in-karnataka-situation-remains-grim-in-northern-areas-over-35k-people-evacuated/story-iFcsw1sdfhYHyupjYmImrO.html
19-10-2020||India||Shashi Tharoor violated panel confidentiality, BJP MP Nishikant Dubey writes to Om Birla||Bharatiya Janata Party MP Nishikant Dubey has written to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla saying that Information Technology parliamentary panel chair Shashi Tharoor has breached confidentiality rules by alleging that corporates are funding channels, a topic that is under discussion by the panel.“Dr Tharoor has yet again compromised the ‘Confidentiality Clause’ as contained in Direction 55 of the Directions by the Speaker, Lok Sabha,” Dubey wrote in the letter, a copy of which has been accessed by Hindustan Times. “It is also an abject display of truant behaviour on the part of Dr Tharoor to abusively call the ‘Republic TV’ as ‘Repulsive TV’ and also making unsubstantiated insinuations and rant against various reputable Companies/ Entities like Raymonds, Air India, Maruti, Dabur, etc.” Dubey was referring to a series of tweets by Tharoor on Sunday, in which he alleged that corporates were funding channels that were ‘tearing the country apart’. “Should such reputable companies be financing hate through ads on Repulsive TV? Raymonds, Muthoot Group, Jio, Max Bupa, Kent, Air India, Star Health Insurance, Nissan, Dabur, Mahindra, Amazon, Samsung, Sony, Maruti, Nerolac, Toyota. Can they find the moral courage to be like Parle?” Tharoor tweeted. Should such reputable companies be financing hate through ads on RepulsiveTV?: Raymonds, MuthootGroup, Jio, MaxBupa, Kent, AirIndia, Star Health Insurance, Nissan, Dabur, Mahindra, Amazon, Samsung, Sony, Maruti, Nerolac, Toyota. Can they find the moral courage to be like Parle?“Shouldn’t Corporates have the ‘same moral and social duties as individuals, to condemn immoral ideology, to abjure hate and communalism, to not incite one community against another, to distinguish between the truth and falsehood,” he added, saying that “these amoral Corporates should know that their ‘Return on investment’ is ‘a society and country being torn apart by the channels they fund. Our Corporates aspire to be global entities but fail to espouse global values’. Why do companies fund hatred?” Dubey has alleged that Tharoor’s conduct, by openly discussing various aspects under examination by the panel, is ‘an affront’ to the overall working of the parliamentary committees. He asked the speaker to nominate him to some other committee. According to those close to Tharoor, however, Dubey’s allegations were baseless he has not attended a single meeting of the Committee since its reconstitution and therefore is understandably unaware of what was and wasn’t discussed within the Committee. “If he had turned up, he would have realised that this is an issue that was not discussed in the committee, and therefore there is no question of confidentiality violation,” said one such person. “The thread of four tweets is specifically linked to a blogpost by Avay Shukla, the subject of which has nothing to do with the committee, any subjects it has discussed, but is about certain challenges with corporate financing.” Also Read: IT panel takes up TRP issue, says it’s ‘easily manipulated’Dubey, however, said that the Speaker was in the know of why he hadn’t attended the meeting. “Tharoor is misusing his position as panel chair,” he told HT. The Parliament’s panel on information technology on Thursday took up media ethics and flagged that Television Rating Points (TRPs) are “easily manipulated” amid allegations of a scam involving certain news channels. HT, on October 16, had reported that the panel had unanimously agreed that the TRP is not a robust method to measure viewership. “It is not in tune with current technologies,” said a person familiar with the matter. Over 10 members, including Bharatiya Janata Party’s Syed Zafar Islam and Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore. and the Congress’s Karti Chidambaram attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-violated-panel-confidentiality-bjp-mp-nishikant-dubey-writes-to-om-birla/story-syQMkfVFxE3R1fejSwm6xM.html
19-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand HC asks state govt to file response on BJP MLA’s plea to quash rape FIR||The Uttarakhand high court on Monday directed the state government to file its response within three weeks on a writ petition filed by BJP MLA Mahesh Singh Negi seeking quashing of an FIR filed against him on a complaint by a woman, accusing him of raping her on several occasions and fathering her child. The court has also directed the complainant to file her reply on the petition within three weeks. Ayush Negi, counsel of the BJP MLA Mahesh Singh Negi in his writ petition filed on Friday has sought quashing of the FIR against the lawmaker. The court also stated that till the state government and the complainant file their replies within three weeks, there will be a stay on the arrest of the MLA, said Ayush Negi. On August 13, Dehradun police had started a probe in the alleged extortion case against the woman after the MLA’s wife lodged a complaint accusing the woman of demanding Rs ₹ 5 crore by threatening her to lodge a false rape complaint against her husband. On the same day, the woman released a video on social media in which she accused MLA’s wife Rita Negi of lodging a false complaint and alleged that the MLA sexually harassed her for the last two years. She also claimed that she has an illegitimate daughter with the MLA. She also demanded a DNA test of her daughter and the MLA to prove her claims. On August 16, the woman filed a counter-complaint against Negi, accusing him of raping her on several occasions, fathering her child and his wife for trying to hush up the matter by offering her money. With the latest development, all three involved in the case, MLA, his wife and the complainant have filed pleas in the HC seeking quashing of FIRs against them. On October 1, the HC directed the state government not to take any coercive steps against Rita Negi till November 18 provided she cooperates with the investigation. The next date of hearing in the case is November 18. On September 4, the HC had directed the state government to file its response on the writ petition filed by the woman against whom Dehradun police filed an FIR on August 14 on the complaint of Rita Negi, accusing the woman of blackmailing her husband and trying to extort ₹5 crore. The court also directed that till the next hearing in the matter (November 18), there will be stay on the arrest of the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-hc-asks-state-govt-to-file-response-on-bjp-mla-s-plea-to-quash-rape-fir/story-m5FgaVhYpVXTyToh5FrVFN.html
19-10-2020||India||Geotagging issue resolved, says Twitter after J-K shown as part of China||Twitter on Monday responded to the controversies about an error in a geo-tagging issue, where Jammu and Kashmir was shown as a territory of China during a live broadcast by a senior journalist, saying the issue has been addressed. A Twitter spokesperson called it a technical issue, one which they said has been swiftly resolved.In Nitin Gokhale’s live broadcast from Leh’s Hall of Fame, a war memorial for the fallen soldiers in the Union territory of Ladakh, Twitter’s geotagging feature displayed ‘Jammu and Kashmir as part of China.’ “Twitter folks, I just did a live from the Hall of Fame. Giving Hall of Fame as the location and guess what it is saying Jammu & Kashmir, Peoples Republic of China! Are you guys nuts?” Gokhale had tweeted.Other Twitter users also immediately pointed out the issue. Following the incident, multiple other users also started live broadcasts or tweeted with the location set as Hall of Fame, Leh. However, the issue seemed to persist for all users. Users aware of the incident also shared screenshots confirming the issue.Gokhale in his next tweet, called the incident outrageous and urged other users to try the same. He said, “Tweeple pl put Hall of Fame Leh as your location for live broadcast and see what’s happening. It shows location as Jammu and Kashmir, Peoples Republic of China. I tested it again. Outrageous. Pl flood Twitter with complaints. GoI should take immediate action. @rsprasad”“Am surprised by the line on the visual …” tweeted one user sharing a screenshot of the live broadcast with the location wrongly displayed. “Why it is showing J & k , People’s Republic of China?” another user replied.A flurry of tweets tagging the official handles of Twitter and Twitter India flooded the platform demanding explanations. The government and concerned departments were also mentioned in the tweets.The incident comes at a time of the ongoing border tensions between India and China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/geotagging-issue-resolved-says-twitter-after-j-k-shown-as-part-of-china/story-RiQKUcLmMIgIVZNing24EN.html
19-10-2020||India||Rs 10,000 fine in Rajasthan if religious, political gathering crosses 100||A Rs 10,000 penalty will be imposed if any social gathering crosses more than 100 people, apart from registration of a case, according to a notification issued by the Rajasthan government. The state home department, in the order issued under the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, said a penalty of Rs 10,000 will be imposed on those organising any social, religious, political or any other kind of public gathering or general function, other than marriage or funeral, without prior permission from the district magistrate. The penalty will also be charged if social distancing is not maintained, face mask not worn or not worn properly by the participants, arrangements of screening and hygiene not made or number of participants are more than 100, states the notification. The state government has authorised all the executive magistrates, chief executive officers of the Zila Parishad and Block Development Officers (BDOs) to take action against those who do not follow the guidelines of the Epidemic Act.The Bharatpur district police on Sunday had registered FIR against 33 Gujjar leaders, including convener of Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti Kirori Singh Bainsla, for violation of coronavirus guidelines. The leaders were booked under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread the infection), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Disaster Management Act 2005, Rajasthan Epidemic Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-10-000-fine-in-rajasthan-if-religious-political-gathering-crosses-100/story-9644gMMYGhBiIhDXs75TVJ.html
19-10-2020||India||Less than 600 Covid-19 deaths in 24 hours for first time in 3 months: Health ministry||With 579 deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) recorded in India in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry on Monday highlighted this was the first time in nearly three months the country had logged less than 600 fatalities in a day. Of these 579 deaths, nearly one-fourth or 25.90% were in Maharashtra, a graph shared by the health ministry on its official Twitter handle showed.(Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)“579 case fatalities have been reported in the past 24 hours. After 90 days, the daily deaths recorded are below 600. Of these, nearly 83% are concentrated in ten states/UTs,” the ministry tweeted. #IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCorona579 case fatalities have been reported in the past 24 hours. After 90 days, the daily deaths recorded are below 600. Of these, nearly 83% are concentrated in ten State/UTs. pic.twitter.com/taugJ0COuTMaharashtra reported the highest number of deaths, at 150, way ahead of West Bengal (64), Tamil Nadu (56), Karnataka (51), Chhattisgarh (39), Uttar Pradesh (29), Delhi (28), Andhra Pradesh (23), Kerala (22) and Madhya Pradesh (20), the graph attached with the said tweet showed.The country’s death toll has risen to 114,610 in the last 24 hours, the health ministry’s dashboard showed on Monday. However, fatalities constitute just 1.52% of India’s total number of cases-7,550,273.(Read more: India records lowest new Covid-19 cases in 5 days; tally over 7.5 million)Also, in this period, there were 66,399 recoveries, higher than the number of new positive cases--55,722--taking the overall recoveries to 6,663,608 or 88.26% of the total cases. Ten states and Union territories recorded 79% of the new recovered cases, with Maharashtra recording the highest number of recoveries at 11,204, the ministry said.Total active cases, meanwhile, are at 772,055, staying below the 800,000 mark for the third straight day, the ministry further said. These constitute 10.23% of the country’s total Covid-19 tally, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/less-than-600-covid-19-deaths-in-3-months-says-health-ministry/story-1YKqADnjj4wkvg1IMr4KxI.html
19-10-2020||India||Truck rams motorcycle Mumbra-Shilphata road, crushes pillion rider||A truck rammed a motorcycle on the Mumbra-Shilphata road Monday morning, killing a woman pillion rider on the spot and injuring the rider, police said.The Shil-Daighar police said the truck rammed into the motorcycle from behind, near Siddique tower, Shilphata road in Mumbra.The rider was identified as Mohammad Shahid Abdul Rafiq Choudhary (22) and the pillion rider who was crushed under the truck’s wheels was identified as 28-year-old Yasin Choudhary.“The motorcyclist has been shifted to Kalsekar Hospital, Mumbra. The body of pillion rider Yasin Choudhary who died on the spot was taken to CSM Hospital Kalwa. The driver of the truck fled from the spot and. We are checking CCTV footage and taking statements of the rider for further investigation,” a police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truck-rams-motorcycle-mumbra-shilphata-road-crushes-pillion-rider/story-STXCzTuMeb5e5cZhMbspeP.html
19-10-2020||India||Saudi’s final call and national international Covid 19 protocol to decide Haj 2021: Naqvi||A decision on Haj 2021 will be taken after the Saudi Arabian government’s final call on the pilgrimage and the national as well as international Covid-19 guidelines will have to be kept in mind to ensure the well-being of the pilgrims, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Monday.While chairing a Haj review meeting here, Naqvi said Haj 2021 is scheduled for June-July and the Haj Committee of India as well as other Indian agencies will formally announce the application process and other related preparations for the pilgrimage after a decision is taken by the Saudi Arabian government.He said the final decision regarding Haj 2021 will be taken in due course, keeping in view the necessary guidelines to be issued by the governments of Saudi Arabia and India in view of the coronavirus pandemic to ensure the health and well-being of people.The entire Haj process might witness a significant change in view of the guidelines, including those related to the accommodation, transport, health and other facilities both in India and Saudi Arabia, Naqvi said.He said the health and well-being of the pilgrims is of utmost priority for the government in the wake of the pandemic.The Indian agencies will ensure the necessary arrangements in this regard and the government as well as the Haj committee have started the preparations to ensure a good health and well-being of the pilgrims, the minister said.Due to a 100-per cent digitisation of the Haj process in India, Rs 2,100 crore have been returned through the direct bank transfer (DBT) mode, without any deduction, to 1,23,000 people after the cancellation of Haj 2020 due to the pandemic, Naqvi said.The Saudi Arabian government has also returned about Rs 100 crore for transportation, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saudi-s-final-call-and-national-international-covid-19-protocol-to-decide-haj-2021-naqvi/story-Vm6TlcodsVEuIDwNZsa5WJ.html
19-10-2020||India||‘Issue summons to Arnab Goswami if he is proposed to be addressed as accused in TRP scam FIR’: Bombay HC||The alleged manipulation of Television Rating Points (TRPs) got a new twist on Monday. The Bombay high court asked the Mumbai Police to issue summons to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami if he is proposed to be addressed as an accused.Republic TV is one of the three channels accused by Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh of manipulating the ratings.The police has filed a First Information Report (FIR), but the court said they first need to issue summons to Goswami. The case is being heard by a bench comprising Justice SS Shinde and MS Karnik.During the course of the hearing, Goswami’s counsel Harish Salve said that his client will appear before the police if summoned. Salve also assured the court of full cooperation from Goswami’s side.The channel moved the high court seeking quashing of the FIR registered in the case and its transfer from Mumbai police to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The channel filed the petition on October 16, a day after the Supreme Court refused to hear a plea of one of its senior officials challenging the summons issued by the Mumbai police, and asked him to approach the Bombay high court instead.It has also pleaded that no coercive action (including arrest) should be carried out against employees of the channel.The high court has agreed to start the final hearing in the case from November 5. It has directed the police to produce all the developments in investigation before it in a sealed cover by November 4.Six people have been arrested by the Mumbai police in the scam, which allegedly involves inducing homes which form the sample set whose TV viewing is monitored to ensure that certain channels get higher ratings. The ratings are a key influencer of advertiser preferences while placing commercials. The police claim this is a “multi-crore” scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/issue-summons-to-arnab-goswami-if-he-is-proposed-to-be-addressed-as-accused-in-trp-scam-fir-bombay-hc/story-IaF4kFgaMvLPglsstA55JP.html
19-10-2020||India||50-member UP police team to bring back Mukhtar Ansari from Punjab jail in armoured vehicle||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA Mukhtar Ansari who has been lodged in different jails in Punjab for nearly 22 months would be brought back to Uttar Pradesh by a 50-member police team that will be sent on Tuesday, senior police officials said here on Sunday. The team will be led by a deputy superintendent of police (DSP).A senior police official privy to the development said the police want to produce Ansari in a MP/MLA court on October 21 in a case pending against him. He said Ansari was accused in over a dozen fresh cases registered against him in the past six months in the crackdown launched against him, his wife, two sons and close aides. Ansari would be brought back in an armoured police vehicle, the official said. The gangster-turned-politician has been in Punjab jails since January 2019 when he was produced there in a local court on production on a complaint of extortion lodged by a local builder. The officer said Ansari remained in Ropar jail initially and was later shifted to the Mohali jail. He said Ansari reportedly got himself shifted to Punjab jail fearing threat to his life in UP jails after one his closest aide Prem Prakash Singh alias Munna Bajrangi was shot dead inside Baghpat jail by another gangster Sunil Rathi on July 9, 2018.The officer said the role of some UP jail officials were questioned when Punjab police was allowed to take along Ansari on a production warrant so easily without bringing it to the notice of senior state government authorities. The Yogi Adityanath government is carrying out a drive against illegal properties of Ansari and his henchmen in eastern Uttar Pradesh, including Varanasi, Ghazipur, Mau, Jaunpur, Azamgarh, Lucknow and other parts of the state. In the past few months, the state authorities had seized property worth ₹68 crore from Ansari’s aides and freed illegal possession on properties. Moreover, the gang’s annual earning of ₹45 crore was stopped while as many as 96 gang members were arrested and some others were killed in encounters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-member-up-police-team-to-bring-back-mukhtar-ansari-from-punjab-jail-in-armoured-vehicle/story-qT9YxgrJXNkUT6fStKk56K.html
19-10-2020||India||‘I don’t insult anyone, only expose truth’: Kamal Nath on ‘item’ jibe||Under fire from the BJP for his ‘item’ remark against Madhya Pradesh minister Imarti Devi, Congress leader Kamal Nath on Monday tried to clear the air. Nath’s statement comes after Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan appealed to Congress leader Sonia Gandhi to immediately remove him from all party posts.“I said something, it wasn’t to insult anyone... I just didn’t remember the (person’s) name...this list (in his hand) says item no 1, item no 2, is this an insult? Shivraj is looking for excuses, Kamal Nath doesn’t insult anyone, he’ll only expose you with truth,” said Kamal Nath.In his letter to Sonia Gandhi, Chouhan said that Nath committed a shameless act by insulting a woman member of the Scheduled Caste and then attempted to justify the statement. “Immediately remove him from all party posts and strongly condemn his statement. If you fail to react, I will be compelled to believe that you support it,” Chouhan wrote in a letter. “The comment was made not once, but twice from a public platform,” he added.Earlier in the day, Chouhan, BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and other party leaders sat on a two-hour silent fast to protest against Nath’s remark.Nath referred to Imarti Devi as an ‘item’, sparking a controversy while speaking at a rally in the run-up to Madhya Pradesh legislative assembly bypolls. “Suresh Raje ji hamare ummeedvar hain... Yeh uske jaise nah hain... Kya hai uska naam... Main kya uska naam loon?.. Aapko toh mujhe pehle savdhan karna chahiye tha... Yeh kya item hai (Suresh Raje ji is our candidate and is not like her... What’s her name? You know her better and should have warned me earlier... What an item!),” Nath had said in Hindi.The former chief minister was addressing a campaign rally in Madhya Pradesh’s Dabra for Congress candidate Suresh Raje. Imarti Devi is also contesting on a BJP ticket from Dabra.Imarti Devi and 21 other MLAs loyal to Scindia had resigned from the Congress and the state assembly and joined the BJP in March this year, in the process bringing down the Kamal Nath-led government. By-elections for 28 assembly seats in the state will be held on November 3 and the counting of votes will be held on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-don-t-insult-anyone-only-expose-truth-kamal-nath-on-item-jibe/story-mrERlRq7gOtCHLdMcm0qsN.html
19-10-2020||India||Chinese soldier apprehended in Ladakh’s Demchok sector, in army custody||A Chinese soldier has been apprehended by security forces in the Chumar-Demchok area of Ladakh and taken into custody by the Indian Army, officials said on Monday.The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldier, identified as Corporal Wang Ya Long, was apprehended in the Demchok sector of eastern Ladakh on Monday after he had strayed across the Line of Control (LAC), the Indian Army said in a statement. They said he might have entered Indian territory inadvertently and will be returned to the Chinese army as per established protocol after following due procedure.According to the Indian Army, the Chinese soldier has been provided medical assistance including oxygen, food and warm clothes “to protect him from the vagaries of extreme altitude and harsh climatic conditions.”The Indian Army added that it has received a request from PLA about the whereabouts of the missing soldier. “As per established protocols, he will be returned back to Chinese officials at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point after completion of formalities,” the statement said.India and China have been involved in a border standoff at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh since May. Tension escalated on June 19 when 20 Indian soldiers were killed during a clash with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley. There have been seven rounds of military and diplomatic talks between the two countries to resolve the standoff so far.India and China are expected to hold the eighth round of military-diplomatic talks next week on disengagement in the Ladakh theatre. Senior officials said have said that both the sides have decided to keep the dialogue channels open at both the military commander level and diplomatic levels. The talks are also aimed at preventing any vertical escalation at the friction points in case of an accident or the aggressiveness of an individual commander.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-soldier-apprehended-in-ladakh-s-demchok-sector-in-army-custody/story-xKWvypvPly4ofRFbtRgYDO.html
19-10-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi set to hold virtual summit with Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina, visit Dhaka next year||Bangladesh is set to be among the first foreign destinations visited by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the aftermath of the Covid-19 outbreak, as he is expected to participate in celebrations marking 50 years of the country’s independence next March. The Indian prime minister has accepted the Bangladesh government’s invitation to take part in the celebrations to be held in Dhaka on March 26. The visit will be preceded by a virtual summit between Modi and his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina in mid-December. “We invited the Indian prime minister to visit Bangladesh on March 26 next year. It was accepted,” Bangladesh foreign minister AK Abdul Momen told reporters in Dhaka on Sunday. “We would love to see Prime Minister Modi join the celebrations marking the 50th anniversary of our independence. Our victory means India’s victory as well,” he added. Also Read: Bangladesh-India flights to resume from October 28 through ‘air bubble’Momen said the two prime ministers were expected to hold a virtual summit next month. India had proposed December 16 as the date for the meeting, though people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity it could be held later as Bangladeshi leaders would be preoccupied with the Victory Day celebrations on that day. There was no official word from the Indian side on either the summit or Modi’s visit to Bangladesh though the people cited above said both events were on the agenda. Modi made his last foreign visit to Brazil in November 2019 to attend a summit of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping. Foreign travel by the Indian leadership has been severely curtailed due to Covid-19-related restrictions. External affairs minister S Jaishankar has travelled only to Iran and Russia, where he attended a meeting of foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), in September and to Japan this month for a meeting of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue to Quad.A planned visit by Modi to Bangladesh in March this year, when he was to participate in events marking the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, was put off after Dhaka deferred the celebrations because of the pandemic. India has taken several steps in recent months to bolster its ties with Bangladesh after they were hit by several irritants, such as the controversy over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, last year. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla visited Bangladesh in August and delivered a personal message from Modi to Hasina. Momen, who spoke to the media after meeting India’s new envoy Vikram Doraiswami, said an air bubble between the two sides will start soon. However, he said Dhaka wants New Delhi to ease restrictions on travel by road and railways as these modes were preferred by Bangladeshi travellers. Doraiswami’s posting in Dhaka is among the measures taken by New Delhi to strengthen bilateral relations as he is considered an old Bangladesh hand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-set-to-hold-virtual-summit-with-bangladesh-pm-sheikh-hasina-visit-dhaka-next-year/story-bzzPGk1wZ2sj29m31e4RIM.html
19-10-2020||India||Sero survey begins in all 10 districts of Kashmir to gauge Covid-19 impact||The health department has begun a sero survey that will cover all ten districts of Kashmir to gauge the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in the region. Two such surveys have already been conducted in Pulwama district. Besides the Government Medical College Srinagar, the Medical Colleges of Baramulla and Anantnag, SKIMS and SKIMS Medical College will be conducting the sero survey.The second sero-survey in Kashmir’s Pulwama had revealed that 27 per cent of the population has developed Covid-19 antibodies as opposed to 2 per cent of the population three months ago.“Each district will be taken into consideration for assessing the whole of Kashmir. It is being done in collaboration with Directorate of Health Services Kashmir and involves all five medical colleges in training, mentoring and monitoring,” said Dr Muhammad Salim Khan, head of community medicine, Government Medical College, Srinagar.“Each medical college will train and monitor two districts. SKIMS, SKIMS Medical College, GMC Anantnag and GMC Baramulla are part of study. The Directorate of Health Services is collaborating in field activities. The study is supported by J&K National Health Mission.”Khan said the sero survey has already begun. “The survey in Srinagar is already underway in collaboration with Chief Medical Officer Srinagar.”The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had earlier conducted the second national sero-survey for Covid-19 in August to monitor the trends of SARS-CoV-2 transmission in India.Also read: Cannot rule out possibility of a second wave of Covid-19 during winters: NITI Aayog’s VK Paul“The second round of the ICMR’s national sero-survey for SARS COV-2 infection (Covid-19) in Pulwama district showed prevalence of 27.3 per cent. In the first round, in June, it was only 2 per cent,” said Dr Khan, who is the nodal person for the ICMR’s national sero-survey for Pulwama district.The community-based surveillance was conducted across 60 districts and 10 hotspot sites across all states and Union territories to map the changing trend of the population’s response to SARS COV-2 infection over the months.The first round was held in May and June this year where the prevalence of IgG antibody was found 0.73 per cent among the general population in the country. During the survey, blood samples were collected to determine the prevalence of infection in the recent past and the body’s immune response to the SARS CoV-2 infection.In the second round in Pulwama district, 413 blood samples were collected in ten different clusters of which 113 reported to be positive for IgG antibodies against SARS CoV-2 infection which makes it 27.3 per cent.“Sona Samilo village cluster showed the highest, 52.5 per cent, positive prevalence while Khaigam recorded the lowest prevalence at 2.5 per cent,” Khan said.The district was chosen in the first survey as it was a low-risk district depending on the number of cases per million population.So far, Jammu and Kashmir has recorded 87,942 Covid-19 cases out of which 77,886 people have recovered while 1,379 have died in the Union territory till Monday. Srinagar and Jammu districts have recorded the maximum deaths.Experts say this is the first wide range of sero sampling in which samples will be taken from 10 districts. Recently a similar survey was conducted in Jammu district which showed that 8.2 per cent of the surveyed population has antibodies.“The survey is important to know how much of the population has been infected and will help to formulate a strategy ahead of the winter,” a senior consultant at Government Medical College Baramulla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sero-survey-begins-in-all-10-districts-of-kashmir-to-gauge-covid-19-impact/story-AehGnmwyFABtWYFMYwIw4O.html
19-10-2020||India||Pakistan readies plan to sabotage J&K telecom blackout with new mobile towers||Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government has readied a plan to expand coverage of its mobile coverage in Jammu and Kashmir that is not only designed to help Pakistan-trained terrorists infiltrating into the valley but also neutralise the impact of a future communication blockade imposed by the government, people familiar with the matter said.The plan, according to a top security official in New Delhi, to tweak existing telecom towers and build new ones has been in the works for about a year. It was initially conceived to strength the existing phone network to help terrorists who have infiltrated into Kashmir. But the Pakistani foreign ministry pushed hard to scale up the exercise to give it the ability to sabotage the communications blockade ordered in Kashmir after last year’s Aug 5 decision to end its special status. It wants Kashmiris to use Pakistani telecom services that cannot be blocked by Indian security forces.New Delhi had last year pulled the plug on Jammu and Kashmir’s communication network before it went public with the decision to abrogate Article 370 to be able to ensure that trouble-makers do not spread rumours on and off social media. The restrictions have since then been lifted but local security officials do routinely snap phone links for some time in localities to prevent rumour mongering. If Pakistan is able to see its plan through, this would provide Kashmiris with an alternative to Indian phone companies. Also Watch | How Pakistan is hoodwinking FATF and the world on terror fundingAlso Read: Imran Khan window dresses Pak record on terror, gets groups to change tacticsA top national security planner told Hindustan Times that Pakistan’s Special Communications Organisation (SCO) - the state-run firm mandated to provide telecom services in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and the Gilgit-Baltistan region - had analysed signals from 38 sites along the Line of Control and the International Border with India. It has told the army that Pakistan could get a spillover effect via 28 existing phone towers. According to its analysis, the GSM antenna would need to be reoriented in 18 locations to achieve this objective though it would reduce the coverage on its side of the LoC.The blueprint also includes setting up the new base transceiver station in Pak-occupied Kashmir as well as use of Wireless local loop phones in Indian territory.“This plan has been accepted and is being implemented,” the senior official said.Pakistan’s ISI is also pushing for increasing the signal strength of SCO mobile towers in PoK nearest to Indian sites such as in Cham opposite Baramulla, Leepa opposite Sopore, Upper Neelam Valley and Athmuqam opposite Kupwara and Hillan Meera opposite Srinagar to provide coverage across the LoCA parallel exercise by the SCO, which is maintained by the Pak army, is looking at increasing transmission power of TV towers located at Lawat near Muzaffarabad, Upper Neelam and at Khuiratta to provide extended TV coverage in J&K.These efforts are in continuation of the SCO’s previous attempts to install a small cellular system with Internet based backhaul that could cover Kashmir towns at some distance from the LoC, a counter-terror official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-plan-to-neutralise-telecom-blackout-in-kashmir-includes-new-mobile-towers/story-bNXWhSYyFiPr0lVlym7soL.html
19-10-2020||India||FSSAI’s new food safety compliance platform to become operational across India from November||Food regulator FSSAI on Monday said its Food Safety Compliance System (FoSCoS) will become operational in the entire country from November 1.The system is operational in nine States/UTs -- Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Odisha, Chandigarh, Goa, Manipur, Puducherry and Ladakh since June.“FSSAI is now ready to extend FoSCoS to entire country with effect from 1st November 2020,” the regulator said in a statement. It said since 2011, its online FLRS (Food Licensing and Registration System) is the soul of the licensing ecosystem. It is operational in all states and 70 lakh licences/ registrations have been issued till date while over 40 lakh licensees/ registrants are actively transacting on it.“FSSAI is launching its cloud based, upgraded new food safety compliance online platform called FoSCoS( URL – https://foscos.fssai.gov.in). It will replace the existing FLRS (URL – https://foodlicensing.fssai.gov.in),” the statement said.FoSCoS is conceptualized to provide one point stop for all engagement of a food business operator (FBO) with the department for any regulatory compliance transaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fssai-s-new-food-safety-compliance-platform-to-become-operational-across-india-from-november/story-yxOgAsy08O6N4G3BXSSyCK.html
19-10-2020||India||CRPF jawan injured after terrorists attack security forces in J-K’s Pulwama||One Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawan was injured after terrorists attack security forces near Gangoo in Pulwama district on Monday.The injured Jawan has been hospitalised for treatment, CRPF said in a statement.According to CRPF, troops of 182 Bn CRPF along with Jammu and Kashmir Police were deployed for Naka duty wherein unknown terrorists fired upon them.The Area has been cordoned and a search operation is underway, CRPF said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-jawan-injured-after-terrorists-attack-security-forces-in-j-k-s-pulwama/story-fTzrTReG6WiFuJvwF2OYyL.html
19-10-2020||India||At Mysore University convocation, PM Modi talks up National Education Policy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday the National Education Policy was “a huge initiative to bring a fundamental change in the education setup of the country” as he addressed the centenary convocation ceremony of the University of Mysore.PM Modi talked about NEP 2020 in his virtual address and said how it was a ‘major mission’ that will lead to ‘fundamental changes’ in the country’s education setup. “The National Education Policy is a major mission to bring fundamental changes in the education setup of our country, from pre-nursery to PhD,” he said. “We’re focusing on a multi-dimensional approach to make the capable youth of our country more competitive. We’re trying to make them flexible and adaptable for changing nature of jobs,” he added.The Prime Minister also noted how NEP, on the one hand, is improving the future of the education sector, while on the other is also empowering the youth. He also mentioned how, at every level of education, gross enrolment of girls was higher than that of boys. “Even in higher education, and in innovation and technology, the participation of girls has increased,” PM Modi said.PM Modi also mentioned how, over the last six years, one new Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), on average, has been set up by his government. One of these new IITs, he pointed out, was opened in Dharwad, which, just like the University of Mysore, is in Karnataka.On Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs), he said seven new IIMs have been opened in just six years, as compared to only 13 before 2014. On the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), he said while in the last six decades there were only seven AIIMS in operation, since 2014, almost double the number—15 – are either in operation or in process of being established.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-mysore-university-convocation-pm-modi-talks-up-national-education-policy/story-FaLACF3KmDolwZZZNZcLWM.html
19-10-2020||India||‘Remove Kamal Nath from all party posts’: Shivraj Chouhan writes to Sonia Gandhi over ‘item’ jibe||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday appealed to Congress president Sonia Gandhi to immediately remove Kamal Nath from all party posts for his ‘item’ remark against state minister Imarti Devi. Chouhan said that Nath committed a shameless act by insulting a woman member of the scheduled caste and then attempted to justify the statement.“Immediately remove him from all party posts and strongly condemn his statement. If you fail to react, I will be compelled to believe that you support it,” Chouhan wrote in a letter. “The comment was made not once, but twice from a public platform,” he added.“Madam Sonia Gandhi, a leader of your party, a former chief minister has made such a comment. Is it okay? Do poor women have no respect? Madam, if you think the remark was wrong, what action will you take? I am writing to you, you make a decision,” he also said. MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan writes to Congress president Sonia Gandhi over party leader Kamal Nath's "item" remark."Immediately remove him from all party posts & strongly condemn his statement. If you fail to react, I'll be compelled to believe that you support it," it states. https://t.co/NHCJI1AFRX pic.twitter.com/2fvoFOId5NEarlier in the day, Chouhan, BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and other party leaders sat on a two-hour silent fast to protest against Nath’s remark. Chouhan along with state ministers Narottam Mishra, Bhupendra Singh, Vishwas Sarang and some women members of the BJP began the ‘maun vrat’ (silent fast) at Minto Hall in Bhopal at 10am.Ahead of the November 3 by-elections in the state, Nath said his party candidate was a ‘simple person’ unlike his opponent who is an ‘item’ while addressing a poll meeting on Sunday in Gwalior. Chouhan later hit out at Nath over his remark against the minister.“With your cheap statement, Congress’ crooked and despicable mentality has come to the fore again. You have not just disrespected Smt Imarti Devi, but each and every girl and sister of Gwalior-Chambal region,” Chouhan said in a tweet in Hindi on Sunday. “Kamal Nathji, who gave you the right to play with the respect of women?” he asked in the tweet.Imarti Devi and 21 other MLAs loyal to Scindia had resigned from the Congress and the state assembly and joined the BJP in March this year, in the process bringing down the Kamal Nath-led government. By-elections for 28 assembly seats in the state will be held on November 3 and the counting of votes will be held on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remove-kamal-nath-from-all-party-posts-shivraj-chouhan-writes-to-sonia-gandhi-over-item-jibe/story-iZI1mADlczMbFxMvsuP8NI.html
19-10-2020||India||Centre, Karnataka government making efforts to provide relief to flood-affected families: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday expressed his sympathies to flood-affected families in Karnataka and assured that Central government and state government are making efforts to provide relief.“There might be restrictions due to Covid-19 but enthusiasm for celebration (of the festival) is still the same. Heavy rains have dampened the spirit of festivities. I express my sympathies to affected families. Centre and state are making efforts to provide relief,” Prime Minister said while addressing the centenary convocation of the University of Mysore.Several parts of Karnataka have been severely affected by incessant rain in the last week.As per the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority (KDMA), a total of 20,269 people, including 15,078 in badly hit Kalaburgi, have been evacuated so far by the personnel of the Army, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) besides local police and district authorities.Prime Minister asserted that the University of Mysore was an amalgamation of the rich education system of ancient India and the aspirations of the future.“The University of Mysore is the centre of the rich education system of ancient India on one hand and the aspirations and capacity of future India on the other. This university has realised the vision and resolutions of “Rajarshi” Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wodeyar and M Visvesvaraya Ji,” the Prime Minister said.The University of Mysore was established in 1916, first in Karnataka as well as the sixth in the country.The Karnataka governor marked his virtual presence on the occasion, along with other dignitaries like the members of the syndicate and academic council, MPs, MLAs, MLCs, statutory officers and district officers, besides students and parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-karnataka-government-making-efforts-to-provide-relief-to-flood-affected-families-pm-modi/story-SFaZ8Zp7dTaBjScLTWAAXO.html
19-10-2020||India||Ballia shooting accused sent to 14 days of judicial custody||The court of the chief judicial magistrate, Ballia, on Monday remanded Dheerendra Pratap Singh, the main accused in the Ballia shooting incident, in 14 days’ judicial custody.Dheerendra Pratap Singh had allegedly shot dead a 46-year-old man, Jaiprakash Pal, during a meeting about the allocation of two fair price shops in Durjanpur village of Ballia on October 15 in the presence of police and administrative officials. The Special Task Force of the UP police arrested him from Lucknow on Sunday.He was brought to Ballia amid tight security late Sunday night and taken to the kotwali police station. The police produced him in the court of the chief judicial magistrate on Monday morning.Also read: BJP raps party MLA Surendra Singh for defending Ballia shooting accusedIn a video message that surfaced on the social media on Saturday, the accused claimed he was innocent and was being framed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ballia-shooting-accused-sent-to-14-days-of-judicial-custody/story-OhFzkocbZIcgLXWyhnqpVJ.html
19-10-2020||India||UP govt co-opts Green Gang in Mission Shakti for drive against anti-socials||Over the next six months, volunteers of the Green Gang, active in the villages of Uttar Pradresh’s Purvanchal region, will launch a drive against anti-social elements involved in harassment and exploitation of women. The state government has roped in the Green Gang under the Mission Shakti programme launched on Saturday for the security, empowerment and dignity of women and girls across the state. The Green Gang, comprising women volunteers, is running de-addiction and anti-gambling campaigns in rural areas of Purvanchal region, said a spokesperson of the state government. They will take responsibility for the security of women in 200 villages in Varanasi, Sonbhadra, Mirzapur, Jaunpur, Chandauli and Ayodhya districts. In the coming months, the Green Gang will be activated in 50 more villages, he said. Volunteers will also celebrate the birth of the girl child in villages. As a mark of happiness, they will put a green impression on the door and wall of houses where girls are born. Members will pursue complaints of harassment and ensure that anti-social elements involved in harassment of women are put behind bars, the spokesperson said. The Green Gang is run by Hope Welfare Trust constituted by students of Banaras Hindu University (BHU) in 2015. It will also impart self-defence training to girls. The volunteers will enlighten rural women and girls about the law and organise programmes to boost their self-confidence, he added. The Green Gang has launched a self-defence programme in 10 villages where Maoists had been active. Dressed in green sarees, the volunteers of Green Gang move on foot from one village to another, urging people to give up gambling and liquor, he said. Mission Shakti is a six-month programme to sensitise people to respect and provide security to women. It was launched by the state government on October 17 (from the beginning of the Shardiya Navratri) and will run till April next year (Vasantik Navratri).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-co-opts-green-gang-in-mission-shakti-for-drive-against-anti-socials/story-siGtN5OUV5oCUWo5SzljOP.html
19-10-2020||India||ED questions National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah in J-K Cricket Association scam: Officials||National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah is being questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Srinagar office in connection with its probe into the multi-crore Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA) scam, officials familiar with the development said on Monday, prompting his party to condemn the questioning.Farooq Abdullah was summoned by ED at 11am at its Rajbagh office where he is being questioned by the agency’s officials regarding the money of JKCA. Farooq Abdullah’s son Omar Abdullah said the questioning was political vendetta and connected to the alliance forged by six parties from Jammu and Kashmir over the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. “The party will be responding to this ED summons shortly. This is nothing less then political vendetta coming days after the formation of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. To set the record straight no raids are being conducted at Dr Sahib’s residence,” Omar Abdullah posted.He was referring to the alliance forged by six parties from Jammu and Kashmir for restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state as it existed before August 5 last year. The declaration came after a meeting at Farooq Abdullah’s house and was attended by PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, Peoples Conference chairman Sajad Lone, Peoples Movement leader Javaid Mir, CPI(M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami and Awami National Conference vice-president Muzaffar Shah.The meeting was called by Farooq two days after Mehbooba was released.  The party will be responding to this ED summons shortly. This is nothing less then political vendetta coming days after the formation of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. To set the record straight no raids are being conducted at Dr Sahib’s residence.Farooq Abdullah’s questioning has drawn sharp criticism by the leaders of different political parties. Another former chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said the summon depicts nervousness about the mainstream politicians. “ED’s sudden summon to Farooq sahab displays the extent of GOIs nervousness about mainstream parties in J&K fighting as one unit. Also reeks of political vendetta & wont in the least blunt our collective resolve to fight for our rights,” Mehbooba Mufti tweeted.National Conference spokesperson said in a statement that the ED summon to Farooq Abdullah, who represents Srinagar in the Lok Sabha, shows that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has failed to fight him politically and now taking help from agencies. “The ED summon to Dr Farooq Abdullah is clearly the result of unity that Dr sahib has forged between different mainstream political parties in JK. This is the price one faces when opposed to the BJPs ideology and divisive politics,” the spokesperson said.Ten office-bearers of the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA), including Abdullah, are accused of turning the sports body into a lending agency and operating several bogus accounts between 2005 and 2012 when the scam was unearthed.The scam came to light in March 2012 when JKCA treasurer Manzoor Wazir filed a police complaint against former general secretary Mohammad Saleem Khan and former treasurer Ahsan Mirza. Soon, a list with around 50 names linked to the financial scandal was out. Abdullah lost the post of JKCA president later after holding it for more than three decades.ED attached assets worth Rs 2.6 crore in a money laundering case related to the alleged embezzlement of funds of JKCA, the central agency said in a statement issued in February. A provisional order for attachment of assets was issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against the former treasurer of JKCA Ahsan Ahmad Mirza and its finance committee member Mir Mansoor Gazanffer, it said.The ED case is based on a Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI’s) first information report as part of which the latter probe agency booked former office-bearers of JKCA, including general secretary Mohd Saleem Khan and Mirza. The CBI filed a charge sheet against Farooq Abdullah, Khan, Mirza, Mir Manzoor Gazanffer Ali, Bashir Ahmad Misgar and Gulzar Ahmad Beigh (former accountant of JKCA) for “misappropriation of JKCA funds amounting to Rs 43.69 crore” from grants given by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to the association for promoting the sport in the state between 2002-11.The ED probe has found that during the financial years 2005–2006 to 2011–2012 (up to December 2011) JKCA received Rs 94.06 crore from BCCI in three different bank accounts. “However, several other bank accounts were opened in the name of JKCA into which these funds were transferred. Such other bank accounts along with the existing bank accounts were later used for laundering funds of JKCA,” ED had alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-questions-national-conference-chief-farooq-abdullah-in-j-k-cricket-association-scam/story-FqIBkDDgt4Nn8rYKZ3hsYM.html
19-10-2020||India||Rajasthan police’s SIT to monitor probe of cases in Dungarpur violence||The crime branch of the Rajasthan police has set up a special investigation team (SIT) to monitor the probe into the violence which broke out in Dungarpur and Udaipur over a recruitment exam for teachers in September.“The SIT would be headed by crime branch superintendent of police (SP) Sunil Vishnoi. The other members of the SIT from the state crime branch are additional SP Mahaveer Singh Ranawat, DSP Babulal Vishnoi and inspector Bindiya Maru,” the crime branch said in a statement.The SIT is expected to visit the two districts affected by violence soon. So far 125 people have been arrested in Dungarpur district, 80 have been arrested in Udaipur, the police said.In the last week of September, hundreds of tribal youths had blocked the Udaipur-Ahmedabad national highway and resorted to violence demanding recruitment on vacant posts of teachers in the tribal sub-plan (TSP) area.“The accused were arrested for resorting to violence, damaging public property and robbing valuables,” said Kailash Bishnoi, superintendent of police (SP), Udaipur.In Dungarpur, 44 cases have been registered in Sadar and Dovda police stations for the violence and 125 people have been arrested, a police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-police-s-sit-to-monitor-probe-of-cases-in-dungarpur-violence/story-s6sKjmLLTcH1jyXiCzidJN.html
19-10-2020||India||MP Police’s cyber cell arrests 6 for defrauding companies of export promotion benefit||The cyber cell of the Madhya Pradesh police in Indore on Sunday arrested six people for fraudulently transferring duty credit scrip (DCS) to different companies in export-import business during the lockdown. The cyber cell police said they had received complaints from a few companies in Indore that their DCS, an export promotion benefit given by Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) which can be used for payment of customs duty, have been transferred to someone else by using digital signature. In the investigation police found that the fraud was executed by 12 agents of certain companies. Six of them have been arrested while six are absconding. Efforts are on to nab them, police said. In the investigation police found that agents transferred DCS to 13 companies based in Mumbai and Pune in Maharashtra and Bareli in UP.Jitendra Singh, superintendent of police of the cyber cell in Indore, said, “In September and October, directors of a pharma and automobile companies lodged complaints that their DCS worth Rs 2 crores were exploited by some other companies by using their digital signatures fraudulently. “In the investigation, cyber cell police suspected the role of two Indore-based companies. Police arrested the directors of the companies Ashutosh Shrivastava, 36, Himanshu Jain, 42, Manoj Lunkad, 34, and Abhishek Thakur, 24, all residents of Indore,” said the SP. “They confessed to the crime and said an agent Rajesh Jagtap, 52, a resident of Pune, used a digital signature of the complainant companies to sell the DCS to other companies. He came to know about the details of DCS through the website of DGFT. Jagtap transferred the commission in the accounts of the two Indore-based companies,” he added. Jagtap was arrested from Pune. Singh said it was a big nexus and mainly being operated from Maharashtra. “Many renowned companies purchased DCS issued to some other companies to save customs duties on import. We are investigating the matter to know the worth of customs duty was saved by these companies by using DCS,” said the SP. The cyber cell police have sent notices to all the 13 companies which purchased DCS from the agent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-police-s-cyber-cell-arrests-6-for-defrauding-companies-of-export-promotion-benefit/story-wqv8JSPehwqa6mPmpoxN2H.html
19-10-2020||India||India records lowest new Covid-19 cases in 5 days; tally over 7.5 million||The Union health ministry data showed 55,722 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the lowest in five days, and 579 related deaths were reported between Sunday and Monday morning, which has taken the country’s tally to past 7.5 million. The number of fatalities in the last 24 hours were also the lowest in months. There were 772,055 active cases of Covid-19 and the country’s death toll went up to 114,610, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am, with the cumulative tally of coronavirus infections at 7,550,273. The active cases have been less than 800,000 for the third straight day. The ministry had said on Sunday that India continues to report a trend of steadily declining active cases and comprise 10.45% of the total positive cases in the country.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know today“Following the national trend, 22 states and Union territories have less than 20,000 active cases. 13 states and Union territories have more than 20,000 but less than 50,000 active cases, while three states and Union territories have more than 50,000 active cases,” it had said in a press release on Sunday.Also read | With masks, sanitisers, Class 9-12 students return to schools in UPIndia’s total recovered cases stand at 6,663,608 and the gap between recovered and active cases has crossed 5.8 million at 5,891,553 with the national recovery rate at 88.25%. The health ministry had said that 79% of the recovered cases reported on Sunday were concentrated in states and Union territories. Maharashtra had contributed the maximum with more than 14,000 single day recovery, it had said.Also read | Mumbai Metro to restart operations today. Here’s all you need to knowOf the 61,871 cases on Sunday, 79% were from 10 states and Union territories. “Maharashtra continues to be the state reporting a very high number of new cases with more than 10,000 cases followed by Kerala with more than 9,000 cases,” the ministry added.Out of the 1,033 deaths on Sunday morning, 10 states and Union territories account for nearly 86% and that more than 44% or 463 of them were from Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-lowest-new-covid-19-cases-in-5-days-tally-over-7-5-million/story-l2lgX00mzAyu8m1qTc96wO.html
19-10-2020||India||Dalai Lama and Tibet card hold key in future India-China border escalation | Analysis||The myth of India’s Tibet card is finally shattered with the rare recognition of a secretive Indian military unit with Tibetan soldiers called Special Frontier Force (SFF). The public display of solidarity during the Tibetan soldier’s funeral ceremony, killed on the front lines of deadly clashes with China on 29 August, has virtually ‘revealed’ the secretive force raised by India through a lot of visibility to the event. Nyima Tenzin, a Tibetan soldier from the SSF was given a funeral with full military honours, wrapped in the Tibetan flag and the Tricolour, in Ladakh.The ceremony was telecast across India and conveyed a solemn acknowledgment of the role ethnic Tibetans, descendants of those who sought refuge in India after China invaded and occupied Tibet in 1950, have played in India’s elite SFF border units.The event was more significant was the suggestion that India questioned China’s sovereignty over Tibet, a red line for China. There was no response from the government if the publicity for the funeral was a policy shift or a signal to China that their current border standoffs at eastern Ladakh could be extended across the Himalayas, a strategic ace up the sleeve some analysts refer to as India’s Tibet card.According to Jayadeva Ranade, a retired official of the external intelligence agency Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), “the recognition is a clear message to China that your countrymen are fighting alongside us.”“I don’t remember this force being acknowledged like this earlier,” added Ranade, who heads the Centre of China Analysis and Strategy, a research group in New Delhi.ALSO WATCH | Message to China as Tibetan soldier killed at LAC gets public funeral India has been reticent about the nation’s secretive SFF forces and their ethnic make-up. But the SFF is part of the RAW, India’s external intelligence agency. But when it is deployed with the army, it is under the military’s operational control. However, the army prefers to keep the relationship under wraps. Akin to the US Special Forces, every member is trained as a para-commando and operates undercover in conjunction with the Indian military. In fact, the US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) helped India train Tibetan refugees to become part of a special force, the forerunner to today’s SFF, after the 1962 war.The SFF and its Tibetan fighters have a valiant fighting record for India. The SFF played a crucial role during the Bangladesh Liberation Movement that helped defeat Pakistan in 1971 and create Bangladesh. SFF fighters also contributed to the 1999 war that dislodged Pakistani forces who had occupied heights in western Ladakh’s Kargil.Even though the Indian government hasn’t formally acknowledged the Tibetan forces, the open support for the unit has aroused emotional appeal among the Tibetan-in-exile community who aspire to see Tibet as an independent nation.According to Gonpo Dhundup, President of the Tibetan Youth Congress, a body that has more 30,000 members and is fighting for the region’s freedom acknowledged “I strongly feel that the younger generation will join the SFF in larger numbers as the event has sent out a message that our contribution will be recognised.”Over 100,000 Tibetans live freely in different parts of India. Tibetans in China’s Tibet Autonomous Region, however, face a high degree of state control over their lives and livelihoods, increasingly akin to the situation faced by ethnic Uighurs held in vocational camps in China’s western Xinjiang province. Over the decades, Indian leaders have avoided being seen as supporting or aligning with the cause of Tibet, despite hosting the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama for over 60 years.China considers the Dalai Lama, a darling of the West and Nobel Peace Prize recipient for his non-violent resistance to China’s annexation of Tibet, as an enemy of the state. But some wonder if Tibet’s peaceful resistance could begin to take a harder tack, particularly as Western powers including the US articulate new support for Tibet’s cause in the context of a wider new Cold War against China.Analysts suggest that peaceful struggle could shift after the next Dalai Lama is selected, particularly as China is expected to attempt to prop up a successor chosen by it. The Dalai Lama, who has been based for decades in Dharamsala, has said any candidate handpicked by Beijing would be illegitimate. Geographically and strategically, India could be key in funnelling support to any new Tibetan resistance.Tibetan disaffection has grown coincident with Chinese repression and forced Sinicization of Tibetan-Buddhism culture, according to Lobsang Sangay, President of Central Tibetan Administration (CTA), who spoke recently during a webinar held on September 28. Chinese President Xi Jinping has said the stability of China depends on the stability of Tibet. As recent as 2008, China’s Central Military Commission ranked Tibet as its most critical sovereign challenge, ahead of even Xinjiang and the self-governing island Taiwan, said Sangay.It’s not clear if or how India may opt to play its Tibet card, but taboos on mentioning Tibet are breaking down. Analysts suggest New Delhi could start to lend its voice to calls for Tibetan autonomy and democracy, echoing Western critics, after remaining reticent for years to avoid irking Beijing. Indeed, India is now signalling to China for the first time in years that playing its long-held Tibet card is at least a strategic possibility. Perhaps, the time has come for a major foreign policy change in India’s position on Tibet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tibet-card-holds-the-key-in-india-china-border-clash-analysis/story-9EovYJgqDcK8HObqd8l7EJ.html
19-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi to start 3-day visit to Wayanad, review Covid-19 situation in constituency||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will start a three-day visit to Wayanad in Kerala from Monday to review the coronavirus pandemic situation in his parliamentary constituency. Gandhi will reach Kozhikode by a special flight and first go to Malappuram by road to take part in a review meeting called by the collector.After the meeting, he is scheduled to visit the Government Guest House in Kalpetta where he will stay for the night. He will go to Wayanad the next day. Party leaders have said that no public function is scheduled during the three-day visit of Gandhi. Besides Wayanad district, many areas of Kozhikode and Malappuram districts form a part of his constituency.The former Congress president will hold a review meeting on Covid-19 at Wayanad collectorate on Tuesday, the second day of this visit. He will also hold DISHA meeting at Wayanad collectorate and then he will come back to Government Guest House in Kalpetta for the night. On the last day of his visit, Gandhi will visit District Hospital Mananthawadi to take stock. He will then go to Kannur Airport from where he will take a special flight back to Delhi.Also read | Kerala is paying price of gross negligence during Onam: Harsh Vardhan on spike in Covid-19 casesThere was a controversy last week after Wayanad district collector Adeela Abdulla denied permission to inaugurate a new block of the state-run Munderi school built with his MP fund. The online function was cancelled by the district administration at the last minute saying the state government was not informed and health protocols were not met. The Congress party had criticised the decision and said that it was a politically-motivated move.Kerala on Sunday reported 7,631 new cases of Covid-19 and the death toll in the state reached 1,161 after 22 people succumbed to the coronavirus disease, according to the state health department. There are 8,410 patients have recovered from the disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-start-3-day-to-wayanad-review-covid-19-situation-in-constituency/story-lKx3w30Kw1typYaHBJy3dK.html
19-10-2020||India||Doctors in MCD-run hospitals withdraw indefinite strike on assurance of pay||Over 2,000 doctors in hospitals and dispensaries run by the North corporation of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi who were to go on an indefinite strike from Monday for non-payment of salaries for three and a half months have called off the protest. The doctors withdrew the strike on Sunday after an appeal from the Mayor of North corporation that they needed time to arrange funds. “In order to avoid inconvenience our strike will cause to patients and considering the appeal of the Mayor North MCD to the senior doctors to give him some time to arrange funds, this association has reconsidered its decision to proceed on the scheduled strike,” read the letter by the Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association to the commissioner of the north corporation. The letter further adds, “It has been decided to defer the indefinite strike for the time being in general public interest with the hope that in the meanwhile corporation will find permanent solutions of the salary issue.” The hospitals that would have been affected by the strike are Rajan Babu Institute of Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis, Maharishi Valmiki Infectious Disease hospital, Kasturba Hospital, and Giridhari Lal hospital. The fifth Hindu Rao hospital was a designated Covid-19 treatment centre, but was removed from the list of Covid-19 facilities as the hospital did not see as many patients with the infection. The non-Covid services at the hospital are yet to resume as the junior doctors continue their strike. The association had earlier suggested to the authorities that the MCD hospitals be handed over to the central government, as the selection and appointment of doctors for MCD-run hospitals is done by them. This is because the doctors have been facing delays in salaries since 2015, with the problem becoming more acute this year due to the pandemic. The Delhi government, on the other hand, has suggested that they can run the hospitals if MCD is incapable of doing so. The MCD doctors had also written to the lieutenant governor to file an FIR against “authorities” for non-payment of salaries as per the order by the Union health ministry that said not paying healthcare staff involved in Covid-19 work timely would be a punishable offence under the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-in-mcd-run-hospitals-withdraw-indefinite-strike-on-assurance-of-pay/story-Wn4ujRfZkKCaIf3D3OETqJ.html
19-10-2020||India||Correct modalities of Covid-19 death reporting have been shared with States: Harsh Vardhan||The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW) has shared a standard format for reporting coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related deaths with states and union territories (UTs) in a bid to avoid any discrepancy in maintaining records.“There is no discrepancy in the reporting of Covid-19-related deaths. States are using certain parameters. The ministry has taken up the issue with states and UTs on multiple instances. We have shared a modality of reporting of Covid-19-related deaths to ensure consistency across the country,” said Dr Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister for Health & Family Welfare. Experts from the country’s apex biomedical research body, the India Council of Medical Research (ICMR), have drafted a template to report Covid-19-related deaths and states and UTs need to fill up details in a bid to maintain pan-India consistency in maintaining records. All hospitals have been mandated to submit their Covid-19-related death summaries to the committee within 24 hours.Also Read: Serum Institute has begun manufacturing intranasal Covid vaccine: Harsh VardhanMost states have formed a dedicated panel, which is an autonomous body, to audit Covid-19-related deaths.For example, the Delhi government has a death audit committee to analyse mortalities related to Covid-19 patients in the national capital. Death audit committees go through case sheets, investigations, and summary of the deceased before classifying it as a Covid-19-related fatality.Covid-19 has to be recorded as the underlying cause of death, when a patient dies of pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, cardiac injury, and clotting throughout the bloodstream that the viral infection is known to cause, the ICMR guidelines suggested.Comorbid conditions such as asthma, heart condition, diabetes or cancer cannot be considered as the underlying cause of death for a Covid-19 patient, according to the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/correct-modalities-of-covid-19-death-reporting-have-been-shared-with-states-harsh-vardhan/story-YWBlkqYCs9N5TDX6IEZz8J.html
19-10-2020||India||Serum Institute has begun manufacturing intranasal Covid vaccine: Harsh Vardhan||While there are three vaccine candidates against Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) being tested on humans in India, there is no intranasal vaccine candidate under trial currently, said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday. However, he also said that Serum Institute of India was manufacturing an intranasal vaccine candidate. “Flumist nasal spray is a vaccine that is sprayed into the nose to help protest against influenza; it is not a Covid-19 vaccine. At present in India, there is no intranasal Covid vaccine which is under clinical trials. However, Serum Institute (of India) has begun manufacturing Codagenix CDX 005, which is an intranasal live attenuated vaccine candidate for Sars-Cov-2,” he said. Also read: Start of the fourth global Covid-19 wave“Pre clinical animal studies have already been completed and Codagenix expects to initiate a phase 1 clinical first in humans trial in the United Kingdom by the end of 2020.Further, Serum India plans to undertake clinical developments of this vaccine candidate in India.” The minister was responding to queries on his social media accounts as part of the 6th episode of Sunday Samvaad. He also said that India’s Bharat Biotech has also entered in an agreement with Washington University School of medicine as part of which it will conduct trials to produce and market an intranasal vaccine for Covid-19. “The phase 1 trials will take place in the US in St. Louis University’s vaccine and treatment evaluation unit, on getting regulatory approval, Bharat Biotech will pursue further stages of clinical trials in India,” he added. On being asked if the Covid-19 vaccine will also be for the paediatric age group, the minister said Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate was being tested on subjects between 18 and 55 years in phase 1, while for phase 2, it was extended to ages between 12 and 65 years. Cadila Healthcare’s phase 1 clinical trial had also included subjects between 18-55 years, and for phase 2, it was extended to 12 years and above. Serum Institute is conducting phase 2 and phase 3 clinical trials of their vaccine in subjects 18 years and above, till the age of 99 years. Experts, however, say that at this stage it will be difficult to predict which of the vaccines will work. “It is too early to predict as the number of participants enrolled in phase 1 and 2 trials is too small and only gives us safety profile of a vaccine candidate. Anything concrete can be said only after we get results of phase 3 trials that takes place in larger group of people and determines the efficacy of the candidate. Phase 1/2 trials show promise, while phase 3 is about knowing the performance,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-has-begun-manufacturing-intranasal-covid-vaccine-harsh-vardhan/story-QkGbcK7g0c3zrAJrATYdlL.html
19-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mumbai Metro to resume operations today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Unlock 5: Mumbai Metro to restart operations today. Here’s all you need to knowMumbai Metro is set to resume operations from Monday for the first time since March, when its services were shut as the first nationwide lockdown was announced to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreIndia, China prepare for next round of LAC talksIndia and China are expected to hold the eighth round of military-diplomatic talks next week on disengagement in the Ladakh theatre even as their armies prepare for winter deployment along the 1,597-km Line of Actual Control (LAC). Read moreIPL 2020, MI vs KXIP: ‘Shami wanted to bowl six yorkers in Super Over,’ KL Rahul lauds Kings XI Punjab pace spearheadMohammad Shami was the hero of the night for Kings XI Punjab against Mumbai Indians on Sunday. After the match ended in a tie after 20 overs with both teams scoring 176 runs, KXIP were in a spot of bother in the Super Over. Read moreBobby on how Sunny Deol took over reins of Barsaat, ignored his own films: ‘What dad had done for him, he wanted to do for me’Actor and Member of Parliament, Sunny Deol celebrates his 64th birthday on Monday. He is known for starring in blockbuster movies such as Gadar, Ghatak, Border and more. Sunny is the son of veteran actor Dharmendra and elder brother of actor Bobby Deol. Read moreNitin Gadkari bats for ‘swadeshi’, says India to become EV manufacturing hubTransport minister Nitin Gadkari has backed efforts that would help India increase ‘swadeshi’ production and has said that the country’s automotive sector - among several others - are increasingly becoming self-reliant. Read moreGoogle kills Trusted Contacts app, all support to end by Dec 1Google has removed the Trusted Contacts app from the App Store and Play Store. It will continue to provide support for the app till December 1, 2020. Google launched the Trusted Contacts app back in 2016 for users to share their location with their friends and family. Read moreNobel laureate Carol Greider’s inspiring journey to success with dyslexia“School was not easy for me,” this is how the caption to a post about American molecular biologist and Nobel laureate, Carol W. Greider begins. Shared on the Nobel Prize organizations’ official Instagram account on October 18, the post details Greider’s journey to success as a woman in science. Read moreIPL 2020: Kings XI Punjab win in second Super Over after scores level twiceKings XI Punjab won the second super over against Mumbai Indians after scores levelled twice in the 36th match of the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2020 in Dubai. MI won the toss and elected to bat first. Quinton de Kock’s fifty powered MI to 176 for 6 in 20 overs. In reply, KXIP finished with the same score and tied the game. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mumbai-metro-to-resume-operations-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Jaz9FJCqJa2AKxt4lkTr2O.html
19-10-2020||India||After Kerala smuggling racket, NIA probes international terror links in 2 more gold seizure cases||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which has been probing the Kerala gold smuggling racket, is on to investigating a foreign terror link in two more similar cases. Earlier, Rajasthan Police had seized gold, weighing 18.5 kilograms (kg), on July 3 and another racket involving illegal transportation of gold bars, weighing over 83 kg, was uncovered by the Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI) in New Delhi on August 28, people familiar with the development said. NIA has taken over both the cases, as it suspects there is a larger international conspiracy, involving terrorists and gold smugglers, to use the fund for anti-national activities. Investigators are not ruling out the role of Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Pakistan’s spy agency, behind these separate organised cases of gold smuggling. Also read: Kerala gold smuggling accused have links with Dawood Ibrahim’s gang, says NIAHowever, officials cited above said that Jaipur and New Delhi seizures have no connection with Kerala gold smuggling case, in which over two dozen people have been arrested to date and the alleged key conspirators are based in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). NIA informed a Kochi court last Wednesday that the two accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case – KT Ramees and M Sharafuddin – have links with underworld fugitive don Dawood Ibrahim. Ramees and Sharafuddin had also visited Tanzania in east Africa several times to meet a contact of Ibrahim known as Feroze Oasis and had discussed ways to smuggle firearms to India, NIA has claimed. It is for the first time that the terror act – Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), 1967 – has been invoked in gold smuggling cases in the country. Initially, the Act was enforced in the Kerala gold smuggling case and later both Jaipur and New Delhi seizures came under its ambit. An official from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said: “The intelligence agencies are working together for the first time to identify the masterminds based abroad, who are involved in gold smuggling. There appears to be a larger conspiracy to fund terror activities and damage the country’s financial stability by bringing in such huge quantities of gold.” NIA has arrested two persons last Tuesday. They have been identified as Chuna Ram and Aizaz Khan, who belong to Rajasthan’s Nagaur district. NIA has also raided four locations in connection with the Jaipur gold smuggling case. Gold bars, weighing 18.5 kg, were seized at Jaipur international airport from 10 people, who had arrived from Saudi Arabia’s capital, Riyadh, by an Indian low-cost carrier’s flight on July 3. Sonia Narang, deputy inspector-general (DIG) and NIA spokesperson said, both Ram and Khan knew the couriers arrested on July 3. The duo had established a network for smuggling of gold from Riyadh to India, she added. DRI officials had confiscated 504 gold bars, weighing 83.6 kg, which is worth Rs 43 crore, on August 28 in New Delhi. The haul gave the impression that the syndicate is bigger than the Jaipur gold smuggling racket. The gold bars, said another officer cited above, was smuggled from Myanmar through the international land border at Moreh in Manipur, while the syndicate had its base in Guwahati, the biggest city in the north-east. “They were planning to sell the gold bars to their contacts in Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai,” said the official. A DRI official said that the Myanmar syndicate recruited poor people from across the country to act as carriers of smuggled gold by luring them with quick and easy money. “The smugglers used air, land and rail routes to transport the smuggled gold,” said the DRI official. NIA will investigate the Myanmar link behind the smuggling ring, which may have been active in the past as well. “Myanmar doesn’t have its own large scale production of gold. The consignment is likely to have come from a third country,” he added.Neeraj Kumar, a former commissioner of Delhi Police, who had also probed 1993 Mumbai serial blasts during his stint with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), told HT: “The gold smuggling has always been an organised business and poses a great threat to national security. Ibrahim and his aides also used to smuggle gold to Mumbai from the UAE and Pakistan through their contacts in ISI. Later, their gold smuggling route was used for smuggling explosives for the 1993 serial blasts in Mumbai. It’s a welcome change that UAPA empowers probe into such gold smuggling cases for terror conspiracy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-kerala-smuggling-racket-nia-probes-international-terror-links-in-2-more-gold-seizure-cases/story-MoTEOeT1oEGAu3BPfXab7K.html
19-10-2020||India||Very poor air in parts of N-W India; heavy rain warning for Telangana, coastal Andhra||Many parts of north-west India have been impacted by poor air quality, while some are also recording very poor category air, including Ballabgarh in Haryana with an air quality index (AQI) reading of 302; Bhiwandi in Rajasthan with an AQI reading of 306 and Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh (UP) with an AQI reading of 323 on Monday morning.The national capital’s air belonged to the poor category on Monday at 7 am, as the AQI showed 231.Delhi-national capital region (NCR) is likely to record poor to very poor category on Monday because of extensive stubble fires in neighbouring Punjab and Haryana, which has been further aggravated by north-westerly wind, according to air quality early warning system of the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES).Also Read: Share of farm fires in PM2.5 forecast to riseIn an unrelated development, a low-pressure area is likely to form over the central Bay of Bengal on Monday, which will bring widespread and heavy rainfall to many parts of peninsular India. It is likely to become more marked during the next 24 hours. An east-west trough is likely to develop from east-central Bay of Bengal to coastal Karnataka across west-central Bay of Bengal and peninsular India on Tuesday. The weather condition is likely to persist over the next three-four days. Under the influence of these weather systems, isolated heavy rainfall is likely to occur over south India, except for Kerala and Lakshadweep, during the next five days.Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur at many places over Telangana and Tamil Nadu on Monday. Coastal Andhra Pradesh (AP) and coastal and northern interior Karnataka may experience a similar weather condition on Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday, respectively. The withdrawal line of monsoon is passing along Faizabad, Fatehpur, Nowgong, Rajgarh, Ratlam, Vallabh Vidyanagar and Porbandar. Due to consecutive development of low-pressure areas over the Bay of Bengal and rainfall in many parts of the country, the withdrawal of monsoon is delayed. Usually, monsoon withdraws completely by October 15, which is followed by the onset of north-east monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-poor-air-in-parts-of-n-w-india-heavy-rain-warning-for-telangana-coastal-andhra/story-EoViZqiPNhcF7UuUOqryuL.html
19-10-2020||India||Unlock 5: Mumbai Metro to restart operations today. Here’s all you need to know||Mumbai Metro is set to resume operations from Monday for the first time since March, when its services were shut as the first nationwide lockdown was announced to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.(Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)While Metro services across the country had resumed operations on September 7, in the fourth phase of Unlock, the Maharashtra government had decided not to resume operation these trains. However, last week, the state government gave permission for Metro operations in the city to resume in a graded manner.(Read more: Maharashtra allows metro, business operations, weekly markets)“Keeping all sanitation protocols in mind, we’re ready to welcome back Mumbaikars from tomorrow with a safe, secure and hygienic manner. Here’s a sneak peek of what your new metro journeys will look like,” the Mumbai Metro tweeted on Sunday. Keeping all sanitation protocols in mind, we’re ready to welcome back Mumbaikars from tomorrow with a safe, secure and hygienic manner. Here's a sneak peek of what your new metro journeys will look like. #YourMetroSafeMetro #MetroSeChalonaMumbai pic.twitter.com/zkxPVjutTZAs Mumbai Metro gets back on track, here’s all you need to know:1. The only operational line, connecting Versova and Ghatkopar, will operate between 8:30am and 8:30pm.2. During peak hours, trains will operate at a frequency of 6:30 minutes. During other hours, these will run at a frequency of eight minutes.3. Trains will make more than 200 trips per day with only 300 passengers allowed to travel in a single train.4. Temperatures inside the coaches will be maintained at 25-27 degree Celsius and passengers will be encouraged to use digital tickets, smart cards or QR code-based tickets.5. No plastic token will be issued to passengers to make a journey.6. Station gates will be opened 15 minutes before trains start. Entry and exit will only be allowed from certain gates.7. Only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the Metro trains and wearing masks and maintaining social distancing is mandatory.8. While the Maharashtra government had allowed Mumbai Metro to resume operations from October 15, authorities decided to resume services from October 19 after finishing all safety runs.9. With nearly 1.6 million Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in the country. Mumbai, its capital, is among the worst-hit cities in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-5-mumbai-metro-to-restart-operations-today-here-s-all-you-need-to-know/story-rF6K3edeny9f72yDq2Nq4L.html
19-10-2020||India||Masks, sanitisers, social distancing as Class 9-12 students return to schools in UP||Schools, except those in containment zones, in Uttar Pradesh will reopen for students of Class 9 to Class 12 on Monday, for the first time since the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) forced classes to shut in March. The state has issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) on health, sanitation and necessary protocols for the reopening of schools.The government has said that sanitisation of premises is mandatory before every shift on a regular basis. “In the first phase, Classes 9 to 12 may start in these schools. The schools must run in two shifts of smaller durations, to ensure student safety,” deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma had said on October 10.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayHere are the guidelines and rules which will have to be followed by schools, students and teachers:1. Classes will be held in shifts and all necessary protocols, including social distancing and proper sanitisation of premises, will have to be followed by schools.2. Students of Class 9 and Class 10 may come to school in the first shift and in the second shift, those of Class 11 and Class 12 may attend classes. A maximum of 50% of students should be called in a day and the remaining 50% the following day.3. Students will only be allowed to attend classes after furnishing written permission from their parents or guardians.4. Students will be made to sit at a distance of 6 feet from each other.5. Sanitiser, hand wash, thermal scanning and arrangement for primary treatment will have be made available by authorities in all schools.6. If a student, teacher or other employees has symptoms of cold or fever, they will be sent home after primary treatment.7. Teachers, students and workers will have to compulsorily wear masks and the school management will have to keep some in reserve.8. The UP government has also given directives to continue online teaching and encouraging it. It has also that priority should be given to calling those students to school who do not have access to online teaching.9. School buses will have to be sanitised every day and proper distance should be maintained in seating arrangements.10. No student should be forced to come to school, the government has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/masks-sanitisers-social-distancing-as-class-9-12-students-return-to-schools-in-up/story-KdELw44r6ufdONqGFzJ5mO.html
19-10-2020||India||Shiv Sena welcomes Amit Shah’s stance on CM-Governor row||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday welcomed Union home minister Amit Shah’s remark that Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari could have chosen his words better while writing to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on reopening places of worship in the state.Talking to a TV channel, Raut also said that with Shah’s statement, the Shiv Sena has put the issue to rest.Koshyari recently wrote to Thackeray on reopening places of worship in the state and asked if the Shiv Sena president had “suddenly turned secular,” triggering a war of words between the governor and the chief minister.Shah had on Saturday told a news channel that “Koshyari could have chosen his words better”. Reacting to it, Raut said Shah is the country’s home minister and speaks with responsibility and caution.The Raj Bhavan and the office of governor is a constitutional institution and falls under the jurisdiction of the ministry of home affairs, he said.“The governor’s letter followed by the chief minister’s reply was an avoidable controversy and we haven’t started it. But, we are satisfied with the Union Home Minister’s stand and thank him for understanding the reason of our anger,” said Raut.With Shah’s statement, the Shiv Sena has put the issue to rest, the party’s chief spokesperson said.Raut dismissed speculation that Shah was being soft on the Shiv Sena, a year it snapped its ties with the BJP. “There is nothing political. What Shah spoke was in line with the Constitution of India,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-welcomes-amit-shah-s-stance-on-cm-governor-row/story-fPR3pzdIyqoZTl8WnyKiNN.html
19-10-2020||India||BJP raps party MLA Surendra Singh for defending Ballia shooting accused||The BJP leadership in Uttar Pradesh called party MLA Surendra Singh to the state capital on Sunday and disapproved of his statements and his act of defending the main accused in the Ballia shootout case. The development came hours after the Special Task Force (STF) arrested the main accused, Dheerendra Pratap Singh, from Lucknow.In the evening, the lawmaker met UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal at the party office in Lucknow and was rebuked by the leadership, said party leaders requesting anonymity. Before meeting the party leaders, Surendra Singh maintained that he had come to the party office to present his side of the story. Singh is known for making controversial remarks.However, after the meeting, Surendra Singh wasn’t reachable. “He is doing his puja and won’t be reachable for the next one hour. Please call after that,” one of his aides said while confirming that the meeting had happened. The aide, however, refused to disclose the details. Earlier in the day, Surendra Singh said over the phone, “Yes, I have been called to Lucknow. I will present a true account of the incident. I will tell him (UP BJP chief) about a series of incidents which led to the chaos during the meeting (at Durjanpur village in Ballia) and the unfortunate incident.”He claimed that the true account of the incident was not being presented by the media. “If the media presented a true account, the women would get justice,” he said.On Thursday, Dheerendra Pratap Singh allegedly shot a 46-year-old man dead in an open meeting in the presence of officials after a dispute over allocation of two fair price shops in Durjanpur village of Ballia.On Friday, the BJP MLA, who represents Bairia assembly constituency in Ballia, had said that Dheerendra had fired in self-defence. He had claimed that had Dheerendra not opened fire, dozens of women of his family would have been killed in the incident.On Saturday, Surendra Singh visited Revati police station in Ballia and demanded that an FIR should be registered based on the application moved by Dheerendra Singh’s female relatives who, he alleged, sustained injuries in stone-pelting during the Thursday incident. He also took them to the district hospital and got their medical examination done.“I am carrying with me the medical reports of five women (Dheerendra’s relatives) who were injured in the stone-pelting incident,” the MLA said before his meeting with the state BJP leadership on Sunday.Meanwhile, family members of Jaiprakash Pal who was allegedly shot dead by Dheerendra Singh, said that supporters of the accused were trying to frame them in a case.Pal’s elder brother Suraj Pal said, “Some people are trying to implicate us in a case. Be it the local MLA, or the supporters of the main accused, they are trying to implicate our family in a case. The government should help us. Jaiprakash used to manage the expenses of the family. The government should give a government job to a member of the family or should provide monetary assistance.”Suraj Pal also said that the family members heaved a sigh of relief as the main accused was arrested and demanded exemplary punishment for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-raps-party-mla-surendra-singh-for-defending-ballia-shooting-accused/story-AK9zuhvw0HAiv67XtstegK.html
19-10-2020||India||13-year-old boy kidnapped in Jabalpur found dead||The 13-year-old son of a Jabalpur-based transporter was found dead in a canal in the district, days after he was allegedly kidnapped for a ransom of Rs 2 crore, police officials said Sunday.The child, Aditya, was kidnapped on Thursday evening when he went to a grocery store near his home in Dhanvantari Nagar, officials said. The accused then called his father, Mukesh Lamba, demanding Rs 2 crore for his return and threatened them of dire consequences if they informed the police, officials said.The boy’s body was found in a canal about 15 kilometres from the district headquarters on Sunday morning, police officials said.City superintendent of police (CSP), Jabalpur Alok Sharma said, “The dead body of the boy was found floating in a canal near village Bichhua under Panagar police station this morning. A towel (gamchha) was found around the neck of the body suggesting the boy was strangulated to death. The accused will be arrested soon.” Additional director general (ADG) of police (intelligence) Adarsh Katiyar said in Bhopal, “An accused has been arrested.” Meanwhile, hitting out at the Bharatiya Janata Party government in the state, Congress leader Kamal Nath said, “After liquor mafia killing 14 persons in Ujjain kidnapping mafia killed a boy in Jabalpur. When Congress was in power, we smashed mafia across the state but the BJP government is sparing them for reasons best known to the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-year-old-boy-kidnapped-in-jabalpur-found-dead/story-LAOUPBu8N8kARurh3yXMhO.html
19-10-2020||India||SLINEX-20: India, SL begin eighth edition of bilateral maritime exercise||The eighth edition of the annual Indian Navy (IN) - Sri Lanka Navy (SLN) bilateral maritime exercise SLINEX-20 is scheduled off Trincomalee, Sri Lanka from October 19 to 21.According to an official statement issued by the Ministry of Defence, the Sri Lanka Navy will be represented by SLN Ships Sayura (Offshore Patrol Vessel) and Gajabahu(Training Ship) led by Rear Admiral Bandara Jayathilaka, the Flag Officer Commanding Naval Fleet, Sri Lanka Navy.“Indigenously built ASW corvettes Kamorta and Kiltan under the command of Rear Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan, Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Fleet, will represent the Indian Navy. In addition, Indian Navy Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) and Chetak helicopter embarked onboard IN ships, and Dornier Maritime Patrol Aircraft will also be participating. The previous edition of SLINEX was conducted off Visakhapatnam in September 2019,” the Defence Ministry said.It further said, “SLINEX-20 aims to enhance inter-operability, improve mutual understanding and exchange best practices and procedures for multi-faceted maritime operations between both navies. In addition, the exercise will also showcase capabilities of our indigenously constructed naval ships and aircraft. Surface and anti-air exercises including weapon firing, seamanship evolutions, manoeuvres and cross deck flying operations are planned during the exercise, which will further enhance the high degree of inter-operability already established between the two friendly navies.”SLINEX series of exercise emphasises the deep engagement between India and Sri Lanka which has strengthened mutual cooperation in the maritime domain.“Interaction between the SLN and IN has also grown significantly in recent years, in consonance with India’s policy of ‘Neighbourhood First’ and Hon’ble PM’s vision of ‘Security and Growth for all in the Region (SAGAR)’, the statement read.The exercise is being conducted in a non-contact ‘at-sea-only’ format in the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic, the Defence Ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slinex-20-india-sl-begin-eight-edition-of-bilateral-maritime-exercise/story-ZgJgSPgRHqNMrdirfTX8oN.html
19-10-2020||India||India-China prep for 8th round of border talks. Accident is the big concern||India and China are expected to hold the eighth round of military-diplomatic talks next week on disengagement in the Ladakh theatre even as their armies prepare for winter deployment along the 1,597-km Line of Actual Control (LAC).Neither side is impatient over resolution at the friction points in Ladakh, but have decided to keep the dialogue channels open at both the military commander level and diplomatic levels, senior officials said. The talks are also aimed at preventing any vertical escalation at the friction points either because of accident or the aggressiveness of an individual commander.While the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has proposed that both sides withdraw armoured and artillery units as part of de-escalation first and then go for disengagement of the infantry, the Indian side is very clear that armoured units cannot be withdrawn because it will give an advantage to the adversary due to terrain and capability.Also Read | No one can take away Indian land: Amit Shah says amid border row with ChinaAs a senior military commander explained, the issue is that the Indian Army’s approach to both the north and south banks of Pangong Tso is through two very high mountain passes---the 17,590-feet-high Chang La and 18,314-feet-high Marsimik La. While Chang La lies between the road from Leh to the contested south bank of Pangong Tso, Marsimik La lies between the contested north banks of the lake and Kongka La. “ If India were to withdraw its armoured units from south of Pangong Tso to beyond Chang La or beyond Marsimik La, then they will never reach back to the contested points in a worst-case scenario as both the passes are blocked by heavy snow till April every year. The PLA on the other hand has an advantage as they have a six-lane Kashgar-Lhasa highway just 10 km from both Marsimik La and Kongka La with roads running right up to their posts,” a senior official said on condition of anonymity.There has been no snowfall yet on the peaks on the north and south banks, but the water in the lake is starting to freeze and the wind speed is very high. The PLA launched aggression on the Galwan valley, Gogra-Hot Springs and north bank of the Pangong Tso in April-May this year; the Indian Army was able to pre-empt its moves south of Pangong Tso to occupy the Rezang La -Rechin La ridgeline in the last week of August. The situation continues to remain tense as the PLA is deployed in full in occupied Aksai Chin as well as in the depth areas up to Chengdu and Kashgar. The PLA air force is continuing its combat patrols in the area with nearby air being bases active.Given the circumstances, the Indian Army and the PLA are deployed on the contested points with distance being maintained so that any chance of an accident is ruled out. Indian medical facilities have come up along the LAC so that victims of high attitude sickness get immediate treatment and not wait for heli-lift to a specialised hospital at Hundar in Partapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-prepare-for-next-round-of-lac-talks/story-8BEMcjW17brK9uw37Y2XBJ.html
19-10-2020||India||Big IT firms acquire small cos with eye on cloud business||Top software services companies are acquiring smaller technology firms to expand their cloud computing business, which has emerged as one of the biggest beneficiaries of businesses having to push activities online because of Covid.These smaller specialized firms bring in ready talent and tech capabilities that complement the existing expertise of larger companies such as Infosys Ltd, Wipro Ltd and Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp., which have seen a spike in digital revenues, especially from cloud computing.“Acquisitions are helping IT services companies jump-start and quickly bulk up their cloud capabilities to capture market share,” said Nitin Bhatt, technology sector leader, EY India. “Building in-house capabilities would be time-consuming, and the opportunity cost would be too high. In addition, such acquisitions are helping infuse and grow the cloud DNA in areas that the legacy software companies have been lacking.” Infosys has already made three cloud-related acquisitions this year. In March, it acquired Simplus, a leading Salesforce consulting and advisory firm in the US and Australia, for up to $250 million. Earlier this month, it acquired European cloud company GuideVision to strengthen its Cobalt portfolio, an umbrella offering for everything related to cloud, and one of its biggest organic investments in recent times. It also entered into a deal to buy digital customer experience firm Blue Acorn iCi for up to $125 million. In August, Wipro Ltd completed the acquisition of Belgium-based 4C, one of the largest Salesforce partners in the UK, Europe, and West Asia for €68 million (₹585 crore) to strengthen its cloud business. 4C has now been consolidated as part of Wipro’s Salesforce practice, which provides solutions globally around multiple Salesforce clouds and its ecosystem of products. This month, Wipro said it will buy Eximius Design for $80 million. Eximius Design provides solutions to build connected products in cloud, internet of things, 5G and artificial intelligence (AI). Global tech firms have also been betting on acquisitions to make their mark in the cloud space. The most significant one among them is possibly IBM Corp’s $34-billion acquisition of Red Hat last year, to further its hybrid cloud agenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-it-firms-acquire-small-cos-with-eye-on-cloud-business/story-D7CdrdFy8DJgFQZDuR8KqL.html
19-10-2020||India||Ambit of economic census to be wider||The next Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) is likely to take a broader view of deprivation parameters to include outreach of public welfare schemes and progress in nutrition, housing, drinking water, sanitation, electricity and connectivity to identify the country’s poor, senior officials indicated on Sunday. The centre is also considering a dynamic registry, which would be updated regularly, in an attempt to make the state’s targeted interventions more effective, the officials said. A concept note on “poverty measurement in India” was prepared by the Union rural development ministry last month while the government set up a high-level panel with the mandate of updating the SECC and minimising “exclusion and inclusion errors”. The panel is made up of the Registrar General of India, director general of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), chief of the National Statistical Organisation (NSO), the urban and rural development ministry secretaries and a member of the policy think-tank Niti Ayog. The move comes as the first SECC becomes nearly a decade old. And since the SECC’s results were announced in 2011, several new welfare schemes to provide free connections of cooking gas, power and water for the poor have been rolled out; other schemes such as free housing or skill development programmes have been allocated higher budgets. “There is definitely a need to take a new look into determining poverty. In the first SECC, kuchcha houses were a parameter but now, the government has completed 11.7 million houses under the Awas scheme for the rural poor. And aspirations for the poor have also changed. We may need to look into the delivery of benefits such as Ayushman Bharat, improved education facilities and Ujjwala {scheme of free cooking gas connections} and observe change in socio-economic status apart from the basic needs,” a member of the panel said on condition of anonymity. To be sure, the second SECC will take some time for completion; the Covid-19 pandemic has delayed work on the 2021 census, which had been due to get underway. Preparations are underway for the launch of the exercise. The concept note prepared by the rural development ministry highlights how the C Rangarajan Committee, in its report in 2014, had pitched for a separate all-India rural and urban poverty line baskets to include “food items that ensure recommended calories, protein & fat intake and non-food items like clothing, education, health, housing and transport.” The note, taking a wider, multi-dimensional view of poverty also highlighted that “the deprivations faced by poor in various fields such as education, health, sanitation etc are not accounted for in the below-poverty line approach. Further, public expenditure on social services like education, health and food security had increased substantially in recent years, which was not captured, by design, in the NSSO’s Consumer Expenditure Surveys and the poverty line derived from these is thus lower than the services actually consumed.” From a national planning committee in 1938 to the Bombay Plan of 1944 to the 1962 Working Group and in the later stages, the Suresh Tendulkar Expert Group in 2009 has provided ways and means of estimating and addressing poverty. The sweeping Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown that caused a record 23.9% contraction of the economy in the quarter ended June will also be kept in mind by policymakers when they come up with a new plan for the next SECC. “Here the role of a dynamic registry is important as we can see how one pandemic or illness is capable of pushing families back to acute poverty. In will help in inclusion of intended beneficiaries,” said the official cited above, noting job losses caused by the pandemic that had forced households to pare expenditure on education and food. “A dynamic registry would help us include families from the protection of public welfare schemes, depending on their current situation.” The 2011 SECC showed that 107.4 million Indian households are considered deprived of certain basic needs. It also showed about 30% of rural households were landless and depend mostly on manual labour to earn a living. Himanshu, an associate professor with Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), believes that it is not advisable to plan social welfare programmes on the basis of people’s spending habits. “SECC doesn’t take into account any expenditure data. Also, it is very difficult to collect expenditure data in the country as it varies from season to season or on a monthly basis. So, it is not advisable to plan social welfare programmes on the basis of expenditure pattern of people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambit-of-economic-census-to-be-wider/story-ZJBRbAmsUMIuuYbisELMgO.html
19-10-2020||India||My life has been about reconciling contradictions: NK Singh||NK Singh is the chairman of the Fifteenth Finance Commission. But even this key position does not sufficiently capture the breadth of his experience, the duration of his engagement, and the importance of his interventions in India’s public life and policymaking – as an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer who served in key positions at the Centre and in Bihar; a core member of Manmohan Singh’s economic policy team which ushered in the 1991 reforms; secretary to Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee; a member of Planning Commission; a member of Parliament in the Rajya Sabha from Bihar; as the head of a committee that determined the contours of India’s fiscal framework; and as an elder statesman in Indian public policy world with friends across India’s political, corporate, cultural, and intellectual spectrum. Portraits of Power: Half a Century of Being at Ringside, Singh’s autobiography to be released on Monday, captures this remarkable life. In an interview with HT, Singh examines his early socialisation in Bihar, the economic doctrines that governed India in the 1960s and 1970s and its subsequent evolution, the current political moment, and the structural challenges faced by India. Excerpts: You come from a landed family in Bihar, which was also interested in educational excellence. Your father was a top bureaucrat. You married into a former royal family. How did this confluence of factors – of wealth, intellectual engagement, and public service – shape you? The principal challenge for any civil servant is how you reconcile adherence to rules, responsibilities, processes and systems often with the inevitable expectations of popularly elected governments which may have different priorities. It is about reconciling contradictions. My life, too, has been about these reconciliations. My paternal grandfather came from a poor, rural background. He was among the earliest to receive a degree from Presidency College in Calcutta, and under a system prevalent then, could directly become a deputy collector. Instead, he chose to become a teacher and then headmaster. He was an austere man who deeply believed in the necessity of formal education. My father went to the same school. On the other hand, my maternal grandfather was among the richest zamindars of north Bihar. Fable has it that the seeds of Bihar’s land reforms were maybe embedded in the fact that he had sometimes driven Jawaharlal Nehru in his Pontiac car for long hours, and wherever they went, Nehru was startled to discover that the land belonged to my maternal grandfather. As far as I was concerned, the affluence and comforts of spending time with my maternal grandfather were vastly more enjoyable than my paternal grandfather would have liked. So, how was one to reconcile this contradiction during my initial years of schooling? This carried forward in multiple ways even in my civil service career – how could one combine the virtues of rectitude with compliance with the rules and regulations in a democratic, popular framework. Undoubtedly, this was a challenge. I experienced this even in higher echelons of responsibilities. My years in Parliament enabled me to see a fuller interplay of combining the virtues of sensible economics with sensible politics. The reconciliation of what was rational with what was popular was inevitable in India’s economic strategy — a strategy, thus, of balance and reconciliation.You have worked with political dispensations across the spectrum, and have been, in some ways, the eternal survivor in India’s power corridors. How did you reconcile these conflicting political strands?I may not have been the only one. There were others who would have achieved this objective even more successfully. I am not saying that they are role models but, for example, Dr Manmohan Singh has been a part of a multiplicity of regimes of different hues. He remains the quintessential survivor. His self-effacing manner, his rectitude, and his sincerity have been his forte. As far as I am concerned, the important thing is to understand the dominant psyche of the time. For instance, when I was working during the period of Professor DP Chattopadhyay (commerce minister under Indira Gandhi), India had embraced a trade policy regime where tariffs were high, quantitative restrictions were debilitating, foreign exchange paucity severe and we had barter trade agreements with many countries. In such an atmosphere, it would hardly have served any purpose in preaching the virtues of free trade or cautioning against the adverse consequences of barter trade agreements. You need to see what can be done within the limitations of a dominant psychology and that framework. Or take another example. There was no point, while negotiating the quarterly performance criteria or structural benchmarks during Dr Singh’s time as FM, in preaching the virtues of sovereign decision-making or importance of taking Parliament in confidence when the compulsions were to seek access to resources to obviate debt default. As civil servants, one must recognise that ultimately, the basis of governance is embedded in a social contract, the core of which is that those who govern do so based on the consent of the governed. Therefore, it is important that one must understand that framework and seek flexibility within the limits and carve out advice which would be relevant to minimise damage, achieve practical outcomes, and in an overriding way, be driven by forces of morality. A fascinating chapter in your book is on the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), and you trace its increasing power to Lal Bahadur Shastri appointing LK Jha as his secretary. Could you tell us about the evolution of PMO and its implications, and what you make of the current moment – when Narendra Modi’s PMO is seen as all-powerful? I have mentioned that in a letter written by Lord Wavell, he said that he had deliberately ensured that the secretary to the cabinet is also the principal private secretary to the Prime Minister. Wavell writes that this was to ensure that Jawaharlal did not go “astray” and to preserve the sanctity of the cabinet office. That was the position till it was changed by Lal Bahadur Shastri, the diminutive but purposeful man who took an audacious step, and appointed Laxmi Kant (LK) Jha, who was a batchmate of my father, as the first secretary to the PM. My father had then asked me to accompany him to congratulate Jha, and he told Jha that I felicitate you for two reasons – one for reaching an elevated office, and two, for destroying a certain edifice of governance. LK asked him how. They were friends and this was a frank conversation in Maithili. My father then told LK that till the previous day, the last note the PM would have read was that of the cabinet secretary, but from now, that last note would be yours. This changes the balance of equations. This turned out to be prescient. But there are two broader points here. Dr Singh once mentioned to me that compared to the powerful PMO of Vajpayee, where Brajesh Mishra and I worked, his PMO was a more modest one. This partly reflected his modest and self-effacing nature. The well-known proverb that all PMOs only bask in the reflected glory of the PM comes to mind. It has no innate glory of its own. I also argue in the book that the Westminster model of democracy is being replaced permanently by a de-facto Prime Ministerial model; if not in form then in practice. What ultimately matters is the preferences expressed by the electorate. Elections are fought and votes are garnered in the name of the PM, not necessarily his likely council of ministers. Of course, in a way, this dramatically enhances the accountability of the central leadership. Going forward, one must ask, in the realm of political science, whether the Westminster system is losing its contemporary relevance.You were closely involved with the 1991 reforms, leading the negotiations with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank. One, were these reforms Indian reforms or externally imposed reforms? And, two, were India’s reforms transparent or done in stealth? First, it would be naïve to believe that borrowers are fundamentally free to choose any course of action other than those encouraged and acceptable to lenders. Even more so, if borrowers were in distress. Our lenders were multilateral agencies. They were not making a new policy for India. There was a normal practice that all borrowers had to accept dual conditionalities – on the macroeconomic framework by the IMF and on structural reforms by the World Bank. There were usually two letters of intent addressed to the IMF and the Bank. These letters were written on our own volition and signed by the authorities, often by the finance minister. In that sense, they are not externally imposed. But the content of the letters, however, are carefully deliberated and negotiated and the contours of measures imposed in the letters of intent, so to say, voluntarily are the outcome of these negotiations. In practice, it was, thus, a mix of our volition and practices and processes determined by the conditionalities inherent in such borrowing arrangements. To your second question, reforms were both by stealth and design. Stealth because of certain procedures of, let us say, not having open debates in Parliament, and yet laying documents in the library of the Parliament, being considered a form of compliance. Or often, some of these measures being contained in some government document like a Five Year Plan or in the contents of speeches made on several occasions lend credence that these were not externally imposed. The adequacy of compliance must be viewed in the context of extraordinary times. They were extraordinary times needing innovations in practice and procedures. You talk about the pandemic in your last chapter. Let me focus on two themes. How do we recover from the economic consequences of the pandemic? And how do we reconcile the quest for Aatmanirbhar Bharat with India’s globalist outlook and export-orientation, which has served the country well? I ask because you do warn against the perils of excessive protectionism. The way forward is deepening and diversifying the reform momentum initiated during the pandemic. Very far-reaching reforms, which have major consequences and a multiplier effect on growth, have taken place, whether in power or on taxes or agriculture or health systems. These reforms, once implemented, will greatly push the G-curve in the northward direction. This will help not only in accelerating the recovery process, but also improve macroeconomic management in terms of debt and fiscal deficit profile, necessary for long-term macroeconomic stability. On protectionism, Aatmanirbhar Bharat is not an isolationist Bharat. The philosophy of Aatmanirbharta (self reliance) is about improving domestic production, domestic capabilities, and domestic employment. Protectionism implies that not only are we making imported goods very expensive but we are making no other efforts. The path forward is to seek synergy between Aatmanirbharta and a competitive trade regime enabling us to take advantage of trade as an engine of growth. Countries that grow at 8% plus – and India must grow at 8% plus – have to use trade as an engine of growth. We have traversed a long way from the era of quantitative restrictions to a more competitive landscape and we cannot lose this competitive advantage, and lose the benefits of trade as an engine of growth. Your current role as Finance Commission chair involves close consultations with both the Centre and states. Do you think India’s federal compact is more robust today than the past, or is it fraying, and there are concerning signs, as we have seen this in the recent controversy on the Goods and Services Tax (GST)? The Indian federal structure is robust and well-functioning. Nothing demonstrates this better than the way the pandemic has been addressed. In the initial period, central leadership was inevitable, but thereafter it was followed by the PM’s successive meetings with chief ministers. The states were expected to take decisions autonomously on their implementation and measures to address the pandemic. It was a federal compact which combined both the importance of a central focus and decentralised decision making. This was also an example of the philosophy of federalism going beyond mere fiduciary obligations on either side. I want to return to Bihar at the end. A telling anecdote in your book is how you drafted Nitish Kumar’s note splitting from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in 2013 – but you joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) soon after yourself. Was that personally a difficult decision? And what is your dream for Bihar?My last book, which was edited by both Lord Nicholas Stern and myself, was an ensemble of essays on Bihar. It brought out the interplay between identity politics and development politics in the evolution of Bihar’s economic and social policies. Nitish Kumar in the Janata Dal (United) was pursuing the development matrix with great sincerity. He was doing so in partnership with the BJP. The decision thereafter to break the alliance with the BJP in 2013 marked a break from the focus on development politics to vote bank politics in a somewhat narrow sense of the term. It was around this period and under the circumstances which I have describe in the book, that I decided to leave the JD(U) and join the BJP. It was a difficult decision because, as I have explained in the book, it was Nitish Kumar who brought me into politics and I am grateful for the unique opportunity he gave me. It is somewhat ironic that having broken away from the NDA, he again became an integral part of the NDA in 2017. It was a full circle. This was more or less the circle of my own political engagement of being part of the JD(U) when it was part of the BJP and thereafter moving to the BJP. Political choices invariably combine expediency and moral compulsions as inescapable hybrids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-life-has-been-about-reconciling-contradictions-nk-singh/story-SuzNBF0DZtGpPJ6NANBD7K.html
19-10-2020||India||Centre plans crackdown on NGOs over violation of norms||Surprise inspections conducted by students and alumnae of institutions like the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), Delhi University (DU) and Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) on government-funded organisations that claimed to be working for public welfare have thrown up evidence of widespread and systemic abuse.The Union ministry of social justice is now planning a crackdown on over 100 such entities after the inspections, which were carried out under the guidance of officials from the National Institute of Social Defence (NISD).Nearly 130 or 19 % of the 700 organizations surveyed in the novel exercise were either non-functional, had violated regulator norms, did not maintain records or simply could not justify the government grants they sought or had received.HT has accessed details of the surveys carried out on organizations across the country; they reveal how lax oversight has led to a large number of organizations managing to get government funds, but not maintaining records and not investing in either infrastructure and staff. Many were simply non-functional.Upset by the results of the survey and in one of its biggest drives for accountability, the social justice ministry is now planning to blacklist around 130 organisations which received government funds; it is also considering tightening regulatory norms.“This was a unique effort in which bright and conscientious students from institutions like the IITs, DU, TISS etc, working with the government as young professionals, were involved to carry out the surprise inspections fairly and with the required secrecy. They were guided by officials from the officials from NISD,” said a person aware of the development.The surprise element paid off.“The crack team of young professionals with which the PMU has been constituted, has been inspecting the grant-in-aid institutions of the ministry and found many a fraud. The ministry is now blacklisting these institutions and deleting them from the list of those eligible for grants,” said the person cited above. On average, these institutions received grants of upto Rs 25 lakh a year.According to the details accessed by HT, in many cases, the organizations appeared to have brought in beneficiaries or even staff on a temporary basis. Non-maintenance of proper records was common. Many had creaky or deficient infrastructure. Some blamed the absence of staff on the Covid-19 problems.When contacted, social justice ministry secretary R Subrahmanyam confirmed that the ministry had carried out surprise checks and would take appropriate action against organizations that had violated regulatory norms.In some cases, functionaries were evasive of did not cooperate with those making enquiries. In many cases, people inspecting the premises of beneficiaries of government grants raised doubts about the purpose for which the premises were used.Some entities that had moved from their addresses didn’t update their records.A drug de-addiction centres in Sangareddy district of Telangana didn’t keep a record of visits by doctors. Local residents had no idea of the services provided by the centre.Another organization in Mahisagar in Gujarat had received a grant, but hadn’t started any work; it was yet to decide on the location of its centre.Many organizations were found to be charging high fees for their services.Among the organizations that were checked, 336 were engaged in rehabilitation of drug addicts and related work and 253 in the welfare of senior citizen; over 100 organisations were engaged in supporting underprivileged scheduled caste communitiesFifty-two organisations that claimed to be working for rehabilitating drug addicts, 51 for the welfare of senior citizens and 26 for the upliftment of scheduled castes were found wanting.State-wise, over 20 organisations in Maharashtra, 13 in Karnataka, 11 in Rajasthan and eight in Uttar Pradesh were among those that have come under the social justice ministry’s scanner.The ministry runs a gamut of schemes for the welfare and empowerment of sections ranging from the scheduled castes and other backward classes to the elderly, transgenders, and differently abled sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-plans-crackdown-on-ngos-over-violation-of-norms/story-iS9Rg9BeJhpEpmkCGjpXwL.html
19-10-2020||India||3 dead after fresh rain batters Hyderabad; Karnataka braces for floods||A fresh spell of overnight heavy rains caused flooding on Sunday in parts of the city and left three people dead in separate rain-related incidents just days after it witnessed one of the worst deluges in recent times following unprecedented downpour in over a century, police and civic officials said.The latest rains since Saturday evening led to lakes and other water bodies overflowing with the water inundating several low-lying areas, including parts of the city affected last week, here and the outskirts, they said.A total of 37,409 families were affected in various localities that were inundated in the city due to the recent floods and ration kits and blankets were being distributed among them, a release from GHMC said.The Disaster Response Force personnel, staff of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and police swung into action since Saturday night itself, evacuating the marooned.Basements of several residential apartment complexes were flooded by the rain waters and people were seen walking in knee-deep water in some areas.A video showed auto-rickshaws getting washed away in a flooded street.At least three people including two children died in rain-related incidents reported from different parts of the city over the past 24 hours here, police and civic officials said.The flood situation remained grim in four districts of Karnataka with the Krishna and Bhima rivers in spate as the Army, the national and state disaster response forces undertook rescue work, evacuating hundreds of marooned people, officials said.Chief minister BS Yediyurappa said many villages in Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Yadgir and Raichur districts were either completely or partially submerged due to the floods caused by heavy rains last week and he would undertake an aerial survey of the affected areas on October 21.According to the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority (KDMA), a total of 20,269 people, including 15,078 in badly-hit Kalaburagi, have been evacuated so far by the personnel of the Army, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), besides the local police and district authorities.There was no loss of human lives anywhere in the flood-affected areas, whereas two cattle died in Vijayapura, KDMA Commissioner Manoj Rajan said.A total of 111 villages in the four districts have been affected by the floods, caused by heavy rains and water released by dams in neighbouring Maharashtra. Officials said the Bhima river continued to remain in spate in Kalaburagi, Vijayapura and Yadgir districts, while the surging Krishna river has affected villages in Raichur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-dead-after-fresh-rain-batters-hyderabad-karnataka-braces-for-floods/story-OQt7eXd9P4lh8o1Ys8KMwI.html
19-10-2020||India||In Bihar, Purnia range IG dies of Covid-19, death toll close to 1,000-mark||Inspector General (IG) of Police of Purnia range, Vinod Kumar, 59, died of Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna in the early hours of Sunday. This is the first death of a senior police official due to Covid-19 in Bihar. Nodal officer, Covid-19, AIIMS-Patna, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said Kumar was diabetic and had hypertension too. “He was admitted to AIIMS on Saturday, but he died at 1.17 am on Sunday,” he said, adding three other patients of Nalanda, Muzaffarpur and Gaya died at the hospital. Kumar joined Bihar police in 1986 and was allocated IPS in 2001. Senior police officials besides the Election Commission of India mourned the death of Kumar. Meanwhile, with 1,152 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the total cases in the state rose to 2,04,212, while with six deaths, the death toll rose to 996—four short of the 1,000 mark. The highest number of 316 cases was reported from Patna. Besides this a positive patient also died at NMCH. The recovery rate in the state remained static since yesterday at 94.31%. Giving the break-up of six deaths, the health department bulletin said while two positive patients died in Patna in the past 24 hours, one each died in Aurangabad, Begusarai, Saran and Vaishali. The bulletin said in the past 24 hours 1,079 patients recovered while 1,19,456 tests were conducted in the same period. Till now the health department has conducted 91,34,927 tests. So far 1,92,594 patients have got negative reports, while there are 10,621 active cases. Nodal officer, Covid-19, NMCH, Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, said a 56-year-old positive patient of Madhubani passed away in the last 24 hours. Of the 1,152 cases, 72 were reported from Araria, Purnia 69, Bhagalpur 62, Muzaffarpur 60, East Champaran 47, Madhubani 37, Saran 36, Katihar 33, and Rohtas 32 among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-purnia-range-ig-dies-of-covid-19-death-toll-close-to-1-000-mark/story-DIso5YyttuqTmKqc4ry6HM.html
19-10-2020||India||On Day 200, chicken, rice served at Bengal’s longest-running community kitchen set up amid Covid-19||Running since April, West Bengal’s first community kitchen set up during the Covid-19 pandemic entered its 200th day on Sunday with not just young CPI(M) workers, who run it, but members of the civil society and film industry taking part in a small celebration. It is the state’s longest-running community kitchen. Some CPI(M) members opened the kitchen at Jadavpur in south Kolkata to offer free cooked lunch to poor people. It became so popular that around a thousand people visited it every day at the height of the lockdown. It got the name ‘Shramajibi Canteen’ (canteen of the working class). Impressed by the turnout, the party decided to work out a viable model. After the lockdown ended, the kitchen started offering cooked food at Rs 20 a packet which includes 2-3 items such as chicken, egg, fish or paneer curry besides rice. On some days people get sweets. Incidentally, Sudip Sengupta, the CPI(M) Kolkata district committee member who conceived the idea and has been running the kitchen, tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago and is now in hospital. “The kitchen has proved that people can achieve something as long as they work as one towards a goal,” Sengupta wrote on his social media page. The kitchen has a page as well. Film director Anik Dutta, actor Badshah Moitra were among CPI(M) leaders, such as state secretary Suryakanta Mishra, who took part in a small procession that the volunteers took out at Jadavpur. Video messages were sent by many eminent people including Srijit Mukherjee, director of successful movies such as Gumnaami. The community kitchen has now become a model of sorts. Thousands of people get their food either free or for Rs 20 from more than 20 kitchens in north and south Bengal districts, said Sengupta. At some of these kitchens, the price is less than Rs 20, he added. The CPI(M) workers, however, do not use the word price. They say it is ‘anudaan’ (contribution). It is a takeaway service only. A specified number of poor people are served free. The kitchens have provided permanent employment to the cooks and other staff. The daily cost of running the kitchens vary between Rs 10,000 and 20,000 (on days when chicken and desserts are served) and the money comes entirely from donations, said Sengupta. The sale proceeds do not cover the cost on all days but the kitchens have worked out to be a successful reach out programme of the CPI(M), party leaders feel. Impressed by the service, many eminent people such as doctors, actors, singers have been celebrating their birthdays or anniversaries by donating money for the food and physically serving the packets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-day-200-chicken-rice-served-at-bengal-s-longest-running-community-kitchen-set-up-amid-covid-19/story-3cvf1DZGYbjYjSICfQ6ctL.html
19-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The second wave of the coronavirus disease in Europe, and the third in the US, comes as the number of cases nears 40 million (it was 39.1 million on October 17, according to the World Health Organization) around the world. Around 9 million (23%) of these are active currently, with a third of these in the US alone. India has just under 9% of active cases around the world. France has 8.1%, an indication of just how badly that country has been hit by the second wave. It isn’t just France; Europe, according to WHO, accounted for almost 40% of daily cases on Saturday. Russia, the Ukraine, the UK, Spain, Italy, even Poland are all seeing a sharp surge in cases.The Americas (powered by the US, but also by Brazil and Argentina), accounted for around 35% of cases. That number is likely to increase in coming days as the third wave in the US gathers momentum. Already, the country is seeing daily case numbers back at levels last seen in July. The second wave in the country was worse than the first. Some experts believe that coming as it does, at the onset of winter, the third wave could be still worse. Or maybe it won’t.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia accounted for 16% of daily cases on October 17, almost a third off peaks seen in early September.At 392,471 (according to WHO), the daily global case number was at a record high on Saturday, and nearing the 400,000 mark. With 4,630 cases on Saturday — this translates into a mere 1.18% of the total — Africa is a clear outlier, and in a good way. This, despite the recent surge in cases in the region from late September. There’s been some research on Africa’s relative immunity — 1.3-1.6 million cases and 28,000 to 40,000 deaths, according to various agencies — and while all of them have focused on the relative youth of the continent’s population, climatic conditions, and previous exposure to other viruses (including coronaviruses), none of the findings are conclusive. Interestingly, there are two schools of thought on the future course of the pandemic on the continent: one, that the coronavirus disease should have peaked by now, and the fact that it hasn’t means that Africa is unlikely to see a surge in the future; two, that it is only a matter of time before Africa sees a surge because, barring a few exceptions, the pandemic has shown similar trajectories across geographies.The onset of a fresh wave in Europe and the Americas roughly coincides with the end of WHO’s solidarity trials last week on four drugs or drug combinations that showed promise, at various times over the past seven months, as a possible therapeutic (or prophylactic) for Covid-19. Of the four, HCQ, hydroxychloroquine, a widely used anti-malarial drug and the combination of retrovirals lopinavir and ritonavir, used to treat HIV, had already been shown to be ineffective by credible research. The results of the solidarity trials released last week by WHO also proved that antiviral Remdesivir did not reduce mortality or benefit those with severe conditions; nor did interferon-beta, widely used to treat autoimmune disorders. It’s still not clear whether Remdesivir or interferon-beta could help those with mild infections if given early. A paper published in the New England Journal of Medicine (but whose results were previously known) showed that in a study of over 1,000 patients, Remdesivir shortened the recovery time, although it did not reduce mortality. But as the authors of the solidarity trial, which covered around 11,000 people in 400-plus hospitals around the world (including in India) put it after comparing their own findings with previous studies on Remdesivir (including the one referred to above), the findings rule out the chance that the drug “can prevent a substantial fraction of all deaths.”The Solidarity trials — they measure the effect of treatments on three parameters, “mortality, need for assisted ventilation and duration of hospital stay”, according to WHO — will continue, though, and will likely study the effectiveness of other treatments such as monoclonal antibodies. The trials are yet to study corticosteroids which other studies have shown, and WHO accepted, as effective in the treatment of severe cases of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know/story-uEF8rKlNxJ1qxWcIbCjfIK.html
19-10-2020||India||Timely EMI payers may be rewarded||The government plans to waive compound interest on equated monthly instalments (EMIs) of loans valued at up to Rs. 2 crore, extending the benefit to all types of loans, including home mortages, and to borrowers who paid their EMIs during the duration of the moratorium, two officials aware of the plan said. The plan to waive interest on interest during the moratorium between March 1 and August 31 is a work in progress and a formal announcement is expected before Diwali, the officials said, requesting anonymity.“There should not be any sector-specific discrimination. It is not prudent to exempt interest on interest for personal loans only and deny the same for home loans. It will be extended to all those who have taken loans up to Rs 2 crore, which is a reasonable limit,” said one of the officials, who is in a senior position in the finance ministry.On March 27, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had announced a three-month moratorium on terms loans from March 1 to enable borrowers to tide over the economic fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic. On May 22, it extended the moratorium period by another three months until August 31, 2020. “The compound interest exemption during the moratorium period will be equally available to all borrowers – those who availed the six-month moratorium and those who continued paying [their EMIs] even during the six-month period,” the official said. The government has committed to the Supreme Court that “interest on interest” will be waived during the six-month moratorium period for loans up to Rs 2 lakh crore, the second official said. “As the move has significant financial implications, details are being worked out with a target to provide the relief to borrowers soon, latest by Diwali,” the official said. The compound interest waiver will ensure that the government’s decision will not have any adverse financial impact on commercial banks, which is in line with the suggestion of an expert panel chaired by formal Comptroller and Auditor General of India, Rajiv Mehrishi. Based on the report, the government has decided to reimburse banks for their losses on this account, the official said.The finance ministry on September 10 set up an expert committee under Mehrishi to assist the government in assessment of relief to bank borrowers. The panel was formed after concerns were raised during the proceedings of a hearing in the matter of Gajendra Sharma versus Union of India and others, where an Agra-based petitioner had sought waiver of interest during the moratorium The other members of the committee were Ravindra H Dholakia, former member of the Monetary Policy Committee of RBI and B Sriram, former managing director of State Bank of India (SBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/timely-emi-payers-may-be-rewarded/story-BZ712cTUpy96gzexFfX4WJ.html
19-10-2020||India||15-year-old raped in UP, accused arrested||The police have arrested a 20-year-old man for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut, officials said on Sunday. According to officials, the accused, Pulkit Saini, raped the girl in a car that bore the sticker of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Goraksha Samiti. The party has denied any connection to Saini. Officials said that the girl and the accused used to practice judo at the same college ground. On Friday, when the girl was riding her two-wheeler to the college ground, the accused stopped her and convinced her to ride in his car. He then drove the car to a secluded area and raped her, the officials said. He also threatened to harm her if she told someone of the incident, the officials added. The girl informed her family on Saturday and was rushed to the hospital as her health deteriorated, the officials said. “A case of rape was registered against the accused and he was arrested on Saturday night,” said Dinesh Kumar, station house officer of TP Nagar police station. The accused has been booked under Sections 376 (Punishment for sexual assault) and 420 (Cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Pocso Act. A forensic team also visited the spot on Saturday and collected evidence from the car, officials said.Meanwhile, BJP’s city president Mukesh Singhal said that the accused was not associated with the party and was fraudulently using the Goraksha Samiti sticker and flag on his car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-year-old-raped-in-up-accused-arrested/story-bI0rfsOJLKLRMnJupYMjKK.html
19-10-2020||India||Share of farm fires in PM2.5 forecast to rise||Stubble fires that continued to burn in northern India, aided by north-westerly winds that blew the fumes in Delhi’s direction, worsened air pollution in the capital at the weekend. Over 1,000 fires, the highest for the season, had been recorded on Saturday by the air quality early warning system of the ministry of earth sciences (MoES).But an estimate of the contribution of stubble fires to Delhi’s particulate matter (PM )2.5 level wasn’t updated on Sunday by the MoES. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting Research (SAFAR) model under the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (used by the Central Pollution Control Board for pollution analysis) showed 17% contribution to Delhi’s PM 2.5 load on Sunday. It was 18% on Saturday; MoES data showed that stubble fires contributed 22% to pollution in the capital on Saturday.The highest number of fire points of the season were observed over Punjab (966), Haryana (167) and UP (38) on Saturday which are likely to have an adverse impact on air quality of the national capital (NCR) region centred on Delhi, the MoES website said. The impact was restricted because of better mixing height, the height at which pollutants mix in the air, and ventilation. Contribution of stubble fires to PM2.5 pollution is likely to rise on Monday and Tuesday. On Friday and Saturday, the MoES website had shown that the fires contributed 11% and 22% to Delhi’s PM 2.5 load.“We are assessing the performance of the model. The forecast based on models for fire contribution will be updated,” said Sachin Ghude, scientist at the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Wind direction remained north-westerly on Sunday, with calm winds until 8 am and then moderate winds of 13 to 15 kmph in the afternoon. The minimum temperature on Sunday night was 16.6 degrees C, 2 degree C below normal. “Wind direction is north-westerly and will remain so for the next two to three days. Wind speed is picking up in the afternoon, going up to 15 kmph but nights are calm so dispersal of pollutants is impacted,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of the regional weather forecasting centre of the IMD. The ventilation index on Sunday was around 11500 m2/s. The ventilation index is a function of the mixing height and the wind speed and defines the ability of the atmosphere to disperse contaminants. A ventilation index below 2,350 sq metres/second is considered poor. Mixing height is the height at which pollutants mix in the air.Additional chief secretary (development) Anirudh Tiwari said action was being taken immediately to extinguish fires when any are noticed. In Gurdaspur district of Punjab, for example, 50 squads have been formed, each squad consisting of four to six persons has been allocated 30 villages. “The squad visit all 30 villages daily from 2 to 6pm. As pre-emptive action, fires are extinguished as soon as they are detected using fire brigades or tractors,” he said.“As per our analysis, fire points are increasing and wind direction is also north-westerly but local surface winds in Delhi are not letting the contribution from fires increase to severe levels,” a senior CPCB official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/share-of-farm-fires-in-pm2-5-forecast-to-rise/story-VZWTB2LyNEPuFuBfxQaOpM.html
19-10-2020||India||Centre may acquire land for mining in protected area||The coal ministry plans to acquire 1,760 hectares of land in Surguja, Chhattisgarh, for mining, 98% of which is protected forest area, according to a notice by the ministry published in a Raipur-based newspaper on October 15.The ministry plans to acquire the land under sub-section (1) of section 7 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, which allows the central government, if it is satisfied that coal is extractable from the whole or part of a tract of land, to acquire it for mining within two years of notifying that it intends to prospect for coal in the area. The notice states that the notification intending to acquire the land was issued on May 11, 2020 following which some corrections had been made in the area to be acquired, which is being published as a notice in the newspaper, Daily Chhattisgarh.The Supreme Court on September 30 had observed that if an area falls in an eco-sensitive zone, neither the Centre nor the state government will have the right to mine it. The apex court made this observation on a plea by the Jharkhand government challenging the Centre’s decision to auction coal blocks for commercial mining. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde had asked the Centre to file an affidavit on whether the coal blocks being auctioned are in eco-sensitive zones or not.Kente extension, the coal block in question, is in the Hasdeo-Arand coalfield and has total coal resources estimated at 200 million tonnes, according to the coal ministry. “There should be no mining in Hasdeo Arand because it is a contiguous stretch of very dense forests. Why is the Centre then planning to acquire this land? More importantly, the state government should have conducted gram sabhas and sought the people’s opinion before taking any decision on mining in dense forests. It can devastate the lives of local people,” said Alok Shukla, convenor of the the Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan.Hasdeo Arand is one of the largest contiguous stretches of very dense forest in central India spanning 170,000 hectares and has 22 coal blocks. In 2009, the environment ministry had categorised Hasdeo Arand to be a “No-Go” zone for mining because of its rich forest cover, but opened it again to mining because the policy hadn’t been finalized.“No one can mine coal without an environmental clearance and forest clearance. The specifics of this case would be known to Coal India Limited,” said a senior coal ministry official, responding to a query from HT’s on why land with dense forest cover was being acquired for mining.Following resistance by the Chhattisgarh government, Pralhad Joshi, Union minister for coal and mines, had accepted a proposal by the Chhattisgarh government to exclude five coal blocks in Hasdeo Arand which were among 41 coal mines being auctioned. Those excluded from the auction include Morga -2, Morga (south), Madanpur (north), Shyang, and Fathehpur (east).“It appears from the notice in the newspaper that their gazette notification was issued on May 11 but was not put in public domain. Neither us nor villagers are aware of the development. It is only when this notice was seen in a much less circulated newspaper published on October 15 that some of us got to know that the coal ministry is in the process of acquiring this land,” said Sudiep Shrivastava, a Chhattisgarh-based environmental lawyer.“This is in complete violation of the Supreme Court’s recent observations on eco-sensitive areas. This area has very high crown density. It’s also the catchment of Hasdeo river. The Centre can acquire land for itself under the Coal Bearing Areas Act, but not for a state PSU which has a mine developer and operator (MDO) agreement with a private company,” said Sudiep Shrivastava, a Chhattisgarh-based environmental lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-may-acquire-land-for-mining-in-protected-area/story-UZMhmlSENuBUAcmS2oz1qL.html
19-10-2020||India||No proof of Covid-19 spread through newspapers: Health minister||The Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, said on Sunday that there was no scientific evidence to prove that Sars-Cov-2 virus, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), was transmitted through newspapers and that it is “totally safe to read newspapers”.“Call your hawker now as newspapers spreading the virus is a baseless rumour; it is a respiratory virus and spread through droplets suspended in the air. There is no scientific evidence before us that tells us that newspapers spread the virus. It is totally safe to read newspapers even during Covid-19 pandemic as they are not a source of novel coronavirus transmission,” he said.While talking about credibility of newspapers, Prime minister Narendra Modi had earlier also said that it was completely safe to read newspapers and that newspapers were vital in spreading correct information.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageNone of the experts, internationally or nationally, studying Sars-Cov-2, have established so far any cases of Covid-19 infection from newspaper or package, with scientific research showing that the virus does not survive on porous surfaces.“It is not true that newspapers can be a source of Covid-19 infection, there is no evidence to suggest that. If it was happening, we would have said so to stop infection. What we know about the virus for sure right now is that it spreads largely through droplets and fomites (infected surfaces), not newspapers,” Sujeet K Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), had earlier told HT.A study published earlier this year in the prestigious New England Journal of Medicine, which is the world’s most cited research journal with an impact factor of 70.6, on the varying stability of the coronavirus on different surfaces had found that the lowest transmission possibilities were copper because of its atomic makeup and cardboard because of its porous texture. The transmission was highest as aerosols, and higher on plastic and stainless steel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-proof-of-covid-spread-through-newspapers-health-min/story-Ft8pcvcZv5jTKs1TTJ7VPN.html
19-10-2020||India||Assam-Mizoram border: 7 injured in clashes, huts set afire||Seven persons were injured and several huts were torched on the Assam-Mizoram border on Saturday night in a flare up of border dispute between the two states. According to Mizoram information department, seven persons from Mizoram side were injured when villagers of Lailapur in Cachar district of Assam clashed with residents of Vairengte in Kolasib district of neighbouring Mizoram. The clashes reportedly started after some people from the Mizoram side torched some huts made by Lailapur residents on a disputed portion of the border between two states. Assam forest and environment minister Parimal Suklabaidya along with senior bureaucrats and police officers reached the spot on Sunday and took stock of the situation there. Blaming the incident on “miscreants from other side of the border”, the minister urged everyone to remain calm and assured the state government would provide necessary security to the residents. “We got report last night that some temporary huts were burnt. Police were immediately rushed to the spot and the situation brought under control. Security has been beefed up in the area and we are engaged in talks with counterparts on the Mizoram side,” said Cachar SP, Bhanwar Lal Meena. Saturday’s incident comes a week after a similar flare up between both states on the border along Karimganj district of Assam and Mamit district of Mizoram. In Mizoram, the state cabinet held a meeting on Sunday and “expressed regret at the unilateral and provocative acts of disturbing peace and harmony in the border areas at three locations”. The cabinet blamed the Karimganj and Cachar district administrations in Assam responsible for the flare up and urged the Assam government to take urgent measures to restore normalcy in the border areas. “The government of Mizoram appeals to all persons not to attempt to use the present crisis to further their personal or collective motives,” said a statement issued by Mizoram’s home department. On Sunday, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal called up offices of the Prime Minister and union home minister and apprised them about the situation. He also talked with Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga and both agreed to resolve the issue through talks. Both Assam and Mizoram have approached the Centre to intervene in the matter and resolve the long standing border dispute between the two states. Chief secretaries of both states will have a meeting through video conference with union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Monday to discuss the present flare up. Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6 km long boundary. Mizoram was part of Assam till 1972 when it became a union territory and a state in 1987. Border disputes between the two states keep occurring intermittently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mizoram-border-7-injured-in-clashes-huts-set-afire/story-97dN6e2a6rMTIjfmFHqcSM.html
19-10-2020||India||Schools to reopen in UP, Punjab and Sikkim from Monday: Here are the guidelines||Some states will give further relaxation in their Covid-19 protocol from Monday, allowing schools to resume. These states are Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Sikkim.The schools will reopen for classes 9-12 in these states after remaining shut for over six months due to Covid-19.However, strict rules need to be followed by school authorities to prevent the spread of the disease. Here is a list of those protocols.In Uttar Pradesh, classes will be held in shifts and all necessary protocols including social distancing and proper sanitisation of premises will have to be followed by schools.In the first shift, classes for 9 and 10 standards will be held. Classes for 11 and 12 standards will be held in the second shift, according to deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageStudents will only be allowed to attend classes after furnishing written permission from their parents or guardians, the state government said.Fifty per cent of the students will be called in every class on one day and the remaining 50 per cent the next day. Arrangement should be made by schools to ensure that the students sit at a distance of six feet from each other.Sanitiser, hand wash, thermal scanning and arrangement for primary treatment should be available in all schools, the government order said.In case of symptoms of cold or fever in any student, teacher or other employees, they will be sent home after primary treatment. All teachers, students and workers have been asked to compulsorily use masks.Directives have also been issued to continue online teaching and encouraging it. Priority should be given to calling those students to school who do not have access to online teaching. No student should be forced to come to school, the UP government said.The Punjab government too has issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for schools. The government said that safety of students is its utmost priority and a special team of officers of the education department has been formed to implement the SOPs in the schools.The online/distance learning classes shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and attendance of all students will not be mandatory, education minister Vijay Inder Singla said.The parents should ensure that their ward wears a face mask in school and make them aware about not to exchange it with others.The parents should also encourage their ward to wear full-sleeved clothes to minimise the interaction with any external surface, according to state government SOP.No student of any other class will be called to the school.Schools are also reopening in Sikkim from Monday, and the guidelines issued by the state government is slightly different. Bhim Thatal, a nodal officer of the education department’s public relations and publicity wing, said that winter holidays will be done away with completely this year, and classes will be held six days a week, with Saturday being a half day.All notified government holidays, however, will be in place.The current academic session will conclude by February 13, 2021, and the next will commence two days after, on February 15, he said.A calendar has been prepared by the state education department, going by which the institutes will have to make certain arrangements, such as compiling contact details of all parents and ensuring proper hygiene on the campus.According to the calendar, students of classes 11 and 12 will be able to attend schools on a voluntary basis from October 19, but each of them will have to carry a written permission from parents or guardian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-to-reopen-in-up-punjab-and-sikkim-from-monday-here-are-the-guidelines/story-TSf5p2IIiDgvky85qZZFkP.html
19-10-2020||India||PM Modi has abdicated his responsibility in tackling Covid-19 pandemic: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the alleged atrocities on women, Dalits, passing three “anti-farmer black laws” and “demolishing” the economy while claiming that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has “abdicated his responsibility” in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. “Atrocities on Dalits have reached a new zenith. Instead of honouring the law and granting adequate protection to India’s daughters, BJP governments are siding with the criminals. The voice of oppressed families is being suppressed by the agencies of the state. Is this the new ‘Raj Dharma’?” Gandhi asked. The remarks came in the backdrop of an incident at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh in which a 19-year-old Dalit girl died of injuries in a Delhi hospital after she was gang raped last month. Addressing a virtual meeting of newly-appointed general secretaries and in-charges of states after an organizational reshuffle last month, Gandhi also exhorted the party leaders and workers to join hands in defeating the “anti-democracy, autocratic designs and the sinister conspiracy” of the BJP and its governments. “Your responsibility is even more onerous and important as our democracy is passing through its most tumultuous times. There is a designed attack on our Constitution and our democratic traditions. Our country is ruled by a government, which is systematically bartering the interests of our citizens at the altar of profiteering by a handful of crony capitalists,” she said. The meeting also set the tone for the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar and by-polls in other states, including Madhya Pradesh. A comprehensive nationwide agitation programme to raise the alleged atrocities on women, Dalits and farmers was also approved at the meeting. Apart from the alleged atrocities on Dalits and women, Gandhi also took on the Modi government over farm laws, the Covid-19 pandemic and the decline in the GDP. “The current BJP government has attacked the very foundation of our resilient agrarian economy by bringing in three anti-agriculture black laws. A conspiracy has been hatched to defeat the gains of the Green Revolution,” she alleged. “Lives and livelihoods of crores of farm labourers, leasehold farmers, small and marginal farmers, toiling labourers and small shopkeepers are under attack. It is our solemn duty to join hands to defeat this sinister conspiracy,” she said. Alleging the “mismanagement” of the Modi government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Congress president said the country witnessed the “biggest unplanned, unmanaged and cruel migration” of crores of migrant labourers during the lockdown period. “The country was pushed into the abyss of coronavirus pandemic by sheer ineptitude and mismanagement of the Modi government. All this happened as we witnessed the biggest unplanned, unmanaged and cruel migration of crores of migrant labourers as government remained a mute spectator to their miseries,” she said. Attacking Modi, she said the “stark truth” is that a Prime Minster, who promised to defeat coronavirus within 21 days, has “abdicated” his and his government’s responsibility towards the citizens. “There is neither a plan nor any strategic thinking, or a solution or a way ahead in the fight against Corona,” she said. Gandhi said the BJP has simultaneously “demolished” the economy, built painstakingly by the hard work of fellow Indians and the vision of successive Congress governments. “Never has the country witnessed such a free-fall in GDP as also all other economic indices. Today, the young have no jobs. Nearly 14 crore jobs have been lost. Small and medium businesses, small shopkeepers and other small enterprises are shutting at an unprecedented pace, yet an uncaring government remains a mute spectator,” she added. “So much so, the central government is now failing to honour even its constitutional responsibilities. The share of GST compensation is being denied to states. How will state governments help our people, if the central government was to renege on its constitutional obligations? This must be a first example of economic anarchy being spread by the central government,” Gandhi said. BJP spokesperson Nalin Kohli said,” Rather than substance, her comments seem to be an attempt to divert attention from the internal turmoil within her party over the foisted leadership imposed for purely filial reasons.”The Congress party’s nationwide agitation programme includes observing a day-long fast on the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and martyrdom day of Indira Gandhi on October 31. The day will also be observed as “Kisan Adhikar Diwas (farmers’ rights day). There will be tractor rally on every day from November 1 to 10 and nationwide protests over the alleged atrocities on women, Dalits and farmers on November 5. An online campaign – ‘SpeakUpForPSUs’ – and symposiums on Nehruvian ideology and nation-building will be held on November 14, the birth anniversary of India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. On November 19, the birth anniversary of Indira Gandhi, Congress leaders will submit two crore signatures to President Ram Nath Kovind against the new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-has-abdicated-his-responsibility-in-tackling-covid-19-pandemic-sonia-gandhi/story-dZQ1Z17dwv2PFi9zo8MJ7N.html
19-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi to visit his north Kerala constituency of Wayanad today||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will visit his north Kerala parliamentary constituency Wayanad from October 19-21, the Wayanad District Congress Committee said. No public function is scheduled during the three-day visit but he will attend a review meeting called by the Malappuram collector on Monday and later proceed to Wayanad. Besides Wayanad district, many areas of Kozhikode and Malappuram districts form a part of his constituency. On Tuesday, he will also attend a Covid-19 review meeting in Wayanad Collectorate. He will visit Mananthawady Government Hospital on Wednesday before leaving from Kannur airport, the DCC said. Last week there was a controversy after Wayanad district collector Adeela Abdulla denied permission to inaugurate a new block of the state-run Munderi School built with his MP fund. The online function was cancelled by the district administration at the last minute saying the state government was not informed and health protocols were not met. The Congress had criticised the decision saying it was a politically-motivated move. His presence in the last Lok Sabha election helped the Congress-led United Democratic Front to win 19 out of 20 seats in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-visit-his-north-kerala-constituency-of-wayanad-tomorrow/story-wVb98hn1WJuThphZbFMq2I.html
19-10-2020||India||India’s proposal against covid vaccine nationalism gets WHO backing||Amid resistance from developed countries to India and South Africa's joint proposal at the World Trade Organization (WTO) to ensure universal access to coronavirus vaccines, World Health Organization (WHO) has voiced its support for the proposal.“WHO welcomes South Africa’s and India’s recent proposal to WTO to ease international and intellectual property agreements on covid-19 vaccines, treatments and tests in order to make the tools available to all who need them at an affordable cost,” WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus tweeted.“Ending the pandemic starts with collaboration. WHO launched the covid-19 Technology Access Pool (CTAP) in May, inviting countries to share data, knowledge and intellectual property on vital, life-saving health products in the fight against the coronavirus,” Ghebreyesus added.In a submission before the TRIPS (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) Council of WTO on 2 October, India and South Africa urged WTO members for waiver of certain rules of TRIPS agreement to ensure that intellectual property rights such as patents, industrial designs, copyright and protection of undisclosed information do not create barriers to the timely access to affordable medical products including vaccines and medicines or to scaling-up of research, development, manufacturing and supply of medical products essential to combat covid-19.The proposal was taken up for discussion at the TRIPS Council meeting on 15-16 October where developed countries including the US, European Union, Canada, Japan, UK, Australia and Switzerland rejected the proposal while African group countries, least developed countries, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Nepal among other countries supported the proposal. Countries like China, Turkey, Philippines, Colombia sought more information on it. The proposal will now be discussed informally among member countries and may be taken up again later before the year end.During the discussion at the TRIPS Council, India’s ambassador to the WTO Brajendra Navnit argued that the often-repeated argument that monopoly rights are needed to allow inventors to recoup their investment do not apply in case of development of health products and technologies required for handling the ongoing covid-19 crisis. “We would like to remind the members that in a global pandemic where every country is affected, we need a global solution. And our waiver proposal represents an open and expedited global solution to allow uninterrupted collaboration in development, production and supply of health products and technologies required for an effective covid-19 response,” he added.Countering arguments by some members that voluntary licenses are the most appropriate solution to scale up manufacturing in response to covid-19, India said that not a single patent holder has shown willingness to commit to the covid-19 Technology Access Pool (C-TAP) initiative launched under the aegis of WHO. “In fact, the representative from WHO in this Council yesterday (15 October) admitted in response to a question that no pharmaceutical company has committed to sharing its IP (intellectual property) and technologies in the C-TAP pool since its launch more than five months ago. Given the refusal by pharmaceutical industry to routinely offer non-exclusive licenses with worldwide coverage to facilitate global access, clearly the solution to ending the pandemic does not lie in voluntary licenses,” he said.As many as 379 civil society organisations including Oxfam, Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) Access Campaign MSF, People’s Vaccine Alliance have written a letter to WTO members welcoming India and South Africa’s proposal citing existing supply-demand gaps in accessing medical products for covid-19, including access to diagnostic testing. “With entire health systems already overwhelmed by covid-19 and with governments facing a looming economic crisis, the health budgets of many countries simply cannot sustain highly priced covid-19 medical products. These realities will also hinder production by any competent manufacturer and impede the full freedom to collaborate, in developing, producing, importing and exporting the needed medical products,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-proposal-against-covid-vaccine-nationalism-gets-who-backing/story-KuLPeW4taALn8dorfndvnK.html
19-10-2020||India||Ahead of polls, all Congress members of Mizoram autonomous council join BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has got a shot in the arm in Mizoram with all 13 members of the ruling Congress in Lai Autonomous District Council (LADC) switching sides and joining the saffron party on Friday. The development comes ahead of next month’s polls to the LADC located in Lawngtlai district. The LADC has 25 total members of whom 8 are from Mizo National Front (MNF) and 4 former Congress members who resigned from the party last week. “All ruling Congress members of LADC led by chief executive member (CEM) T Zakunga have joined BJP and formed a government of our party. The LADC is headed for election in last week of November,” Vanlalhmuaka, Mizoram BJP president told HT. With this development, two of the three autonomous districts council in Christian-majority Mizoram, which is ruled by MNF, are under BJP rule at present. MNF is in power in the Chakma ADC while the Mara ADC is under BJP rule. “This is a significant boost for our party as all the three ADCs were Congress strongholds earlier. With the developments seen in the last years, Congress has been systematically removed from the ADC areas by BJP,” Vanlalhmuaka said. Political battles in Mizoram are usually two-sided affairs between Congress and MNF with the latter routing the former in the 2018 assembly polls. But BJP managed to enter the state assembly in 2018 when BD Chakma became the first MLA from the party in Mizoram. Although MNF is a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at Centre, the party doesn’t have any tie-up with BJP in Mizoram. “The development in LADC is good for us as our main rival Congress has been decimated. The Congress is a spent force in Mizoram and MNF will come to power in LADC after the next polls,” said a senior MNF functionary on condition of anonymity. The BJP is hoping that if senior party leaders visit the state ahead of the next polls and announce suitable packages for LADC from the Centre, the party would be able to retain its hold over the autonomous council. “Like all ADCs, LADC also comes under 6th Schedule of Constitution and receive funds directly from the Centre. If the party leadership announces some special benefits we will sweep the polls next month,” said Vanlalhmuaka. “The Congress members joined BJP en mass after they were promised that LADC would get direct funding from Centre and not through the Mizoram government. We are not affected much by the development as now we can choose the best candidates for the next polls there and are hopeful of coming back to power,” said former chief minister and Congress state president Lal Thanhawla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-ousts-congress-from-3rd-mizoram-autonomous-council-looks-at-centre-to-consolidate/story-aq9WKODpefZw98QvLeok2O.html
