20-10-2020||India||Gauhati HC fines Assam forest department Rs 10,000 for non-compliance||The Gauhati High Court on Tuesday fined the Assam forest department Rs 10,000 for failing to file an affidavit in connection with a public interest litigation (PIL) on grant of permission to Oil India Limited (OIL) to drill for hydrocarbons under the Dibru Saikhowa National Park (DSNP). A division bench comprising Chief Justice (acting) NK Singh and Justice Manish Choudhury was hearing the PIL seeking the court’s intervention against the Centre’s permission to OIL to drill inside DSNP by doing away with public hearings under the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification, 2020. During the last hearing on September 30, the court had issued notices to all 14 respondents including the Centre and Assam government to file affidavits before the next date of hearing. The court had directed the respondents to also mention in their affidavits on whether a Supreme Court order of 2017 asking OIL to carry out a biodiversity impact assessment study through Assam State Biodiversity Board was followed before permission was given to drill at DSNP by Centre in May this year. “On Tuesday, the Assam forest department, one of the respondents, sought more time to file the affidavit. The court immediately imposed a penalty of Rs 10,000 on them for failing to file the affidavit. Though the amount is small, it sends the message that the court has taken the issue seriously,” said Debajit Kumar Das, advocate for the petitioners Mrinmoy Khataniar and Amar Jyoti Deka. The matter has now been fixed for hearing on November 19 for consideration of stay of the environmental clearance given to OIL to drill for hydrocarbons under DNSP. On May 11, the Union forest, environment and climate change ministry had given environmental clearance for extension drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations by OIL under DNSP in Tinsukia district of Assam. Spread over 340 sq km, Dibru-Saikhowa is one of the five national parks in Assam. The park, which is also a biosphere reserve, is home to 36 mammal species including tiger, Gangetic dolphin, feral horses etc. and 382 bird species. Concerns about OIL’s drilling plan soon emerged on social media platforms after the company published an advertisement in newspapers mentioning the environment ministry’s clearance for the project. Reacting to the apprehensions, OIL had clarified in May that the company won’t operate inside the national park and the drilling will have no impact on the area as operation would be conducted through extended reach drilling (ERD). On Monday, the petitioners had filed a fresh affidavit, which sought inclusion of a report submitted by a committee of experts to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in July this year, to be added to the original PIL. The report based on a case pending before NGT regarding compensation for blowout of a natural gas well at Baghjan (close to the DSNP) in May this year indicated that OIL had not complied with SC’s directives of 2017 regarding a biodiversity impact assessment for drilling at the national park. “As on date there appears to be no such biodiversity impact assessment study, either prepared by Assam State Biodiversity Board or any other agency engaged by OIL, on record, till date,” the report stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-fines-assam-forest-department-rs-10-000-for-non-compliance/story-8uiWlsVU915vEiQS2ZsXZM.html
20-10-2020||India||Law violations cannot be condoned under pretext of human rights : India to UNHCHR chief||India on Tuesday strongly reacted to UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet’s concern over restrictions on NGOs and arrest of activists, saying violations of law cannot be condoned under the pretext of human rights and a more informed view of the matter was expected of the UN body.External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava also asserted that India was a democratic polity based on the rule of law and an independent judiciary.“We have seen some comments by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights on an issue relating to the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA). India is a democratic polity based on the rule of law and an independent judiciary.“The framing of laws is obviously a sovereign prerogative. Violations of law, however, cannot be condoned under the pretext of human rights. A more informed view of the matter was expected of a UN body,” Srivastava said.Earlier, Bachelet expressed concern over the restrictions on foreign funding for the NGOs and the arrest of activists in the country.She appealed to the Indian Government to “safeguard the rights of human rights defenders and NGOs, and their ability to carry out their crucial work” on behalf of the many groups they represent.“India has long had a strong civil society, which has been at the forefront of groundbreaking human rights advocacy within the country and globally,” she said in a statement.“But I am concerned that vaguely defined laws are increasingly being used to stifle these voices,” she said.Bachelet specifically cited as “worrying” the use of the FCRA, which prohibits the receipt of foreign funds “for any activities prejudicial to the public interest.” Also Read | Centre plans crackdown on NGOs over violation of normsAs per the amended FCRA law, furnishing of Aadhaar numbers by office-bearers of NGOs has become mandatory for registration. The Act also provides for reduction in administrative expenses of any NGO receiving foreign funding, from 50 per cent to 20 per cent of annual funds to ensure spending on their main objectives.The government has maintained that the legislation was not against any NGO and was an effort to maintain transparency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-violations-cannot-be-condoned-under-pretext-of-human-rights-india-to-unhchr-chief/story-S9q7srXPY7BRHKXaNnoARO.html
20-10-2020||India||Rain, delayed harvest push up onion prices||New Delhi The price of onions has increased sharply in several cities this week, despite the government’s ban on exports imposed last month, as a rain-induced delay in the ongoing summer harvests exacerbated supplies.On Monday, wholesale rates in Lasalgaon, Asia’s largest onion trading hub in Maharahstra’s Nashik, shot up to Rs 6,200 a quintal (100 kg) for some varieties, from Rs 4,700 on Thursday, the last trading day of last week, said Prakash Kumawat, an official of the Lasalgaon agriculture produce market committee (APMC). Consequently, retail prices in cities such as Pune, Guwahati and Patna rose to Rs 70, Rs 65 and Rs 60 per kg respectively, up from last week’s prices of Rs 40 to Rs 50, according to market data on Monday. “Rains over the past week in Nashik and Malegaon in Maharashtra and parts of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have either damaged crops or delayed harvests,” said Sudin Tarle, another official at the Lasalgaon wholesale market. Since the bulb is a common base ingredient of most Indian dishes, and therefore widely consumed, consumers are quite sensitive to a rise in onion prices as compared to many other commodities. Analysts point to a familiar pattern in India’s onion-price spirals. Retail rates soar every alternate year or so, usually at this time of the year. It’s not uncommon for prices to crash either. Onion trade in the country suffers from classic price volatility, a term used for regular patterns of wild swings in prices. It is caused mainly because of supply-disrupting factors such as extreme weather, high losses from inadequate or improper storage or frequently shifting production levels, all of which can cause supplies to go from surplus to scanty in a matter of weeks. The reasons for the current spell of high prices are not very different from those during earlier inflationary periods. While existing stocks from this year’s winter crop have been nearly exhausted—as they are usually are, at this time of the year— fresh harvests have been disrupted. “Onion prices will remain elevated during the festive season. The full year onion output will likely drop by at least 10-15% due to weather-related damage to both the winter and summer crop,” said Abhishek Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm. On September 15, the government banned exports of all varieties as a precautionary step since domestic supplies showed signs of depleting due to a bad winter crop and brisk exports. According to official trade data, the country exported $328 million worth of fresh onions and $ 112 million worth of dried onions in 2019-20. Between April and July 2020, exports of onions to neighbouring Bangladesh soared 157.7%. The government also banned onion exports in 2019 on September 29, 2019, after a bad crop crimped output. In December that year, prices soared to Rs 80 per kg in the national capital. The government lifted the ban on March 15, 2020 before re-imposing it this September.“Prices will stabilise when the late kharif crop is fully harvested. The government is monitoring prices and stocks. Steps like the export ban were initiated well in advance in anticipation of a price rise. If needed, the government import will resort to imports,” said a senior official of the consumer affairs ministry, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-delayed-harvest-push-up-onion-prices/story-i3ZglfgMsDPw9YjWM2zhRK.html
20-10-2020||India||Ghaziabad man held for rape, murder of 2-year-old baby girl||On the day when the district officials were busy spreading awareness on Uttar Pradesh government’s ‘Mission Shakti’, dedicated to women’s safety, a 30-year-old man allegedly raped and murdered a two-and half-year-old baby girl of his colleague on late Monday night. The cops said that based on the complaint filed by the family, they have arrested and booked the suspect under sections for rape and murder of the Indian Penal Code.The gruesome incident took place at a locality under the jurisdiction of Kavi Nagar police station area on Monday night when the girl’s father, the suspect, Chandan Pandey, and one other person, were having drinks nearby after which the suspect went to the victim’s house.“The suspect came to our house and went upstairs. He then came down while the girl was sitting on his shoulders. It was about 8.51 pm and this was captured in CCTV footage. He then took the girl saying that he was taking her out to a local shop. All the family members launched a search when he did not return. Later, we informed the police. During the search late night, my mother spotted a man who was lying on a bed at a shop. When she went near to him, she found that it was the suspect,” said a cousin of the victim.The suspect was nabbed and handed over to the police.“Everyone tried to ask him the whereabouts of the girl but he did not reply. He was then taken away by the police. Around 11.30 am on Tuesday, the cops lured him on pretext of letting him off on the condition of telling them the girl’s location. He then told that he left the girl at a nearby industrial area among a thick growth of trees,” the cousin added.Also read: ‘Largest and toughest to clinch’ - AAP now sets eyes on Uttar PradeshThe scene of crime is near the transport department office in Bulandshahr Industrial Area. The site is adjacent to a road where huge iron sheets, used as raw material in factories, were stacked up on the roadside. The scene of the crime is stated to be about a kilometre away from the victim’s house in an isolated patch which hardly witnesses any commuter movement during night.“The suspect took the girl to the spot. It is such a place that any passerby would not be able to spot what was happening behind the stack of iron sheets. The police found the body of the girl and immediately asked for a cloth. Thereafter, the police covered her body and left immediately. They took her for postmortem,” said the victim’s uncle.“At the scene of the crime, we found three packets of namkeen (snacks) and some coins, which he probably gave to the girl to lure her. The suspect is my brother-in-law’s (girl’s father) colleague and both work at the same factory for past 10-12. He often visited our house and was also known to the girl,” he added.The cops said that based on the complaint of the family, they registered an FIR under IPC section 376ab (punishment for rape on woman under twelve years of age) and 302 (murder), besides levying provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) at Kavi Nagar police station.The cops said that the suspect has so far not revealed any motive behind the incident. They added that there was some altercation between the suspect and the victim’s father about two years ago.“We have registered an FIR based on the complaint given by the family and awaiting postmortem reports of the victim. The FIR is registered for rape and murder. The suspect is a colleague of the victim’s father and also visited their home. The family said that he took the girl from the house and have also alleged rape. We have arrested the suspect and also deployed teams for collection of forensic evidences,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police.On late Tuesday night, the Ghaziabad police, while confirming the case of murder and rape, issued a statement stating, “The postmortem report of the victim stated that the cause of death was asphyxia due to antemortem throttling. Also, the postmortem report indicated evidence of rape.”The suspect is stated to be aged about 30 years and married. The victim’s family is stated to be native of Sitamarhi in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghaziabad-man-held-for-rape-murder-of-2-year-old-baby-girl/story-XpJqDfDcUyRx7Ruw32sDPL.html
20-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand adds 241 fresh Covid-19 cases, state tally at 58,601; 13 more die||Uttarakhand on Tuesday reported 241 new Covid-19 cases taking the tally of total cases in the state to 58,601. According to the bulletin released by the state health department on Tuesday evening, a maximum of 90 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district. The fresh cases reported in other districts included Almora (20), Bageshwar (1), Chamoli (7), Champawat (6), Haridwar (37), Nainital (23), Pauri (7), Pithoragarh (15), Rudraprayag (3), Tehri (6), US Nagar (8) and Uttarkashi (18). Dehradun district has reported the maximum of 16,294 Covid-19 cases so far followed by Haridwar (10,643), US Nagar (9205) and Nainital (6900). Out of 58,601 who have tested positive so far, a total of 51,862 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 88.50%. Of the 376 Covid-19 patients who were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Tuesday, a maximum of 103 were from Dehradun district. The state reported the death of 13 Covid-19 patients. With this, the death toll of Covid-19 patients increased to 946 in the state. Out of the 946 deaths, 251 are due to coronavirus, while the others died due to co-morbidities. The state has so far tested over 9.27 lakh samples of which results of over 12,900 are awaited. Uttarakhand, currently, has 72 containment zones in seven districts including a maximum of 30 in Dehradun district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-adds-241-fresh-covid-19-cases-state-tally-at-58-601-13-more-die/story-eLSpk6A3G3mRXiCLSOv5dO.html
20-10-2020||India||Covid-19: ICMR official warns against reinfection after recovery||One may get reinfected with the coronavirus if the antibodies against the infection diminish in the body in five months’ time after recovery, a top ICMR official said on Tuesday, urging people to continue wearing face masks and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.“We are looking at the data as to how many people got infected, then turned negative and then tested positive again. Typically, we know that antibodies persist for about three to five months.“The CDC has said you call it a reinfection if a person gets reinfected after 90 days. We are looking at the data accordingly, as soon as we have it, we will present it to you,” ICMR Director General Balaram Bhargava said in response to a question at a press conference.Elaborating further, he said some studies have suggested that antibodies last for three months while some others said they may last in the body for up to five months also.It is a new disease and information regarding this is limited as of now, Bhargava said, adding that if antibodies decrease in the body of a person within five months of recovery, there is a possibility of reinfection with Covid-19.“That is why following Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing has to be continued even after recovery,” he said.In a press briefing last week, Bhargava had said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has decided on a 100-day cut-off for re-infection if it occurs as antibodies are also assumed to have a life of four months, according to some studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-icmr-official-warns-against-reinfection-after-recovery/story-cAfiiZlTxYUa6gn1MUevII.html
20-10-2020||India||Centre considers eliminating plasma therapy from Covid-19 clinical management protocol||The Centre is considering to remove convalescent plasma therapy from the national clinical management protocol for Covid-19, a top ICMR official said on Tuesday.Presently, the use of off-label convalescent plasma for treating Covid-19 patients in the moderate stage of the illness is allowed under “investigational therapies”.However, a randomised controlled trial, led by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), on 464 patients in 39 hospitals in 25 districts across 14 states and UTs has shown that plasma therapy does not reduce mortality or prevent progression of Covid-19 from moderate to severe.At a press conference, ICMR Director General Balaram Bhargava said, “We have had discussions in the national taskforce and we are in discussion with the joint monitoring group that this (convalescent plasma therapy) may be deleted from the national guidelines. The discussion is ongoing and more or less we are reaching towards that.” He was responding to a query on continued use of plasma therapy despite the ICMR-led controlled trail revealing otherwise, the result of which has been public.The ‘open-label parallel-arm phase II multicentre randomized controlled trial’ (PLACID Trial) was conducted between April 22 to July 14 to investigate the effectiveness of convalescent plasma for treatment of Covid-19.The therapy involves taking anti-bodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19 and transfusing those into a Covid-19 patient to help kickstart the immune system to fight the infection.On the interim results of WHO Solidarity Trial indicating four repurposed drugs for Covid-19, including remdesivir and hydroxychloroquine, have little or no effect on reducing mortality, initiation of ventilation and duration of hospital stay, Bhargava said debate and discussion were ongoing at the National Taskforce and at the Joint Monitoring Group, and advisories would be issued accordingly.“WHO solidarity trial is a 30-country trial in which India has been a participant. Interim results of this have been put on a website, which has not yet been peer-reviewed.“However, we find that these drugs are not performing as we had expected. Debate and discussion are ongoing at the National Taskforce and Joint Monitoring group and we will take into cognizance the results of this trial and issue advisories accordingly,” he said. Remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir/ritonavir and interferon regimens were tested in 405 hospitals of 30 countries covering 11,266 adults to look into the effects of these treatments on overall mortality, initiation of ventilation and duration of hospital stay. The trial was conducted from March 22 to October 4.  “Remdesivir, Hydroxychloroquine, Lopinavir and Interferon regimens appeared to have little or no effect on hospitalized Covid-19, as indicated by overall mortality, initiation of ventilation and duration of hospital stay,” the study which appeared on medRxiv, a preprint server, on October 15 said.The trial findings are set to be published in the British Medical Journal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-considers-eliminating-plasma-therapy-from-covid-19-clinical-management-protocol/story-WPIMNOR5kkSI8QE90ApbmL.html
20-10-2020||India||Smriti Irani slams Gandhis for ‘not paying attention’ to development of Amethi-Raebareli||Union minister and Amethi MP Smriti Irani attacked the Gandhi family on Tuesday, saying a political family ruled in Rae Bareli and Amethi for a long time, but did not pay attention to the development of the region.“Actual development in Amethi came when the Narendra Modi government came to power at the Centre and the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh,” she told reporters in Amethi.Without naming the Gandhis, Irani said a political family of the country ruled in Amethi and Rae Bareli for a long time, but only did politics and paid no attention to the development of the region.Referring to former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath’s jibe at a woman minister from the state, she said it shows the character of Congress leaders.Training her guns on the Gandhis, Irani accused Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra of taking the land of farmers in the name of Samrat bicycle company under a conspiracy.“I am fighting for this for the last six years and these people have not returned the land of the farmers. If they have any sympathy for farmers, they should return the land,” she said.The Union minister for women and child development, however, evaded questions on atrocities on women, especially on cases like the one reported from Hathras, where a 19-year-old Dalit woman died after allegedly being raped by four upper-caste men.Irani held a review meeting of the development works in her Lok Sabha constituency with senior officials of Amethi district and inaugurated some of the projects virtually.She chaired a meeting of Salon tehsil of her constituency that falls in Raebareli district and said she is happy that the BJP is living up to the expectations of people through its work.“It is true that the family of the head of a political party had been doing its politics in Amethi-Raebareli for years, but it is a matter of satisfaction for me that we are living up to the expectations of people through our work,” Irani said.Chairing the meeting of the Salon tehsil, she said 12 anganwadi centres have come up in the tehsil and it is an indication that this government is playing its role in completing pending projects.This is the change for which people have voted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to power, she added.Earlier, on arrival, Irani paid obeisance at the Abhay Daata temple in the tehsil campus, where the meeting took place.She said Raebareli District Magistrate (DM) Vaibhav Srivastava has assured her that all major development works and those related to social welfare would be completed up to the village level on time.Irani also praised the DM for digital payments to farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smriti-irani-slams-gandhis-for-not-paying-attention-to-development-of-amethi-raebareli/story-4C3hEsa3kC6Y5XMerLjr2H.html
20-10-2020||India||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee stable but neurological problem recurs||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s neurological condition deteriorated slightly although he was stable, doctors said on Tuesday evening. The award-winning actor was in a drowsy state since Monday night. On Sunday evening, doctors at the private hospital in Kolkata where Chatterjee is admitted said that his condition had improved and the octogenarian had opened his eyes, responded to verbal commands and even said a few words. “We are not in such a good situation now. His neurological condition in the last 24 hours has deteriorated a little. His GCS score, which was around 11, has come down again to around 9 and 10. Our neurological board, consisting of five doctors, has opined that the improvement happened due to immunoglobulin and steroids. After these medicines were stopped, the count came down,” Dr Arindam Kar, who is leading the medical team that is treating Chatterjee, said. The actor underwent an MRI test on Monday. “It showed no structural abnormalities. We have diagnosed that the Covid encephalopathy will stay for a while... in a worst case scenario, for an indefinite period. We will again give him immunoglobulin and steroid for the coming two days,” Dr Kar said. “The good part in respect to the previous days is that his organ functions are doing well. Most of time he is off oxygen support. He has no fever. His kidney, liver and coagulation functions are all okay. No new infection has been detected. Blood pressure is under control. The heart is good,” Dr Kar said. “The only problem we are dealing with now is encephalopathy. It means the brain (function) and consciousness (level) is sub-optimal. The improvement that we had seen did not stay. We are hopeful that with immunoglobulin and steroid he should bounce back towards improvement. The duration of encephalopathy has been a concern for all of us. We are not absolutely sure how long he would require care and how quickly he will return towards normalcy. We are considering some other options also,” said Dr Kar. The Dadasaheb Phalke Award winner was admitted on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He had to be shifted to the Covid ITU after his condition deteriorated. Chatterjee tested negative for Covid-19 on October 14. Millions of people in Bengal and beyond have been praying for Chatterjee’s recovery ever since he was admitted. Amitabh Bachchan, who went to Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai for a checkup a few days ago, reportedly asked the doctors if they were aware of Chatterjee’s condition. Doctors at the private hospital in Kolkata said they received calls from their fellow colleagues at Nanavati Hospital. The icon of commercial Indian cinema was informed how Chatterjee was doing. In a bid to offer holistic treatment, doctors have made Chatterjee listen to music and literature of his choice. On Saturday evening he communicated with his daughter Poulomi Basu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-actor-soumitra-chatterjee-stable-but-neurological-problem-recurs/story-gMWrSFzQMEAEgklDAKMoYM.html
20-10-2020||India||Pak’s coordinated push shows up in joint terror teams killed by Kashmir cops||Once the gunfight was over and the police officers started running background checks on the three suspected terrorists in south Kashmir’s Shopian district earlier this month, they discovered that the three men fighting them did not belong to one terrorist group but two: the Hizbul Mujahideen and the Al-Badr. They weren’t surprised.Security agencies had been reporting for some time that Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence had been pushing terrorist groups in Jammu and Kashmir to work together. And there had been evidence on ground that Islamabad’s push to build synergy among terror groups may be working on the ground.The 7 October encounter was the third instance in two months that the police had eliminated a joint team of terrorists in Kashmir valley.Also Read: In Pak Army approach to terror in Kashmir, building synergy is new buzzwordIntelligence inputs reviewed by Hindustan Times indicate that Pakistan Army’s efforts to forge operational synergy between the terrorist groups such as Hizbul, Jaish-e-Mohammed and the Lashkar-e-Taiba had been continuing since August 2019 when Islamabad had floated The Resistance Front (TRF), a new terror group with a Kashmiri face. That mask, however, didn’t work very well on ground, a fact that appears to have persuaded the Pakistan Army to rely on the Hizbul, which had the reputation of being a terror group comprising local Kashmiris.It was in this context that the Pakistan Army decided in May this year to tweak its strategy and promote the Hizbul Mujahideen, letting it take responsibility for terror strikes in the Kashmir valley.Also Read: In Pak terror plan to revive 2 routes, Pathankot airbase attack coordinator is keyBesides, the terror groups have also been told by Pakistan to pool resources, right from manpower to explosives, an instruction that unusually translates into coordinated attacks on security installations.A senior police officer said the security establishment was conscious of the attempts to unite the terror groups but intended to counter the Pakistani gameplan with intelligence-driven operations. “It is not a coincidence that nearly 200 terrorists have been killed in Jammu and Kashmir,” the official said. This list includes 27 foreign terrorists, mostly Pakistani nationals linked to the Jaish or the Lashkar.In all, security forces have eliminated 33 terrorists in 17 encounters since September 1 including the one in Pulwama on Tuesday that led to the elimination of three Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists in a four-hour-long encounter.According to details accessed by Hindustan Times, 13 belonged to the Hizbul Mujahideen, 11 to the Lashkar-e-Taiba, 4 were affiliated with Al-Badr while 3 were linked to the Jaish-e-Mohammed. The remaining two could not be categorised under any terror outfit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-s-coordinated-push-shows-up-in-joint-terror-teams-killed-by-kashmir-cops/story-PbKXAPNDiF8BLEuZgKKj2M.html
20-10-2020||India||Tripura scribes reject offer of talks, demand CM Biplab Deb withdraw remark||Journalists in Tripura have turned down chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s invitation for a dialogue, adding that they would not accept any government invitation till the CM withdraws his controversial statement against the media.The offer for talks was made on Monday.Deb, during a programme at Sabroom in South district on September 11, said that some “over-excited” newspapers are attempting to confuse people over Covid-19 situation and he would not forgive them ever.Protesting against this, the scribes under the banner Tripura Assembly of Journalists (TAJ) served him three days’ deadline to withdraw his statement. As the deadline approached, the CM said he didn’t intend to hurt anyone’s sentiments. “We feel the invitation was given to editors and senior journalists by keeping some specific interests in mind. Initially, a section of mediapersons have tried to mar our protests against the chief minister’s threat on the media. Now the administration is being used to mar our movement,” said president of Agartala Press Club Subal Kumar Dey, also chairperson of Assembly of Journalists.“No member of our journo body would accept any invitation from the CM till he withdraws his comments,” he said, adding that they would stick to their movement in the coming days.An official from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said, “The CM might have invited some journalists but not on behalf of any organisation. He didn’t invite any leader of the Assembly of Journalists.” Earlier, the journalists wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and Press Council of India about the issue and also mentioned that at least six journalists were assaulted in different parts of the state since the statement was given by the CM.The scribes also sought intervention of Tripura Governor Ramesh Kumar Bais in this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-scribes-reject-offer-of-talks-demand-cm-biplab-deb-withdraw-remark/story-5iGQTKN19W9QwnIU9sJAUO.html
20-10-2020||India||ADG of UIDAI arrested for taking bribe in Delhi office||An assistant director general of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 1 lakh in his office in Delhi, an Anti-Corruption Bureau official said.  The accused, Pankaj Goyal, had demanded the bribe from a complainant who had applied for Aadhaar franchise. ACB Director General (DG) B L Soni said the complainant had lodged a complaint with the ACB in Rajasthan’s Kota, which was initially verified. Goyal is incharge of five states, including Rajasthan, and posted at the regional office of UIDAI in New Delhi, he said.  Under ACB Additional Director General Dinesh M N, a team laid a trap at the UIDAI office in South Delhi’s Pragati Vihar area, where he was arrested while taking bribe, police said.  A case has been registered against Goyal under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and he is being interrogated, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adg-of-uidai-arrested-for-taking-bribe-in-delhi-office/story-sYrEat5dhRnZu79tCcHH6H.html
20-10-2020||India||Quad should be formalised for members to deal with global challenges: Stephen Biegun||The Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad should become more regularised and formalised so that there are modalities for cooperation and interoperability among its members for dealing with global challenges, US deputy secretary of state Stephen Biegun said on Tuesday. Biegun, who was on a week-long visit to India and Bangladesh last week, was speaking ahead of the India-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue expected to be held during October 26-27 and the Malabar military exercise in November that will be joined by the navies of all the Quad members – Australia, India, Japan and the US. The top US diplomat also criticised China for not doing enough to help find a long-term solution to the issue of more than 8,00,000 Rohingya refugees currently sheltering in Bangladesh, particularly because of its close ties with Myanmar. Biegun acknowledged that the US currently has “no designed policy for Quad expansion” and isn’t “advocating for Quad-plus” though it has mutual defence agreements with partners in the Indo-Pacific region such as Australia, Japan, South Korea and Thailand. However, he added: “It is our view that in the passage of time, the Quad should become more regularised and, at some point, formalised as well, as we really begin to understand what the parameters of this cooperation are and how we can regularise it.” Such regularisation, he said, will bolster cooperation within the Quad and with other countries in the Indo-Pacific, especially if there is a framework for dealing with crises, irrespective of whether they are natural disasters or economic and security issues. “What you want to do is have a certain modality of cooperation, interoperability and understanding [of] the respective strengths that each partner can bring in facing any number of global challenges,” Beigun said. Since its revival in 2017, the Quad has gained in importance for its four members in tandem with the rise of an increasingly assertive and aggressive China. The grouping was elevated to the ministerial level in September last year and India on Monday formally invited Australia to join the Malabar naval exercise conducted annually with the US and Japan. Biegun said the Quad remains a “somewhat undefined entity” and it was premature to talk about expanding it. However, there is a “natural affinity” among numerous nations in the Indo-Pacific and an opportunity for close engagement with partners in South Asia such as Bangladesh, he added. “We’re not necessarily advocating for Quad-plus but rather a continuation and regularisation of the Quad with an eventual goal of understanding how it could be best formalised and then also welcoming cooperation with any country in the Indo-Pacific that’s committed to defending a free and open Indo-Pacific,” he said. Referring to his visit to Bangladesh, where he met Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and foreign minister AK Abdul Momen, Biegun said an important issue of discussion in Dhaka was the fate of more than 8,00,000 Rohingya refugees who fled Myanmar after being “subjected to unacceptable violence and brutality”. The US hopes to see the “same level of generosity and the same level of clarity of messages to the government of Myanmar from other partners or other nations in the Indo-Pacific, particularly China, which unfortunately has done very little to help resolve the Rohingya issue,” he said. Biegun added that much more should be expected from China, considering its “proximity to...this humanitarian catastrophe”. He also said the outcome of the US presidential election is unlikely to impact the overall relationship with India because presidents from both the Republican and Democratic parties have worked to improve relations with New Delhi. “The real opening began with president [Bill] Clinton, it accelerated under president [George] Bush, it continued under president [Barack] Obama and its accelerating again with President [Donald] Trump,” he said. The values of the two biggest democracies steer them in a similar direction and there are natural convergences of interests since both countries face many of the same challenges globally, he said. “There are many sinews that tie us together and it makes me confident that this relationship is much bigger than any one political party,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-should-be-formalised-for-members-to-deal-with-global-challenges-stephen-biegun/story-ix6i5rXzAoBAvvjJeyfjiJ.html
20-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: LJP releases 3rd list of candidates; to fight on 137 seats||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chirag Paswan’s LJP to fight on 137 seats, releases 3rd list of candidatesOn a day LJP chief Chirag Paswan performed the ‘rasam pagri’ rituals for his father late Ram Vilas Paswan, who passed away on October 8 in New Delhi, the party released the third and final list of 42 candidates for the three-phase Bihar assembly election, starting October 28. Read more‘If a girl goes out in the evening…’: Jharkhand leader’s shocker on rapeThe opposition BJP hit out at the ruling JMM after its Borio legislator Lobin Hembrom blamed parents and mobile phones for social evils including rapes in the backdrop of the gangrape and murder of a minor in Dumka last week. Read moreInfamous spyware GravityRAT has now become multi-platform and is alive and kickingKaspersky has managed to identify a previously unknown Android spyware that was a malicious module inserted into travel applications of Indian users. The spyware turned out to be related to GravityRAT which is a spying Remote Access Trojan (RAT) that’s known for carrying out activities in India. Read moreBurj Khalifa: Akshay Kumar, Kiara Advani’s latest song from Laxmmi Bomb is a fashion disaster. Here’s whyBurj Khalifa, the latest song from Akshay Kumar and Kiara Advani-starrer Laxmmi Bomb has been trending ever since it was released on YouTube. Read moreStep inside Varun Dhawan’s stunning home with an eclectic touch. See picsLike so many of our favourite celebrities, Varun Dhawan also gave his fans a sneak peek into his house during the lockdown. With multiple promotional videos and fundraiser videos shot at his home, fans got a glimpse into the actor’s quaint home with a touch of eclectic. Read moreNetizens jump in to cheer up Twitter user who tweeted ‘I’m not ok’. Check out the wholesome threadSome instances prove that the Internet can be a wholesome place and netizens are a part of a big virtual family. Adding to such special moments, is this one prompted by a tweet by Edmund O’Leary from UK. The post, describing some mental struggles faced by O’Leary, has gathered several positive reactions from netizens and chances are the comments section will make you misty-eyed. Read moreHT Explains I Delhi Pollution: All you need to knowIn the inaugural edition of HT Explains, HT’s editor in chief R Sukumar speaks to Prashant Jha about the worsening air quality in Delhi-NCR annually, the factors driving it, and what can be done to address it. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-ljp-releases-3rd-list-of-candidates-to-fight-on-137-seats/story-CXDH2UMk9QFOSwjvkqcobL.html
20-10-2020||India||Citing Covid, RSS says no chief guest at Mohan Bhagwat’s Dussehra address||For the first time since it began the tradition of the annual Vijaydashami speech, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh will not have a chief guest at the event that is addressed by Sarsanghchalak or the Sangh chief.This year the event will be held on October 25.According to a senior functionary of the RSS, the decision to not invite a chief guest was taken in accordance with the Covid-19 protocol that calls for maintaining social distance and avoiding large gatherings.“Permission has been sought from the administration for allowing a gathering while Sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat will give his annual address. If the permission is granted, then the event will be held as per tradition in the open grounds adjoining the RSS headquarters in Nagpur; otherwise, between 50-100 people will be in attendance at the lecture that will be held indoors,” said the functionary.The speech is broadcast live through social media platforms and the public broadcaster, Doordarshan.Owing to the pandemic, the Sangh earlier this year cancelled the meeting of its highest decision making body, the Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha, and has also decided to hold its all India executive council meeting in 11 locations instead of at a single place to avoid large gatherings.The annual Vijaydashmi address is one of the main events in the Sangh’s almanac and is an occasion where the RSS chief puts forth the Sangh stance on important issues. The speech is also parsed for the message that the Sangh has for the government.This year’s speech comes days ahead of the Bihar assembly election and in the backdrop of the beginning of the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, which has been a long-pending demand of the Sangh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-no-chief-guest-invited-for-rss-chief-s-dussehra-address/story-tm13a3CYgYJNpV5PN8yZuN.html
20-10-2020||India||‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’: Civil defence volunteers to be deployed at traffic intersections in Delhi||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday said civil defence volunteers will be deployed at 100 traffic intersections in the national capital from Wednesday as part of the “Red Light On, Gaadi Off” campaign.The initiative will be launched from ITO, he said, adding that it will only be an awareness drive and nobody will be issued a “challan”.“The Delhi government thinks that if everyone is affected due to pollution during the Covid-19 situation, then everyone needs to contribute, whether for two minutes or at a traffic signal. We are aggressively launching an awareness campaign. I believe that when something starts, it looks tough, but it will gradually become the culture of the national capital,” Rai said.He said the Delhi Police has selected 100 traffic intersections for the campaign.“We had three rounds of joint meetings with the police, the transport department and the environment department. The Delhi Police has selected and given us 100 intersections.“We are appointing around 2,500 environment marshals from civil defence. They will coordinate with the traffic police and take the campaign froward. We are also deploying teams of the transport department,” the minister said.The marshals will be deployed at the 100 traffic signals across Delhi’s 11 districts.They will carry placards and give roses to those not switching off the engines of their vehicles at red lights. The commuters will be made aware as to how they can fight pollution through the move, Rai said.“We think the pollution in Delhi affects all of us and all of us need to take the responsibility of resolving this issue. If we need a permanent solution, then the sources of the pollution will have to be controlled.“I request people to turn off the engines of their vehicles if they spend more than 15 seconds at a traffic signal. It will save fuel and reduce pollution,” he said. The campaign is a big positive step, the minister said, adding, “Around one crore vehicles are registered in the national capital and experts say that on an average, a vehicle stops at a red light for 15-20 minutes in a day and burns fuel unnecessarily.” “There is a need to change the mindset. It is a campaign through which we can try to control 15-20 per cent pollution caused by vehicles. We can stop the unnecessarily fuel-burning at traffic signals and nobody will be affected by this. We are writing to MPs, MLAs, councillors, RWAs and others to participate in the campaign,” he said.Rai pointed out that the odd-even rule does not apply to two-wheelers and autorickshaws in Delhi, but the campaign targets all commuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-light-on-gaadi-off-civil-defence-volunteers-to-be-deployed-at-traffic-intersections-in-delhi/story-WJhYuvT3za0sRQr137b1IN.html
20-10-2020||India||What is Digital Health ID that will be used by government for Covid-19 immunisation?||Even as the world races to find a cure for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), vaccinating 1.3 billion people will be India’s biggest challenge in the fight against the pandemic. The urgency of the same was addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Nodi in the inaugural function of the Grand Challenges Annual Meeting 2020 on Monday. He said, “…India is now at the forefront of vaccine development for Covid- 19. Some of them are in advanced stages. We are not stopping here; India is already working on putting a well-established vaccine delivery system in place. This digitised network, along with the digital health ID, will be used to ensure immunisation of our citizens.”In his Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the creation of a digital health ID for every Indian under the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM). The NDHM is aiming to create a digital ecosystem for healthcare and integrate it with telemedicine and e-pharmacies at a later stage. The digital health ID is a 14-digit number that can be generated on the website, healthid.ndhm.gov.in. The pilots have been rolled out in six Union Territories — Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, Lakshadweep, Ladakh and Puducherry and the facility is currently available there. The scheme will be available in the entire country when it is implemented. There will be two options for generating the Digital Health ID- one by using Aadhaar and the other by using the phone number.Once the 14-digit number has been generated, the system will also give an option to generate an alias. This will be similar to an email ID — xyz@ndhm.in with a password. This will help in easy accessibility for everyone. The digital ID can also be physically generated in a health facility after the complete rollout using Aadhaar. By using the digital health ID all the health records will be stored in the cloud with the ownership lying with the individual. The Digital Health ID will be in the form of a mobile application of website.National Health Authority (NHA), which administers the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) will lead the implementation of NDHM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-digital-health-id-that-will-be-used-by-government-for-covid-19-immunisation/story-aPT6P9BdUjIX4F8UaUy5XI.html
20-10-2020||India||UP bowls a googly at Mumbai cops, registers FIR in TRP case and hands it to CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday took over the into alleged manipulation of Television Rating Points (TRP) after registering an FIR. The cenral agency took over the probe from Lucknow police on the recommendation of Uttar Pradesh government.A case was registered in Lucknow’s Hazratganj police station on the complaint of a person named Kamal Sharma, which was transferred to the CBI.The FIR has been registered against unidentified people. The charges include manipulating the TRPs using forged means.The alleged scam was brought to light by Mumbai police earlier this month which registered a case. Republic TV is one of the four channels being investigated.Six people have so far been arrested by the police in connection with the scam, which allegedly involves inducing homes which form the sample set whose TV viewing is monitored to ensure that certain channels get higher ratings.The ratings are a key influencer of advertiser preferences while placing commercials.ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd, which owns Republic TV, and its Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami moved the Bombay high court last week seeking to quash the FIR lodged by the Mumbai police against the channel in the case.The channel filed the petition in the high court on October 16, a day after the Supreme Court refused to hear a plea of one of its senior officials challenging the summons issued by the Mumbai police.The Mumbai Crime Branch had earlier registered an FIR under various sections of Indian Penal Code for cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy against Republic TV and its senior officials, and also against two other local regional channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-takes-over-probe-in-trp-scam-on-recommendation-of-up-government-registers-case/story-EewCv9suFAXkGQJXP3d8HI.html
20-10-2020||India||‘Increased testing or well-behaving virus?’: What’s behind J-K’s declining Covid-19 numbers||Jammu and Kashmir has apparently witnessed a substantial drop in its average daily number of Covid-19 cases reported in October.While the authorities are upbeat, some doctors are not enthused attributing the decrease to the increasing use of RAT tests instead of much reliable RT-PCR. Others say that the virus was “behaving well”.As against an average of 1,245 daily cases of Covid-19 in September, October has recorded slightly more than half of that which is around 699 average cases daily till date.In terms of fatalities also, the average daily deaths in October have been around 11 as against 16 in September. In September, 478 patients lost their lives while this month, till October 19, the number stood at 207.Also read: ‘Stepping out without mask puts others’ lives at risk’ - PM Modi in address to nation“There is a definite reduction in the number of cases this month. Death rate is a good indicator. The number of fatalities has also gone down. Visibly, the trend is downwards,” said Bhupinder Kumar, mission director, National Health Mission (NHM) and in-charge Covid mitigation.Kumar said that the testing rates in Jammu and Kashmir have been one of the highest in the country which allowed them to stop the spread from those which would have remained undetected. “We test around 25,000 persons every day on an average,” he said. “Besides, patients’ management at home, as well as in hospitals, was streamlined”.Most of these tests have been done using the RAT (Rapid antigen tests).“Three-fourth of the testing has been done using the RAT while 25 percent is through RT-PCR (Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction),” he said.The total number of tests conducted in the Union territory till October 19 crossed 20.23 lakh of which 88,369 tested positive and 1,388 patients had died. The overall recoveries have reached 78,667 which account for a recovery rate of 89.0 percent, the highest so far.However, the use of the RAT has been criticised by one of the factions of the Doctors Association of Kashmir (DAK). It has said that the rapid antigen tests were hiding the region’s Covid-19 numbers.“One in two persons infected with the novel coronavirus receive false-negative results by rapid antigen test,” said DAK president and influenza expert Dr Nisar ul Hassan.He said, while rapid tests provide results in minutes, they are far less accurate than the gold standard RT-PCR.The specificity rate - or the ability to find those not having the virus - of RT-PCR is high as against the RAT which is 50 percent. On the other hand, the sensitivity rate, the ability to find those having the disease, of the RAT is high as against RT PCR which is 67 percent.However, the RAT provides results within 15 minutes while RT PCR takes at-least 24 hours.“Not only do these rapid tests hinder the diagnosis in individual patients, but also obscure the true extent of the outbreak. We may feel the cases are falling and we have begun to flatten the curve, but the reduction in the positive cases can simply be due to unreliable testing,” Hassan said.Kumar, however, disagreed with this analysis and said that the RAT positivity was also decreasing this month as against August and September.“I would not deny that the sensitivity of the two tests is different, however, the RAT gives a scale of advantage owing to its readily available results. Besides, if we analyze the data, the positivity rate of the RAT tests was 10 percent in August and September which has come down to a large extent in October,” he said.He said that the overall positivity rate stood at 4.7 percent in July, 5.3 percent in August and 5.7 percent in September. “It has come down to 3.5 percent in October (till October 16). The reality is that the span of infection has reduced,” he said.Positivity rate is the number of people testing positive out of the total number of those tested.Dr Muhammad Salim Khan, head of community medicine at Government Medical College, Srinagar, stated that the decrease in cases has not been substantial as the RAT testing has increased and sampling has gone down because of harvesting.However, he stated there has been an incremental decrease in the number of sick people coming to hospitals irrespective of the testing.“Invariably, the sick patients will land in hospitals with or without symptoms, or whatever the type of testing. Severe patients would not stop coming to hospitals whatever be the positivity rate. We have witnessed that there has been an incremental decrease in the severe patients landing in hospitals,” he said.Qazi Haroon, state immunization officer on special duty for Covid-19 mitigation in Kashmir, said that the virus was “behaving well” now.“Now the deaths are mostly those of co-morbid elderly. Earlier, even young patients would become its victims. The positivity rate and the fatalities are decreasing for the past three weeks. The virus is behaving well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/increased-testing-or-well-behaving-virus-what-s-behind-j-k-s-declining-covid-19-numbers/story-Nm8NKWJAGr8E5pkVgqUA3K.html
20-10-2020||India||India in ‘extremely comfortable position’ in terms of oxygen availability: Health Ministry||There has been no scarcity in oxygen supply in the last 10 months with the daily production capacity enhanced to 6,862 metric tonnes by September and projected to further increase to 7,191 metric tonnes by the end of October, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday.At a press conference, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the Centre has initiated the process of installing 246 oxygen generation plants in 18 states and union territories in the first phase, out of which 67 were at various stages of completion.In the second phase, 150 more such plants in 30 states and UTs would be installed, he said, adding India was in a “comfortable position” in terms of oxygen availability.“There has been no shortage of oxygen in the last 10 months. There is no paucity at present also. We are in an extremely comfortable position,” Bhushan added.Giving more details, Bhushan said the number of patients on oxygen support, which includes those in ICU, ventilator and oxygen supported beds, increased from 43,022 on September 1 to 75,000 in the third week of that month. The number then started declining and as of Tuesday it was over 57,000, he said.“Though there has been a dip, it is still higher as compared to September 1. However, it should not be a reason to worry as our capacity is much higher,” the health secretary said.Elucidating further, Bhushan said on an average, 2,397 metric tonnes of medical oxygen was consumed daily from September 2 to 8, and even then 15,282 metric tonnes of oxygen was in stock at the end of the week.The average consumption increased to 2,791 MT per day from September 9 to September 15, which was the peak period of consumption. Despite that, 14,932 MT oxygen was left in stock at the end of the week, he said.Consumption came down to 2,503 MT per day from October 6 to 14 and 17,103 MT was left at the end of the week, Bhushan added.“Oxygen production capacity has been enhanced from 5,913 MT in April to 6,862 MT in September. It will be further increased to 7191 MT by the end of October,” the health secretary said.Giving other details, he said more than 9.6 crore Covid-19 tests have been conducted so far. The cumulative, weekly and daily positivity rate was 7.90 per cent, 6.0 per cent and 4.5 per cent respectively.“Covid-19 fatality rate has declined from 1.77 pc on September 1 to 1.52 pc as on date. New Covid-19 cases reported in a span of 24 hours below was 50,000 after 84 days,” Bhushan said.He further said that India’s Covid-19 cases per million population reported in the last seven days stood at 310, while the global average was 315.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-in-extremely-comfortable-position-in-terms-of-oxygen-availability-health-ministry/story-e3m2lH8p6ocVLUIYeYx4qL.html
20-10-2020||India||Railways will allow women to travel in Mumbai local trains from October 21: Piyush Goyal||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday announced that all women passengers will be allowed to travel in local trains in Mumbai and suburbs from Wednesday.Taking to Twitter, Goyal said, “I am happy to announce that Railways will allow women to travel on suburban trains from 21 Oct between 11 am to 3 pm and after 7 pm. We were always ready and with the receipt of letter from Maharashtra Govt today, we have allowed this travel.”Currently, only those engaged in frontline duties and essential staff as categorised by the Maharashtra government are allowed to travel in the local trains run by the Central Railway and the Western Railway, through a QR code mechanism.The Maharashtra government on October 16 requested the Railways to allow women to commute by local trains during the non-peak hours - from 11 am to 3 pm, and from 7 pm till the end of the day’s services.On Tuesday morning, Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar asked the railway authorities to consider its request “at the earliest”. The Western Railway and the Central Railway are as of now collectively operating around 700 local train services every day on their suburban network.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-will-allow-women-to-travel-in-mumbai-local-trains-from-october-21-piyush-goyal/story-uZlJsAKNBDt0tzCSTleuVM.html
20-10-2020||India||John lands in Lucknow for ‘Satyameva Jayate-2’||‘Dhoom’ star John Abraham landed in Lucknow on Tuesday morning to shoot for Milap Zaveri’s ‘Satyameva Jayate-2’. This being John’s second movie to be shot in the state capital after ‘Batla House’ that was directed by Nikkhil Advani, who happens to be one of the producers for this project. Dressed in black track pant and matching tee, cap and mask, the actor reached a day ahead of the shoot that is expected to continue for over two months. Film’s female protagonist Divya Kumar Khosla too reached city later in the evening. The shooting will begin at a heritage school from Wednesday. The film also stars, actor Manoj Bajpai who was also part of the first installment. The rest of the cast includes Anup Soni, Harsh Chhaya, Gautami Kapoor, Daya Shankar Singh and Shaad Randhawa. Lucknowite and Big Boss fame Santosh Shukla will also be seen playing a negative role in the film. Last week, both Milap and Nikkhil met Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath here in wake of Film City being announced by state government in Noida. “He (CM) was most welcoming and assured us all the support. Great to see such encouragement for our Film industry!” posted Milaap on his Instagram. A source close to the crew said, “We will be shooting all over the city in schools, heritage buildings, havelis as well as in the district of Malihabad. We have some outdoor portions that will be shot on city roads. It’s a long schedule of two and half months.” A part of the film will also be shot in Mumbai later. Before lockdown the film was scheduled to be shot in Mumbai but the director developed the script and then set it Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/john-lands-in-lucknow-for-satyameva-jayate-2/story-fDhmrZCFvN80mseOFoFhWO.html
20-10-2020||India||‘Till a vaccine is found, cannot afford to be complacent about Covid-19’: PM Modi||Amid the ongoing festival of Navaratri, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday cautioned the country to be alert and vigilant against the Covid-19 infection, which he pointed out had still not been conquered. He also warned the population against becoming complacent till a suitable vaccine was available as that could lead to another surge of coronavirus infections.“Till a vaccine is found, we cannot as a nation afford to be complacent,” the Prime Minister said in his 12-minute address to the nation on Tuesday evening. This is his seventh address to the nation following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in March, earlier this year.“A large number of countries across the world are working on a war-footing to manufacture a Covid-19 vaccine. The Centre is preparing to make the vaccine accessible to every Indian as soon as it is made available,” Prime Minister Modi said.ALSO READ | ‘Lockdown may be over but Covid-19 is still around’: PM Modi in address to nationDespite a recent dip in the number of Covid-19 cases being reported daily from across the country, the threat of the viral infection remains, as more and more people are stepping out of the safety of their homes to either earn their livelihood or to participate in the ongoing festivals. “In this festive season, markets are bright again but we also need to remember that the lockdown might have been lifted but Covid-19 still persists. Recently, we saw many photos and videos where it is clearly seen that people are not careful anymore. This isn’t right. If you step out without a mask, you not only put yourself but also your families at risk. We must remember - whether it is America or Europe, coronavirus cases declined and then there was a sudden spike,” PM Modi said.The country is currently in a stable situation we must not let it deteriorate, he warned.ALSO READ | ‘Stepping out without mask puts others’ lives at risk: PM Modi in address to nationThe Prime Minister said the Centre is making efforts to ensure that a vaccine, whenever it is ready, reaches every Indian citizen .“India has a facility of more than 90 lakh beds for Covid-19 patients. There are 12,000 quarantine centres, around 2000 testing labs. The number of tests will cross 10 crore soon. In our fight against the virus, the rise in the number of tests has been our strength,” the Prime Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/till-a-vaccine-is-found-cannot-afford-to-be-complacent-about-covid-19-pm-modi/story-mz6seRqyb6k3jLmOg7c3NO.html
20-10-2020||India||Chennai Corporation seals Kumaran Silks store for flouting Covid-19 norms||Chennai Corporation officials sealed a shop “Kumaran Silks” in Thiyagaraya Nagar on Tuesday over a viral video wherein a huge crowd can be seen inside the shop, in violation of social distancing norms.A large number of people were seen inside the shop, without observing social distancing amid the Covid-19 crisis. Tamil Nadu reported 38,093 active cases while 6,42,152 people have cured/discharged/migrated and 10,691 have died, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-corporation-seals-kumaran-silks-store-for-flouting-covid-19-norms/story-Sbnua7ZWGdhK9kLHCHOkzI.html
20-10-2020||India||All must be cautious during festivities; there can be no laxity till a medicine is found: PM Modi||With the onset of the festival season, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said this is not the time to be careless as the novel coronavirus is still around and even a small negligence can dampen the festive spirit. In his seventh address to the nation following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, Modi said many videos have surfaced in recent times that show many people having stopped taking precautions. “This is not the right thing to do,” he said. “If you are careless and moving around without mask, you are putting yourself, children and the elderly at risk,” the prime minister said.“We must keep in mind that lockdown may have ended, but the virus is still there,” he said.In Europe, America and other countries, the number of cases have seen a hike yet again after seeing a decline in the past, he noted. We should continue to be careful and not be callous until a vaccine is found, Modi said. The prime minister said the government is making all efforts to ensure that a vaccine, whenever it is launched, reaches every Indian. “We all must remember, there can be no laxity till a medicine is found,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-must-be-cautious-during-festivities-there-can-be-no-laxity-till-a-medicine-is-found-pm-modi/story-gOdaAFf2Sw1EDDCex1ZlDO.html
20-10-2020||India||‘Stepping out without mask puts others’ lives at risk’: PM Modi in address to nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked the people of the country to be careful ahead of the festive season in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Addressing the nation, he said that carelessness, like going out without a mask, puts others’ lives at risk.“Recently, we saw many photos and videos where it is clearly seen that people are not careful anymore. This isn’t right. If you step out without mask, you put your families at risk. We must remember - whether it is America or Europe, cases declined and then there was sudden spike,” PM Modi said in his 12-minute address.Highlighting the situation across the world, the prime minister said, “Today, the recovery rate in the country is good. The fatality rate is low. 5,500 people out of every 10 Lakh population in India are infected, whereas in countries like the US and Brazil this figure is around 25,000.”“The fatality rate in India is 83 out of every 10 Lakh population in India, whereas it is more than 600 in countries like the US, Brazil, Spain, Britain,” PM Modi added.He said that the economy is starting to stand on its feet and markets are full of people as it is festival time, but people should not let the situation deteriorate. “With efforts of every Indian over last 7-8 months, India is in a stable situation we must not let it deteriorate,” PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stepping-out-without-mask-puts-others-lives-at-risk-pm-modi-in-address-to-nation/story-wSrgT7TfiIbw4M1Pf85rOJ.html
20-10-2020||India||50 UP cops in Punjab to bring back jailed Mukhtar Ansari, told to go back||The UP government’s plan to bring back jailed Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA Mukhtar Ansari, 60, from a Punjab jail to Uttar Pradesh for hearing in pending criminal cases against him has once again failed, said senior police officials here on Tuesday. The MLA from Mau has been in Punjab’s Ropad jail for nearly 22 months. A senior police official, privy to the development, said the Ropad jail authorities, where Ansari is presently lodged, refused to send him to Uttar Pradesh on Monday, citing an advice from a board of three doctors “for strict bed rest for three months due to his [Ansari’s] medical condition.” The official said multiple efforts have been made to bring Ansari back to the state in the past one year but every time it failed due to one or the other reasons. He said a team of UP police was sent to the Ropad jail to bring Ansari back on a warrant to produce him in the MP/MLA court in Prayagraj on October 21 in a criminal case lodged against him in January. But they had to return without him. Besides, over a dozen criminal cases were registered against Ansari, his family members and aides during the recent crackdown launched against mafiosi in the state, the official added. Another official at the DGP headquarters said the entire proceedings to bring Ansari back was monitored by the headquarters, following which a team of 50 police personnel was constituted. He said the team visited the Ropad jail but they were informed to return without Ansari. He said the Punjab jail authorities stated that Ansari was duly examined by the board of doctors and found him unfit to travel. The official said Ansari has been in the Punjab jail since January 2019 when he was produced there in a local court on a complaint of extortion lodged by a local builder. He said Ansari reportedly got himself shifted to Punjab jail fearing threat to his life in UP jails after one of his closest aides Munna Bajrangi was shot dead inside Baghpat jail by another gangster Sunil Rathi on July 9, 2018. The officials said earlier the role of some UP jail officials was questioned when Punjab police were allowed to take along Ansari on a production warrant ‘easily’ without bringing it to the notice of state government authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-up-cops-in-punjab-to-bring-back-jailed-mukhtar-ansari-told-to-go-back/story-PpIwUvFjIKpwLfZwe0z9fO.html
20-10-2020||India||‘Lockdown may be over but Covid-19 is still around’: PM Modi in address to nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the countrymen should not forget that the lockdown may be over but the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is still around as he addressed the nation.“It has been a long journey from Janta Curfew to now. Economic activities are also increasing. Many people have started going out of their houses. The festival season is around and markets too have been full of buzz,” said PM Modi.“But we must not forget that the lockdown may be over but the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is still around,” he added.Also Read: Highlights from PM Modi’s address to nationThe prime minister then highlighted the strides made by the country in the battle against Covid-19, but said that the number of cases are increasing in other parts if the world. He asked the people of the country to be careful.“If you are negligent, you are putting the lives of others at risk,” PM Modi said.He also said that there is no room for complacency till the time Covid-19 vaccine is out. “All countries are working on a war-footing for making Covid-19 vaccine. The government is preparing for making the vaccine accessible to every Indian as soon as it is made available,” he said and added “no dhilai (complacency) till we have a vaccine”.“I pray to all of you, I want to see all of you safe and your families happy. I want to see festivals bring cheer your lives,” the prime minister said as he ended his 12-minute address.This was his seventh address to the nation since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic hit the country.The address comes during the festival season in the country, when experts have warned there could be a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases if people lower their guard.In his past addresses, PM Modi spoke about various measures, including lockdown, being taken to curb the pandemic and also announced economic and welfare packages.In his last address on June 30, PM Modi had announced extension of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), a programme to provide free ration for over 80 crore people, mostly poor, by five more months till November end.Before that, he had addressed the nation on May 12 when he had announced a Rs 20 lakh crore financial package to boost the economy recovering from coronavirus-induced lockdown. PM Modi asked the nation on April 3, in a video message, to light lamps for frontline workers battling the coronavirus pandemic on April 5. He had on April 14 extended the lockdown period till May 3.The Prime Minister announced a Janta Curfew, in his March 19 address, and urged people to stay home voluntarily on March 22. On March 24, he announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown. The government have lifted most of the restrictions which were put in place during the lockdown to curb the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-may-be-over-but-covid-19-is-still-around-pm-modi-in-address-to-nation/story-kMRzVOMgMPsImWdMDX4oaJ.html
20-10-2020||India||‘Markets are bright again amid festive season but...’: Top quotes from PM Modi’s address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday addressed the nation as the country continues to battle the Covid-19 pandemic amid the festive season. The prime minister’s address comes at a time when the nation is celebrating Navratri and Durga Puja with the festival of lights, Diwali, around the corner. PM Modi emphasised the importance of adhering to Covid-19 preventive norms, maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. He said, the lockdown may have been lifted, “but the virus still exists”. He urged the public not to lower guard amid the festive season and observe utmost caution. He also said that the government is working towards making Covid-19 vaccine accessible to the public as soon as it is made available. Here are the highlights from PM Modi’s address: • In this festive season, markets are bright again but we need to remember that the lockdown might have ended but the virus still persists. • With efforts of every Indian over last 7-8 months, India is in a stable situation, we must not let it deteriorate.• People are not careful anymore. This isn’t right. If you step out without mask, you put your families at risk. • Remember, whether it is America or Europe, cases declined and then there was a sudden spike. • India’s recovery rate in the country is good. The fatality rate is low. • In India, 5,500 people out of every 10 Lakh population in India are infected, whereas in countries like the US & Brazil this figure is around 25,000. Also read: ‘Stepping out without mask puts others’ lives at risk’ - PM Modi in address to nation• In fight against Covid-19, increased number of tests has been our strength.• Government is preparing to arrive at the vaccine and make it accessible to every Indian as soon as it is made available. I pray to all of you, I want to see all of you safe and your families happy. I want to see festivals bring cheer your lives.The prime minister had addressed the nation several times before this, starting with the announcement of the ‘Janta Curfew’ and the imposition of nationwide Covid-19 lockdown in March. Then came a series addresses across previous months wherein the PM announced an economic stimulus package and also communicated with the public the stages of “Unlocking” and gradual lifting of the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-is-lifted-but-virus-exists-says-pm-modi-in-address-to-nation-highlights/story-TxymSEVbXrGIqGLarAtQeJ.html
20-10-2020||India||Watch: PM Modi’s address to the nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday addressed the nation and said people should not forget that coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is still around. He also highlighted the strides made by the country in the battle against the pandemic and said that the number of cases are increasing in other parts if the world.PM Modi’s address comes ahead of the festive season when the experts have warned that the country can see a surge in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The country has more than 7.5 million infections and 115,197 deaths due to the viral contagion. Watch live: PM Modi addresses the nation “Will be sharing a message with my fellow citizens at 6 PM this evening,” PM Modi had tweeted on Tuesday morning. India on Monday witnessed 46,790 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 587 related deaths in the last 24 hours, a significant milestone showing slowing down of infections in the country in three months. आज शाम 6 बजे राष्ट्र के नाम संदेश दूंगा। आप जरूर जुड़ें।Will be sharing a message with my fellow citizens at 6 PM this evening.The Prime Minister urged people to join him but did not give any detail about the message he is going to share.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-pm-modi-addresses-the-nation-at-6-pm/story-yXhIenXPWuzohp4Q5JZmDJ.html
20-10-2020||India||India has largest number of Covid-19 recovered globally, second in number of Covid tests done||India has the largest number of Covid-19 recovered cases in the world and it stands second in terms of the number of tests conducted in any country, Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday.“We have the largest number of Covid-19 recovered cases in the world and we stand second in terms of the number of tests conducted in any country. The Covid-19 recoveries have crossed 67 lakhs in India. We have conducted more than 9.6 crore Covid-19 tests in the country,” Bhushan said during a press conference on Covid-19 situation in the country.While many countries have reported a surge, India has recorded 310 cases per million in the last 7 days, which is amongst the lowest globally, Bhushan said.“Similarly, India has recorded 83 deaths per million in the same period, which is also amongst the lowest globally. The recovery rate, at present being 88.63 per cent and continues to improve. Simultaneously, active cases are now below 7.5 lakhs and continue to decline. Six states - Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal - account for 64 per cent of the country’s total active cases,” he added.After 84 days, India recorded less than 50,000 new Covid-19 cases in a day, Bhushan said.“The Case Fatality Rate, which is 1.52 per cent at present, is also declining. We are making efforts to bring mortality rate below 1 per cent,” he added. India reported 46,791 new Covid-19 cases and 587 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 75,97,064, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW).As per the MoHFW, the number of active cases stand at 7,48,538 while the number of cured/discharged/migrated people stands at 67,33,329. The death toll has reached 1,15,197.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-largest-number-of-covid-19-recovered-globally-second-in-number-of-covid-tests-done/story-okMrliOaPFNwPbFvgk7V5J.html
20-10-2020||India||‘When will Chinese troops be thrown out of Indian territory’: Rahul Gandhi’s jibe at PM ahead of 6 pm address||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has asked the Prime Minister to share in his 6 pm address “the date by which you will throw the Chinese out of Indian territory”.“Dear PM, In your 6pm address, please tell the nation the date by which you will throw the Chinese out of Indian territory. Thank you,” the former Congress president tweeted on Tuesday evening, about an hour before the prime minister’s address. Dear PM,In your 6pm address, please tell the nation the date by which you will throw the Chinese out of Indian territory. Thank you.The central government had earlier termed as “mischievous interpretation” the Congress’ claims that China had occupied Indian territory in the eastern Ladakh region.PM Modi had on Tuesday said that he will address the nation in the evening. “Will be sharing a message with my fellow citizens at 6 PM this evening,” he tweeted from his official handle.The Prime Minister urged people to join him but did not give any detail about the message he is going to share. This will be his seventh address to the nation since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic hit the country.In his past addresses, PM Modi spoke about various measures, including lockdown, being taken to curb the pandemic and also announced economic and welfare packages.In his last address on June 30, PM Modi had announced extension of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), a programme to provide free ration for over 80 crore people, mostly poor, by five more months till November end.The address comes ahead of the festival season in the country, when experts have warned there could be a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases if people lower their guard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-chinese-troops-be-thrown-out-of-indian-territory-rahul-gandhi-s-jibe-at-pm-ahead-of-6-pm-address/story-GtXEGGsrPpACFfss6dUkWP.html
20-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: UN human rights chief asks India to ‘safeguard rights of NGOs’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Safeguard rights of NGOs’: UN human rights chief to IndiaUN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet on Tuesday expressed regret at the tightening of space for human rights NGOs in India, including by the application of vaguely worded laws that constrain their activities and restrict foreign funding. Read more here.PM Modi to address the nation at 6pmPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday will address the nation in the evening as the country battled the coronavirus pandemic with more than 7.5 million infections and 115,197 deaths recorded so far. “Will be sharing a message with my fellow citizens at 6 PM this evening,” PM Modi tweeted. Read more here.With a quiz in UP, Congress presents ‘facts’ about its role in nation-buildingWith the BJP accusing the Congress of ‘doing’ nothing for the country, many questions in the Rajiv Gandhi Samanya Gyan Pratiyogita (general knowledge contest) focused on the role of the party and its leaders in the freedom struggle and nation-building over the years. Read more here.‘His opinion’: Kamal Nath responds to Rahul Gandhi disapproving ‘item’ remarkMadhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath is facing flak for his “item” remark against state minister Imarti Devi during a campaign speech for assembly by-election. Read more here.TRP scam: Former cop files suit to restrain Arnab Goswami, Republic TV from airing material related to the caseFormer Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Iqbal Shaikh has approached the city civil court seeking a restraining order against the news channel Republic TV and its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami from airing any material related to TRP scam. An FIR in the case has been registered at Kandivali police station. Read more here.MP bypolls 2020: Why are they important and what do the numbers say?Voting on 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh bypolls will take place on November 3 and the results will be declared on November 10. Out of these 28 assembly seats, 27 were won by the Congress in the 2018 Madhya Pradesh state elections. Read more here.IPL 2020: ‘Are they going to play Glenn Maxwell as off-spinner?’ Aakash Chopra predicts one change for KXIPKings XI Punjab allrounder Glenn Maxwell has continued to face criticism over his poor run in the ongoing season of Indian Premier League 2020 in the UAE. Maxwell was bought by Punjab for Rs 10.75 crores, but he has only managed 58 runs in 9 games. Punjab’s insistence on keeping him in the playing XI has not made things better, as on Sunday against Mumbai Indians, he was dismissed for a duck and played no part in the two Super Overs that followed. Read more here.Riteish Deshmukh’s ego was hurt after he was called ‘Genelia’s husband’, this was the response he got when he pointed it outRiteish Deshmukh has revealed the moment when he was made to acknowledge his actor wife Genelia’s popularity in South. The couple recently appeared on The Kapil Sharma Show where Riteish shared an interesting story. Read more here.25 years of DDLJ: Here’s why Simran’s style is still relevant over two decades laterShah Rukh Khan and Kajol starrer Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge turns 25 today, and the movie managed to make a mark on all generations, be it our grandparents, parents and especially, millennials and 90s babies. The movie’s storyline was something most could relate to with Simran, an introverted girl with big dreams wishing to get out and ‘live her life’ before she gets hitched to a man of her father’s choice, she then goes on the journey of a lifetime, meeting a handsome stranger, Raj, living many adventures with him, falling in love, and we all know how the rest goes. Read more here.Watch: Third US Presidential debate to feature mute button; Trump camp lashes outAfter a heated and a frequently interrupted first Presidential debate, the Commission on Presidential Debates has announced new rules under which it will mute microphones for two minutes of the rival speakers so as to give them uninterrupted opening remarks. Under the new rules, Trump and Biden will each have two minutes of uninterrupted time to speak at the beginning of every 15-minute segment of the debate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-un-human-rights-chief-asks-india-to-safeguard-rights-of-ngos-and-all-the-latest-news/story-l68zQDpzX7NE5XLjNXIqEN.html
20-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Court acquits 20 foreign attendees of Tablighi event||A Mumbai court has aquitted 20 foreign attendees of a Tablighi Jamaat event who were booked by the city police for allegedly violating prohibitory orders during the coronavirus-enforced lockdown.Metropolitan Magistrate (Andheri) R R Khan acquitted the 20 persons on Monday as the prosecution failed to prove the charges against them.“There is no iota of evidence with prosecution to show any contravention of order by accused persons beyond all shadow of doubt,” the court observed.Keeping in view the evidence on record and facts and circumstances of the matter, it is clear that the order in question was neither publicly promulgated nor brought into notice of the accused persons, the court said.The prosecution witnesses clarified that the accused have not violated the lockdown norms and order of the police commissioner, it noted.The court also said versions of the witnesses were contrary to the documentary evidence on record. “The prosecution has not even carried out preparation of panchanama and never recorded statement of any other independent witness. Thus, there is no legal evidence furnished by prosecution in support of the charge,” it said.The court further noted that the witnesses were also not found in a position to tell where and how the accused person were residing at the time of the alleged offence.A case was registered against two groups, each comprising 10 foreign nationals, in April by D N Nagar police in Andheri under Indian Penal Code Sections 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 and 270 (acts likely to spread infection of dangerous disease).They were also charged under provisions of the Foreigners Act, the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act.A sessions court has already discharged them for offence under IPC Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 304(2) (homicide not amounting to murder).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-court-acquits-20-foreign-attendees-of-tablighi-event/story-KPNbajaLVsDkqyLJDSF2QL.html
20-10-2020||India||Punjab negates legally debatable Central farm laws: What you need to know||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday introduced three bills in the state assembly to negate certain provisions of the Central government’s farm bills, which were passed during the monsoon session of Parliament in September. The Punjab government’s bills are aimed at protecting farmers’ interests and may be adopted by other non-National Democratic Alliance (NDA)-ruled states. An explainer on the new provisions inserted in the Central laws by the Congress-ruled government in Punjab.Has the Punjab government nullified the Central laws?No. The Punjab government has added additional provisions in the three farm laws providing safeguards to farmers and to address their concerns while adopting the basic structure of the Central laws, which allows private sector in production and trading for agriculture produce. The Punjab laws allow private players to buy farm produce or enter contract farming, as the Central laws had envisaged but have also included provisions that the protesting farmer bodies in the state had been demanding. Also Read: ‘Rise above politics’: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh tables draft resolution against Centre’s farm lawsHas Punjab ensured protection of minimum support price (MSP) of farm produce?Yes. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020, guarantees MSP notified by the Central government for wheat and paddy to all farmers under section 4 of the proposed law. On the contrary, the Central law has allowed the market forces to decide the best price for a farm produce. Section 5 of the bill overrides any price mechanism suggested in the Central bill. The bill also provides for penal provision and states that paying less than MSP of a farm produce by private players could lead to a minimum jail term of three years and also a fine. The Punjab version of Contract Farming bill makes it illegal to sign a contract with farmers for selling their produce below MSP. What is there in the bills for protection of Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs)?The bill gives Punjab government the right to levy a fee on private players for buying produce from farmers in any form --- physically or electronically --- anywhere in the state. The provision extends to the mandi system across the state. The Central law had exempted private players from paying any fees outside mandis. The Contract Farming Bill restores primacy of APMCs in sale and purchase of agriculture produce, which was diluted in the Central laws.Also Read: Farmers force closure of Reliance stores in Mohali What are the other protectionist measures?The bill allows farmers to approach civil court against private players and a sub-divisional judicial magistrate (SDJM) court provided in the Central law. Punjab has also introduced an amendment in the Code of Civil Procedure (CrPC) 1908, debarring courts from attaching land holding below 2.5 acres in any recovery proceedings. Around 86% of farmers in Punjab have land holdings less than 2.5 acres.CM Singh has also introduced a bill to amend the Centre’s The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, which nullifies its impact by maintaining status quo ante as on 4 June, when the Central law was promulgated as an ordinance. The Central law allowed the NDA government to regulate supply of certain farm produce like cereals, pulses, potato, pulses, onions and edible oilseeds under extraordinary circumstances such as war, famine, grave natural calamity and extraordinary price rise. The bill restores the state’s power to regulate essential commodities and enforce hoarding limits for agricultural produce.Can Punjab directly implement these laws?As agriculture, APMCs and lands are state subjects under entries 14, 18 and 22 of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, the state can frame laws on them. However, as per the entry 33 of the Concurrent List, on which both the Centre and state can legislate, the Union government is allowed to frame laws to control production, supply and distribution of products of any industry, including agriculture. The Centre has introduced the farm reform bills on the basis of this provision. It is likely to become a bone of contention between the Punjab government and the Centre and the matter may come to a head on whether the proposed changes in the Union laws by the former are legally tenable.Can the Centre negate Punjab bills?Yes, it can. As the Punjab bills are in conflict with the Central law, the Union government can use its powers by invoking Article 254 (2) of the Constitution and ask the state government to seek approval of the President before notifying these laws. Usually, the President approves a bill after taking the Centre on board. But the President is within his rights to reject it. In case, the Punjab government does not send the bills for the President’s approval citing that agriculture is a state subject, the Centre can bring in amendments in a bid to ensure uniform implementation of its laws across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-negates-legally-debatable-central-farm-laws-what-you-need-to-know/story-YG3QWAS5oTDLz2k4tjAiaI.html
20-10-2020||India||Safeguard rights of NGOs: UN human rights chief to India||UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet on Tuesday expressed regret at the tightening of space for human rights NGOs in India, including by the application of vaguely worded laws that constrain their activities and restrict foreign funding. Bachelet asked the Indian government to safeguard the rights of human rights defenders and NGOs, and their ability to carry on with their work on behalf of the groups they represent. “India has long had a strong civil society, which has been at the forefront of groundbreaking human rights advocacy within the country and globally,” she said. “But I am concerned that vaguely defined laws are increasingly being used to stifle these voices.” Also read: FATF plenary meeting: What next for Pakistan?In a statement, Bachelet specifically cited as “worrying” the use of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA), which a number of UN human rights bodies have expressed concern about, because it is “vaguely worded and overbroad in its objective”. The act prohibits the receipt of foreign funds “for any activities prejudicial to the public interest”. The act, which was adopted in 2010 and amended last month, has had a “detrimental impact on the right to freedom of association and expression of human rights NGOs, and as a result on their ability to serve as effective advocates to protect and promote human rights in India”, the statement said. Late on Tuesday evening, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava responded to the comments on FCRA by saying: “India is a democratic polity based on the rule of law and an independent judiciary. The framing of laws is obviously a sovereign prerogative. “Violations of law, however, cannot be condoned under the pretext of human rights. A more informed view of the matter was expected of a UN body.” People familiar with developments, speaking on condition of anonymity, rejected the criticism and said India is a pluralistic democracy with a “robust domestic grievance redress mechanism” overseen by an independent judiciary and a National Human Rights Commission compliant with the Paris Principles. “These mechanisms are fully capable of addressing all allegations of violations of human rights anywhere in India. India has been at the forefront of promoting and protecting all human rights in line with its international obligations and remains committed to doing so in the future,” said one of the people cited above.The statement said it was expected that the new amendments to FCRA will create “even more administrative and practical hurdles for such advocacy-based NGOs”. The statement noted that Amnesty International was compelled to close its offices in India after its bank accounts were frozen over alleged violation of FCRA.  “The FCRA has been invoked over the years to justify an array of highly intrusive measures, ranging from official raids on NGO offices and freezing of bank accounts, to suspension or cancellation of registration, including of civil society organisations that have engaged with UN human rights bodies,” Bachelet said. “I am concerned that such actions based on the grounds of vaguely defined ‘public interest’ leave this law open to abuse, and that it is indeed actually being used to deter or punish NGOs for human rights reporting and advocacy that the authorities perceive as critical in nature. Constructive criticism is the lifeblood of democracy. Even if the authorities find it uncomfortable, it should never be criminalised or outlawed in this way,” she added. The statement noted that activists and human rights defenders had come under mounting pressure In India in recent months, particularly over mass protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act across the country earlier this year. “More than 1,500 people have reportedly been arrested in relation to the protests, with many charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act – a law which has also been widely criticised for its lack of conformity with international human rights standards,” the statement said. Charges have been filed under this law against individuals in connection with demonstrations dating back to 2018, including the 83-year-old Catholic priest Stan Swamy, whom the statement described as a long-standing activist engaged in defending the rights of marginalised groups. “I urge the government to ensure that no one else is detained for exercising their rights to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly – and to do its utmost, in law and policy, to protect India’s robust civil society,” Bachelet said. “I also urge the authorities to carefully review the FCRA for its compliance with international human rights standards and to release people charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act for simply exercising basic human rights that India is obligated to protect.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/safeguard-rights-of-ngos-un-human-rights-chief-to-india/story-K7VMAgWhWDZPFv1GX5rtOO.html
20-10-2020||India||Massive fire breaks out at chemical factory Meerut’s Kharbanda area||A massive fire broke out at a chemical factory in Meerut’s Kharbanda area, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. As per the ANI report, six fire vehicles have been deployed to extinguish the fire. The reason behind the fire is unknown yet. #WATCH: A fire has broken out at a chemical factory in Meerut's Kharkhauda. Around 6 fire tenders present at the spot. Fire fighting operation underway. pic.twitter.com/ldmDY0THr7The fire extinguishing operation is underway. According to officials, the chemical factory was non-operational and no injury has been reported so far.Fire officer Shantnu Kumar Yadav said, “it was chemical factory in which fire broke out in the morning. 5 fire tenders were used and fire fighting operation went for 2 hours. No casualty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-fire-breaks-out-at-chemical-factory-meerut-s-kharbanda-area/story-xWYNSBbTnbOuqWfxSwwTKK.html
20-10-2020||India||South Kashmir witnesses second encounter in 2 days, 5 terrorists eliminated||The security forces have killed one more terrorists in the ongoing encounter in south Kashmir’s Pulwama. The gunbattle had started earlier in the day, and two terrorists were killed.Search and cordon operation has been launched, the police said.With this, five terrorists have been killed in two days in south Kashmir. A gubattle started in Shopian district of south Kashmir on Monday which continued till Tuesday morning.One terrorist was killed in that encounter. The police recovered an AK rifle and a pistol from the scene of the gunbattle.The security forces had launched a cordon and search operation at Melhura in Zainapora on Monday after getting information about presence of militants, the police said. The search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire at security forces’ positions, they added.The identity and group affiliation of the terrorist is being ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-in-pulwama-2-terrorists-killed/story-goURvKEUrR0A5VnbWJatjN.html
20-10-2020||India||TRP ‘scam’: Ex-Mumbai Police officer moves court to restrain Republic TV from discussing FIR||A former top officer of Mumbai Police has filed a civil suit in a city court, seeking to restrain Republic TV, its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, and sister Hindi channel R Bharat from discussing the first information report (FIR) registered by the force in connection with an alleged television rating points (TRP) scam.(Read more: ‘Issue summons to Arnab Goswami if he is proposed to be addressed as accused in TRP scam FIR, says Bombay HC)In his plea, Iqbal Shaikh, a former assistant commissioner of police (ACP), also accused the channel of causing him ‘mental agony’ on account of its ‘defamatory reports’ against the force, seeking damages to the tune of Rs 5 lakh. Shaikh also accused Republic TV and R Bharat of launching a ‘smear campaign’ against Mumbai Police, adding that the channels’ allegations aggrieved him as he ‘takes pride in his legacy in the illustrious police force of Mumbai.’News reports of the channels and the debates hosted by Arnab Goswami are done in complete violation of journalistic ethics, he has argued further in his plea. Shaikh, in his plea, has also taken objections to comments made by Goswami against Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.The case will be heard on Wednesday at 11am in courtroom number 4 in the city civil court.The controversy pertains to a press conference addressed by Singh on October 8, in which he accused Republic TV and two Marathi channels of ‘manipulating’ TRPs. An FIR was registered in connection with the alleged scam a day before the press conference, on October 7. The channel, however, has denied charges made against it and moved the Supreme Court, seeking quashing of the FIR, as well as the transfer of the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).On October 15, hearing the channel’s petition on October 15, the top court asked it to move Bombay high court instead.ARG Outlier Media, which owns Republic TV and R Bharat, has accused Mumbai Police and Singh of targeting the channels for their coverage of the Palghar lynching incident and the Sushant Singh Rajput death case.The high court, meanwhile, will begin the final hearing in the case from November 5. Six people have been arrested in connection with the case so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-scam-ex-mumbai-police-officer-moves-court-to-restrain-republic-tv-from-discussing-fir/story-loWgpcugmuKvw9bbXy3umO.html
20-10-2020||India||‘If a girl goes out in the evening…’: Jharkhand leader’s shocker on rape||The opposition BJP hit out at the ruling JMM after its Borio legislator Lobin Hembrom blamed parents and mobile phones for social evils including rapes in the backdrop of the gangrape and murder of a minor in Dumka last week. While the BJP trained its guns on the JMM over Hembrom’s ‘irresponsible statement’ , the ruling party remained guarded in its reply on the matter. While on campaign trail for party candidate Basant Soren in Dumka bye-election, Hembrom told media persons on Monday that the silence of parents and society over actions of youngsters were abetting kidnappings and rapes.“The parents and guardians are silent when youth consume ganja (marijuana) and liquor. Everyone has mobile phones these days and boys and girls talk over the phone frequently. Are the parents and guardians not responsible if a girl goes out in the evening? They come out of slumber when such incidents take place,” he said.Defending the state government, Hembrom said the JMM-led coalition government and the police have taken prompt action soon after the gang rape case was reported.BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said it was a shocking statement from a lawmaker. “It’s rubbish. It is almost like Talibanisation of Jharkhand,” he said.BJP’s ally AJSU party spokesperson Dev Sharan Bhagat said the lawmaker should have commented sensibly on the issue.In a guarded reply JMM general secretary Vinod Pandey said the MLA had attempted to point out the evils of the society. “The party leaders spoke to Lobin and were convinced with his clarifications,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jmm-draws-flak-after-lawmaker-blames-parents-mobile-phones-for-rapes/story-Zw3nwzTyqUAAuH3fdVG1zI.html
20-10-2020||India||81 candidates in row for bypolls to 8 assembly seats in Gujarat||A total 81 candidates are in the fray for by-elections to eight seats in Gujarat to be held on November 3, the Election Commission said on Tuesday.By-elections in Abdasa, Limbdi, Morbi, Dhari, Gadhada, Karjan, Dang and Kaprada seats were necessitated after the sitting Congress MLAs resigned.Monday was the last date for withdrawal of nomination forms.Out of 102 nominations received by the EC for eight seats, 21 forms were withdrawn till Monday, leaving 81 candidates in the fray, a release from the office of the Chief Electoral Officer said.Limbdi has the highest number of 14 candidates, while Kaprada, reserved for Scheduled Tribes (ST) candidates, has the lowest number of four candidates.As per the release, 12 candidates each are in the fray in Morbi and Gadhada seats, followed by 11 in Dhari, 10 in Abdasa, and nine each in Karjan and Dang.Candidates of the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress are pitted against each other in all the eight seats.The Bharatiya Tribal Party has also fielded two candidates - in Dang, which is reserved for ST candidates, and Karjan.Lesser-known outfits like the Bahujan Maha Party, Bahujan Mukti Party, Bharatiya Jana Parishad, Akhil Bharatiya Rajarya Sabha, All India Majlish-e-Inqulab-e-Millat, Rashtravadi Jana Chetna, Yuva Jan Jagruti, Vyavastha Parivartan Party, and Rashtriya Jankranti Party have also fielded one or two candidates in some of the seats.A total of 51 independents are also in the fray.The BJP has fielded Pradyumnsinh Jadeja (Abdasa), Kiritsinh Rana (Limbdi), Brijesh Merja (Morbi), J V Kakadiya (Dhari), Atmaram Parmar (Gadhada), Akshay Patel (Karjan), Vijay Patel (Dang) and Jitubhai Chaudhary (Kaprada).These candidates include five former Congress MLAs who resigned from the opposition party and joined the BJP.The Congress candidates for the bypolls are Shantilal Sendhani (Abdasa), Chetan Khachar (Limbdi), Jayantilal Patel (Morbi), Suresh Kotadiya (Dhari), Mohan Solanki (Gadhada), Kiritsinh Jadeja (Karjan), Suryakant Gavit (Dang) and Babubhai Patel (Kaprada).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/81-candidates-in-row-for-bypolls-to-8-assembly-seats-in-gujarat/story-KvXAMu49n6Olm2u45BghzO.html
20-10-2020||India||‘His opinion’: Kamal Nath responds to Rahul Gandhi disapproving ‘item’ remark||Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath is facing flak for his “item” remark against state minister Imarti Devi during a campaign speech for assembly by-election.Party’s former president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said he personally doesn’t like the type of language that the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister used.“Kamal Nath ji is from my party but personally, I don’t like the type of language that he used...I don’t appreciate it, regardless of who he is. It is unfortunate,” Gandhi said while interacting with mediapersons.Reacting to Rahul’s statement, Nath said, “It is Rahul Gandhi’s opinion. I have already clarified the context in which I made that statement... Why should I apologise when I did not intend to insult anyone? If anyone felt insulted, I have already expressed regret.”Nath was on Sunday addressing an election meeting in the Dabra (scheduled caste) assembly constituency in Gwalior district, which is headed for a bypoll, where he made the remark while comparing the virtues of Congress candidate Suresh Raje with those of the rival candidate from the BJP, Imarti Devi.“Suresh Raje is a simple man. He is down to earth. He is not like the person. What is the name of the person?” As crowd responded to Nath’s question, citing Imarti Devi’s name, Kamal Nath called her an “item”, saying, “Why should I name her? You know her better than I know. You should have warned me. Ye kya item hai...”Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday asked Congress president Sonia Gandhi to remove Nath from all party posts for his allegedly sexist remarks against state minister Imarti Devi. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers across Madhya Pradesh staged a two-hour protest of silence.“I thought being a woman you would take notice of the news on insult to cabinet minister and scheduled caste woman leader Imarti Devi and take action against state Congress president Kamal Nath while condemning the indecent remark but you have not done it so far…She broke down while sharing her pain. Elections come and go but insult to a Dalit woman like this casts a slur on the entire political arena,” he wrote.In response, Nath wrote a letter to Chouhan on Monday in which he said, “In my 40 years of public life, I have always respected women and will continue to do so. I didn’t make any disrespectful remark during my speech in Dabra meeting but still you came out with lies. The word that you are indicating has several definitions, but you and your party are trying to mislead people by telling lies.”Bypolls are scheduled to be held on 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh on November 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unfortunate-don-t-appreciate-it-rahul-gandhi-on-kamal-nath-s-item-jibe/story-giRNTnB5sm4vHcukyg37BN.html
20-10-2020||India||Covid-19 on mind, Durga Puja celebrations low key sans idols, pandals, bhog||It’s that time of the year. The fragrance of ‘shiuli’, the delicate orange and white flowers that blossom right about now, mingles with the autumn breeze to herald Durga Puja but the frankincense is missing and a wary quiet has overtaken the sound of festivities.In the air there is the virus and the fear of it.The Bengali community in the Delhi-NCR region is staying away from Durga Puja festivities, a community affair in parks and other open spaces. And nowhere is this more evident than in Chittaranjan Park, often known as ‘mini Bengal’.. It’s two days before Durga Puja begins and Delhi’s predominantly Bengali neighbourhood has never been quieter.The parks that have for decades served as venues for larger than life themed pandals housing ornately decked Durga idols for five days every year are deserted.Keeping in mind the Covid-19 scare, puja committees in C R park, as the south Delhi locality is known, and elsewhere in Delhi-NCR have decided to keep celebrations low key, hosting rituals online, sans idols, cultural programmes, ‘bhog’ and in several places even the customary floral offerings.On Monday,12 Durga Puja Committees of Chittaranjan Park, Greater Kailash 1 and 2, Alaknanda, and Kalkaji met at a temple and unanimously decided that the puja celebrations this year would be suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic.The meeting was convened by Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj and attended by the sub-divisional magistrate, police officials and other agencies.“Most of the population of C R Park and members of puja committees are senior citizens and it is important they remain indoors and avoid contact with unknown people in pandals,” Bharadwaj, a legislator of Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party, said.But almost all the committees will host a small “kalash puja/ ghat puja” to “ensure continuity of puja by these samitis”, according to a statement issued after the meeting. C R Park’s Mela Ground Committee, which is known for organising grand celebrations, featuring not just unique puja themes but also cultural performances by leading artists from Bengal, is one of them.“Unfortunately this year we are not organising Durga Puja on a large scale considering the unprecedented situation. No ‘mandap’ or ‘pandal’ will be installed to prevent large gatherings to keep the public safe from this contagious disease. “No activity will be organised except a ceremony called ‘ghot pujo’ which will be performed every day with limited visitors or committee members and a priest during ‘saptami’, ‘ashtami’ and ‘navami’ at our Mela Ground park,” Avik Mitra, a member of the organising committee, told PTI.Durga Puja is celebrated over four days -- sashti, saptami, ashthami and navami which this year fall from October 22 to 24. On the fifth day, dashami, devotees bid adieu to the goddess and the idol is immersed. In line with the Delhi government’s guidelines, 15 committee members, including two priests, will be allowed to attend the rituals physically within the park precincts, the final list for which has to be submitted to the police. For others, the ‘ghot pujo’ will be streamed live on the committee’s Facebook page.“All those who enter the premises will have to submit a self-attested declaration stating that they have not come in direct contact with any Covid positive patient in the last 48 hours.“The Arogya Setu app will be mandatory for 15 members. Hand sanitisation, wearing of masks and maintaining social distance will be of utmost priority for all the members attending the ‘ghot pujo’,” Mitra said.C R Park’s B-Block puja committee has reduced the annual five-day affair to a single day celebration with a ‘ghot pujo’ on October 24 from 7 am onwards. Only the priest and two helpers will be allowed to participate in the rituals.Unprecedented times call for unprecedented action, said Suprakash Majumdar, general secretary of the committee.“This year, the committee has decided that flowers, sweets, and fruits from individual homes cannot be offered. Nothing will be accepted by the priest due to Covid-19 restrictions. There won’t be any ‘pandal’, idol , entertainment/cultural events, sports events, ‘bhog’ distribution at our ground either,” Majumdar said. The B Block committee is, however, accepting donations in cash as well as online and via cheque, all exempt from income tax.Puja spirits are running low even beyond Delhi’s ‘mini-Bengal’. Covid on their mind, Green Park’s Matri Mandir society also has chosen to go the ‘ghot pujo’ way despite the state government’s nod for small scale celebrations.“It would have been very difficult to restart after the government allowed puja celebrations. We will stick to our plan of performing ‘ghot pujo’. We will follow all rituals and no short cuts as far as the puja is concerned,” said Debashis Saha, chief coordinator of the Matri Mandir Sarbojanin Durga Puja Samiti.While members of the committee will be paying their respects to the deity from their respective homes, the committee has decided to send money to all the workers associated with the celebrations every year.“We have decided to pay needy workers who were associated with our puja like the ‘dhaki’ (drummers), cooks, and security personnel. Also, we will donate to the PM’s relief fund,” Saha said.Caution is key in the suburban town of Gurgaon that falls in Haryana.Gurgaon’s DLF5 Durga Puja committee has capped the number of people present within the pandal at any point of time at 45. “We will keep it as simple as possible… minimalistic, functional set up for pandal decorations. Our theme this year is about embracing minimalism, acknowledging the power of nature and appreciating the value of life, people and our society. “Apart from keeping all rituals and activities of the puja at a minimum, we also intend to cut down all costs wherever possible, and use part of the savings from the funds raised to help people impacted during this time,” a committee spokesperson said.While individuals will be allowed to attend rituals physically, for those not keen to come to the pandal, especially the elderly and other vulnerable communities, celebrations will be telecast online on the committee website and its social media handles.“We have built a website for puja visit slot booking — 30 minute slots each, allowing 25 visitors in each slot and volunteers, security and sanitisation staff up to 20. No overlaps, or cross directional movement will be allowed. Attendees would be socially distanced once they are inside the venue. There will be flowerless ‘pushpanjali’ to avoid any common touch points,” the committee member said.The website will also be used to coordinate food distribution to minimise crowding.“There will be pre-packaged takeaway ‘bhog’ on one of the days. People will not be allowed to sit down and consume food. Just a clean handover of takeaway packages booked through the website,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-on-mind-durga-puja-celebrations-low-key-sans-idols-pandals-bhog/story-AaPAYCiIj7cbw9fH3fnr2K.html
20-10-2020||India||With a quiz in UP, Congress presents ‘facts’ about its role in nation-building||With the BJP accusing the Congress of ‘doing’ nothing for the country, many questions in the Rajiv Gandhi Samanya Gyan Pratiyogita (general knowledge contest) focused on the role of the party and its leaders in the freedom struggle and nation-building over the years.The Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) organised the quiz contest on September 13 and 14. The prizes were given on Sunday. About 7,840 youths have won various prizes. A laptop was given in every district to the winner of the first prize while a cell phone and a tablet were given to winners of the second and the third prizes. Barring Etah, the prize distribution ceremony was organised for all the districts in Lucknow on Sunday.“Besides laptops, mobile phones and tablets, we also gave consolation prizes that included subscription to general knowledge and NCERT books,” said Anil Yadav, organisation secretary of the UPCC.“Yes, there is a lot of misinformation on the social media and those who appeared in the quiz have realised this. As we gave away prizes to the winners on Sunday, many of the winners came to us to convey how the quiz has helped them get the right information,” said Mukesh Chauhan, president of the City Congress Committee, Lucknow.Chauhan’s claims are not unfounded. About 12.50 lakh youth had registered for the second Rajiv Gandhi Samanya Gyan Pratiyogita (General Knowledge Quiz) held in all the 75 districts of the state. About 5.85 lakh youths participated in the 60-question competition held online.“Those who participated in the quiz are in the 16 to 22 year age group and they have come across the facts about the Congress (now),” said Yadav.“One of the questions asked participants to name a leader who was the first to speak about the need to fight Covid-19 in India and the obvious reply was Rahul Gandhi,” he added.More and more questions may have focused on the role of Congress and its leaders. The participants went through the study material provided to them to prepare for the quiz. For instance, the quiz asked who introduced reservation for women in panchayati raj institutions or who brought the revolution in the communications sector in India? Late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi was the obvious answer to these two questions. Other questions focused on work done during the tenure of first Prime Minister, the late Jawaharlal Nehru. It also had questions on former Prime Minister the late Indira Gandhi and former Prime Minister Mamohan Singh as well.Asked whether the Congress would be able to counter the BJP’s campaign, Yadav said, “We did not intend to counter them. We provided a lot of information with facts on our online page Yuva Josh. We also provided information to the youth through preparatory quiz and YouTube videos.”SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science at Lucknow University, said, “The Congress is the oldest party. It has done a lot and holding a quiz is a very positive move. I don’t agree with the claim that the Congress did nothing for the country. The political parties should do more positive things than just indulging in negative politics.” “The Congress leadership will have to prove itself to the people if the party wants to win an election,” he added.Uttar Pradesh BJP leader Vijay Pathak said, “The Congress is busy expanding its organisational base in Uttar Pradesh. But the party has a negative approach. It cannot give a positive message by resorting to negative politics. The Congress should work as a responsible opposition party and appreciate the good work being done by the state government, instead of indulging in negative politics only.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-a-quiz-in-up-congress-presents-facts-about-its-role-in-nation-building/story-OlR6L7Q91xOvIsi1LrsTnJ.html
20-10-2020||India||What is Maharashtra govt doing to help rain-hit farmers, asks Fadnavis||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday said the Centre would definitely help the state in the wake of damages caused due to heavy rains, but the state government should also spell out what it is doing to provide relief to the affected farmers.Talking to reporters in Osmanabad district during a tour to assess losses caused by heavy rains, Fadnavis said the three ruling parties in the state have many differences among them, but they are expert in getting away from their responsibilities.“The NDA government will surely help more than the earlier (UPA) government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already spoken to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and assured him about it, but the state government must also tell what it is doing to provide aid to farmers,” he said.The Centre is also facing the Covid-19 pandemic as is the state government, he said.“But, the Centre will not stop funding the state. The Centre has already paid Rs 20,000 crore till March this year.To pay further debts of the state, the central government is taking a loan of Rs 1 lakh crore,” said the leader of opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly.Due to heavy rains, the soil of farms is washed away at many places. Hence, a scheme should be initiated to help farmers facing such issues, he said.Wells are filled with silt and orchards have also suffered damages due to the heavy rains, he noted.“Earlier, our government considered a photograph of losses as the survey. On the same lines, the present state government must work and complete surveys fast and immediate help should be given to farmers in rain-hit areas,” he said.He showed to reporters two past videos in which Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, were seen demanding concrete help for farmers from the then Fadnavis-led government.“Those who demanded aid for farmers earlier have a chance to keep their word now. Those in the government should be more patient, but the ruling party leaders are indulging in politics. The state should help the farmers,” he said.Targeting NCP chief Sharad Pawar, whose party is an ally of the state government, Fadnavis said, “Pawar never says anything wrong. He knows the way and when the central government’s aid will come to state.” “At present, he has a responsibility to defend the inefficiency of the present state government and he is doing that,” he added.Fadnavis further said he agreed with Sharad Pawar that the state government needs to take loan for helping farmers.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has increased the loan limit of Maharashtra to Rs 1.20 lakh crore.He also said that there are complaints that government officials have not reached out to farmers for surveys of the damage caused due to heavy rains and floods.The state should increase its manpower and get the surveys done, he said.Asked about the state government’s decision to allow women to travel in local trains in Mumbai, Fadnavis said the Railways has taken a clear stand over this and demanded information regarding the necessary number of trainsand other issues.If such details are provided, the Railways can accordingly run the trains (for women), he said.On the Maharashtra government’s decision to conduct a probe into the “irregularities” in the Jalyukt Shivar water conservation scheme, a pet project of Fadnavis, the BJP leader said, “The state government cannot shut my mouth by such inquiries.” “Leader of opposition is of the people and he will speak for the people. There were six lakh works done under the scheme in a decentralised manner and only 700 complaints are received.“I will talk more on it after the present crisis of farmers is over,” he said.On Pawar’s claim that those who left the NCP earlier were keen to come back to the party, Fadnavis said, “Not a single person (from BJP) will go.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-maharashtra-govt-doing-to-help-rain-hit-farmers-asks-fadnavis/story-1MD0UbkRGNf2zLOez6pTPK.html
20-10-2020||India||Pfizer, BioNTech start combined trials of Covid-19 vaccine candidate in Japan||Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE announced on Tuesday the start in Japan of combined Phase I and Phase II clinical trials of their mRNA vaccine candidate against the coronavirus.The study will recruit 160 people aged from 20 to 85, the firms said in a statement. Earlier, they had agreed to supply Japan with 120 million doses of their experimental coronavirus vaccine in the first half of 2021.Pfizer, which is developing the vaccine with German partner BioNTech, has said it may confirm if the vaccine is effective as soon as this month, but also needs safety data from a global trial of 44,000 people that will not be available until next month.Japan has pledged to secure enough vaccine supply for its entire population by the middle of 2021. In addition to Pfizer, it has struck deals on supplies with AstraZeneca Plc and other overseas makers of vaccine candidates.Clinical trials of AstraZeneca and Oxford University’s experimental COVID-19 vaccine resumed in Japan this month after being put on hold over the illness of a British volunteer. (Reporting by Rocky Swift; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-biontech-start-combined-trials-of-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-in-japan/story-DNXrb7Rcna5jxGygbFsAYK.html
20-10-2020||India||J&K forms committees to plan for district development council elections||The J&K government on Tuesday began the process of holding elections for district development councils by constituting apex and divisional level committees. These committees would draw up a detailed schedule for the council elections.The apex level committee will be headed by the principal secretary, home, and the director general of police, additional director general of police (CID), divisional commissioners, Jammu and Kashmir, secretary, rural development and panchayati raj will be its members. The committee will submit its report on October 27.Two divisional level committees have also been set up which will be headed by the divisional commissioners, Jammu and Srinagar.“The apex and divisional committees will draw a road map and detailed schedule for conducting elections to District Development Councils in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” reads the order issued by additional secretary to J&K government, Rohit Sharma.On Saturday, the J&K government had announced that it will amend Panchayati Raj rules to set up district development councils.A government spokesperson said, “Every district will be divided into 14 constituencies each. The DDCs will comprise all directly elected members from territorial constituencies in the district, MLAs representing a part or whole of the district, chairpersons of block development councils and the additional district divisional commissioner will be the CEO of the councils.” As per the guidelines, every DDC will comprise a standing Committee for finance, development, public works, health, education and welfare. As per the amendments, each district will have a district planning committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-forms-committees-to-plan-for-district-development-council-elections/story-29Vrd8Qk0q9zyfcvsnJH4M.html
20-10-2020||India||PM Modi to address the nation shortly||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday he will address the nation in the evening as the country battled the coronavirus pandemic with more than 7.5 million infections and 115,197 deaths recorded so far. “Will be sharing a message with my fellow citizens at 6 PM this evening,” PM Modi tweeted.आज शाम 6 बजे राष्ट्र के नाम संदेश दूंगा। आप जरूर जुड़ें।Will be sharing a message with my fellow citizens at 6 PM this evening.The Prime Minister urged people to join him but did not give any detail about the message he is going to share. He has addressed the nation a number of times during the last few months - from announcing a national lockdown to focusing on India’s battle against the coronavirus disease and the steps the government took to minimise the impact of the crisis. His address will come as the country will be celebrating a number of festivals, including Durga Puja, Diwali and Chhath, as experts have warned against people lowering theirs guard norms. In his address on June 30, PM Modi had said that people have become more irresponsible and careless about Covid-19 prevention guidelines since the start of Unlock1.0. He had reiterated the importance of social distancing and wearing masks.Before that, he had addressed the nation on May 12 when he had announced a Rs 20 lakh crore financial package to boost the economy recovering from coronavirus-induced lockdown. PM Modi asked the nation on April 3, in a video message, to light lamps for frontline workers battling the coronavirus pandemic on April 5. He had on April 14 extended the lockdown period till May 3.The Prime Minister announced a Janta Curfew, in his March 19 address, and urged people to stay home voluntarily on March 22. On March 24, he announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown. The government have lifted most of the restrictions which were put in place during the lockdown to curb the spread of the pandemic.India recorded 46,790 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 587 related deaths in the last 24 hours taking the country’s infection tally to 7,597,063. India’s death toll has gone up to 115,197. The number of Covid-19 cases and death have been relatively low for two days now -- there were 55,722 infections and 579 fatalities on Monday.The active cases dropped below the 800,000 mark at 748,538, for the fourth day in a row now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-address-the-nation-at-6pm-today/story-segpW8tvp9jyCCxikFaMjI.html
20-10-2020||India||Australia will participate in Malabar naval exercise with India, US and Japan: Govt||Australia will participate in the Malabar naval exercise next month involving India, the US and Japan that will bring the four key defence partners and democracies in the region together, demonstrating their collective resolve to support an open and prosperous Indo-Pacific.In a significant move that comes amid a Sino-India border row, India on Monday announced Australia’s participation in the upcoming Malabar exercise along with the US and Japan, effectively making it the first military-level engagement between the four-member nation grouping -- the Quad.The invitation by India to the Australian navy for the exercise came two weeks after the foreign ministers of the Quad held extensive talks in Tokyo with a focus on enhancing their cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, a region that has been witnessing increasing Chinese military assertiveness. In a joint statement with Australian Defence Minister Linda Reynolds, Foreign Minister Marise Payne said the announcement was another important step in Australia’s deepening relationship with India. The government said that following an invitation from India, Australia will participate in the Malabar-2020 exercise, which is likely to take place next month in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea. The exercise will bring together four key regional defence partners India, Japan, the United States and Australia in November, it said. Reynolds said Malabar-2020 marked a milestone opportunity for the Australian Defence Force (ADF). “High-end military exercises like MALABAR are key to enhancing Australia’s maritime capabilities, building interoperability with our close partners, and demonstrating our collective resolve to support an open and prosperous Indo-Pacific,” Reynolds said. For the last few years, Australia has been showing keen interest in participating in the high-end naval exercise. Australia will be returning to the joint manoeuvres after its participation in 2007. The US has been pushing for a deeper military collaboration with Japan, India and Australia against China’s growing regional influence. Beijing claims almost all of the 1.3 million square-mile South China Sea as its sovereign territory. China has been building military bases on artificial islands in the region which, in parts, is claimed by Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam.Beijing has impeded commercial activity like fishing and mineral exploration by neighbouring nations in recent years, saying the ownership of the resource-rich maritime territory belongs to China for hundreds of years.Foreign Minister Payne said that the Malabar exercise also “showcases the deep trust between four major Indo-Pacific democracies and their shared will to work together on common security interests”.“This builds on the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, to which Prime Minister (Scott) Morrison and Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi agreed on June 4, 2020, and which I progressed with my counterpart, Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar, this month when we met in Tokyo,” she said.“It will bolster the ability of India, Australia, Japan and the United States to work together to uphold peace and stability across our region,” Payne asserted.Participation in the naval exercise demonstrates Australia’s enduring commitment to enhancing regional security, stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific, and increasing the capability and inter-operability of the ADF, she said.Australia last participated in Exercise MALABAR in 2007.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australia-will-participate-in-malabar-naval-exercise-with-india-us-and-japan-govt/story-NU9U1bjWLyCJ4Q4CNUgwEI.html
20-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Pakistan lifts ban on TikTok after the Chinese app promises to moderate content and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pakistan lifts ban on TikTok after the Chinese app promises to moderate contentPakistan’s telecom regulator on Monday announced that it was lifting a ban on popular video-sharing app TikTok. The Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA) said in a statement that the decision was taken after TikTok’s management assured the PTA that it will block all accounts “involved in spreading obscenity and immorality” in the country. Read moreNorth-east border disputes: All you need to knowBorder disputes can get nasty. The country’s north-east, which shares borders with several countries such as China, Myanmar, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Bhutan, has had its brush with some of these border disputes. Read moreEver wonder what the Cosmic Reef ‘sounds’ like? NASA’s video has the answerEarlier this month, NASA’s Hubble Space Telescope shared a video that helped netizens experience stars and galaxies through senses other than just sight. Read moreAnaita Shroff Adajania on playing Kajol’s friend Sheena in DDLJ: ‘I did it for a laugh and a paid holiday to Europe’Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge has completed 25 years of its release on Tuesday and the entire cast and crew of the film are happy to reminisce fond memories of the making of the film. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘He is not someone who carries his phone all the time,’ Ashish Nehra talks about his ‘different bond’ with MS DhoniMS Dhoni is one of the most revered names in world cricket. He has achieved a lot in his career including leading Team India to victory in 2007 World T20, 2011 Cricket World Cup, and 2013 Champions Trophy. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pakistan-lifts-ban-on-tiktok-after-the-chinese-app-promises-to-moderate-content-and-all-the-latest-news/story-sisILkTvkESyZjycAhIekN.html
20-10-2020||India||‘Rise above politics’: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh tables draft resolution against Centre’s farm laws||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who has been a vocal opponent of the recently-passed farm laws and has rallied across the state to convince farmers to not fall into Centre’s ‘trap’, on Tuesday tabled a draft resolution against the legislation and the proposed electricity amendment bill during the state’s assembly session and urged all parties to rise above politics.The draft resolution seeks the annulment of the farm laws and the proposed electricity amendment bill, as well as promulgation of “a fresh ordinance making the procurement of food grains on the Minimum Support Price a statutory right of the farmers and continue with procurement by Government of India through FCI and other such agencies”, a statement from his office said.The passage of three farm bills by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament comes with a promise that India’s agricultural sector will be reformed and more avenues of investment from private players will open up. But there have been nationwide protests against the imposition of these newly-framed laws with a fear that farmers might become slaves to big corporations. A recent survey conducted by Gaon Connection showed that more than 50% of the farmers are against the implementation of these laws.Also Read: Farmers force closure of Reliance stores in MohaliSeveral members of Opposition parties have led the charge to boycott the Centre’s laws in the form of rallies, protests with a view that India’s agricultural base will be weakened.The draft resolution aims to abolish the new farm bills along with the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, and further declare a new law which would make the Minimum Support Price (MSP) policy a statutory right of the farmers. It stated that the process of procuring food grains from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and the Centre along with several other agencies will continue.It also mentioned the regret of the state assembly over “callous and inconsiderate attitude of the Government of India in attending to the concerns of the farming community on recent alleged farm legislation enacted by them.”Also Read: Rahul Gandhi, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder vow to force Centre to revoke farm lawsSingh also introduced three counter bills in the session - the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment Bill 2020, the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill 2020.He pointed out the bills which have been introduced today would be the basis of Punjab’s legal battle ahead and have to be carefully examined before they are presented.“The draft resolution states that Farm laws are against the Constitution (Entry 14 List-II), which mentions agriculture as a state subject and these legislations are a direct attack to encroach upon functions and powers of states as enshrined in the Constitution,” the chief minister added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rise-above-politics-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-tables-draft-resolution-against-centre-s-farm-laws/story-nXMY4yyAo9r66w2wmRL30J.html
20-10-2020||India||Hyderabad floods: Delhi will donate Rs 15 crore to Telangana, announces CM Arvind Kejriwal||As Hyderabad battles floods, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday expressed his support for the ‘brothers and sisters’ in Telangana’s capital city and said his government will donate Rs 15 crore to Telangana towards its relief efforts.(Read more: Andhra CM asks officials to send speed boats for relief ops in Hyderabad)“Floods have caused havoc in Hyderabad. People of Delhi stand by our brothers and sisters in Hyderabad in this hour of crisis. Delhi government will donate Rs 15 crore to the government of Telangana for its relief efforts,” Kejriwal, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief, tweeted. Floods have caused havoc in Hyderabad. People of Delhi stand by our brother and sisters in Hyderabad in this hour of crisis. Delhi govt will donate Rs 15 cr to the Govt of Telangana for its relief efforts.Kejriwal’s announcement comes a day after his Tamil Nadu counterpart, Edappadi K Palaniswami, donated Rs 10 crore to Telangana from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Tamil Nadu is also sending blankets and mats for the flood victims.(Read more: Heavy rains expected in Telangana and other areas, days after Hyderabad flooding)On October 13, the IT hub was hit by one of its worst deluges in recent times, the ripple effects of which are being felt even now. On Sunday, the city was battered yet again by an overnight spell of rain. According to the Telangana government, at least 70 people have lost their lives due to floods across the state, almost half of which or 33, are from Hyderabad alone. Also, in a press release, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) said a total of 37,409 families were affected due to the floods in Hyderabad.On Monday, Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao announced Rs 10,000 financial assistance to each family that was affected by the floods. He also announced Rs one lakh for those whose houses were completely destroyed and Rs 50,000 for those whose houses were partially destroyed. Rao also announced his government will immediately release Rs 550 crore for helping those affected, especially the poor.(Read more: 3 dead after fresh rain batters Hyderabad)Besides Telangana, its fellow southern states of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are also battling floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-floods-delhi-will-donate-rs-15-crore-to-telangana-announces-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-lUw0EVkOClTfz2snqQau5J.html
20-10-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 cases less than 50,000 for first time in 3 months||The number of new coronavirus infections dropped below 50,000 for the first time in nearly three months in India on Tuesday even as the country’s Covid-19 tally inched close to 7.6 million, the Union health ministry’s data showed. On Tuesday, there were 46,790 new cases of Covid-19 from across the country, fewer than 47,703 recorded on July 28. The 46,790 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 587 related deaths in the last 24 hours have taken India’s infection tally to 7,597,063, according to the health ministry. The number of Covid-19 cases and death have been relatively low for two days now -- there were 55,722 infections and 579 fatalities on Monday.“India crosses Significant Milestones. The new confirmed cases have fallen below 50,000 (46,790) for the first time in nearly three months. The new cases were 47,703 on 28th July,” the health ministry tweeted.Also read | AIIMS reports first case of Covid-19-related brain nerve damage in a childAccording to the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard at 8am, the number of active cases has also dropped below the 800,000 mark at 748,538 for the fourth day in a row. India’s death toll has gone up to 115,197, it showed. There were 69,720 Covid-19 patients who recovered between Monday and Tuesday and the number of recovered is 6,733,328 across the country. The national recovery rate has gone up to 88.63%.The health ministry said that 75% of the new confirmed cases between Monday and Tuesday morning are from 10 states and Union territories. Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Kerala contributed more than 5,000 to the new confirmed cases, it added.Also read | 5 worst-hit states have seen decline in active Covid-19 cases: Health ministryOf the 587 fatalities related to the coronavirus disease, which have been reported in the past 24 hours, nearly 81% are concentrated in 10 states and Union territories, the ministry also said. The deaths reported have been below 600 for the second consecutive day on Tuesday.India has added 1,284,479 Covid-19 cases to its tally since October 1 and the death toll in the country, which is the second worst-affected after the United States, has increased by 16,519, health ministry’s data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-less-than-50-000-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-for-first-time-since-july-end/story-nvqfh1JkX2tbSwp9my7OMI.html
20-10-2020||India||Pak ISI finds its inspiration in IS tactics, preps to rain drone bombs in J&K||Pakistan’s Army has started training terror groups in the use of explosive-laden drones to carry out attacks on targets in Jammu and Kashmir, a move inspired by Islamic State fighters who have used commercially-available drones or quadcopters to target forces in Iraq and Syria for years.According to intelligence inputs reviewed by Hindustan Times, Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence had come up with the idea of replicating the IS successes in use of cheap drones to carry out small bomb attacks and not just carry out surveillance or capture live feed for attacks to be used for propaganda. The ISI laid out its plan first at a meeting with senior Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed commanders in Punjab province’s Taxila in April this year. There was a follow-up meeting the next month at the brigade headquarters in Kotli district of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.Of the options that were explored at these meetings were the use of quadcopters that could have a range of three km and could carry up to 5 kg explosives. The drones were rigged to carry and drop small quantities of munition on enemy targets.Also Read: In Pak Army approach to terror in Kashmir, building synergy is new buzzwordIslamic State fighters had almost perfected the tactic on the battleground, prompting the United States and drone manufacturers to spend millions of dollars on research and tweaks in the drone technology to stop what some called, the ‘killer bees’.Don Rassler, who studied the drones and their impact at the United States Military Academy’s center on combating terror, found that the IS innovation had inspired many copycat versions. He counted the Iraqi security forces as one of the first to deploy them to attack adversaries. By 2017, the IS’ innovation inspired a gang in Mexico caught with firearms and a drone carrying explosives.Also Read: In Pak terror plan to revive 2 routes, Pathankot airbase attack coordinator is keyPakistan’s ISI is going to be another. The Border Security Force has already spotted a spike in the number of drones in the air across the International Border with Pakistan.A senior Indian counter-terror official said the BSF and the army had been told to stay prepared to neutralise the little flying machines that could be used to target security camps and posts near the border.Also Read: In tech upgrade, BSF to get 436 drones and new anti-drone systemsBut it is unlikely that if drones fly in from across the border, it would remain one-way traffic.“If Pakistan starts it, there could be retaliatory attacks in equal measure, with or without the drones,” said the official, adding that New Delhi was likely to authorise similar cross-border attacks using drones in the first instance. “The (security) forces have started work on it after the inputs about the Pakistani plan first came in,” he said.Pakistani agencies and its instruments - arms and narco-traffickers - have used drones in Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir but this has been mostly used to beat the floodlit fence to smuggle drugs, weapons, explosives and fake Indian currency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-isi-finds-its-inspiration-in-isis-tactics-preps-to-rain-drone-bombs-in-j-k/story-Ay93NVBdV3H7SqBHYi7LKJ.html
20-10-2020||India||UP gets most applications under PM’s street vendors’ scheme: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath on Monday directed all district magistrates (DMs) to cover the maximum number of beneficiaries under the PM SVANidhi Scheme (Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi Yojana) by implementing it in a mission mode.He also asked the chief secretary to regularly monitor the progress of the scheme under which street vendors can get working capital up to Rs 10,000 at a subsidised rate of interest.At a video conference with DMs and other officials here, he said 5.57 lakh applications had been received so far, which was the highest number in the country.He said 2.83 lakh applications had already been approved and loan disbursed to 99,000 beneficiaries.“Ensure to get more than five lakh applications and distribute loans to at least three lakh beneficiaries within the next one week,” he directed the officials. He said the PM would hold a dialogue with the beneficiaries in all the cities and towns on October 27 and asked officials to make arrangements accordingly. The CM also asked officials to saturate all villages with the Ayushman Bharat Yojana by November 1 by distributing golden cards to all the beneficiaries under the Ayushman Bharat and the CM Jan Arogya schemes.Reviewing the paddy purchase progress, he said all arrangements should be made at the purchase centres to save farmers from any inconvenience. He asked officials to increase the number of centres according to requirements and see to it farmers did not have to sell their produce below the MSP under any condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-gets-most-applications-under-pm-s-street-vendors-scheme-adityanath/story-rJ3XS3I4tN6pcR2vUzW59K.html
20-10-2020||India||50% deposit of decreed amount to file appeals not retrospective: NCDRC||The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) has done away with the requirement of asking individuals or companies to deposit half the payment ordered by the State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commissions as a precondition for admitting their appeals.The Commission said that this condition was introduced in the Consumer Protection Act on July 20, 2020 and won’t apply to complaints or orders passed before this date.The new condition was inserted as an amendment to Section 51(1) of the newly amended Consumer Protection Act 2019 and was challenged by several individuals and companies before a two-member bench of the NCDRC.The new condition stated thus, “Provided further that no appeal by a person, who is required to pay any amount in terms of an order of the State Commission, shall be entertained by the National Commission unless the appellant has deposited 50% of that amount in the manner as may be prescribed.”The Commission noted that prior to this amendment, parties who filed appeals before the National Commission were required to either deposit 50% of the amount required to be paid in terms of the State Commission order or a sum of Rs 35,000, whichever is less.The Commission bench headed by President RK Agrawal and Member SM Kantikar said, “We are of the considered opinion that now it is well-established that a right of Appeal is a vested and a substantive right which cannot be altered, modified by putting stringent conditions as that right of Appeal had accrued to the person concerned from the date of initiation of the proceedings i.e. from the date of filing of the Complaint before the appropriate fora under the 1986 Act.”Since the amended provision was not retrospective in operation, the Commission held that the said condition will not apply to complaints already pending in the District Consumer court or State Commission or National Commission. The Commission allowed the appeals filed by the petitioner individuals and companies to be registered as they all arose out of complaints filed prior to the amendment.Advocate Kunal Cheema who argued the case before the National Commission said, “This judgment will be helpful to all whose complaints were in existence before the new Act of 2019 came into force. So whenever the order is passed in future and they are filing first appeal, they will be able to do it as per the conditions of the old Act with a cap of Rs 35,000 and not 50 per cent of the decreed amount.”The Commission was hearing six set of appeals filed by various individuals and companies against separate orders passed by the State Commissions of Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Odisha and Karnataka. The appeals were not registered as they did not comply with the amended condition of depositing 50 per cent of the amount as directed by State Commissions. However, they had deposited Rs 35,000 as required by the Consumer Protection Act, 1986.The Commission allowed registration to all these appeals by stating, “We are of the considered opinion that the Second Proviso of Sub-Section (1) of Section 51 of the 2019 Act shall not be applicable where the person aggrieved is challenging the order passed by the State Commission in an appeal arising out of a complaint case filed prior to 20/24 July 2020 when the 2019 Act came into operation/was enforced.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-deposit-of-decreed-amount-to-file-appeals-not-retrospective-ncdrc/story-rfOvLLwIjYHEBKKhXHRmkN.html
20-10-2020||India||Kalka-Shimla ‘Himalayan Queen’ to resume operations from today||The Kalka-Shimla toy train will resume operations for the first time in seven months on Tuesday, as the seven-coach Himalayan Queen will make its journey from Kalka to Shimla, and vice versa, for the first time since March when a national lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease was enforced. Last week, the Railway Board had given its approval for the resumption of services of the Himalayan Queen keeping in mind the upcoming festive season.While the Kalka-Shimla train will leave Kalka at 12:10pm and arrive in Shimla at 5:20pm on October 20, it will make the return journey the next day, leaving Shimla at 10:40am and reaching Kalka at 4:10pm. The Kalka-Shimla Himalayan Queen is numbered 04515 (Up), the Shimla-Kalka Himalayan Queen is numbered 04516 (Down). Of the seven cars in the train, two will be luxury coaches. The train will be in service from October 20 to November 30.Stations were sanitised and maintenance work of the track was carried out by authorities keeping in mind the resumption of the Himalayan Queen’s services. Also, during the journey, strict Covid-19 protocols will be followed.The Kalka-Shimla railway track has been classified as a ‘world heritage route.’ It will complete its 127th anniversary on November 9, as train services on this track started on November 9, 1903. It comes under the Ambala division of the Northern Railway and is 96 km long with 18 stations on the route. There are more than 880 bridges, as well as over 100 tunnels on this route.Himachal Pradesh on Monday recorded 160 new cases of the coronavirus disease, taking the state’s total tally to 19,135. A total of 16,241 people has recovered in the hill state and active cases stand at 2,593. The death toll, meanwhile, reached 267 after four new fatalities on Monday, data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kalka-shimla-himalayan-queen-to-resume-operations-from-today/story-tEQvb3ulZNVdzzrBtgLEzH.html
20-10-2020||India||Mumbai court acquits 20 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members, says prosecution had no evidence||A magistrate’s court on Monday acquitted 20 foreigners including 10 Indonesians and 10 from Kyrgyzstan who were booked for not disclosing that they had attended a religious gathering of Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in New Delhi. The group of foreigners was booked by the DN Nagar police on April 5 in two separate cases for not following the advisory issued in the wake of Covid-19. The Mumbai police had earlier issued an advisory and warning asking people who had attended the meet at Delhi to come forward, failing which a criminal case would be registered against them. The group failed to come forward but was traced in the first week of April following which a case was registered with the DN Nagar police station. The group was booked for attempt to murder and culpable homicide not amounting to murder. They were also booked under Epidemic Diseases Act, the National Disaster Act, Foreign Act and Bombay Police Act. Also read: Mumbai court discharges 12 Indonesians arrested over Tablighi Jamaat eventThe sessions court had discharged the accused from the charges of attempt to murder and culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Earlier this month the court further dropped other charges against the accused and they were put to trial only under section 135 of Bombay Police Act for defying the rules of national lockdown and order issued by the Commissioner of police. The prosecution had examined only two witnesses, the complainant - a police sub-inspector from DN Nagar police and investigating officer from the police station.The court after considering their evidence, observed, “The said witnesses were also not found in position to tell where and how the accused person were residing at the time of alleged offence. Thus there is no iota of evidence with prosecution to show any contravention of order by accused persons beyond all shadow of doubt. During the imposition of lockdown and their ultimate shelter in a mosque or nearby will not render them responsible for such contravention. There is no legal evidence adduced by prosecution to show that accused persons infringed the notification lawfully made under section 37 of Bombay Police Act.”The magistrate’s court while acquitting all the accused observed that, “The prosecution witnesses have clarified that the accused have not violated the norms of lockdown and order of the Police Commissioner. Their versions are contrary to the documentary evidence on record. The prosecution has not even carried out preparation of Panchanama and never recorded the statement of any other independent witness. Thus, there is no legal evidence furnished by prosecution in support of charge.”The court also noted that “The brief survey of prosecution evidence transpires that none of examined witnesses have an occasion to see the accused persons together in the form of assembly. Per contra the prosecution witnesses admitted that they have not seen accused persons contravening any directions or order issued by authority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-court-acquits-20-foreign-tablighi-jamaat-members-says-prosecution-had-no-evidence/story-zF5U7lUmOyvtaAy2u3UZqN.html
20-10-2020||India||Second terrorist killed in J-K’s Shopian after hours-long encounter, says army spokesperson||Two terrorists have been gunned down in a gun battle, which started on Monday afternoon in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district, a spokesperson of the Indian Army said on Tuesday. The second terrorist was killed in the joint operation undertaken by the army, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Jammu and Kashmir police in Shopian district. Officials said the operation began when security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Zainapora’s Melhora on Monday after receiving information about the presence of terrorists in the area. They added that the terrorists open fired at the security personnel triggering an encounter.One of the terrorists was killed on Monday, according to officials. Security personnel have recovered an AK assault rifle and a pistol during the search operation, which is still underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-terrorist-killed-in-j-k-s-shopian-after-hours-long-encounter-says-army-spokesperson/story-u3GOeUFj4FfgjQJx8hKozL.html
20-10-2020||India||Pre-Independence award to 1944 film Ram Shastri discovered at FTII||A cleaning drive at India’s premier film school Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) has unexpectedly yielded a gem from history—an award certificate conferred on Ram Shastri, one of the first biopics produced in the country 76 years ago.The pre-Independence award would now be showcased at the Prabhat Museum, according to FTII officials.Ram Shastri, in 1944, was no less than a sensation as it swept one film award after another.According to a person aware of the development, an award certificate presented to the Prabhat Film Company for Ram Shastri in 1944 was recently found in FTII’s Prabhat Studio at Pune.Also Read: Shekhar Kapur appointed chief of FTII society, chairman of FTII governing councilAccording to the details on the Certificate of Merit, the honour was presented to the film Ram Shastri for the Best Hindi Picture of the Year 1944 by Bengal Film Journalists’ Association, Calcutta. It bears the signature of the association’s president Tushar Kanti Ghosh and honorary secretary SM Bagde.Ram Shastri was one of the most successful films of its time, and swept the awards announced by the association. It won 6 other major awards—Best Film, Best Screenplay, Best Dialogues,Best Direction, Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor, according to the person cited above.The certificate appears to be in a reasonably good condition considering the decades that hat have passed. FTII director Bhupendra Kainthola confirmed the certificate’s discovery at the institute.Ram Shastri was among the first biopic films of its time when it was released on June 30, 1944 in Marathi and Hindi. It was based on the life of a legendary court official during the Maratha empire.The runaway success of the film was also attributed to the powerful acting of Gajanan Jagirdar, who went on to become the first Principal of the erstwhile Film Institute of India (now FTII) in 1961.The certificate was discovered by Ashutosh Kavishwar, assistant professor, Department of Art Direction and Production Design during a clean up of some rarely-visited areas of Prabhat Studio. The certificate will be restored and kept in Prabhat Museum, according to the person cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pre-independence-award-to-1944-film-ram-shastri-discovered-at-ftii/story-kaQbLwvAvRkDNodW4CTk5M.html
20-10-2020||India||Amid ‘item’ comment row, BJP minister uses offensive remark against Congress leader’s wife||Amid a war of words between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress over former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath’s ‘item’ remark against state minister Imarti Devi, another minister is facing ire after he allegedly used a derogatory term for the wife of a Congress candidate.In a video, which went viral on Monday, Bisahulal Singh, who is contesting the assembly bypolls from the Anuppur district was allegedly heard describing the second wife of Congress candidate Vishwanath Singh Kunjam as ‘mistress’.Bypolls for 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh are to be held on November 3.Also Read| ‘Item’ remark row: Election Commission seeks report from MP CEO over Kamal Nath’s remark“Why is Vishwanath Singh hiding information about his first wife and mentioned his ‘rakhail’ (mistress) in the nomination papers? He has not given information about his first wife, but about his mistress,” BJP’s Singh was heard saying in the video, according to news agency PTI.Congress candidate Kunjam described Singh’s allegations as baseless and said he will file a defamation suit against the BJP minister. “I got married 15 years back and have a 14-year-old daughter. I will file a defamation suit against him. This exposes the BJP candidate’s character. On one hand, they are staging the drama of silent fast and on the other hand, they disrespect women,” he said.Meanwhile, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has sought a detailed report from MP chief electoral officer (CEO) over Kamal Nath’s ‘item’ jibe. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan wrote to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi asking her to sack Nath from all party posts. Chouhan along with several other BJP workers in the state had observed a two-hour ‘maun vrat’ or silent fast on Monday.In response to this, Kamal Nath wrote a letter to Chouhan and said he made no disrespectful comments during the rally and accused the chief minister of spreading lies. Nath asserted that MP’s voters were aware that the controversy was another ploy by the BJP to retain power. He also targeted Chouhan for the two-hour silent protest. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-item-comment-row-bjp-minister-uses-offensive-remark-against-congress-leader-s-wife/story-bdZt4dR7l8JsFR1CW9I68H.html
20-10-2020||India||India records 46,790 new Covid-19 cases, 587 deaths; tally close to 7.6 million||There were 46,790 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 587 related deaths in the last 24 hours as India’s infection tally went up to 7,597,063, according to the Union health ministry on Tuesday. The number of Covid-19 cases and death have been relatively low for two days now -- there were 55,722 infections and 579 fatalities on Monday. For the fourth day in a row, the active cases dropped below the 800,000 mark at 748,538, according to the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard at 8am, India’s death toll has gone up to 115,197, it showed. There were 69,720 Covid-19 patients who recovered between Monday and Tuesday and the number of recovered is 6,733,328 across the country. The national recovery rate has gone up to 88.63%.Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, which have been the most affected by the coronavirus pandemic, have seen a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases since the last one month. The health ministry said the trend of daily cases of the coronavirus disease in these five reveals the various stages of decline of active cases. “These mirror the steady decrease in ACTIVE CASES in the country, with the caseload being sustained below 8L for 3 days in a row,” the ministry tweeted on Tuesday morning with a graph of the cases from these five states.Also read | China’s Sinovac vaccine is safe, Brazil institute saysOn Monday, the ministry had said the national cumulative positivity rate has fallen under 8% and that the trend has been sustained without a break for four days. The cumulative positivity rate was 7.94%, which the ministry attributed to the “high level of comprehensive country-wide testing.” “As evidence has revealed, higher numbers of testing on a sustained basis have aided in bringing down the positivity rate. The decline in the cumulative positivity rate has demonstrated that the rate of spread of infection is being effectively contained,” the ministry added.Also read | AIIMS reports first case of Covid-19-related brain nerve damage in a childThe average daily positivity rate or the percentage of samples that have tested positive from the total samples tested was 6.13% for the third week of October, the ministry said. “This is a result of successful TEST, TRACK, TRACE, TREAT and TECHNOLOGY strategy of the Central government effectively followed by States/UTs,” it said.On Monday, 79% of the new recovered cases were concentrated in Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Odisha, and Chhattisgarh. Maharashtra had contributed the maximum with more than 11,000 single day recovery followed by Kerala and Karnataka with more than 8,000 recoveries each.Also read | Israel’s Covid-19 vaccine ‘Brilife’ to begin human trials by end of OctoberOf the 55,722 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, 81% were from 10 states and Union territories. Maharashtra continues to be the state reporting a very high number of new cases with more than 9,000 cases followed by Kerala and Karnataka with more than 7,000 cases each.The ministry said on Monday that of the 579 fatalities nearly 83% are concentrated in 10 states and Union territories. More than 25% of new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra with 150 deaths, it added.India is the second worst-hit country after the United States as the number of coronavirus disease cases have risen to more than 40 million across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-46-790-new-cases-587-deaths-tally-close-to-7-6-million/story-b5gwWNXJJLqGUlqgIuJ8oO.html
20-10-2020||India||Amid stiff opposition, J-K LG Manoj Sinha says no plans of imposing property tax||Amid stiff opposition from major political parties following speculation that property tax would be imposed in Jammu and Kashmir, Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday said there are no such plans for the union territory.Sinha’s comments came at a function in north Kashmir’s Baramulla town.“The UT government isn’t imposing property tax as being misrepresented by some people. However, the Urban Local Bodies are competent to decide on such issues in consultation with the public and for the development of the ULB’s themselves,” he said.The LG also refuted the rumours regarding the reduction or scrapping of the honorarium of the PRI/ULB representatives, saying such rumours are being spread by certain vested interests, deliberately misleading elected Panchayati Raj institutions /ULBs’ representatives on the honorarium issue.Earlier this month, the Union home ministry had empowered the union territory’s administration to impose the property tax following an amendment to the J&K Municipal Act, 2000 and J&K Municipal Corporation Act, 2000 through the J&K Reorganisation (Adaption of State Laws) order, 2020.For the past two weeks, different mainstream political parties were up in arms following reports that the government could impose property tax in Jammu and Kashmir. A PDP spokesman had said property tax would be akin to the despotic and anarchic rule the people have witnessed many years ago during the monarchy.“For decades people were burdened under the heavy taxation and this revival of old practice is to make people weak economically.”The National Conference had also criticised the new proposed tax in J&K. “imposition of property tax amidst economic slowdown is grave injustice with the people of JK who are even struggling to make ends meet,” NC general secretary Ali Mohammad Sager.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-stiff-opposition-j-k-lg-manoj-sinha-says-no-plans-of-imposing-property-tax/story-h49l2lGwU4CZkMNOglhuIN.html
20-10-2020||India||J-K police officer shot dead in Anantnag||A Jammu and Kashmir police officer was shot dead by militants in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Monday evening, officials said. They said that the militants opened fire on Mohammad Ashraf, an inspector with Jammu and Kashmir police, at Kenalwan area of Anantnag. He was taken to nearby hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival. “Inspector M Ashraf was fired upon and was taken to nearby hospital but he could not survive,” said an official from the Anantnag police control room. Locals said the officer was returning home after offering prayers when he was attacked. Additional forces were rushed to the area which was immediately cordoned off to trace the attackers. Earlier during the day, a militant was killed by security forces in an encounter in Shopian district, police said. The encounter had started after security forces launched a cordon and search operation at Melhura in Zainapora following information about presence of militants.“01 unidentified #terrorist killed. Operation going on. Further details shall follow,” the Jammu and Kashmir police said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-police-officer-shot-dead-in-anantnag/story-daD5ZkAKnGEpj3EmJgvQtK.html
20-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Amit Shah responds to Rahul Gandhi’s ‘15 minutes’ claim and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘In 1962, then-PM had already said ‘Bye Bye Assam’: Amit Shah on Rahul Gandhi’s ‘driving out the Chinese in 15 mins’ claimUnion home minister Amit Shah said Congress and Rahul Gandhi should have listened to their own advice in 1962 when India lost hectares of land to the Chinese during the border war with China. Shah was referring to the comments made by Gandhi in connection to the ongoing row between China and India in eastern Ladakh. Read more5 worst-hit states have seen decline in active Covid-19 cases: Health ministryThe Union ministry of health said on Tuesday the five states most affected by the coronavirus pandemic have seen a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases since the last one month. Read morePak Army redraws new Kashmir terror plan, allots tasks to Jaish, LeT and HizbulThe Rawalpindi general headquarters of the Pakistan army has been able to forge operational synergy since August 2019 between Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists in the Kashmir Valley, according to intelligence inputs reviewed by Hindustan Times. Read moreIPL 2020, CSK vs RR: ‘Insecurity is something you don’t want,’ MS Dhoni comes down hard on CSK youngstersThree-time winners CSK, who have been criticised for continuing with their old warhorses, suffered their seventh defeat in the ongoing IPL. Skipper wasn’t happy with the defeat and on Monday said that the youngsters in his squad did not show the spark needed to break into the playing XI at the expense of the veterans. Read moreDilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge turns 25: Shah Rukh Khan said no to DDLJ for this reason, this is how Aditya Chopra convinced himAs Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge completes 25 years of its release, here is looking back at how Aditya Chopra, then a debutant director, almost lost hope of casting Shah Rukh in the film. It took several meetings, and then, history was created. Read moreThis video of Will Smith grooving is winning people over. Seen it yet?If you’re a follower of Will Smith’s Instagram account, then you are familiar with the cool content he often posts. This dance video of his is no different, and watching it may just blow your mind. Read moreWhat Facebook India head says about charges of bias?Managing Director of Facebook India, Ajit Mohan speaks with the National Political Editor of Hindustan Times, Sunetra Choudhury about the charges of bias the company faces after international journals alleged that its Public Policy Head, Ankhi Das acted in a biased manner towards the BJP. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amit-shah-responds-to-rahul-gandhi-s-15-minutes-claim-and-all-the-latest-news/story-vz1c2jzVpTfpHsuGFZpv2L.html
20-10-2020||India||Paddy stubble can decompose in 25 days with microbial solution: ICAR||Initial results from the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) about trials on the effectiveness of a microbial consortium to decompose paddy stubble show that the latter can decompose within 25 days amid reports of Delhi-national capital region (NCR) and several other north-western states battling “poor” air quality index (AQI), which has become an annual phenomenon in the past few years around this time of the year. Trials are in progress in up to 14,000 hectares (ha) of paddy farmland in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Delhi, said the ICAR chief. “There is no requirement for any manual intervention to pick up the stubble after 25 days. A microbial solution can help decompose paddy stubble within 25 days, but trials are still in progress,” said Trilochan Mohapatra, director-general (D-G), ICAR.Also Read: Monthly CMs’ meet necessary to stop stubble fires: Arvind Kejriwal“We had been working on the microbial consortium for a couple of years after the happy seeder, which is used for straw management, was introduced. Last year, the concept was tried out in UP, where it had worked,” Mohapatra had said earlier.The contribution from stubble fires to the national capital’s particulate matter (PM) 2.5 pollution reduced temporarily on Monday, as wind speed during the day time had picked up to 16 kilometres per hour (kmph). Though widespread stubble fires were observed in Punjab and Haryana on satellite images, their contribution had reduced because of a higher ventilation index, scientists said on Monday.The air quality early warning system under the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) said the current actual contribution from stubble fires was about 7%, even though the forecast was around 19%.“The reason the impact has lowered is because of clear sunshine and good wind speed during the day. Fires are widespread and wind direction is still north-westerly, where stubble is being burnt. However, we are hoping that it won’t impact Delhi. The AQI is unlikely to worsen for a day or two because of better ventilation,” said Vijay Soni, a scientist at India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) air pollution management division.Data sourced by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) from System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) also indicated an 10% contribution to Delhi’s PM 2.5 load from stubble fires. SAFAR estimated fire counts in the neighbouring states at around 1,090. The ventilation index is a function of the mixing height and the wind speed and defines the ability of the atmosphere to disperse contaminants. A ventilation index below 2,350 square (sq) metres (m) per second is considered poor. Mixing height is the level at which pollutants mix in the air.“An improvement in air quality was noticed because winds up to 18 kmph were recorded in Delhi on Monday. Similar conditions are likely to continue on Tuesday. However, from Wednesday, the wind direction is likely to gradually change to easterly and south-easterly, when the impact of stubble fires may reduce,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, who heads the regional weather forecasting centre at IMD.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday urged Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar to start holding monthly meetings of the CMs of all states from northern India in a bid to find a permanent solution to stubble burning. The Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) has held 65 meetings with environment ministers of NCR states since 2016, a ministry official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paddy-stubble-can-decompose-in-25-days-with-microbial-solution-icar/story-Gl7gct3RR94O1J42Dt6TVI.html
20-10-2020||India||5 worst-hit states have seen decline in active Covid-19 cases: Health ministry||The Union ministry of health said on Tuesday the five states most affected by the coronavirus pandemic have seen a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases since the last one month. The health ministry said the trend of daily cases of the coronavirus disease in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh reveals the various stages of decline of active cases.“These mirror the steady decrease in ACTIVE CASES in the country, with the caseload being sustained below 8L for 3 days in a row,” the ministry tweeted with a graph of the cases from these five states.On Monday, there 55,722 new cases of the coronavirus disease, which were the lowest in five days, and 579 related deaths taking India’s tally to past 7.5 million. The number of fatalities in the last 24 hours were also the lowest in months. There were 772,055 active cases of Covid-19 and the country’s death toll went up to 114,610, with the cumulative tally of coronavirus infections at 7,550,273. The active cases had been less than 800,000 for the third straight day.Also read | ‘Covid-19 deaths in India could have exceeded 25 lakh’: What expert panel says about lockdown, festivalsMaharashtra on Monday went past 1,600,000 Covid-19 cases with its lowest single-day spike since July 7 as 5,984 new infections took the tally to 1,601,365. The western state had recorded 5,134 cases on July 7. It had touched the grim mark of 1,600,000 Covid-19 cases 224 days after it recorded its first on March 9. The state also reported 125 more fatalities on Monday, its lowest one-day death count since June 22, pushing the toll to 42,240.The state’s low case count on Monday could also be attributed to a comparatively lower number of tests. In the previous 24 hours, 46,312 samples were tested, while the average number of daily tests carried out in the month so far is 75,236. State health officials attribute the lower numbers to fewer tests during the weekend, data of which is reflected on Mondays and Tuesdays.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayIn Karnataka, the Covid-19 tally rose to 770,000 with the addition of 5,018 new cases while the death toll mounted to 10,542 as 64 more people succumbed to the disease, according to the health department on Monday. The day also saw 8,005 patients getting discharged after recovery. As of October 19 evening, cumulatively 770,604 Covid-19 cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 10,542 deaths and 6,53,829 discharges, the department said. The active cases stood at 106,214 with 105,282 of them in stable condition in isolation wards of designated hospitals while 932 were being treated in the intensive care units.Kerala reported 5,022 new cases of Covid-19 and 21 deaths on Monday. Out of the total Covid-19 cases reported on Monday, 4,257 people were infected through contact while in case of 647 people -- the source of infection is unknown. Meanwhile, 7,469 patients have recovered today from coronavirus infection. The death toll in the state due to coronavirus pandemic stands at 1,182.Also read | World struggles as Covid-19 infections cross 40 millionTamil Nadu on Monday reported 3,536 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 49 deaths, taking the state’s tally to 690,936 while the death toll is at 10,691. A total of 4,515 patients were discharged on Monday taking the count of discharged cases to 642,152. The state still has 38,093 active cases.As many as 2,918 new Covid-19 cases and 24 deaths were reported from Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours, the state’s nodal officer said on Monday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 786,050, including 35,065 active cases and 744,532 recoveries. So far, 6,453 deaths have been reported in the state.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-worst-hit-states-have-seen-decline-in-active-covid-19-cases-health-ministry/story-FoTtHDZkIkIZF4c8nqUq2J.html
20-10-2020||India||‘Item’ remark row: Election Commission seeks report from MP CEO over Kamal Nath’s remark||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has sought a detailed report from Madhya Pradesh Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) over the Congress leader Kamal Nath’s “item remark” at an election rally made against BJP leader Imarti Devi. This comes after the National Commission for Women (NCW) has written to Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) over the ‘derogatory remarks’ made by former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath on a woman minister.In the run-up to Madhya Pradesh legislative assembly by-polls, former Chief Minister Kamal Nath referred to Imarti as an “item”, sparking a controversy. “Suresh Raje ji hamare ummeedvar hai...yeh uske jaise nah hai...kya hai uska naam ... main kya uska naam lun? ...apko toh mujhe pehle savdhan karna chahiye tha ... yeh kya item hai... (Our candidate is not like her... what’s her name? You know her better and should have warned me earlier... What an item!), Kamal Nath said in Hindi while the crowd called out Imarti Devi’s name.The former CM was addressing a campaign rally in Dabra for Congress candidate Suresh Raje. Imarti Devi is also contesting on the BJP ticket from Dabra.Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan lashed out at Kamal Nath’s feudal mentality and said that Imarti Devi was a poor farmer’s daughter, who had risen up on her own.The BJP has also lodged a complaint with Election Commission against the former chief minister for his comments. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/item-remark-row-election-commission-seeks-report-from-mp-ceo-over-kamal-nath-s-remark/story-9Am9hYdVEWvFqLTojWVFTI.html
20-10-2020||India||CBI teams probing Hathras rape case visit hospital where victim was treated||Sleuths of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probing the Hathras gang rape case visited Aligarh’s JN Medical College and Hospital where the victim was first treated and the Aligarh district jail where the four accused are lodged, people familiar with the developments said. The woman had been treated at the JN Medical College and Hospital before being shifted to a Delhi hospital.The team that went to the hospital spent about four hours at the neurosurgery department. The CBI team asked for a list of doctors and staff members involved in treatment of the victim.According to those familiar with the matter, the CBI team was planning to record statements of doctors and staff involved in the treatment of the victim. The other team was expected to interact with the accused and officials at the Aligarh district jail, they added.The CBI took over the probe into the Hathras case on October 11, a day after the Centre issued a notification, accepting the Uttar Pradesh government’s recommendation.The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gang raped and brutalised on September 14 and succumbed to her injuries in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 29. The incident sparked nationwide outrage.On Sunday, the CBI had once again questioned a 19-year-old youth who was the first to reach the crime scene on the day of the incident on September 14. The CBI had questioned him earlier as well as he was considered to be an important ‘witness’. The youth is said to be from the family which owns the millet field where the woman was assaulted. He was called to the CBI’s camp office in Hathras.The 15-member CBI team had first reached Hathras on October 13 and had gone directly to the crime scene in the millet field. The brother of the victim, her mother and aunt also reached the spot.The CBI team interacted with the father and brothers of the victim on October 14.They also went to the houses of all the four accused on October 15 and extensively interrogated their family members. The team found clothes with blood-like stains at the house of Luv Kush Sikarwar, one of the four accused. But the family members said the clothes belonged to Luv Kush’s brother Ravi who worked in a paint factory and that they were not blood stains, but stains caused by red paint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-teams-probing-hathras-rape-case-visit-hospital-where-victim-was-treated/story-75RMb1zSCXYoPhdzI2C3qL.html
20-10-2020||India||‘In 1962, then-PM had already said ‘Bye Bye Assam’: Amit Shah on Rahul Gandhi’s ‘driving out the Chinese in 15 mins’ claim||Union home minister Amit Shah said Congress and Rahul Gandhi should have listened to their own advice in 1962 when India lost hectares of land to the Chinese during the border war with China. Shah was referring to the comments made by Gandhi in connection to the ongoing row between China and India in eastern Ladakh during a rally against the new farm bills in Haryana on October 7.Shah, in an interview with Zee News, said, “(The formula to drive the Chinese out within 15 mins) could have been applied in the year 1962 itself… if it was done then hectares of Indian soil wouldn’t have been lost.” “The then-PM had already said ‘Bye Bye Assam’ on Akashvani. How does Congress get to educate us on this issue now? When your great-grandfather was in power, we were losing territories to the Chinese government,” Shah further targeted Gandhi.Speaking of the soldiers from the Bihar regiment who thwarted the Chinese from encroaching on June 15 in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, Shah said, “I am immensely proud of the soldiers of 16 Bihar Regiment. At least during our tenure, we stood our ground and fought. These soldiers faced harsh weather conditions and protected our country.” Shah also said that India hopes that through diplomatic talks an amicable solution can be reached between both nations.Gandhi had said on October 7, “China would not dare to take a step inside our territory, if we were in power, we would have evicted and thrown out China and it would not have taken 15 minutes to do so.” The Congress leader has also alleged that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government had “weakened” the country as China had “dared to enter India and kill our soldiers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-1962-then-pm-had-already-said-bye-bye-assam-amit-shah-on-rahul-gandhi-s-driving-out-the-chinese-in-15-mins-claim/story-IyTZsLFgEwDr9BkPYKGlNN.html
20-10-2020||India||Police to seek custody of Ballia shooting accused, invoke NSA, Gangsters Act||The Uttar Pradesh police will file an application in a court on Tuesday and seek police custody remand (PCR) of the Ballia shootout main accused Dheerendra Pratap Singh for a week in order to interrogate him and ensure recovery of the weapon used in the incident, a senior police officer said.The police are also planning to invoke the National Security Act (NSA) and the Gangsters Act against him.“We are preparing to take the main accused Dheerendra Pratap Singh in police custody for a week. He will be interrogated in order that the conspiracy behind the incident may be exposed and the weapon used in the incident may be recovered,” deputy inspector general of police (Azamgarh range) Subhash Chandra Dubey said.“We will ensure that the weapon used in the incident is recovered,” the DIG said.On Monday, the court of the chief judicial magistrate in Ballia remanded Dheerendra Pratap Singh in judicial custody for 14 days.Dubey interrogated Singh for about an hour on Monday. The police said that during the interrogation, Singh revealed that he fled the scene after the incident. He panicked after the incident and visited different places to avoid arrest, the police quoted him as saying.Dubey said that the accused claimed that he lived in Lucknow for two days but gave elusive answers about the weapon. The officer also said that the accused made a false claim that his nephew Golu suffered bullet injuries and later died. The DIG said no such thing happened.Dubey also said the Gangsters Act and the National Security Act (NSA) will be slapped against him and if he acquired any property illegally, it will be seized under Section 14(1) of the Gangsters Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-to-seek-custody-of-ballia-shooting-accused-invoke-nsa-gangsters-act/story-hmGiyeAiF6giRrbNZDgRzN.html
20-10-2020||India||In Pak Army approach to terror in Kashmir, building synergy is new buzzword||The Rawalpindi general headquarters of the Pakistan army has been able to forge operational synergy since August 2019 between Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists in the Kashmir Valley, according to intelligence inputs reviewed by Hindustan Times. The outcome of such a synergy has usually been coordinated terror attacks.The inputs reveal efforts by Pakistan-based terror groups, with the active support of that country’s spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), to launch coordinated attacks against India in the wake of constitutional changes pushed through by the Centre in August last year, effectively revoking Article 370 that conferred special status on Jammu and Kashmir and reorganising the state into two Union territories, J&K and Ladakh. According to a dossier prepared by Indian intelligence and security agencies, a series of meetings have taken place between senior functionaries of banned terrorist organizations including LeT, JeM, Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) and the Taliban, with Jaish commander Mufti Mohammed Asghar Khan Kashmiri coordinating joint terror operations in J & K.The first key meeting, according to the intelligence inputs, took place on December 27, 2019, when Amir Hamza, general secretary of the Jamaat-ud-Dawa, the parent of LeT, met with senior functionaries of the JeM at Markaz Subhan Allah, Bahawalpur, to chalk out a joint strategy to share resources and intensify operations against India.Follow-up meetings were held with the support of the Pakistani deep state on January 3-8 and January 19, 2020 in Islamabad. These meetings were attended by top functionaries of the two globally designated terrorist groups including Mufti Abdul Rauf Asghar, the de facto head of JeM, Maulana Ammar, brother of ailing JeM chief Masood Azhar, Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, chief operational commander of L:eT and Amir Hamza. After a decision on operational synergy was taken, Mufti Asghar Kashmiri established contact with LeT’s functionaries in Occupied Kashmir to implement the plan on the ground.The second key meeting took place on May 7 in Islamabad between LeT, JeM and HM commanders, and focused on enhanced operational capabilities, including sharing of weapons caches, ammunition and support of overground workers. According to intelligence inputs, the three Islamist groups decided that HM will take the responsibility of all attacks in Jammu and Kashmir under the guidance of JeM’s Mufti Asghar Kashmiri. To coordinate action in the Kashmir Valley and Jammu, HM chief Syed Salahuddin, it was decided, would be in touch with Kashmiri and Abdul Aziz Alvi, head of the JuD/LeT in Occupied Kashmir. Before the May 7 meeting, Mufti Asghar Kashmiri already met Salahuddin in Muzaffarabad in PoK to activate the synergy plan.There are other non-state actors involved as well.After the signing of the US-Taliban peace accord on February 29, the JeM leadership had also been in touch with the Afghan Taliban so that terrorist commanders can be diverted to J&K once the Sunni ultra conservative force comes to power in Kabul. For that purpose and for training terror recruits in Taliban camps across the Durand Line, the Jaish leadership held meetings with Taliban representatives in Bahawalpur and the twin cities of Rawalpindi and Islamabad in the presence of ground commanders of Kashmir operations, the inputs show.Besides the main groups planning to create mayhem and violence in Kashmir, new proxies such as The Resistance Front (TRF), Teehreek-e-Millat-e-Islami (TMI) and Ghaznavi Force have be revived in J & K to show that terrorism in the Union territory is home-grown and indigenous. The TRF, a conglomerate of Lashkar and Jaish remnants, took responsibility for the May 2 Handwara encounter in which five security personnel including Colonel Ashutosh Sharma were killed. An LeT operative, Haider, a Pakistani national, was also killed by the security forces in the encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-army-redraws-new-kashmir-terror-plan-allots-tasks-to-jaish-let-and-hizbul/story-5orzs8wPtUnFJRHfWnV4MO.html
20-10-2020||India||India’s research, manufacturing critical to fighting Covid-19: Bill Gates||India’s research and manufacturing will be critical to fighting Covid-19 especially for making vaccines on a large scale, billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates said on Monday.Addressing the Grand Challenges Annual Meeting 2020, Gates delved upon the difficulties in vaccine development and diagnostics of Covid-19.  The American business magnate said India is “very inspiring” as it has made huge strides in improving the health of its people in the last two decades. “And now, India’s research and manufacturing will be critical to fighting Covid-19 especially when it comes to making vaccines at large scale,” he said.  Gates said scientists all over the world are involved in a particular ‘grand challenge’ -- ending the current pandemic. Also Read | Global pandemic made us realise importance of teamwork: PM Modi at Grand Challenges Annual Meeting 2020He said researchers are breaking down silos and rather than waiting to go through the publication process, they are sharing data on a daily basis. “Since the pandemic began, scientists have shared 1,37,000 viral Covid-19 genomic sequences,” the Microsoft Corp co-founder said. Even the pharmaceutical companies are cooperating on production ways that really have never been seen before, he added.Talking about the challenges in vaccine development, he said mRNA vaccine is an area where many have seen “great promises”.  “Probably, the first approved vaccine for Covid-19 will be mRNA,” he said but added that the vaccine cannot be counted on alone because it is very hard to scale up and has a logistical problem because it requires a proper cold chain.  Gates expressed hope that the mRNA platform matures in the years ahead so that its vaccines can be scaled up that can bring down the costs as well the cold chain requirement. He also stressed on the need for innovation in diagnostics platforms. “Even when sometimes people are tested, results come back negative because some of the tests are not sensitive to the small nano virus,” he said, adding, this also leads to infection.“So, the diagnostics are letting us down,” Gates said, stressing on the asymptomatic nature of the infection. “Right now, the current business model is identifying people with symptoms and we need to change that. We need sensitive and specific diagnostic tests which matter and we need to make it easy to access,” he said.  He also said although the RT-PCR test has high specificity, a lot of challenge is about the logistics. Gates suggested that there should be test kits that can be spread out into the community and can be stocked in medicine cabinets, community centres and pharmacies.On cooperation by the scientific fraternity, he noted that international teams of scientists are collaborating with full speed on the vaccine clinical trials.  “One or more of these vaccines will be available by early next year and as there will be multiples vaccines, it is necessary to make sure to understand how exactly and where to use each of them,” he said.Gates said the pace of science in fighting the pandemic has been remarkable. “But despite all this work, right now, as fast as the science has moved...the pandemic is still ahead of us.The first Covid-19 vaccine will probably be the fastest that humans have ever gone from identifying the new disease to be able to immunise against it,” he said. “Still we all know this virus has managed to plunge the entire global economy into a deep recession,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-research-manufacturing-critical-to-fighting-covid-19-bill-gates/story-FmOpmLRVnzIsMtxjAuba3L.html
20-10-2020||India||Working on Covid-19 vaccine delivery system: PM Modi||Not only is India at the forefront of the race to develop a vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the country is also putting in place a digitised network to deliver the vaccine to its citizens, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his keynote speech at the inauguration of Grand Challenges meeting 2020. The meeting, which will go on till October 21, was to be held in New Delhi before the pandemic and is being conducted virtually for the first time. “India is at the forefront of vaccine development for Covid-19, some are in the advanced stages. We are not stopping here. India is already working on putting a well-established vaccine delivery system in place. This digitised network along with digital health IDs will be used to ensure immunisation of our citizens,” he said. The PM stressed on the need for collaborative science and innovation to tackle large problems. “The journey to innovation must be through collaboration and public participation. Science will never prosper in silos and the grand challenges understood this well. It has taken a global pandemic to make us realise yet again the importance of team work. After all, diseases do not have geographic boundaries. They do not discriminate on the basis of faith race gender or colour,” he said. Grand Challenges, which was launched in 2003 by Bill Melinda Gates foundation, fosters innovation to solve key challenges in global health and development. The initiative focuses on fourteen major challenges including nutrition, vaccine development, develop needle free delivery system for the vaccine, cure for chronic infections, among others. At the inaugural session, Bill Gates stressed the need for research into three vital fields to remain prepared for the next pandemic – development of vaccine platforms so that vaccines against new infections can quickly be developed and manufactured, monoclonal antibodies and more effective ways of manufacturing it quickly for a pandemic situation, and diagnostic platforms that are sensitive and specific and widely available so that huge number of people can be tested and accurately diagnosed. “Given the scale of this pandemic, we weren’t prepared for it. But, we will be better prepared next time around,” said Gates. Apart from addressing challenges related to Covid-19, this year three new grand challenges have been launched – integrating tradition and technology for fermented foods for maternal nutrition, new approaches for integrating molecular surveillance into malaria control programmes, and smart farming innovations for small scale producers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/working-on-covid-19-vaccine-delivery-system-pm-modi/story-WzKElIgl1gwPZmbqLQBtAO.html
20-10-2020||India||IT ministry pushes for AI boost in India||The ministry of electronics and information technology is in the process of sending to the Cabinet a proposal to set up a National Mission for Artificial Intelligence to boost the use of AI in India, HT has learnt. The mission will include government projects that will be rolled out across departments and ministries, officials familiar with the matter said. The project is estimated to cost about Rs 2,000 crore, but the size of the investment is yet to be finalised. “This has been going on for many months, we are still deliberating the details of how exactly to do it but we will be approaching the Cabinet soon,” an official familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. “This will include AI projects that benefit startups and maximise the use of the technology in India.” It will also include setting up a Centre of Excellence for artificial intelligence and benefits to encourage AI startups. “There will be moonshot projects and fundamental research projects,” a second official said, also requesting anonymity. “India has data which is the fuel for artificial intelligence. Google and Amazon are thriving on it.” The official added that the two tech giants use natural language processing to assess people’s needs. “They seamlessly pick up languages, say for example Bhojpuri, and respond to the data; we should also be able to do that,” the official added. Once it comes to fruition, the project will then focus on analysing data needs and responding accordingly for people across India. The note to sent to the cabinet is under circulation at MEITY and is in the process of being finalised soon. The ministry of electronics and information technology will collaborate with the private sector, academia and think tanks to develop AI-based products. The ministry has already held a five-day conference, inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Responsible Artificial Intelligence for Social Empowerment (RAISE) last week. The ministry is increasingly focusing on the use of AI and how it can benefit society. “AI is basically an amalgamation of software and algorithms. The products we create will be able to compete globally,” the official added. Amba Kak, director of global policy and programs at AI Now Institute at New York University, believes that the push sounds similar to the rhetoric surrounding AI across the world. “We are seeing a wave of government promotion of AI, Europe has just recently put out a strategy paper on the same,” said Kak. “There is an industry push behind governments wanting to use more AI, as governments are the biggest customers of software such as facial recognition. We should not be on a predetermined path, data driven technology needs a proper assessment,” she said “The government should ground its AI strategy in evidence of the social and environmental impacts of these technologies, whether they will work in contexts of limited infrastructure, and which communities are likely to benefit more or bear the risk of bias, exclusion and other harms,” Kak added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-ministry-pushes-for-ai-boost-in-india/story-vGoigqKPM1dnYv5mheyhwI.html
20-10-2020||India||Sack Kamal Nath from all posts: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan writes to Sonia Gandhi||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday asked Congress president Sonia Gandhi to remove state Congress president Kamal Nath for his allegedly sexist remarks against a woman minister in the state government. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers across Madhya Pradesh staged a two-hour protest of silence.The protesters were led by Chouhan in Bhopal, Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia in Indore, and Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and state BJP president VD Sharma in Gwalior. Party workers held protest placards in their hands to condemn Nath’s remarks about woman and child development minister Imarti Devi. They demanded an apology from Nath. Nath was on Sunday addressing an election meeting in the Dabra (scheduled caste) assembly constituency in Gwalior district, which is headed for a bypoll, where he made the remark while comparing the virtues of Congress candidate Suresh Raje with those of the rival candidate from the BJP, Imarti Devi. “Suresh Raje is a simple man. He is down to earth. He is not like the person. What is the name of the person?” As crowd responded to Nath’s question, citing Imarti Devi’s name, Kamal Nath called her an “item”, saying, “Why should I name her? You know her better than I know. You should have warned me. Ye kya item hai...” Chouhan said in Bhopal on Monday, “My Dalit sister Imarti Devi was insulted by the state Congress president Kamal Nath but what is more painful is that he is not remorseful for his act. Instead, he is trying to justify his indecent remark shamelessly.” Chouhan also wrote to Sonia Gandhi, urging her to condemn the remark and sack Nath from all party posts. “I thought being a woman you would take notice of the news on insult to cabinet minister and scheduled caste woman leader Imarti Devi and take action against state Congress president Kamal Nath while condemning the indecent remark but you have not done it so far…She broke down while sharing her pain. Elections come and go but insult to a Dalit woman like this casts a slur on the entire political arena,” he wrote. “I request you to condemn the indecent remark and remove your party’s former chief minister Kamal Nath from all the party posts to teach a lesson to leaders of your party who insult women. I wish to add that if you keep silent on the insult, it would be considered that you have given your consent to the remark,” Chouhan added. In Indore, Scindia observed silence with a placard in his hand which read: “Mata bahano ka jo kare apmaan, Shastra kahen wo hai shaitan” (holy scriptures say those who insult mother and sisters are devils).  “Kamal Nath has insulted the entire Scheduled Castes and Dalit community by calling Imarti Devi an ‘item’,” Scindia said.Demanding action by Congress president Sonia Gandhi against Nath, he added: “If she doesn’t take action people will come to know as to what is difference between what Congress preaches and what it practises.” Reacting to Chouhan’s letter to the Congress president, and giving clarification in light on the protests, Nath said in a letter addressed to Chouhan on Monday, “In my 40 years of public life, I have always respected women and will continue to do so. I didn’t make any disrespectful remark during my speech in Dabra meeting but still you came out with lies. The word that you are indicating has several definitions, but you and your party are trying to mislead people by telling lies.” Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati also sought action against Nath. In a tweet, Mayawati wrote: “The ex-CM’s indecent and anti-woman remark against the Dalit woman contesting a by-poll on Dabra seat is highly shameful and condemnable. Congress high command should tender a public apology on this.” The National Commission for Women, meanwhile, sought an explanation from Nath over his remarks. The Commission has also forwarded the matter to the Election Commission for taking necessary action. “The NCW has come across several media reports where Shri Kamal Nath, Leader of Opposition in the Madhya Pradesh legislative assembly, made offensive and derogatory remarks against a woman minister in a political rally in Dabra,” the Commission said in a statement. “The Commission strongly condemns this irresponsible and disparaging statement made by the leader. The words used in the video are highly defamatory and shows disrespect towards the dignity of a woman.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sack-kamal-nath-from-all-posts-mp-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-writes-to-sonia-gandhi/story-flWKeCOX1GFqnRO30DSJZI.html
20-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Could India indeed have fewer than 40,000 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by February as a government-appointed panel believes? Sure, the number, reported in an article in HT on Monday, is, according to the panel, contingent on the wearing of masks, tracing, and social distancing, but a drop from the current level of around 770,000 active cases (according to the HT dashboard) to 40,000 in the next three-and-half months does seem difficult.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe last time India had fewer than 40,000 infected cases was in the first fortnight of May, when it was seeing between 3,000 and 4,000 cases a day. The panel’s projection comes against the backdrop of a consistent fall in daily case numbers, from a weekly average of around 93,000 in mid-September to around 61,000 in the third week of October, and would appear to assume that India will not see a second wave of infections. That seems unlikely for five reasons: the onset of winter, which many experts expect to set off a rash of new cases; the reopening of almost everything; the ongoing festive season, which will likely witness some amount of fervent socialising; the trend seen in almost every large country in the world (much of Europe is in the midst of a raging second wave currently, and the US is in its third); and corona fatigue (something I have written about and warned against repeatedly). Still, as the cliché goes, I will hope for the best and prepare for the worst.No country has been able to predict the trajectory of the disease, and the only correlation that has been established thus far is between the extent of testing and the stringency of measures such as lockdowns on one side, and the number of daily cases on the other. Every other link – temporal or related to the infection rate – is hypothetical. But what if this can be done?A paper on the pre-print server medRxiv claims it can be – and without much trouble, leveraging the prevalent reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction or RT-PCR tests that most countries (including India) use. James A Hay, Lee Kennedy-Shaffer, both at the Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health, Boston, and others, have built a model that, they say, can measure where the epidemic’s trajectory is, based on the viral loads in a random sample of the population. The RT-PCR test, considered the gold standard of Covid-19 tests, is widely used, the authors say, as a Yes-No (Positive-Negative) test, but it also measures viral loads. The hypothesis behind the model is that in the early stages of the pandemic’s run in a region, viral loads in a random sample will be high because the infections are still recent – and that in later stages of the epidemic, these loads reduce because the infections are no longer recent. Thus, the authors say, the viral load can be used to actually understand whether the epidemic is waxing or waning in a region. “The distribution of viral loads, in the form of Cycle thresholds (Ct), from positive surveillance samples at a single point in time can provide accurate estimation of an epidemic’s trajectory,” they write. They also add that “the distributional properties of the measured viral loads (median and skewness) vary with the growth rate of new cases”.Clearly, more work is needed to understand the model used by the authors and stress test it under various conditions, but if it holds, this approach could actually help health administrators figure out when and whether the number of active cases in a region is declining or rising. As the authors point out, this could assist “real-time resource allocation” and shape “outbreak mitigation strategies”.Science and data, as this columnist has repeated ad nauseam, are the only things that can point us in the right direction. Everything else is just a guess.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-8QVjB7DJoh94npU5mjBGCN.html
20-10-2020||India||Odisha’s daily Covid-19 cases dip below 2000, but protocol violations continue unabated||For the first time in about 2 months, the number of new Covid-19 cases reported daily in Odisha dropped below the 2000-mark signifying a decline in transmission of the infection but health officials said the cumulative positivity rate of the state continued to be a matter of concern as it was still higher than several states like Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Bihar.On Monday, the state reported 1982 new Covid-19 cases from 38,740 samples, more than two months after the daily positive cases started surging beyond 2000. On August 13, Odisha had reported 1977 positive cases. But the next day it touched 2496 and kept on growing till it touched the highest single-day surge of 4,356 cases on September 25 after which it started declining gradually even as the daily positivity rate took some time to taper off.Though on Monday the daily positivity rate was 5.11 per cent, the cumulative positivity rate of 6.62 per cent was way above states like Bihar (2.5%), Gujarat (3.3%), Jharkhand (3.7%), Uttar Pradesh (3.7%), Himachal Pradesh (5.1%), Rajasthan (5.3%) and Assam (5.8%). However, Odisha’s cumulative positivity rate was below the national average of 8.04%.Additional chief secretary of Odisha’s health and family welfare department, Pradipta Mohapatra said though the total numbers are falling, the Durga Puja as well as a lackadaisical attitude towards social distancing and mask-wearing remained a matter of concern.“Most of the European countries are reporting more cases than India and US. France is under lockdown due to lack of adherence to Covid-19 guidelines. In India, the celebration of Onam led to a Covid-19 surge in Kerala. Though winter would not be a major concern for us, we are worried about possible resurgence during Durga Puja. We have instructed the district collectors to remain alert and keep doing as many tests as possible to get a zero positivity rate,” Mohapatra said.Officials said the rise in Covid-19 guidelines over the last few days was an indicator of the challenges that the state would face in controlling the epidemic. On Sunday, a bar-cum-restaurant in Bhubaneswar was sealed by the police after it was found that a birthday party being organised violated the guidelines. Similarly, a coaching institute in the city was sealed for organizing a get-together of over 50 students and their parents who had qualified in the NEET exam.On Saturday, 3 temples in Berhampur town of Ganjam district were sealed on charges of flouting Covid-19 protocols on the first day of Navratri Puja. The officials sealed Maa Kali Temple near Bijipur, Bijipur Thakurani Temple and Ganesh Temple after hundreds of people attended the Navratri ceremony violating Covid-19 restrictions. A shopping mall in Aska block of Ganjam district was sealed after hundreds of people were found inside the mall flouting social distancing norms and mandatory use of masks.“We hope people would help the police in maintaining social distance. Already 8,000 policemen including more than a dozen IPS officials have been infected by Covid-19. We have lost 41 police officials and 4 home guards to Covid-19. But despite the risk, our staff are trying their best to ensure that everyone follows Covid-19 guidelines,” said a senior police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-daily-covid-19-cases-dip-below-2000-but-protocol-violations-continue-unabated/story-PNzbqVPI8MDpMfxjCT9zIN.html
20-10-2020||India||Covid-19 curbs hit Durga Puja in Bengal, Capital||Fears of Covid-19 transmission forced the curtailment of one of India’s grandest festivals on Monday, with authorities in Delhi and Kolkata drastically downsizing Durga Puja celebrations that attract hundreds of thousands of people — a step that underlined public health concerns ahead of the month-long festive season.In the Capital, the five-day festival will mostly be a private affair bereft of theme pandals, towering idols, nightlong excursions and food adventures, with organisers – including those in the hub of festivities, CR Park – deciding to suspend public celebrations, bar visitors, and move rituals online. Greater Kailash (GK) MLA and senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Saurabh Bharadwaj said the decision was taken in a meeting on Monday morning. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Around 12 Durga Puja committees from Chittaranjan Park, GK2, GK1, Alaknanda and Kalkaji attended the meeting. It has been unanimously decided that Durga Puja celebrations will be suspended this year due to the pandemic. Most of the population of CR Park and members of puja committees are senior citizens and it is important that they remain indoors and avoid contact with unknown people in pandals,” Bharadwaj said.In West Bengal, the Calcutta high court banned visitors from pandals and ordered police to set up barricades outside the structures that have already attracted many thousands of devotees who flouted distancing and mask guidelines – three days before the puja celebrations kick off. People would not be allowed within a five-metre distance for small pandals and 10 metre for big pandals, the high court ordered, while expressing concern at the crowd control measures and widely circulated reports of large crowds thronging the city’s major markets and pandals in violation of Covid-19 protocols. “In public interest, all pandals whereat Durga Puja is being celebrated this year are made no-entry zones for the members of the public,” stated the division bench of justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee. They added that the measure may not be able to control the spread of the pandemic if people came out on the streets in big numbers.The court’s order – which came in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) and was implemented from Monday night – is a big setback for organisers of the 37,000-odd pujas and artisans who spend months painstakingly building towering structures and fashioning the idols of Durga and her four children. A popular pandal in Kolkata easily attracts upwards of a hundred thousand visitors each night. “All the puja committees will incur losses to the tune of hundreds of crores of rupees as all preparations have been made,” said Soumen Dutta, a puja organiser from north Kolkata. “We are staring at huge financial losses.”The decision to curtail Durga Puja celebrations come at a time India has crossed 7.5 million infections and lost 114,000 people to the disease. Experts warn that the public nature of the five-day festival – hundreds of thousands of people are often out all night, taking public transport to go from pandal to pandal, jostling with hundreds of others in a cramped humid space for a glimpse of the idol – can fuel the virus that spreads through air and bodily contact. Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said the number of cases is likely to increase as more physical interaction happens during the festive season. “The increase in the number of cases will be seen 10 to 14 days after the festival. By then, it will also be the time for Diwali. Not only higher number of cases, the increase in the pollution levels is likely to cause more severe disease with many needing ICU care,” he said.Concerns about the upcoming festival season – which include Durga Puja, Dussehra and Diwali – have mounted after experts blamed the Onam celebrations in August for the recent spike in cases in Kerala. Similar worries forced downsizing of other festivals such as Ganesh Chaturthi, Eid and Jagannath Rath Yatra. Organisers and authorities in Delhi decided to suspend most rituals associated with the festival. Bhog (the ceremonial food offering to the goddess, distributed among devotees) will be home-delivered and pushpanjali (ceremonial first offering of flowers to the goddess), aarti (evening religious rituals) and donations have been shifted online. Puja committees will even post the text of all holy chants for devotees.The CR Park Kali Mandir Society, which attracts 200,000 people each year, has tied up with a Direct-To-Home service and a local cable operator to broadcast the rituals. “Only for religious reasons, a small kalash/ghat Puja will be attended by 10-15 committee members. This will ensure the continuity of puja by these samitis. I have also requested the district administration and local police to help the puja committees in stopping any outsiders entering these areas,” Bharadwaj added.In Kolkata – where Durga Puja is also a ₹50,000 crore industry that receives support from the state government and private players – the HC order evoked mixed reactions. “While in smaller pandals, 15 members will be allowed, in the case of bigger pandals, a maximum of 25 members will be allowed. The names of the entrants will have to be decided in advance and cannot be changed daily,” said advocate Sabyasachi Chatterjee, who represented the petitioner Ajay Kumar De. The police brass will submit an affidavit by November 5 detailing how the court order was implemented. During the hearing, the court raised questions about crowd-control measures and questioned how 30,000-odd police personnel would tackle 400,000 people – the typical crowd at major attractions. The state government said it will add more personnel but the judges expressed doubt over organising a festival when schools and colleges were closed. Durga Puja is a major event in the social and religious calendar of Bengal and people from all over the state come to Kolkata to see pandals. But the state reported a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases after puja shopping began and crowds swelled in markets. On Sunday, the state reported 3,983 new Covid-19 cases, including 813 infections in Kolkata alone – the highest in the state. The positivity rate – the ratio of the number of cases to that of tests — shot up from 6.6% on September 5 to 9.1% on Sunday. Some politicians criticised the order. “It is a very disheartening order and has come as a setback for the puja committee and the citizens. As the order is directed towards the state government, the administration will issue directions in a day or two after going through the order. But we can’t do anything which would dampen the festive spirit of lakhs of people. At the same time we have to ensure that people are safe so that the virus doesn’t spread,” said Saugata Roy, a senior Trinamool Congress MP. Union minister Babul Supriyo welcomed the order. “None of the pujas patronised by ministers and senior leaders of the TMC government were maintaining any social distancing among the visitors, we have seen. Bengal is now among the top states when to comes to spread of the virus,” said Supriyo. “Durga Puja is a festival but we have to understand that this year situations are different as there is a pandemic. Community spread has started. I don’t know how the state government will implement the order,” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, West Bengal Congress chief. The Forum for Durgotsab, an umbrella body of 350 festival organisers, said that it will call a meeting of its members on Tuesday to discuss the matter and way forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-curbs-hit-durga-puja-in-bengal-capital/story-2ld9BO3pPLeGqgLiJf6PKJ.html
20-10-2020||India||Agricultural exports recover from Covid-induced fall||India’s agricultural exports, a crucial source of farm earnings, have recovered from a pandemic-induced decline, but some high-value segments, such as livestock and marine products, continue to shrink, according to an analysis of government data. Exports of major farm products stood at ₹53,000 crore in the five-month period between April and August 2020-21, a rise of 14.8% compared to the corresponding period of 2019-2020, the export data show. However, between April and June, or the first quarter, widespread trade disruption globally because of the pandemic and a lockdown caused exports of major farm products to fall 2.8% in value terms from the year-ago period. Exports turned positive following a pick-up from July onwards. Overall, the farm-export earnings data is a mixed bag. During the April to August period, farmers gained from higher exports of rice, wheat, sugar, but their incomes have taken a hit from a 17% fall to ₹8,919 crore in livestock exports as well as a 15% fall to ₹8,616 crore of marine products. Exports of basmati rice, a big-ticket export item among cereals, during April-August rose 8.2% to ₹13,660 from the year-ago period, while the value of non-basmati rice exports grew 91.3% to ₹11,570 crore, the data show. To be sure, the latest data available is for six scheduled farm product categories and excludes many smaller items as well as some commercial crops such as cotton. The scheduled categories for which data are available with the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority are (a) floriculture and seeds (b) fresh fruits and vegetables (c) processed fruits and vegetables (d) livestock products (e) cereals and (d) others (includes items such as alcoholic beverages). When looked at in dollar terms, which helps in neutralising the effects of currency depreciations, the fall in livestock products is steeper at 21.9%. Buffalo meat exports fell 16% to ₹7,609 crore, while goat and sheep meat shipments plunged 62.9% to ₹122 crore. Farmers benefited from a 43% rise in pulse exports to ₹1,039 crore. An agriculture ministry statement on October 10 said exports rose 43.4% in the April-September period. The agriculture ministry statement showed higher growth because it took a narrower basket which did not have categories such as livestock and marine products. “We hope that worst is over. The FAO Food Price Index in September 2020 was up 2.1% from August and now 5% higher than its value a year ago,” said Abishek Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm. Yet, India’s agricultural exports are nowhere near their peak, witnessed prior to 2014-15, and this fall has been a major reason for poor returns in the farm sector. India’s agricultural exports grew five times from about $8.7 billion in 2004-05 to $42.6 billion during 2013-14 on the back of a rise in global commodity prices. This fell sharply to $33 billion in 2016-17. The country’s net exports (i.e. exports minus imports or the agricultural trade surplus) fell to $7.8 billion in 2016-17. Exports have been muted since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agri-exports-recover-from-covid-induced-fall/story-0o92Gewb1YnjUR6k6Tq9dJ.html
20-10-2020||India||Staff crunch threatens to derail pollution fight in Delhi||Two of the key agencies responsible for ensuring the Capital follows its emergency air pollution action plan have been hobbled by staff crunch, according to data and some current employees who spoke to HT, raising questions about the city’s preparedness as it heads into the pre-winter period when air quality is known to plunge into hazardous levels.Delhi and its surrounding areas are now under the winter phase of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), a protocol that curbs certain sets of polluting activities based on the state of the air quality in the area. The implementation and its compliance fall in the domain of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).Documents seen by HT show that in DPCC, out of the sanctioned staff strength of 343, only 103 positions are occupied. This includes executive and ministerial staff who do not contribute towards on-ground enforcement. In the team that is responsible for spot checks and patrolling, there are only 37 officials.Similarly, CPCB, a central body in-charge of overseeing pollution monitoring and enforcement, across the country has about 125 positions vacant in the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) region alone. At present, there are 280 staffers with the agency in the Delhi-NCR region.Also Read | Delhi pollution: What AAP government has done so far in 2020DPCC officials travel the length and breadth of the 1,483 square kilometres that make up Delhi, ensuring — when required — that construction work is halted, diesel-run power generators are not used, and brick kilns, hot mix plants and stone crushers are shut down. They also monitor civic staff to make sure dust control measures are being applied effectively.“An official who comes in the morning has to also manage night patrolling, which means he has to clock 24 hours. For years there have been no promotions and the teams are on a verge of a collapse. Nobody raises this issue because the work is not affected, but the truth is that the teams here are severely overworked,” a DPCC official said, asking not to be named.  Bhure Lal, the chairperson of Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevent and Control) Authority, the body that is ultimately in charge of the air pollution action plan, said that the situation in these agencies is a hindrance to enforcement. “Many of these officials are assigned for court duties and other tasks. These teams are majorly overworked and have great tasks in front of them and at some point work will get affected,” said Lal. In an official response, DPCC said that the pollution control body had made a requisition to the Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board (DSSSB) for the recruitment of Group B and C (middle and lower rung) posts but the process is still underway. Along with the permanent positions, the department has also requested for 126 contractual staff and 50 junior engineer and steno positions to be filled. Also Read | ‘Can think about implementing odd-even if other measures fail’: Delhi environment minister on air pollution“All the important and essential staff is in place, only some grade-2 and steno positions are to be filled,” the DPCC said in its response to HT’s queries. “Presently, no proposal/note has been sent for additional staff/increasing or augmentation of the sanctioned strength,” it added. A DPCC official, asking not to be named, said that while the problem of inadequate staff has been haunting the department for many years now, it is felt most acutely when the strict winter phase of the Grap is implemented. “During winter season, the work for teams double. They have to ensure that all the measures listed under Grap are being implemented and all violations need to be checked. On a good day, a team is able to cover four to five locations. Enforcement will surely be better if we have more hands on board,” said the official. As far as the Centre-run CPCB is concerned, it advertised in May to fill 48 jobs, including posts for scientist-B, junior scientific assistant, senior technician, junior technician and junior lab assistant. The pandemic has delayed the hiring process, a CPCB official said, asking not to be named. This official added that the agency also is struggling with inadequate funds. “The CPCB this year received a budgetary allocation of ₹100 crore, which is barely enough for the size of operations handled by it,” this person added. Prashant Gargava, member secretary, CPCB, did not respond to calls and text messages from HT seeking a comment. A Union ministry spokesperson redirected queries to CPCB, where no response was available.Representatives of municipal corporations, which are responsible for dust suppression measures, regular cleaning and periodic watering of streets, and proper disposal of garbage, said they too are facing similar problems. The three municipal bodies (north, south and east Delhi municipal corporations) together have around 8,000 staff, a number officials say is inadequate for a city of nearly 20 million people.“With the added responsibilities during peak pollution months, we (north corporation) need at least 10,000 to 15,000 additional people in our workforce to manage the tasks assigned to us,” said Jai Prakash, the mayor of north Delhi, an area that consistently records some of the most polluted AQI numbers.The mayor added that they also lack funds and blamed the Delhi government for the problem. “The Delhi government is portraying that they are doing so much for controlling pollution but the truth is that all this is a mere show, if they truly cared they would release the funds they owed to the corporations,” he said.The MCDs are headed by members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which sits in opposition in the assembly where chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has the overwhelming majority. AAP’s in-charge for Delhi municipalities, Durgesh Pathak, said on Monday that BJP’s councillors are responsible for the poor condition of the municipal agencies in the city. “In the last 14 years, they have only spread corruption and have not done any good for them. Their councillors have only stolen from Delhi to fill their own pockets. I am not saying this, former Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari agreed that corruption is up to the brim in the management that runs municipalities. All their problems are rooted in their own actions.”Vivek Chattopadhyay, senior program manager, clean air programme, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said that the city’s pollution control boards need to hire more skilled people to increase efficiency. “Every country has deficiencies but we need to work smartly to overcome these deficiencies. If you can’t hire more numbers, hire more skilled people and give them technological support, so that they can work more efficiently and the work is not affected,” Chattopadhyay said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/staff-crunch-threatens-to-derail-pollution-fight/story-WhRKeh4T1TyTunzNQUQD1L.html
20-10-2020||India||Nadda asks BJP’s north Bengal leaders to struggle relentlessly for 6 months ahead of key polls||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J P Nadda on Monday asked party functionaries in north Bengal districts to struggle relentlessly in the run-up to the crucial assembly polls due in another six months. “He said that party workers and leaders should forget everything else and concentrate on strengthening the organization at the polling booth level in every community block and put up a struggle against the Trinamool Congress (TMC),” a BJP leader, who attended the closed-door meeting, held at a hotel in Siliguri town, said on condition of anonymity. “Being aware of the violent attacks being made on our workers by the TMC, he said we have to go ahead bearing in mind that the police and administration are under the control of the ruling party. He said the next six months are crucial as this is the biggest battle the BJP faces,” said state general secretary Sayantan Basu, who accompanied Nadda. “He said BJP will restore democracy and rule of law in Bengal once it is in power,” added Basu. The media was not allowed inside the hall where Nadda interacted with BJP office-bearers from north Bengal districts. He arrived at Bagdogra airport at 11 am and left for Delhi at 6.30 pm. After his arrival, Nadda garlanded the statue of Panchanan Barma, the biggest leader of the socially backward Rajbanshi community who stood up against caste hegemony in the last century. The Rajbanshis represent a sizeable vote bank in the region, especially in Cooch Behar district. They started a movement during the erstwhile Left Front era, demanding a separate state. Nadda also offered prayers at the Anandamoyee Kali temple before heading for the hotel where he separately addressed local party leaders and representatives of different communities, businessmen and representatives of ethnic groups from the hills and the plains. North Bengal is important for the BJP. In the 2018 panchayat polls, which were marked by violence, the party could make dents only in a few rural pockets but things changed in 2019. The BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats last year and made deep inroads in north Bengal districts where it won seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats. In terms of the 56 assembly segments in the eight seats in north Bengal, the BJP is ahead of the TMC in 36. The West Bengal assembly has 294 seats. While addressing representatives of different communities and ethnic groups, Nadda said if the BJP comes to power then it will transform north Bengal by setting up industries and helping local artisans and farmers. Referring to the Gorkha community’s demand for a permanent political solution to the Gorkhaland issue, Nadda said, “We had promised in our election manifesto that a permanent political solution would be found and recognition would be given to the 11 ethnic groups. We are committed to this.” He also promised that a hub would be set up in the region to help growers of cinchona and other medicinal plants. The BJP government is forming rules to implement the new citizenship law, he said. “The work got delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The rules are being made,” he said. The TMC government has not implemented a lot of welfare projects, such as Ayushman Bharat, though which the Centre helps poor people, said Nadda. “The TMC is creating rifts in the society to help it stay in power. It has done nothing for the people. The BJP does what it promises,” said Nadda. TMC leaders in Kolkata did not react to Nadda’s visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-asks-bjp-s-north-bengal-leaders-to-struggle-relentlessly-for-6-months-ahead-of-key-polls/story-hKhViDXMx7hCOU0kBqJvSJ.html
20-10-2020||India||Scrutiny fair, but allegation of bias untrue: Facebook India MD Ajit Mohan||Since August , social media company Facebook’s Indian arm has been at the centre of a raging political controversy. That’s when the Wall Street Journal revealed how the company’s policy head Ankhi Das leaned on the team to stop them from taking action against Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Raja Singh’s post involving hate speech. Singh was subsequently banned from Facebook but the controversy spiralled into a political controversy with both the BJP and the Opposition targeting Facebook. In his first interview since the controversy, Facebook India’s Ajit Mohan speaks to Sunetra Choudhury what the company is doing to counter the perception of bias.Also Read | India must hold Facebook accountable Let’s start with the issue that has hit international headlines for Facebook-- the report that said your India public policy team was biased in favour of the BJP. Stepping back, it is important to talk about the context of that scrutiny. Lot of the scrutiny was about our content policy enforcement and some of it relating to what we call the designation process (which limits the presence on a platform as a whole) of particular individuals or organisations. Some of the designation process especially when it involves elected people, we are very careful about. That is meant by design as our bias is towards keeping as much speech on the platform as possible, even though there is no exception for violation of our community standards on hate speech for anyone. Since 2018, whenever content violated our hate speech policies, it was taken off. The enforcement around designation process does take inputs from multiple stakeholders. And yet, no one individual has any unilateral power to take this decision. The second part is that the content policy team that does the enforcement in the Indian context stands separate from the public policy team in India. I do think while scrutiny on our decisions is fair, I think the allegation of bias in this case is not true. That decision making power doesn’t sit with the public policy team in India These red flags were raised not just by media, but Facebook’s own team members in other parts of the world. What would you say about subsequent reports that said public policy chief Ankhi Das’s own posts showed her as a Modi supporter? If you are talking about historical engagement with political parties, we have worked with parties across the spectrum, and not just one party. I think you are referring to external expressions of individuals in the company, and the reality is that we do have people who hold political beliefs, who have experience sometimes in government. Our posture as a company is -- we value if they have done public service. So long as their work when they are in Facebook is objective and non-partisan... and our policies and processes are designed to ensure that it is objective. The fact that people have done work or hold a particular political belief or hold a political philosophy, that is okay. People inside the company are from across the political spectrum. Wherever we can, our bias is towards retaining free speech.Also Read | Is Facebook really ready for the 2020 election?The third thing I want to point out, the content that violated our hate speech policy (BJP MLA Raja Singh’s) was taken down even going back to 2018 and not after the Wall Street journal article. When it comes to designating an elected official, it is thoughtful and deliberate and the article came out while we were in the middle of that process. The public policy team doesn’t have enforcement power, no individual has any unilateral decision making power and the public policy team reports to me whereas the content policy team does not. There are also reports that came out suggesting that you acted promptly on BJP complaints? One report said that before 2019 polls, BJP complained against 44 posts, and 14 were taken off?The enforcement mechanism doesn’t take into account political affiliation. It is an objective process of whether it violates our community standards. So people in your team may have political affiliations?I am saying that we have people who have worked for political parties, public service is an experience we value. We don’t limit expression of our employees inside or outside the company. That’s a principle that we have defended overtly. Are you doing anything differently in the Bihar elections that you weren’t doing in 2019 polls?The political ad transparency, if you compare our tools to any other media platform, I do believe that we are at the forefront of raising the bar on transparency.  Would you accept that Twitter has outdone you in identifying fake news? I don’t want to do an editorial comparison with Twitter. In the context of US elections, what you’ve seen is us continuing to raise the bar on election integrity efforts. We won’t be allowing any new political ads in the last week of elections. So a lot of efforts, in the registration of voters and access to accurate information.But if some politician makes an election promise to say ‘I’m going to ban Corona if elected’, will you alert it as fake news?What I do know is that when it comes to Covid, Facebook does take down any content that can cause harm. Why did you appear before the Parliament panel but not in front of the Delhi government’s panel?On anything subjudice, we don’t have the luxury of talking about it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scrutiny-fair-but-allegation-of-bias-untrue-ajit-mohan/story-alwlWmKDpARqctlLDWt0fM.html
20-10-2020||India||Unemployment rate improved in July-Sept ’19, shows NSO data||The unemployment rate in the quarter ended September 2019 improved by 1.3 percentage points compared to the corresponding period of 2018, according to data released Monday. The National Statistics Office on Monday released employment indicators for the quarter ending September 2019.This is the fourth such quarterly bulletin based on the new Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) started in 2017-18 and gives estimates only for urban areas.According to the bulletin, the unemployment rate in July-September 2019 in urban areas was 8.4%. The rate was 20.6% among those aged 15-29 years and 8.3% for those aged 15 years and above. The labour force participation rate (LFPR) was 36.8%; 56.6% for men and 16% for women. This marked a marinal improvement over July-September 2018, when LFPR was 36.1%. In September 2018, the unemployment rate was 9.7%. This fell to 8.9% in the June quarter this year, although a sequential comparison of unemployment data isn’t advisable on account of seasonality. The estimates in the bulletin are based on the current weekly status (CWS) of those surveyed. In this approach, a person is considered part of the labour force if they worked or were available or looking for work for at least one hour during the survey week.Among those working in the quarter ending September 2019 in urban areas and of age 15 years or older, 49.6% were salaried or regular wage employees, 38.3% were self-employed and 12.1% were casual workers. Compared to the June 2019 quarter, the share of the self-employed in the work-force increased by 1.6% and that of the regular wage and casual workers decreased by 0.8% and 1.6% respectively. Compared to the September 2018 quarter, the share self employed and regular wage workers increased by 0.3% and 1% and that of casual workers decreased by 4.7%.62% of the urban workers of age 15 years or older were employed in the tertiary sector, 32.8% in the secondary sector, and 5.2% in agriculture sector. The share of those employed in agriculture was 6.1% higher than that in the June 2019 quarter while the share of those employed in the secondary sector was 1.2% lower. The share of tertiary sector workers remained the same. Compared to September 2018, however, the share of those in tertiary sector rose by 2.6% while that of agriculture and secondary sector workers declined by 10.3% and 3% respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unemployment-rate-improved-in-july-sept-19-shows-nso-data/story-ezQmY0JXJR5EOuLf79y4tM.html
20-10-2020||India||‘Quit NDA’: RLSP leader Upendra Kushwaha tells Chirag Paswan||Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) leader Upendra Kushwaha on Monday put out an offer to Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan to join hands, saying that there was no place for a leader like him in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Talking to the media in Bhagalpur after organisation secretary of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) Santosh Kushwaha joined the RLSP, Kushwaha said that the party would welcome the move if Paswan decided to quit the NDA. “There is no place for leaders of Dalits and extremely backward classes in the NDA, even if Paswan tore his chest to show his high regard for PM Narendra Modi like the legendry Hanuman,” said Kushwaha, who is the chief ministerial face of the front comprising Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM and the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). Kushwaha, who opted out of the RJD-led Grand Alliance (GA) for various reasons like ‘adequate’ number of seats and inordinate delay in formulation of the common minimum programme, has formed the Grand Democratic Secular Front, which also comprises smaller parties like Samajwadi Janata Dal. The RLSP has announced its candidate for 104 seats, while the BSP and AIMIM would contest from 80 and 24 seats. Kushwaha, who contested the last assembly elections under the NDA fold, said that Paswan, the son of former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, was showing one-sided love for the BJP, which was hardly showing any respect for his commitment. “Only those leaders can survive in the NDA, who can afford to bow their heads and indulge in flattery. It is high time he should come out and carry forward the legacy of his father,” said the RLSP chief. Paswan has been on the firing line of BJP leaders even since he compared himself to Hanuman and offered a platform to scores of disgruntled BJP and JD(U) leaders to fight the assembly polls on LJP tickets. BJP leader Prakash Javadekar and Bihar’s deputy CM Sushil Modi dubbed LJP as ‘vote-katwa’, while JD(U) leader KC Tyagi branded Paswan as ‘Kalyugi Hanuman’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quit-nda-rlsp-leader-upendra-kushwaha-tells-chirag-paswan/story-DPXph785BM7GX8W3pCMzQL.html
20-10-2020||India||Open to another stimulus, privatisation in focus: FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday that the government, which has started a mid-year review of the economy, is open to offering another stimulus package and her policies are focused on shedding “socialist baggage” by encouraging greater private sector participation in the economy and instituting robust federal government structures.Sitharaman was participating in a virtual panel discussion on the launch of 15th Finance Commission chairman NK Singh’s book, Portraits of Power: Half a Century of Being at Ringside. Singapore senior minister and coordinating minister for social policies Tharman Shanmugaratnam, and Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) chairman Mukesh Ambani were the other panellists at the event.Responding to a question whether another dose of stimulus is expected, Sitharaman said: “I’ve not closed the option to come up with another stimulus.”The government has already announced two packages as it attempts to revive an economy battered by the Covid-19 pandemic. Between March 26 and May 17, the National Democratic Alliance government unveiled Rs.20.97 lakh crore of stimulus-cum-relief measures. A demand stimulus package consisting of Rs 73,000 crore in public expenditure was announced on October 12. The economy shrank by a record 23.9% in the three months ended June. The finance minister said stimulus packages are announced after wide consultations with different stakeholders and government arms. HT on October 14 reported that the government was considering a third economic stimulus package, combining fiscal and policy measures that could include incentives for the manufacturing and services sectors, income support for the jobless and incentives to people to spend instead of keeping their money in the bank.On India’s gross domestic product (GDP) growth forecasts by various agencies, Sitharaman said the finance ministry had already started a mid-year assessment of the economy based on the latest inputs. “ ... we got lot of inputs which are very different from what we had in July. Perhaps, yes..., sometime we will have to come up with a statement, whether I do it in public or whether I do it in Parliament is one thing...” she said. The Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) has predicted that India could see its worst recession ever this financial year with the economy contracting by 9.5%. The International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) World Economic Outlook (WEO) report recently forecast a 10.3% contraction in India’s GDP this fiscal year.Mentioning key big-ticket reforms, she said that to realise the policy of Atmanirbhar Bharat Initiative (Self-Reliant India Initiative), there should definitively be a clear-cut mention of how the Indian economy has to shift away from undesirable socialistic baggage the country has been carrying all the while.“Second, I would think that federalism has got to be really more robust,” she said emphasising a continuous, real- time effort in this direction to make the country strong. She cited Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision that the country would progress rapidly if all the states grow at a similar speed. The third point, the finance minister emphasised was the need for the education system to catch up with the contemporary needs of the young. She said skill development and learning should be interwoven. Ambani spoke about three contributions to society -- transforming India towards a digital society, transforming the education system with the focus on skills, and transformation of energy from fossil fuel to renewables. “At any point in time we have 200 million children in India in the education system and it will take us 8-10 years to completely transform the skill base of India,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/open-to-another-stimulus-privatisation-in-focus-fm/story-fvz0xqnz8LYnh9lKrY6HoI.html
20-10-2020||India||Ballia case: BJP MLA gets show-cause notice||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has served a show-cause notice to its Ballia legislator Surendra Singh, whose statements in defence of the main suspect in a murder case in the Uttar Pradesh district have embarrassed the party. “He has been served a show-cause notice,” a party leader said on condition of anonymity without disclosing more details. Reports said BJP chief JP Nadda had spoken to BJP’s Uttar Pradesh chief Swatantra Dev, after which the notice was served on the MLA. The BJP lawmaker’s defence of the murder suspect coincided with the campaign for seven assembly by-polls currently underway in the state. Opposition parties have begun targeting the BJP on the issue, the reason why the party chose to distance itself with the lawmaker. Earlier in the day, the controversial lawmaker said he would keep away from Ballia for some days after being rebuked by the party leadership for defending his supposed aide Dheerendra Pratap Singh, who was arrested in connection with a shootout in the district. “I would be staying in Lucknow for a couple of days,” Surendra Singh said without specifying a reason why he wanted to avoid visiting Ballia.The development came as the court of the chief judicial magistrate, Ballia, on Monday remanded Dheerendra Pratap Singh to 14 days in judicial custody. Dheerendra Pratap Singh had allegedly shot dead a 46-year-old man identified as Jaiprakash Pal during a meeting on the allocation of two fair price shops in Durjanpur village of Ballia on October 15 in the presence of police and administrative officials. The Special Task Force of the UP police arrested him from Lucknow on Sunday.Surendra Singh was summoned to Lucknow on Sunday by state BJP chief Swatantra Dev and state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal, who disapproved of his conduct in the case. “The MLA has been told in plain words to keep away from the case and to not make statements,” a BJP leader said on condition of anonymity. The outspoken MLA admitted he had been asked by the party leadership to lie low, but refused to concede that his staying away from Ballia was connected to the arrest of his aide .“Yes, I was asked not to make any statements in the case. See, all I wanted was to make sure that both sides were heard, that’s all,” he said. “I told the leadership that all I wanted was that the accused be punished, whosoever they might be, but uniformly and fairly,” he said. The BJP didn’t make any official comment if the MLA had been asked to stay out of Ballia so that he didn’t influence the probe. “He was summoned and snubbed by the party leadership,” was all that a BJP leader privy to the developments in the case said. Surendra Singh had not only openly admitted that Dheerendra Pratap Singh was a BJP member, but had also approached the police, claiming that a cross-complaint by family members of the main suspect in the murder case be also registered.On Friday, the BJP MLA said that Dheerendra Pratap Singh had opened fire in self-defence. He claimed that had Dheerendra Pratap Singh not opened fire, dozens of women of his family would have been hurt or killed.On Saturday, Surendra Singh visited Revati police station in Ballia and demanded that a first information report be registered on an application moved by women in Dheerendra Pratap Singh’s family who, he alleged, were injured in stone-throwing during Thursday’s incident. He also took them to the district hospital and got them medically examined.“I am carrying with me the medical reports of five women (Dheerendra’s Pratap Singh’s relatives) who were injured in the stone-pelting incident,” the MLA said before his meeting with the state BJP leadership on Sunday.In a video message that surfaced on social media on Saturday, the accused claimed he was innocent and was being framed.After his arrest on Sunday, STF officials said Dheerendra Pratap Singh claimed in a statement that his associates and he opened fire in retaliation when another group, led by a man identified as Krishna Kant Yadav, opened fire on them. He said Dheerendra Pratap Singh’s nephew Golu Singh and women members of his family were critically injured in the firing by the rival group. Golu Singh died of his injuries during treatment, the STF quoted him as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ballia-case-bjp-mla-gets-show-cause-notice/story-lYmeOIbp0yB2Vs14Dd04gN.html
20-10-2020||India||Indian Railways’ 392 special trains begin operations. Check full list here||As India gears up for the festive season, the Indian Railways has put into operation 392 special trains from October 20 till November 30 to make commute easy.The decision was taken as the railways was expecting a rush in footfall during the festive season, the Railway ministry had said in a statement. The 392 special trains are to begin their operations from Kolkata, Varanasi, Lucknow, Patna among other locations to deliver on the rising demand as festivals such as Durga Puja, Dussehra, Diwali and Chhatt Puja are around the corner.The railways has already started operations of over 300 express/mail trains which are now functioning on regularly in India.These special trains will operate at a speed of 55 kmph and the fares applicable will be those of special trains, the Railway Board had said in a statement released earlier.Due to the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, the Indian Railways had to halt regular train services and is now running trains as per necessity and demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-run-392-special-trains-from-oct-20-to-nov-30/story-7bYVcytf70ceNGxLZwWfNJ.html
20-10-2020||India||Assam’s Kaziranga national park to open for tourists from October 21: Know the guidelines||Assam’s Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) will reopen for tourists from October 21 after a gap of over seven months.All five national parks and 18 wildlife sanctuaries in Assam, which usually remains shut for around five months annually due to floods, were closed in March following the Covid-19 outbreak.Here are the guidelines to be followed:1. Kaziranga park director P Sivakumar said that wearing of masks, using hand sanitisers and maintaining social distancing will have to be followed while allowing tourists to enter.2. A limited number of jeep safaris will be allowed at a time and the vehicles’ tyres will be sanitised after each trip.3. All the tourists will have to go through a screening process and anyone detected with Covid-19-related symptoms such as high fever, cough and cold will be segregated and handed over to local health authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-s-kaziranga-national-park-to-open-for-tourists-from-october-21-know-the-guidelines/story-E8FlDNTjdQ622ydRWBk8eJ.html
20-10-2020||India||Permissions, tests, masks, checks: How a Ramlila overcame the odds||The Ramayana is the story of the victory of good over evil. When the capital’s much-celebrated Ramlila “SHRI RAM,” a dance- drama, opened on Saturday , the team of artistes at the Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra (SBKK), which organises the annual cultural extravaganza, also rejoiced at the victory of their optimism over the all-pervading pessimism caused by the coronavirus disease pandemic. After all, they managed to stage the spectacular ballet based on the life of Lord Ram at a time when many Ramlilas across the city have either been cancelled or truncated for lack of time to make preparations, restrictions imposed to curb the spread of the viral disease, and delayed official permissions. Putting together the dance-drama -- a unique fusion of many forms of Indian classical music and folk dances, martial and acrobatic arts, masks and make-up styles -- which requires months of preparation, was a formidable challenge when pandemic is raging. Shobha Deepak Singh, who has directed this unique version of the Ramlila for almost five decades, says she was determined to try and ensure that there was no break in the annual event, first staged in 1957 under the stewardship of her mother Sumitra Charat Ram. The SBKK’s Ramlila has, over the years, seen the participation of some the biggest names in classical music and dance, and has figured prominently on the capital’s cultural calendar. “ The only thing that worried me was getting the permissions on time. But we wanted to start rehearsals, and so each of our 60 artists and technicians underwent a corona test and everyone tested negative and the rehearsals got underway in August,” said Singh, sitting in her office, decorated with Indian artefacts and artworks. “Even though everyone tested negative for the coronavirus disease, we started rehearsals in small batches with all necessary precautions. There were temperature checks everyday and when in the green room, everyone wore masks. We put up all artists in the hostel within the campus and every one underwent a test every 15th day,” said Shashidharan Nair, the choreographer of the presentation for the past 25 years. Among those who were not sure if they will be able to perform in front of a live audience was Raj Kumar Sharma, who has played Ram for the past two decades now. The coronavirus was capable of springing a nasty surprise anytime. “ Even as we rehearsed, most artists were not sure that eventually the event will be staged, pandemic was far from abating, and even by late September the permission to hold the event was still awaited, ” says Sharma, sitting in front of a large mirror in the green room with large table mirrors. Costumes, masks, crowns, bows and arrows hang on the wall.  Singh came to the rehearsals every day to ensure that new news costumes and scenes that she had introduced this year came through well. For the uninitiated, the SBKK Ramlila is also pageantry of regal costumes and jewellery, a lot of which is inspired by the works of painter Raja Ravi Verma. “I have been constantly experimenting with music, make-up, sets, lights, costumes, jewellery and technology so that our production has something fresh to offer to the audiences,” says Singh, who believes that technology and tradition co-exist. Last year, she introduced multiple LED screens on the open-air stage to display many scenes such as Hanuman bringing the Sanjeevani Booti; Ram and his army crossing the sea into Lanka over floating stones – which gave the presentation a feel of a 3-D visual extravaganza. She was satisfied with the preparations. In mid- September,. it was time for all to undergo another coronavirus test. This time, the coronavirus did spring a nasty surprise. Singh tested positive. Everyone else, thankfully , tested negative. Many artistes thought it was curtains for the show as she shifted to a hospital in Gurgaon. “ Our spirits sank. But she kept telling us from hospital to keep the rehearsal on, to be ready to stage the Ramlila even if we got the permission last day. The rehearsal went on in her absence,” says Nair. Singh returned after two weeks to a cheering welcome by the artistes. But the permission to hold the Ramlila had not yet come. Singh activated her plan B – between October 10 and 12 , the Ramlila was recorded to be screened on YouTube in case the live event had to be cancelled at the last moment. But, finally, the government gave its go-ahead, with riders, for the event. And the stage was set for the inauguration of the 64th edition of the SBKK’s Ramlila. Arrangements were made for seating about 100 people for reasons of social- distancing, unlike in the past when about 600 could see the Ramlila every day. On Saturday, it was 6 pm, half an hour before the show. Singh was inside the green room of women’s artistes, having a word with Madhavi Rastogi, who is playing Sita. Rastogi is busy adjusting her jewellery, her fellow artists lending a helping hand. There are also other young women artistes playing female characters—Kaikayee , Yaraka, Manthara—touching up their lips, faces, eyes, all finally excited to perform before the live audience many of whom, wearing masks, have already taken the seats placed at quite a distance from each other. “ I love playing Sita, which is quite an emotional roller coaster ride for me; but what saddens me is the fact that women continue to face ordeal by fire to prove themselves every day, ” says Rastogi. Singh says that for her, the Ramanaya is essentially a saga of devotion, loyalty, endearing family relationships, and respect for elders. “ So, we have always tried to make our version of Ramlila entertaining and enlightening. I have studied Ramayana and Ramcharitmanas deeply over the last 50 years, and the most important lesson I have drawn is that to err is human, to forgive divine,” she says. It is 6.30 in the evening, and the open-air stage at SBKK has come alive. The inaugural show has begun as scheduled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/permissions-tests-masks-checks-how-a-ramlila-overcame-the-odds/story-opbZb8T29aSmvPsz8VNfBJ.html
