21-10-2020||India||Maintain economic momentum during Covid pandemic: Odisha CM to officials||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday asked officials to maintain the momentum of the economic activities in the state while ensuring adherence to the Covid-19 protocol.Patnaik issued this direction to the officials while reviewing the corona situation in the state. He said that livelihood activities and economic progress should not be compromised in the name of the pandemic.The chief minister said industries should be allowed to undertake their activities smoothly and there should be no hurdles before them. “The governments efforts should be to ensure that the investment proposals those that have come to the state during the pandemic period should be grounded,” he said.Keeping in view the possibility of spread of infection during the Durga Puja festival and ensuing winter, Patnaik said there should be no complacency about Covid pandemic even though the state’s recovery count crossed 2.5 lakh mark.He lauded the efforts of Covid Warriors for whose sacrifice, the state could achieve high recoveries and low fatality. “There has been a significant decline in new cases due to hard work and joint efforts of doctors, health workers, police, administration and Covid warriors,” he said.He also thanked the technicians for the state conducting over 41 lakh Covid tests. The chief minister said the public awareness about the pandemic must be accelerated without any lackadaisical attitude.Patnaik also emphasised on the need to take special care of Covid-19 patients with co-morbid conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maintain-economic-momentum-during-covid-pandemic-odisha-cm-to-officials/story-XRnrTaqaGnpz4Rpp19wozH.html
21-10-2020||India||Kejriwal, Amarinder Singh in war of words on Twitter over farm bills passed by Punjab assembly||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh took swipes at each other on Twitter over the agriculture bills passed by Punjab assembly on Tuesday with former accusing the latter of “enacting a drama” and “befooling people”.The war of words began after Kejriwal responded to a tweet by CMO Punjab in which Amarinder Singh accused both the Aam Aadmi Party and Shiromani Akali Dal of “double standards”.“Amazed at double standards of SAD & AAP, says @capt_amarinder Singh on their criticism of state’s bills after backing them in the House. CM asks @ArvindKejriwal to follow Punjab’s examples to bring out similar bills to save farmers,” Punjab CMO said. In his response, Kejrwal asked if a state can amend laws of the Centre. He addressed the Punjab chief minister as “Raja Sahib”. “Raja Sahib, you amended the laws of the Centre. Can a state change the laws of the Centre? No. You resorted to drama, mislead the people. The laws that you passed yesterday, will the farmers of Punjab get MSP after that? No. Farmers need MSP not your false laws,” Kejriwal said.“Raja Sahib, do not betray the farmers of Punjab. If you want real benefit of the farmers, then pass an MSP law that the crop the central government does not pick up on MSP, the Punjab government will take it on MSP,” he added.Hitting back, Amarinder Singh made a series of tweets and said Kejriwal’s reaction smacks of total ignorance and he should have done his homework before rushing to make remarks. “Your reaction smacks of total ignorance ArvindKejriwal though I can’t blame you as Delhi is not really a state. But I expected you to do homework before rushing to react to my remarks, that were made in interest of farmers, who I thought you might have some concern for.“And frankly, ArvindKejriwal I thought you knew your Constitution, which clearly says that u/Article 254 (II) states can seek amendment to central laws for local & contextual needs, as has been done in many cases, specially in CPC & CrPC laws. Maybe you could check it now!“So instead of questioning my govt’s Bills why don’t you get out of your IT mindset and ask your AAPPunjab unit to back us in our fight for farmers, unless their support to our Bills was just a facade? The ball is in your court - are you with farmers or against them?” he said.Kejriwal accused the Punjab chief minister of betraying farmers and said the Centre is not going to accept the amendments made by the state government. “Raja Sahib, you are accepting yourself that the state government cannot change the laws of the Centre. The central government is not going to accept your amendments. Then what did you distribute laddus yesterday? Cheated the farmers? First, you cheated by making an anti-farmer bill sitting in the committee of the Centre. And now this second betrayal?” he said.Punjab Assembly on Tuesday passed a resolution rejecting three farm laws enacted by the central government as also the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill with the chief minister later leading a delegation to the Governor VP Singh Badnore urging him to give his assent to three bills passed by the assembly.Punjab is the first state to reject the three farm laws which were enacted after passage of relevant bills in the monsoon session of parliament last month.The assembly passed three bills “unanimously” to “protect MSP and check hoarding of foodgrains”.The House also passed by voice vote an amendment to CrPC for exempting farmers from the attachment of land up to 2.5 acres. The assembly passed Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-amarinder-singh-in-war-of-words-on-twitter-over-farm-bills-passed-by-punjab-assembly/story-dG03aNnlACzTFVBSMRmShI.html
21-10-2020||India||‘Theaterisation to take number of years,’ says army chief General Naravane||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Wednesday said the proposed creation of theatre commands to increase synergy among the three services would be a “deliberate and thoughtful” process and its fruition would take a “number of years”. He said “mid-course corrections” might be required along the way. His comments came during an address to officers and faculty at the Secunderabad-based College of Defence Management. The army chief spoke about a raft of issues including tri-service integration, theaterisation and modernisation of the armed forces. Theaterisation refers to placing specific units of the army, the navy and the air force under a Theatre Commander. Such commands will come under the operational control of an officer from any of the three services, depending on the function assigned to that command. As India’s first chief of defence staff, General Bipin Rawat’s mandate includes facilitating the restructuring of military commands for optimal utilisation of resources by bringing about so-called jointness in operations, including through establishment of theatre commands, in three years. On the government’s decision to appoint the CDS and create the department of military affairs (DMA), an army statement quoted Naravane as saying it was “a momentous” decision and that the services needed to “demonstrate great wisdom and statesmanship in enabling the CDS, a long-standing demand of the armed forces.” The next logical step in the process of defence reforms was the “formation of integrated theatre commands to synergise the capabilities and combat potential of the three services during war and peace,” the statement further quoted the army chief as saying. The statement said the army chief explained to the officers that there was a need for everyone to work in a spirit of togetherness and trust, with national security interests being paramount. Sounding a cautionary note, he said there might be a requirement for “mid-course corrections”. He was, however, optimistic about the future of the military’s integration, which he described as “an inevitability” as it would lead to “tri-services synergy” and optimisation of resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/theaterisation-to-take-number-of-years-says-army-chief-general-naravane/story-fVgTOGc3yeAd8YylR0OKXO.html
21-10-2020||India||Karni Sena group heading to Ballia to support maverick MLA Surendra Singh detained in Azamgarh||A group of Karni Sena members was stopped at Boodhanpur in Azamgarh while on way to Ballia to participate in a programme in support of BJP MLA Surendra Singh and Ballia shootout’s main accused Dhirendra Pratap Singh on Wednesday, police said. A police officer said that 15 members of Karni Sena, led by Uttar Pradesh unit president Sandip Singh, were stopped at Boodhanpur intersection and were detained at Koyalasa block auditorium around noon. In their support, 19 Karni Sena members from Ghazizpur and Sultanpur also reached there. All of them were booked.Superintendent of police (Rural Area), Azamgarh, Siddharth said that the Karni Sena members were booked under section 151 of the IPC. A senior police officer said that they were later released on a bond of Rs 1 lakh each. According to the officer, Karni Sena had planned to organise a programme in favour of MLA Surendra Singh and Durjanpur shootout’s main accused Dhirendra Pratap Singh. But the Ballia district administration did not give permission for the event. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has served a show-cause notice to Surendra Singh after his statements in defence of the main suspect in the murder case have embarrassed the party. The MLA who was summoned to the BJP headquarters in Lucknow and given a dressing-down by party bosses on Monday, had admitted that Dheerendra was his aide and a BJP member.Karni Sena’s national vice president Dharmendra Singh, senior vice president Dhruv Singh, state convenor Ajit Singh, Lucknow district convenor Dharmendra Singh, state secretary Ritika Singh, Shravan Singh, Pushkar Singh, Dr Jyotsna Singh, and Anjali Singh were among those going to Ballia. Dhruv Singh demanded that an FIR on the application moved by the kin of Dhirendra Singh who were allegedly injured in the attack during the meeting at Durjanpur on October 15. Five women members of Dhirendra’s family suffered injuries. Singh also warned that if the BJP takes any action against MLA Surendra Singh, who represents Bairia constituency in Ballia, the Karni Sena will boycott the BJPDhirendra Pratap Singh allegedly shot a person dead during a controversy in a meeting regarding allocation of two fair price shops in In Durjanpur, on October 15. Singh was arrested from Lucknow on October 18 and was sent to jail in Ballia after being produced in a court there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karni-sena-group-heading-to-ballia-to-support-maverick-mla-surendra-singh-detained-in-azamgarh/story-MAxNIHHPwP74NjwePhValO.html
21-10-2020||India||Telangana agriculturist floats marriage bureau meant only for farmers||At a time when most of the parents are in search of grooms with high qualifications, lucrative jobs and fat bank balances for their daughters, a 40-year old farmer from Telangana’s Karimnagar district has come up with an initiative to find brides for youth who take to agriculture as a profession. Kethireddy Anji Reddy, an agriculturist from Timmapur village on the outskirts of Karimnagar town, started a marriage bureau last week exclusively to find alliances for farmers. Called ‘Rythu Marriage Bureau’, it is meant only for farmers, irrespective of their caste, creed and religion. “There have been marriage bureaus for all castes, religions and communities in every part of the country. But I have noticed that most of the profiles of grooms registered with these bureaus are that of employees, businessmen, engineers, doctors and various other professions, but not farmers,” Reddy said. Even if there are a few agriculturists registered with the marriage bureaus , they are big landlords involved in other ventures. “One can hardly find any groom on their lists who depends completely on agriculture for his livelihood. Even if any educated farmer registers his name with the marriage bureau, he won’t get much response. That is precisely why I chose to start a marriage bureau exclusively for farmers,” he said. According to Reddy, till recently, agriculture was a respectable profession in the villages and it was easy to find alliances within the villages. “But the present generation of women from agriculturists’ families is also well-educated and ambitious. They are looking for educated and well-settled grooms. As a result, youth who take up farming as a profession are finding it difficult to get marriage alliances,” he argues. Moreover, agriculture has become an unpredictable profession of late and is subject to vagaries of weather, pesticide attacks and lack of remunerative prices. “It is not a lucrative job. Because of this uncertainty, even farmers prefer to get their daughters married off to employed grooms, if not software engineers or doctors,” he said. Reddy said his initiative is meant to find good alliances for grooms who are solely dependent on agriculture. “The response in the last one week has been overwhelming. I am getting hundreds of calls every day from prospective grooms for registration. Interestingly, there are also a few inquiries from families of brides too,” he said. He declared that unlike the other marriage bureaus , no commission would be collected from brides or grooms at his Rythu Marriage Bureau for arranging the marriage. “We collect a nominal registration fee of Rs 500 from those who can afford it only to run this office. If they are poor farmers, they don’t have to pay even that amount,” he said. Reddy said his objective was to ensure that young farmers also lead a happy married life and should not be stigmatized for taking up farming as a profession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-agriculturist-floats-marriage-bureau-meant-only-for-farmers/story-zxPcxcJH7HBj1hTi0IC1JL.html
21-10-2020||India||Kerala slashes cost of Covid-19 tests as fresh cases continue to mount||Struggling with a fatigued health system and rising Covid-19 graph, the Kerala health department has decided to increase the number of tests and reduce their prices as the state reported 8,369 new cases on Wednesday. Kerala Covid-19 tally now stands at 3,61,841 out of which 2,67,082 have recovered and the number of active cases is 93,425. There were 26 casualties taking the death toll 1,231.The state’s test positivity rate (TPR) is 13.49% against the national average of 8.2 %. According to the latest union health ministry data at least 22 states are below the national average and six are above it. On Wednesday, Kerala’s health ministry announced that the cost of RT-PCR tests to detect Covid-19 has been reduced to Rs 2100 from 2750 and two-phase TrueNat which was at Rs 3000 will be priced at Rs 2200 but antigen tests will remain at Rs 625.It has also decided to permit Covid-19 testing kiosks outside all hospitals and labs approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Though tests are free in government hospitals, huge backlogs force many to turn to private laboratories and hospitals. The government has capped prices to avoid overpricing by private laboratories, it said. Despite medical experts’ advising the government to double Covid-19 tests, Kerala’s rate of testing is poor compared to neighboring states. On Wednesday it conducted 62,030 tests. Last week Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said the state would conduct at least one lakh tests a day but statistics show it never crossed 70,000. “We have been warning the government for quite some time. We have to increase tests considerably. The government should heed healthy criticism and advice rather than targeting them,” said Dr S S Lal, a public health expert who had earlier served with the World Health Organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-slashes-cost-of-covid-19-tests-as-fresh-cases-continue-to-mount/story-IeNJ3PuSHjhfvfzVAJ92MJ.html
21-10-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray blocks CBI from probing cases in Maharashtra, withdraws general consent||The Uddhav Thackeray government on Wednesday withdrew the general consent extended by Maharashtra to the Central Bureau of Investigation to probe cases in the state. The decision implies that the CBI will need the state’s permission to enter its jurisdiction to carry out any investigation, effectively stripping the central agency of its powers to probe cases in Maharashtra.At least three non-BJP-ruled states - Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal - have already withdrawn its general consent to let the CBI investigate cases in their jurisdiction.Officials said the Maharashtra government’s decision would not impact the CBI investigation into the Sushant Singh Rajput death case since this probe is being conducted on orders of the Supreme Court and not under provisions that require a state to give its consent.Wednesday’s order issued by Maharashtra’s home department comes just a day after the Uttar Pradesh government registered a First Information Report on one aspect of the Television Rating Points case and promptly handed over the case to the CBI.The Maharashtra government had viewed this move as an attempt by the UP government to lay the foundation for the CBI to wade into the ongoing probe by Mumbai police against Republic TV. Leaders of the ruling alliance in Maharashtra had called the CBI registering the case in the TRP scandal as an attempt to “dilute” the case against Republic TV.Also Read | Kangana Ranaut, sister Rangoli summoned by Mumbai Police next week; FIR includes charges of seditionThe Mumbai police probe initiated against Republic TV earlier this month has set up a fresh face-off between the Thackeray-led coalition with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party’s Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi and the Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA. In this case, the Mumbai police had named Republic TV as one of three channels accused of trying to fudge its television ratings. Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami has denied the charges.The scam had come to light when rating agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) complained that certain channels were rigging TRP numbers to lure advertisers.TRPs of a channel or programme is used to measure the popularity of channels by advertising agencies which affect pricing. The points are calculated in India by BARC using a device installed in over 45,000 households across the country called “Bar-O-Meter”. The device collects data about a programme or channel watched by members of these households on the basis of which weekly ratings are issued by BARC. It was alleged that some families at whose houses metres for collecting data of viewership were installed were being bribed to tune into a particular channel.Eight people have been arrested by Mumbai police in this case, two of them on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-blocks-cbi-from-probing-cases-in-maharashtra-withdraws-general-consent/story-nxPNzXjsKWVsCcLJ1JIY9M.html
21-10-2020||India||Delhi airport certified as second safest globally for Covid-related safety protocols: DIAL||Delhi airport operator DIAL on Wednesday said it has been certified as the second safest aerodrome globally for effective implementation of coronavirus-related health and safety protocols.The safe travel score is an initiative by Safe Travel Barometer, which assessed more than 200 airports on their implementation of health and safety protocols during the Covid-19 pandemic.Safe Travel Barometer is among the world’s largest and most comprehensive tools to monitor traveller health and safety protocols, a release issued by DIAL said.“Close on the heels of Singapore Changi Airport, which scored 4.7 out of 5, Delhi’s IGI Airport has bagged the second position in the Safe Travel Barometer’s list by scoring 4.6.”“Besides, Frankfurt Airport and Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport have also secured the second position, each tied at 4.6 out of 5,” the release said.The Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport in the national capital is operated by Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL), a consortium led by GMR.According to the release, Delhi airport has also become the country’s safest airport for various safety measures taken to help control the spread of coronavirus.“These include the launch of RT-PCR testing laboratory, implementation of touchless initiatives to enhance the passenger experience, UV-based disinfection process, and development of AIR SUVIDHA portal for easy and hassle-free arrival process of India-bound international passengers,” it added.DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar said it was a moment of pride that in this testing time, DIAL has been able to make exceptional accomplishment by ranking second in the world for implementing effective safety measures at the airport.Safe Travel Barometer is a comprehensive tool to monitor traveller health and safety protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-certified-as-second-safest-globally-for-covid-related-safety-protocols-dial/story-TVpy2XMy23MQ3YiQ8hBW2K.html
21-10-2020||India||22-year-old Delhi man found dead at resort in Nainital||A 22-year-old man from Delhi was found dead in a resort in Uttarakhand’s tourist town of Nainital on Wednesday, police said.Vijay Mehta, in-charge of Talital police station said the young man’s body in a room at the resort at Golu Dhar near Krishna cottage in Nainital. The incident came to light when a resort staff member knocked on the door of the man’s room but there was no response, police said. “The resort staff then informed the police about the incident. Police rushed to the spot and broke the door and entered the room. They found the man lying dead in the room,” Mehta said. The deceased has been identified as Palash Khanna, 22, resident of Khanpur area in New Delhi, said Mehta. Mehta said according to the staff members of the resort, the man had come to Nainital district to collect a ‘No dues certificate’ from the Graphic Era Hill university in Bhimtal. Police sent the deceased’s body for postmortem and informed his family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-year-old-delhi-man-found-dead-at-resort-in-nainital/story-uNJIJChJixROmRr9nAIVxN.html
21-10-2020||India||Bimal Gurung’s GJM to support TMC in Bengal Assembly polls 2021, exits NDA||GJM supremo Bimal Gurung, on the run since 2017 following an agitation for a separate state in Darjeeling, on Wednesday said his outfit has decided to walk out of the NDA, as the BJP-led dispensation “failed to find a permanent political solution” for the Hills.Gurung, flanked by close aide Roshan Giri, rued that the central government was yet to fulfil its promise of recognising 11 Gorkha communities as Scheduled Tribes.He vowed to support the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC in its fight against the BJP in the 2021 Bengal Assembly elections.“We have been a part of the NDA since 2009, but the BJP-led dispensation hasn’t kept its promise of finding a permanent political solution for the Hills. It has not included 11 Gorkha community in the list of Scheduled Tribes.We feel cheated, so we are walking out of NDA today,” Gurung said at the press meet at a hotel here.The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) leader further said that he lived in New Delhi for three years, after fleeing the Hills, and moved to Jharkhand just about two months ago.“I don’t have any problem if I get arrested today,” Gurung, who has been charged with more than 150 cases for alleged involvement in the agitation, added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bimal-gurung-s-gjm-to-support-tmc-in-bengal-assembly-polls-2021-exits-nda/story-lehSkDg7xBPgKCLKBtEDlL.html
21-10-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut, sister Rangoli summoned by Mumbai Police next week; FIR includes charges of sedition||Actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel have been summoned by Mumbai police next week in connection with an FIR registered against them at Bandra police station, news agency ANI reported on Wednesday.The charges against them include that of sedition (Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code). They two have been summoned on October 26 and 27, according to ANI.The FIR was registered on Friday on the orders of a local court in Mumbai for allegedly promoting enmity between different communities and other charges.The Bandra Metropolitan Magistrate’s court had ordered the police to investigate a complaint filed by Munawwar Ali Sayyed, a Bollywood casting director and fitness trainer, which referred to Ranaut’s and her sister’s tweets and other statements.According to Sayyed’s lawyer, the complaint alleged that Ranaut has been defaming Bollywood for the last two months by calling it a “hub of nepotism”, “favouritism” etc through her tweets and television interviews.“Her sister, too, has made objectionable comments on social media to spread communal tension between two religious groups,” he said.Metropolitan magistrate Jaydeo Y Ghule said in the order on Friday that prima facie “cognisable offence” has been committed by the accused, and directed the police to initiate necessary action and investigation against the actor and her sister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bollywood-actor-kangana-ranaut-sister-summoned-by-mumbai-police-on-october-26-27/story-XjuWt0Q2bkkaCLWdokDcIK.html
21-10-2020||India||Couple of Covid-19 vaccines likely by early next year, says WHO chief scientist||At least a couple of vaccines could be available for use against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by the early part of 2021, Dr Soumya Swaminathan, World Health Organisation’s (WHO), chief scientist said on Wednesday.“One of the major lessons learned, and a positive one, during this pandemic has been the role of science and scientists, and also the global collaboration that we have had between scientists to take forward the advances in knowledge in an accelerated way,” Swaminathan said.She was speaking virtually at the 15th JRD Tata Memorial Oration, titled ‘Reimagining Health: Lessons from the Pandemic.’“Even product research and development has progressed in an unprecedented rate; we now have a number of new diagnostics including the rapid antigen tests for Covid-19. We are working on vaccines, which hopefully by the early part of 2021 we will have at least a couple of vaccines that have been proven to be safe and effective and that we can then start using in the most vulnerable and high-risk populations,” she added. Among the most important lessons learned during this pandemic, Swaminathan said was investing in public health and primary healthcare.“Of the lessons that I have learned over the last nine or ten months, the most important one is the importance of investing in public health and primary healthcare. We see examples of countries where investments in primary healthcare over the past decade or two have paid off. On the contrary, you have high income countries where they’ve been overwhelmed and haven’t been able to put in place some of the mechanisms that have been needed,” she said. The Population Foundation of India (PFI) streamed the oration as JRD Tata was one of the founders of PFI.Swaminathan emphasised the differential impact of the pandemic on women and children, and identified certain key factors that would address the gendered impact.The factors include including violence against women in the package of essential services; social services for women employed in the informal sector; the importance of sex and age disaggregated data and importance of universal health coverage schemes such as Ayushman Bharat. Underscoring the importance of gender analysis and gender responsive public health policies, Swaminathan said that there was a need to collect gender disaggregated data. Also, there was a strong need for infodemic management, given the excessive influx of misleading and false information on Covid-19. Apart from that there is also need to identify and address triggers of behaviour change; imaginative use of technology and empowering the frontline workers, who are the foundation of India’s public health system.Dr K Srinath Reddy, a board-member of PFI, said, “Science must light up the path for human progress in an ecologically sustainable world. Rejecting science will lead to future failures in averting or attenuating diseases, including pandemics. Dr Swaminathan gives a clarion call to hold the standard of science aloft as we march into a healthy future after the victory over Covid-19. To do so, we must vanquish not only the virus but also the virulent anti-science movement that has vitiated thinking and resisted a rational global public health response.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/couple-of-covid-19-vaccines-likely-by-early-next-year-says-who-chief-scientist/story-BmI91saAbhdw8GleTUw9cJ.html
21-10-2020||India||Delhi court to decide on transfer of MJ Akbar’s defamation case against Priya Ramani on Thursday||A court in Delhi will on Thursday decide on transferring the defamation case filed by former Union minister MJ Akbar against journalist Priya Ramani to a different judge.Sujata Kohli, the District and Session court judge had, during the last hearing on October 14, reserved the order on whether the defamation case should be heard by the court that exclusively deals in cases related to lawmakers.The court reserved its order after hearing the final arguments made by the counsels of both sides.Seeking appropriate steps in the matter, a magistrate court had on October 13 transferred the case to a District and Sessions Judge of Rouse Avenue District Court. Former minister of state for external affairs, Akbar had filed a defamation case against Ramani. The journalist had accused Akbar of sexual misconduct during the #MeToo movement, an accusation that was denied by the lawmaker.On October 17, 2018, Akbar resigned as Union minister of State for External Affairs after he was named in the #MeToo movement that created a storm on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-to-decide-on-transfer-of-mj-akbar-s-defamation-case-against-priya-ramani-on-thursday/story-RqlnhCgROKWOEkIZZ3P2SP.html
21-10-2020||India||Senior Afghan leader Ata Mohammad Noor meets external affairs minister Jaishankar||Senior Afghan leader Ata Mohammad Noor met external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday as part of New Delhi’s outreach to a wider spectrum of the leadership in Kabul amid the ongoing dialogue between the Taliban and the Afghan government. Noor is the third leader from the erstwhile Northern Alliance, which was backed by India in its campaign against the Taliban, to visit New Delhi in recent weeks. He was preceded by Marshal Abdul Rashid Dostum in September and Abdullah Abdullah, chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation, earlier this month. There was no official word from the external affairs ministry on the meeting between Jaishankar and Noor, and people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the two leaders discussed the Afghan peace process and the troubled talks currently underway between the Taliban and the Afghan government in Doha. The Indian government decided late last year to expand its contacts with different ethnic groups and political parties in Afghanistan, though it is yet to decide on the crucial issue of whether it should open a channel of communication with the Taliban. In an interview with Hindustan Times, Abdullah had said the Afghan leadership would have no concerns if India decides to engage the Taliban. In Indian circles, Noor, the chief executive of the Jamiat party, is best known for the personal role he played in countering a terror attack on the Indian consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif in January 2016, when he was the governor of Balkh province. “He personally took up arms to defend the Indian consulate when it was under attack,” an Afghan diplomat said on condition of anonymity. Noor’s visit to New Delhi coincided with a trip to Islamabad by Hizb-i-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, a known India-baiter who has opposed any role of the country in Afghanistan. Hekmatyar, also known as the “butcher of Kabul” for his alleged links to civilian deaths in the 1990s, met foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi on Monday to discuss the peace process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-afghan-leader-ata-mohammad-noor-meets-external-affairs-minister-jaishankar/story-VeHRV23Z5IyAlpcuMF7mgP.html
21-10-2020||India||Gorkha leader Bimal Gurung surfaces after 3 years, dumps BJP, allies with TMC||One of West Bengal’s most wanted men, Darjeeling’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) leader Bimal Gurung surfaced in Kolkata on Wednesday evening three years after he went underground and swore to help chief minister Mamata Banerjee win the assembly polls due in another six months. Charged by the state government under anti-terror law for violence in the Darjeelng hills, Gurung had been in hiding since 2017. As an ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Gurung helped the state’s principal opposition force win the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat in 2009, 2014 and 2019. He was in hiding during the last election“I am no longer an ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Central government, be it the Prime Minister or the Union home minister, did not keep the commitment made to us. I was in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) for our cause but they did nothing. Mamata Banerjee, on the other hand, does what she says. In 2021 we will go all out to help her win the seats in the Darjeeling hill region,” Gurung told the media at a hurriedly called press conference at a hotel in central Kolkata.  In 2019, the BJP had an alliance with the GJM’s Gurung faction, the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) and other smaller hill parties. BJP’s Raju Bista won the seat. The GJM has influence over voters in around 15 assembly seats in Darjeeling hills and the Terai and Dooars region in the foothills and plains.“I proudly say that today I want to break away from the NDA and in the coming assembly polls we want to have an alliance with Mamata Banerjee and give a reply to the BJP,” said Gurung. “In politics, there are no foes and friends. Our demand is Gorkhaland and a permanent political solution. We will see which party addresses our issues and decide our strategy for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” said the Gorkha leader. Gurung, who founded the GJM which enforced a 104-day shutdown in the Darjeeling hills in 2017 in demand for a separate state of Gorkhaland, was on the run ever since he was charged by the state under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Asked whether he was afraid of being arrested or whether he had a meeting with TMC leaders or government officials before appearing in public in the state capital, Gurung said, “I am not a criminal. I am a political leader. If I am arrested I will still speak for our cause. I did not meet any TMC leader. We will possibly have a meeting in a day or two.” The press conference was preceded by a two-hour drama. Gurung’s followers in Darjeeling informed the media that he would meet journalists at Gorkha Bhawan at Salt Lake in the eastern fringes of Kolkata at 5 pm after holding a secret meeting with some senior leaders of the ruling TMC. Gurung arrived at Gorkha Bhawan around 4.30 pm in a white luxury SUV with an unidentified person who was dressed in saffron attire. However, the staff at Gorkha Bhawan who owe allegiance to Gurung’s rival faction in the GJM did not open the gates. More than a dozen officers and constables of the Kolkata Police were present at the spot. They shouted at the staff, asking them to come out and open the gates. When no one responded, Gurung headed for Kolkata. His followers said he would hold the press conference at a hotel in central Kolkata. The fact that the Kolkata Police did not try to arrest Gurung who is wanted under anti-terror law for the violence that rocked the Darjeeling hills in 2017 indicated that the TMC leadership has taken a soft stand in the run-up to the crucial assembly polls. There was no comment by any TMC leader but the party tweeted in the night, “We welcome Bimal Gurung’s commitment to peace & decision to withdraw support from NDA while reposing faith in @MamataOfficial’s leadership. BJP’s attempts to use Gorkhaland issue for petty politics & their untrustworthy nature now lay fully exposed before people of Bengal.”“We’re confident that all the key stakeholders in hills, including political parties & GTA along with civil society will work together & join hands with us for the peace & prosperity of our motherland,” the party said in a second tweet. Gurung’s trusted lieutenant Roshan Giri signed the tripartite Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) accord in July 2011. GTA is the local autonomous body in the Darjeeling hills, which is now headed by the Binoy Tamang-led faction of the GJM that supports the TMC. In November 2017, Gurung’s erstwhile lieutenant Tamang suspended him and his aides in their absence. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, a spokesperson of the Tamang faction said, “Gurung’s arrival will have no impact on hill politics because people see him as a selfish person. Gurung dumped them and fled in 2017 when the police slapped criminal charges against him.” Since 2009, the BJP has been promising to find a permanent political solution to the long-pending demands of people of Darjeeling, Siliguri, the Terai and the Dooars region. The promises were made in the BJP’s election manifestos in 2014 and 2019 as well. In the first week of October, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) sent a letter to the state government and the Gurung-led faction of the GJM to attend a meeting in Delhi on October 7 to discuss “issues related to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration”. The state government skipped the meeting but followers of Gurung attended it and demanded a permanent political solution to the Gorkhaland issue. “Gurung had been demanding the creation of Gorkhaland for years. We too want a solution to this problem. The Centre tried to help the hill people but the TMC government did not cooperate. This is a tactical move by Mamata Banerjee prior to the polls. There are criminal cases pending against Gurung. She possibly thinks that this factor can be used for leverage,” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh told the media. Political expert and former principal of Presidency College, Prof Amal Kumar Mukhopadhyay said an alliance between Gurung faction of the GJM and the TMC would have little impact on election results in 2021. “Bimal Gurung faces several criminal charges. If he has comes to Kolkata then it means that the government is not going to take any step against him. That also means that Banerjee sent feelers to Gurung. TMC is losing ground in Bengal. She is trying to secure at least the seats in the hill areas. But Gurung has little influence and power in the hill region at the moment. This alliance will be misadventure for Banerjee,” said Mukhopadhyay. “Mamata Banerjee feels that everything is fair in love and war. That is why a wanted man can be seen in Kolkata in the presence of policemen. She is making a move purely in view of the assembly polls,” said state Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gorkha-leader-bimal-gurung-surfaces-after-3-years-dumps-bjp-allies-with-tmc/story-gsKfl48Ar2fI6HCvgOAwwO.html
21-10-2020||India||Bombay HC questions ‘investigative’ journalism by news channels in SSR death case||The Bombay high court on Wednesday sought to know from Republic TV how its statements that asked the public to decide on who should be arrested in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case could be termed as investigative journalism. It also questioned the News Broadcasters Federation (NBF) on why it did not initiate suo motu action on complaints about alleged media trial in the SSR case.The court while hearing the responses of various news channels on the allegations made by the petitioners in the various public interest litigations against them was informed that the reporting was not intended to influence or prejudice the minds of the judges or the court and the contentions of the petitioners were unfounded. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing the responses of the NBF was informed by advocate Siddharth Bhatnagar that the self-regulating authority had been abiding by the standards set out in the Cable TV Regulation Act. Bhatnagar submitted that various courts including the Supreme Court had refrained from interfering in the existing mechanism. Bhatnagar was, however, unable to respond to the court’s query as to why the NBF had not taken any suo motu action against member channels after receiving complaints of the media trial being conducted in the SSR case. Advocate Malvika Trivedi, counsel for Republic TV started countered the claims of the petitioners that the channel had tried to malign the Mumbai police by accusing it of not carrying out proper investigation in the SSR case. “There was some lacunae in the investigation by Mumbai police which the Supreme Court observed and hence allowed the investigation to be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI),” she said.She added that the demand for transfer of investigation was made by the family of the late actor and the public was also curious to know the facts. She further submitted that the reporting was part of the investigative journalism undertaken by the channel. The court referred to hashtag ‘arrest Rhea Chakrabarty’ which was publicized by the channel and sought to know from Trivedi whether asking the public on who should be arrested was investigative journalism, Trivedi responded saying that it was on social media.“These are public tweets and public opinions. The petition does not ask for relief pertaining to this. I am only saying that there is a reason and context of these tweets. Any person who is aggrieved and has a locus standi, can approach the self-regulatory authority and get relief.” The bench while assuring the channel that it was not singling out Republic TV, sought to know that when investigation was underway in the SSR case on whether it was homicide or suicide, why had the channel had taken a stand that it was murder and whether the stand was part of the investigative journalism. Trivedi then drew the attention of the court to previous cases wherein the media had played a vital role in the investigations and had also received applause for its contribution based on which arrests were made. “The Supreme Court has appreciated the work done by Republic TV in one of the cases,” said Trivedi. While hearing responses of other channels, the court observed that it did not intend to throttle the voice of the media but expected the media to exercise restraint while reporting on sensitive issues and not cross the ‘Lakshman Rekha’ which was referred to by the petitioners. The court will continue hearing the matter on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-questions-investigative-journalism-by-news-channels-in-ssr-death-case/story-kKoDXgFR8s9SHhWeUUf5dJ.html
21-10-2020||India||Palghar lynching case: 208 new accused named, 50 arrested||The state Crime Investigation Department (CID) on Wednesday named 208 new accused in the April 16 Palghar lynching case and arrested 50 people.The 50 arrested will be produced before the Dahanu court on Thursday, confirmed their lawyer Amrut Adhikari.With this development, the total arrested in the case stand at 376 out of which 11 are minors. However, 28 accused and 9 minors have been released on bail as the CID in its chargesheet did not name their involvement in the lynching and hence sought default bail.Meanwhile, the bail hearing of the 62 accused in the case will be heard by Special Sessions Judge PP Jadhav at Thane on Thursday, said Adhikari.The killing of the two saffron-robed men and their driver in April this year had sparked off national outrage after video clips showed policemen heading to safety inside the police station and leaving the three men at the mercy of hundreds of people who suspected the three were thieves.Kalpvrush Giri, 70, Sushil Giri, 35, and driver Nilesh Telgade, 30, were dragged out of their vehicle and thrashed by the mob in Gadhchinchale village, about 110 km from Palghar. The seers belonged to Varanasi-based Juna Akhara and were on their way to attend the last rites of their guru Mahant Shri Ram Giri in Surat.Five months after Gaurav Singh, former superintendent of police (SP), Palghar, was sent on compulsory leave by state home minister Anil Deshmukh following the lynching incident, he has now been posted as a superintendent of the Maharashtra Police Academy, Nashik, by the state home ministry.The state government in a reply to the Supreme Court to a petition seeking handing over the case to a central agency, had last Wednesday, mentioned that no dereliction of duty was found from Singh’s side and thus was given a clean chit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/palghar-lynching-case-218-new-accused-named-50-arrested/story-nZ33lsDM24hWVj8lQRq4sI.html
21-10-2020||India||Day after returning request, Chhattisgarh Governor calls assembly session||Convinced by the reply of the state government on a query about the reason behind the assembly session, Chhattisgarh Governor Anusuiya Uikey has agreed to convene a two-day special Assembly on October 27 and 28.A notification in this regard has been issued by the Chhattisgarh Assembly secretariat on Wednesday. The Chhattisgarh government will bring a legislation in this special assembly session to bypass newly enacted central farm laws, a senior official posted in the chief minister’s office said.Earlier on Tuesday, Governor Anusuiya Uikey had returned the state government’s proposal seeking to convene a special session of state legislative assembly with a query regarding the reasons behind the session. Reacting to the development, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said that the Governor cannot prevent a government, which has full majority, from holding a special assembly session in the state.However, a senior official posted in the Governor’s house told Hindustan Times on Wednesday that the Governor had only asked the state government about the ‘topic’ for the special session.“It was never a conflict between the state government and Governor. The Governor only asked for the reason behind calling a special assembly session on which the state government has submitted its reply and subsequently the proposal was accepted,” said an official posted with the Governor House and did not wish to be named.Earlier this month, the Congress government had proposed to call the special Assembly session on October 27-28 to bring a legislation to bypass newly enacted three central farm laws and a labour law to protect the interest of farmers and labourers of the state. Chhattisgarh cabinet in September had rejected the Centre’s agriculture laws and decided to pass its own farm laws by calling a special session of the state assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-returning-request-chhattisgarh-governor-calls-assembly-session/story-3FppOsV730cfLCHyJyqfJO.html
21-10-2020||India||Meghalaya minister sounds alarm over leak from uranium effluent tanks in remote village||A minister in Meghalaya said Tuesday that he has seen uranium effluents leaking from storage tanks once owned by the Atomic Minerals Directorate (AMD) and later operated by the Uranium Corporation of India in a remote village in South West Khasi Hills which he termed as “dangerous”.Community and rural development minister, Hamletson Dohling who visited the Nongbah Jynrin village in South West Khasi Hills, 135 km west of Shillong, with a group of student and youth leaders after learning about the leakage, also flagged “unauthorised repairs.”Dohling said he was surprised to see signs of repairs in the tanks in one of Meghalaya’s most inaccessible places that remains largely cut off from the rest of the state.“I have seen that there were cracks in the tanks, but it is very surprising that there were signs of repair. I don’t have knowledge about who gave the order to repair,” he said.The minister went on to say, “If there was nothing, why should it be repaired in the first place? What I saw is very dangerous.” Dohling asserted, while endorsing what the local youth have been reporting in recent weeks.With this admission, the government is likely to step up efforts to ensure the safety of residents of the area.Last Friday, the state government had decided to probe into the reports of leakage of toxic waste from tanks containing uranium wastes in the Domiasiat-Nongbah-Jynrin area. There are four effluent storage tanks and two other reservoirs at the location which have developed wide cracks causing leakage of toxic waste, locals have alleged.Following a high-level review meeting it was decided to immediately set up an expert panel to probe the reports of radiation emission, Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong had said. Chief secretary MS Rao has been tasked to constitute the panel.“We have written to the Central Pollution Control Board as well as the North-Eastern Hill University and other experts. Once they respond, and we identify the expert team and will formally issue an order by next week,” Tynsong stated.Chief minister Conrad K Sangma had earlier said that his government would examine a demand for an independent inquiry into the matter. He also said that experts and government agencies have inspected the concrete tanks and assured him that no such leakage has been detected.However, on Monday evening he told journalists, “We will get the demand examined… and after holding discussions with the forest and environment department and other agencies, we will take a call on how to move forward on this matter. We are equally concerned about the situation. As I said, all agencies working on this have clearly indicated that no such leakage has occurred.”Meghalaya is the third most uranium-rich state in the country after Andhra Pradesh and Jharkhand accounting for 16 per cent of the nation’s reserves with deposit estimates pegged at 9.22 million tonnes spread across 422 hectares of land.Exploratory work by the Atomic Minerals Directorate (AMD) began in the 1970s and there was a move to initiate open-pit mining of the precious mineral. Work continued till 1993 but after a lot of outcry over health hazards and its impact on the environment the mines were directed to be shut.Though AMD left, they did so allegedly without properly clearing up the tools, effluents etc. as per laid down protocols.“It was summoned back and in 1995, built huge concrete tanks to put in all the remnants, processed uranium decay,” revealed London-based environmental economist and co-founder and CEO of EcoFriend World Dr Bremley WB Lyngdoh who has been actively following this matter with local pressure groups primarily the Khasi Students’ Union which has been spearheading the campaign.In 2009, the Uranium Corporation of India Limited (UCIL) was granted permission to carry out pre-mining activities. But the permission was permanently cancelled by the state government in 2016. UCIL packed up operations for good in 2018 after repeated protests and violent incidents.Last month the matter came into the limelight again with locals reporting of foul smell in the area and cracks appearing in several places where the storage tanks were set up. Though initially the South West Khasi Hills district administration conducted an enquiry and gave a clean chit, the pressure groups did not give up and pursued the matter.Khasi Students Union (KSU) leaders visited the site along with Dr Lyngdoh on October 9 last. According to Forwardman Nongrem, South West Khasi Hills District’s KSU president, the geiger counter — an instrument to detect and measure ionising radiation — detected very high levels of radiation in the area. Dr. Lyngdoh said, “When we visited the site, I got the shock of my life — the radiation level recorded by the geiger counter was at 1,083 count per minute,” said Dr Lyngdoh, adding that he had personally apprised the chief minister of the situation.KSU’s Nongrem said that appointing an expert committee was all well and good, but they wanted the government to prioritise two things. “First, the government should repair any cracks/leaks in the tanks and second, the radiation level should be reduced so that people in the surrounding areas are safe from the emissions,” he said. There are at least seven villages located up to a radius of 3 km from the site.HT tried to reach out to AMD officials but no one was willing to go on record on the matter citing a government gag order. But according to a source, AMD took note of mainstream media and social media reports and sent a team of experts from the nuclear division to the site and thorough inspection revealed that “some miscreants may have tried to dig in thereby causing the cracks which have been accordingly repaired.” The visits took place on September 22 and October 6, the source said.When queried if the state government has communicated to them on the expert panel till date, the source replied in the negative. “However we have received a set of questions from the Assembly and the same have been sent to our headquarters for response.”On the claim of high levels of radiation emanating from the spot, the source said it could be a possible misreading of the gadget from “micro to milli” but did not elaborate any further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-minister-sounds-alarm-over-leak-from-uranium-effluent-tanks-in-remote-village/story-w4K6VrH5jNlt8n4vSGIJRM.html
21-10-2020||India||‘Covid-19 guidelines being flouted with impunity’: Election Commission warns parties busy in campaigning||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Wednesday took strong objection to political parties and candidates flouting its Covid-19 guidelines.The commission said that it got to know about public meetings where huge crowd assembled in utter violation of social distancing norms. And the leaders addressing these meetings, the commission said, did that without wearing masks.“By doing so, the political parties and candidates are not only flouting the guidelines of the commission with impunity, but exposing themselves as well as the public attending the rallies/meetings to the danger of infection during the pandemic,” the Election Commission said.It also said that during elections, political parties are the most important stakeholders in the electoral process. They duty bound to observe the norms determined by the commission for electioneering, the ECI further said.The commission once again asked the political parties and candidates “to demonstrate utmost vigil and care during electioneering”.“CEOs and the District Machinery would be expected by the Commission to invoke appropriate and relevant penal provisions against the candidates concerned as well as the organizers responsible for such violations,” the ECI said.The top electoral body said that instructions to ensure compliance have been issued to Chief Electoral Officers (CEOs) and state governments where elections are scheduled to be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-guidelines-being-flouted-with-impunity-election-commission-warns-parties-busy-in-campaigning/story-K90Xu8ed4jlIbbFljo4SRP.html
21-10-2020||India||India gifts a submarine to Myanmar, gains edge over China||India’s provision of a submarine to Myanmar was a move that helped New Delhi get an edge over Beijing, which is seeking to push its military hardware among countries in the neighbourhood, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday. The 3,000 diesel-electric submarine INS Sindhuvir, which has been renamed UMS Minye Theinkhathu, was showcased during the Myanmar Navy’s Bandoola fleet exercise on October 15, the same day the external affairs ministry announced that India had gifted the submarine to the neighbouring country. “The Kilo-class submarine is an old design but it underwent extensive refits and upgrades before being handed over to Myanmar. It is significant that India handed over one of its submarines at a time when such vessels are needed to keep an eye on regional waters due to the increased activities of China’s People’s Liberation Army Navy,” said one of the people cited above, speaking on condition of anonymity. The move also coincides with growing concerns among some of India’s neighbours about the quality of Chinese military hardware, which is often offered on favourable terms and comes with lines of credit to back purchases. “There is a frequently used phrase in Myanmar – ‘tayokeset tayet-soke’ – which means ‘Chinese machine, broken in a day’. There are reports that Myanmar’s military leadership is unhappy with the quality of some Chinese equipment supplied to them and they have started diversifying their imports and looking towards India,” said a second person, who too didn’t wish to be identified. The discovery of Chinese-origin weaponry among militant groups in Myanmar, such as the Arakan Army, too has become a “source of annoyance” in some quarters, the people said. The people noted that two Ming-class Type 035G submarines sold by China to Bangladesh under a $200 million deal in 2017 were from the 1970s and had faced problems related to serviceability. There were also reports that two Chinese Type 053H3 frigates provided to Bangladesh in 2020 had faced problems with their navigation radar and weapons systems, the people said. In Nepal, flag carrier Nepal Airlines decided to ground two types of Chinese-origin aircraft –Y12e and MA60 – that were acquired through a government-to-government deal after concluding that they were unsuitable for the country’s terrain, the people added. Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House and a former envoy to Myanmar, said New Delhi’s outreach to Naypyitaw, including the gifting of the submarine and a recent visit by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and army chief General MM Naravane, was significant. “Myanmar is grappling with international opprobrium and lack of funds and the provision of the submarine helps them overcome both. The Chinese have been trying to do the same thing but this time, India beat them at the game. The visit, especially the army chief’s presence in the team, was a high-profile attempt to engage with all elements of Myanmar’s leadership,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gifts-a-submarine-to-myanmar-gains-edge-over-china/story-fblOtZRy3hOaJDi6CKkjuK.html
21-10-2020||India||40-yr-old Bihar lawyer shot 6 times in Gopalganj, survives||A young lawyer was critically injured after being allegedly shot at by four unidentified bike-borne assailants in Gopalganj on Wednesday morning, police said. According to the police, the victim identified as Navin Kumar, 40, was on way to Gopalganj civil court on his motorcycle from his house in Jamsadi village when he was shot at by the assailants from close range in Bedutola locality. A police officer said Kumar was hit by six bullets, one of which struck his stomach. He was immediately rushed to a hospital in Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh where he is recuperating.As the news of the murderous attack spread, lawyers started shouting slogans against the police and boycotted work resulting in disruption of court proceedings. The protesting lawyers demanded immediate arrest of the criminals involved in the case. Later, a group of locals blocked the Thave-Gopalganj road and disrupted vehicular traffic for two hours. A police team rushed to the spot and heard the protesters’ grievances. The roadblock was lifted after an assurance that the assailants would be caught. Gopalganj’s superintendent of police Manoj Tiwari said that they have launched a probe and CCTV footage of the area is being scanned for further information on the attackers. “The matter is being investigated and the culprits will be apprehended soon. The entire family has rushed to Gorakhpur with the victim and the reason behind the attack is yet to be ascertained,” Tiwari said.Kumar is not the first lawyer to be shot in Gopalganj. On February 14, lawyer Tuntun Ram was shot dead by two bike-borne men when he was on way to court. Another lawyer Tripurari Sharan Sharma, a former additional public prosecutor was gunned down in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawyer-shot-6-times-in-bihar-s-gopalganj-survives-in-gorakhpur-hospital/story-kcXCFEvtZ1AHcO39SZtjnO.html
21-10-2020||India||Wife of arrested Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan meets Rahul Gandhi||Seeking justice, the wife of Siddique Kappan, the Kerala journalist who was arrested by Uttar Pradesh Police while on his way to Hathras, on Wednesday met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and presented a memorandum to the Wayanad MP.The UP police had arrested Kappan along with three others,claiming that they had links with Popular Front of India and its affiliate in Mathura.They were on their way to a village in Hathras to meet the family of the woman who died after being allegedly gang-raped.“We hope to get justice. We are worried that he will be booked under more charges,” Raihanath told the media after her meeting with Gandhi.She said the family has had no contacts with Kappan since his arrest and even his lawyer has not been able to meet him, adding her husband has done no wrong.Gandhi, who was in Kerala since the past three days, met the woman at the guest house at Kalpetta.Arrested earlier this month by police under section 151 of the CrPC on the suspicion of their intention to commit some cognisable offence, the four were later booked on charges of sedition and various terror acts and were remanded to 14-day judicial custody on October 7.A Mathura court had yesterday extended their judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wife-of-arrested-kerala-journalist-siddique-kappan-meets-rahul-gandhi/story-ValdLm951CUrfqey6xRRzO.html
21-10-2020||India||Bonus for govt employees, MoU with Nigeria for space cooperation: Key decisions taken by Union Cabinet||The government on Wednesday decided to give Rs 3,737 crore bonus to 30.67 lakh central government employees to encourage spending during the festival season and add to demand in the economy.The decision to give a productivity-linked bonus and non-productivity-linked bonus for 2019-2020 was taken at the Union Cabinet meeting, Minister of Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar told reporters.The cabinet also approved the extension of a scheme under which cooperative NAFED will procure 12 lakh tonne apple in Jammu and Kashmir during the current 2020-21 season.Here are the key decisions taken by the Union Cabinet in Wednesday’s meeting:Adaptation of the Jammu & Kashmir Panchayati Raj Act, 1989 got the cabinet’s approval. This move will help establish all the three tiers of grass-root level democracy like in other parts of the country.The Cabinet also approved productivity linked bonus and non-productivity linked bonus for 2019-2020. More than 30 lakh non-gazetted employees will be benefited by the bonus announcement and total financial implication will be Rs 3,737 crore.The bonus will be given in a single installment, through Direct Benefit Transfer, before Vijayadashami.The decision to extend the Market Intervention Scheme for procurement of apples in Jammu & Kashmir for the year 2020-21 was also approved. It will ensure remunerative prices for apples resulting in overall income enhancement of farmers in the union territory.Among other decisions, the Cabinet approved a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Nigeria on cooperation in the exploration and uses of outer space for peaceful purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bonus-for-govt-employees-mou-with-nigeria-for-space-cooperation-key-decisions-taken-by-union-cabinet/story-znGcoRGqwSja3HjcNUs9YJ.html
21-10-2020||India||Assam Rifles jawan killed after team ambushed in Arunachal Pradesh||An Assam Rifles personnel was killed and another sustained injuries after an ambush by suspected National Socialist Council of Nagaland-Isak Muivah (NSCN-IM) militants in Tirap district of Arunachal Pradesh on Wednesday morning. According to the Arunachal Pradesh police, the incident took place near Sanliam village under Lazu police outpost in the early hours. Police and army teams are rushing to the spot. “The incident took place between 7 am and 8 am. As per reports available with us, one Assam Rifles personnel has been killed in the attack,” said an official at the Tirap police control room. According to reports, the 6th Assam Rifles team was ambushed when they were returning from patrolling duty on the Indo-Myanmar border. Further details of the incident are still awaited. This is the second attack on Assam Rifles personnel by militants in Arunachal Pradesh this month. One Assam Rifles personnel was killed and another sustained injuries in an attack on October 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-rifles-jawan-killed-after-team-ambushed-in-arunachal-pradesh/story-FUzM6WZ3zCzzMEFfsDtQHL.html
21-10-2020||India||‘Modi govt synonymous with prosperity’: Amit Shah hails bonus announcement||Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday hailed the announcement of bonus for central government employees, saying it will bring joy in their lives ahead of the festive season.“Modi government is synonymous with prosperity. I congratulate PM @narendramodi ji for bringing joy in the lives of about 30.67 lakh central government employees before this festive season by approving the immediate payment of bonus into their accounts in today’s cabinet meeting,” Shah said on Twitter. Modi government is synonymous with prosperity. I congratulate PM @narendramodi ji for bringing joy in the lives of about 30.67 lakh central government employees before this festive season by approving the immediate payment of bonus into their accounts in today’s cabinet meeting.He also highlighted the other decision taken by the Union Cabinet regarding the procurement of apples from Jammu and Kashmir.“Furthering its commitment to help and empower the people of J&K, PM @narendramodi led union cabinet has approved the extension of Market Intervention Scheme for procurement of apples. This will enhance the income of apples growers by providing an effective marketing platform,” the home minister said in another tweet.The cabinet on Wednesday approved productivity and non-productivity bonus for the central government employees. Briefing the mediapersons about the cabinet decisions, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said that it will be given out immediately, in a single installment, before Vijaya Dashami.Javadekar also said that the beneficiaries include 17 lakh non-gazetted employees from commercial establishments like railways, post office, EPFO, ESIC who will get their productivity-linked bonus and other 13 lakh government employees who will get their non-productivity-linked bonus.Ths comes days after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a Leave Treavel Concession (LTC) cash voucher scheme. The move was meant to boost consumer spending during the festival season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-synonymous-with-prosperity-amit-shah-hails-bonus-announcement/story-kiMJ2FR2xtptmnH6tuU2VO.html
21-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi govt directs clubs, hotels, liquor shops to ensure strict compliance of SOPs||The Delhi government’s excise department has directed clubs, hotels, liquor shops and restaurants to ensure strict compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Assistant commissioner (enforcement) has been asked to deploy teams to check compliance of SOPs at bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants.An official said the department was taking action against those not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.“All licensees of the excise department, GNCT of Delhi are hereby directed to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour i.e. wearing masks, washing hands regularly and maintaining social distancing and other relevant directions contained in the SOPs by their employees and their customers in letter and spirit at the licensed premises,” the department said in an order.Last month, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had issued SOPs while allowing reopening of hotels, clubs and restaurants with only 50 per cent of the approved seating capacity.According to the SOPs, no standing customer has to be served liquor and all establishments also have to ensure provision for sanitiser dispenser and thermal scanning at the entrance.“Effective and frequent sanitisation within premises shall be done at regular intervals with particular focus on lavatories, drinking and handwashing areas. Rooms, other service areas, seats/tables will be sanitised each time a customer leaves,” the DDMA had said in its SOPs last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-govt-directs-clubs-hotels-liquor-shops-to-ensure-strict-compliance-of-sops/story-Baowr5x7WvR80Hhpcj8dTM.html
21-10-2020||India||Melinda Gates: ‘Life will change forever… we will build back in a better way’||Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) launched three innovations around emerging technologies at the Grand Challenges Annual Meeting earlier this week. These include integrating tradition and technology for fermented foods for maternal nutrition, new approaches to integrating molecular surveillance into malaria control, and smart farming for small-scale crop and livestock producers.Melinda Gates, the co-chair of BMGF, spoke to Sanchita Sharma about innovation, livelihoods, and how coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will change the world. Excerpts from the interview:Four women won the Nobel Prize this year; three for their work in physics and chemistry. Do you think women’s leadership in science is finally getting global recognition?I sure hope so, and I think the reason that is so important is little girls can only be what they can see. And so, when they see women winning Nobel Prizes in the sciences, they say, wow, I also can be a scientist. I aspire to do cutting-edge research. I can get there. And so, I sure hope it is a moniker and a marker in time of, wow, we really are turning the corner on women in the sciences.How else can science be made more exciting for girls so they choose careers in research, engineering and technology?We know that young girls and women are much more interested in the sciences if they’re working on a real problem that they see out in society. If they see anything that they know will benefit their community or benefit their family or it’s a real-world example instead of just a theoretical example, they’re much more likely to persist in the sciences.So, they like to address real-world problems?Exactly. They like to address real-world problems.Also Read: Working on Covid-19 vaccine delivery system: PM ModiHow can countries reopen their economies without health risks?I think that’s a great question to ask the women’s self-help groups in India. As you know, there are millions of women in self-help groups in India who are out in the villages. They’re the ones who know, okay, how can people get a different life and livelihood here? What are the opportunities? Are there opportunities if they have access to digital? Are there different kinds of opportunities in terms of what they actually decide to grow on their small plot of land? Quite often, if they can get into a different type of agriculture, something that is more drought resistant or pest resistant or is more desired by people, sometimes switching their crops so that they’re meeting market need is a potential opportunity, or getting sometimes into poultry or livestock.Can Covid-19 end without a vaccine?We need a vaccine.Has Covid-19 changed life as we know it forever?I do think life as we knew it has changed, will change forever, but sometimes out of a crisis comes something beautiful. I look back at some of the wars and you think about what was rebuilt after the war to maintain peace and stability around the globe. Look at the World Health Organization that was formed to make sure that we have information about health and share that around the globe. I think we will have to build new institutions. We’ll have to do more to protect everybody and the vulnerable.There are signs that people want something different. They already wanted something different before the pandemic. And I think the pandemic has exposed the cracks in all of our societies, the gaps and the people we don’t take care of, and now it’s in our face. Women’s unpaid work; no one can turn away from that. It’s in our home every single day, women taking care of the children or taking care of the elderly during the pandemic. I think there are ways that we will be able to build back and build back in a better way.What differentiates the Grand Challenges from other initiatives to boost innovation?Grand Challenges was set up to bring some of the most innovative ideas forward in global health and global development, which are the foci of our work. Other awards are quite often focused on other problems. We’re quite intent as well on making sure that it is a diverse set of voices bringing the ideas forward from many of the countries that aren’t high income countries, and there are a female scientists bringing ideas forward.Is it safe to reopen schools?Well, in terms of reopening schools, those are very local decisions that need to be made based on the number of Covid-19 cases that are in a particular community. You can really only decide on a local basis whether to reopen the schools. It doesn’t matter whether you’re in the United States or you’re in India or you’re in Europe, you have to make it with local data and local health authorities advising you. And then if the schools, if the health authorities say the schools are safe to open, it’s vitally important that people employ and use the only tools we have today, which are masks, hand washing and social distancing. Those messages have to be given very strongly and also enforced in the schools.Also Read: Very large portion of Covid-19 vaccines likely to be manufactured in India: Gates Foundation CEOWhich Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are worst impacted by the pandemic?Well, that data is still being collected. If you go SDG by SDG, we don’t know in some of them, but I can tell you some of the ones we do know. We know that the global immunization rate dropped already 84% to 70%. That’s a 25-year setback in the global immunisation rate, and where we will probably see the impact in the years going forward is as we measure infant mortality, which is going to be really sad. I mean, the other places that we know we’ve lost gains are in malaria and tuberculosis. Five years of gains have been erased just since March. It’s pretty dire in area after area.How has Covid-19 increased iniquities?We know in country after country, domestic violence is up. When women don’t have safe spaces to go to or they’re locked in or a child is locked in with an abusive parent or a woman is locked in with an abusive partner, domestic violence rises, and we’re seeing that. You’re hearing the reports of it in Canada, in Europe, in South Africa.One of the things I’ve been pleased to see is some of the really innovative programming that’s being done. Out of Africa put out more money to the local women’s organizations who are already fighting these issues. In France they decided to have safe spaces that women could come and report at a grocery store or at a pharmacy. Canada opened their hotels for domestic violence survivors. We’re seeing a huge increase in that, which is an enormous barrier for a woman.The other impacts we’re seeing on Covid for women are these what we call shadow pandemics, more girls out of school and less likely to return at the same rate that maybe their brother might, interruptions in contraceptive supply chains, women not being able to get an ambulance to go into hospital or clinic to give birth. Those are all things that are affecting women.And how do we take vaccines to reach everyone who needs it?Well, you first make sure that your front-line health workers get it, right, and 70% of those are women. There are 15 million healthcare workers out around the world. They should get it first, because they’re the ones who are taking care of everybody else. Then you start to look at who are your most vulnerable populations, which people have chronic underlying illnesses, obviously, as you said, what’s the age cohort? And so, then that really takes government planning to decide, okay, how are we going to get it out to those people as the next tier and then out to the next tier and the tier below that who need it? In your country that will be the government of India. I think one of the fortunate things that India has is Serum Institute is incredibly good at making vaccines. They have the know-how and they have the capability and the manufacturing capability. I think India is going to be very lucky in that regard compared to some other countries.Is the world better prepared for the next pandemic? Are partnerships the way forward?Yes, we’re seeing global cooperation in a way we have never seen it before as a globe. I mean, look at how the scientific community is coming together to move as rapidly as they can to learn about vaccines, learn about medicines, figure out diagnostics. We’re trying to learn from each other in terms of countries of what works well for testing and tracing. How do you get good messages out about social distancing and mask wearing? We’re seeing global cooperation and partnership. It really is the only thing that’s not only going to get us out of this crisis, but get us prepared.You asked earlier, you know, preparing for the next pandemic, there will be another pandemic sometime in the next hundred years. But there is a lot we can do with our data and information sharing, with stockpiling at times different types of vaccines, sharing information about what is known and alerting people as soon as there’s an outbreak. There’s a lot we can do, and I think global cooperation and partnership is finally on display in full force.And yes, we were one of the founders of GAVI (The Vaccine Alliance) back in 2000. That has been an unbelievable institution that we are lucky to have as a world during this pandemic. It will be able to get vaccines out to countries into the far corners of the earth. That institution had to learn over time. It had to make some mistakes, come back from those mistakes, get better and better, make sure it constantly had a good governing board and good leadership. We need to build some institutions like that. We have one called the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations. It was funded but not funded at a very high level. After this, I think you’re going to see country after country putting money in the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, so that we are prepared for the next pandemic.You told BBC Radio some months ago that you’ve been storing food and water in your basement for years in preparation for a pandemic. What’s your advice to people with no basements?Well, my advice actually to everybody is we ought to be investing in our primary healthcare system. I mean, if you have a robust primary healthcare system, it is the first line where people go. That is where their needs are met. We have to, have to, have to as a world invest in those, and we haven’t paid enough attention, quite honestly, to the primary healthcare. That’s my message to people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/melinda-gates-life-will-change-forever-we-will-build-back-in-a-better-way/story-a5MkRGUaROGxcxzmMX7fsJ.html
21-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi health minister says ICMR shouldn’t remove plasma therapy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Plasma therapy saved my life, ICMR shouldn’t remove it: Satyendar JainDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that plasma therapy, used as a treatment against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is effective and should not be removed.His remarks came amid reports that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is considering removing plasma therapy from the national guidelines for treatment of Covid-19. Read moreGoa CM accuses Independent MLA of land deal ‘setting’, he withdraws supportIndependent MLA Prasad Gaonkar has announced withdrawal of support to the BJP government in Goa after a war of words with chief minister Pramod Sawant, who had publicly accused him of attempting to do ‘setting’ over the acquisition of land for establishing an IIT in Goa. Gaonkar had lent his support to the BJP-led government in Goa since 2017. Read moreUttarakhand CM approves ₹75 lakh for martyr fund; increases uniform allowance for copsPaying tribute to police and para-military personnel who laid down their lives in the line of duty on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday said Rs 75 lakh had been approved for the state martyrs fund. Read moreThailand anti-government protests explainedDespite the coronavirus pandemic, the world has been witnessing anti- government protests in Thailand for the past few months. Among other things, the protesters have been demanding reforms to the monarchy and the resignation of Thailand’s PM Prayuth Chan- ocha. Read moreIPL 2020: KL Rahul finally reveals why KXIP backed Glenn Maxwell despite his string of low scoresThe Kings XI Punjab (KXIP) team management coped a lot of criticism from experts and former cricketers for persisting with Glenn Maxwell despite the Australian all-rounder failing to provide the goods with the bat in this IPL. Read moreThis Monica and Chandler version of ‘how it started vs how it’s going’ meme will make you go ‘aww’People of the Internet are well aware of the ‘how it started vs how it is going’ meme. In this, people have been sharing pictures and videos to mark the progress they’ve made over the years, whether in terms of education, work, relationships or other life events. Read moreLakme Fashion Week 2020: Kartik Aaryan looks like royalty as he turns showstopper for Manish Malhotra’s Ruhaaniyat collection dedicated to women artisansAfter a coronavirus-induced hiatus of seven months, actor Kartik Aaryan turned showstopper for ace Bollywood designer Manish Malhotra, flagging off Lakme Fashion Week 2020 digitally. The Sonu Ke Titu Ki Sweety star turned showstopper for the celebrity costume designer, who’s teaming up with Mijwan Welfare Association, which works with women artisans. Read moreNissan Magnite, rival to Sonet and Venue, unveiledNissan Magnite production version has been finally unveiled after months of teaser images and specs being released by the Japanese car maker which is betting big and hoping to storm the extremely competitive sub-compact SUV segment here. Read moreWatch what Congress is promising Bihar; focus on farmers, migrants, jobless youth||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-health-minister-says-icmr-shouldn-t-remove-plasma-therapy-and-all-the-latest-news/story-zhF5G3JJGdBW2DHUnkD9OI.html
21-10-2020||India||On India-US agenda, a plan to share defence intel from Ladakh to South China Sea||The 3rd two plus two ministerial meeting next week will see both India and the United States consolidating military-to-military relationship between the two democracies to move towards institutionalised intelligence-sharing agreement and go beyond tri-services exercises into unmanned, space and underwater platform domains, people familiar with the matter said.On October 26-27, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will meet US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defence Secretary Mark Esper in national capital Delhi for the third round of the top strategic dialogue agreed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Donald Trump back in 2017. The two sides are expected to sign off on a geo-spatial military foundational agreement called BECA (Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement) that is a precursor to India acquiring armed drones such as the MQ-9B from the US that use spatial data for pinpointed strikes.The two sides are expected to build on past gains at the meeting being held weeks before the US Presidential elections on November 3, comfortable in the knowledge that there is bi-partisan consensus within the US on deepening India-US strategic relationship.Also Read: Charting the future of India-US ties | OpinionThere is a strong possibility that the two sides could work out a pact that allows institutionalised relationship between the Defence Intelligence Agencies of the two countries. India and the US already share real-time intelligence through the communication agreement called COMCASA. But the new pact would allow the two allies to share vital tri-services intelligence on developments in all defence matters ranging from the South China Sea to Ladakh. This proposal has been hanging fire for quite some years without any results.Although BECA is still to be formally cleared by PM Modi’s Cabinet, the agreement will enable India to buy armed unmanned aerial and underwater platforms from the US. These would be loaded with neighbourhood terrain maps for pin-pointed destruction of acquired targets. The terrain maps will also help in precision flying of US made platforms acquired by India and hence enhance military capability of platforms like Apache attack helicopters and Chinook heavy lift helicopters.While a decision to acquire armed drones has been communicated to the US, the two countries are going beyond mere exercises and into hitherto unexplored domains like space and undersea.The two sides will also discuss the People’s Liberation Army’s aggression in Ladakh and its muscle flexing in the South China Sea and the countermeasures that the four-nation QUAD - that also comprises Japan and Australia - needs to take to remain committed to free and open Indo-Pacific for global trade and commerce.The peace in Afghanistan and terror in Pakistan will be also on top priority as India fears more violence in Kabul once the American forces leave the Islamic Republic after 19 years. Even though India participated in the Doha intra-Afghan talks, it is concerned about the Pakistani deep state’s hold on the Taliban and has told the leadership of the present government in Kabul to present a united face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-meet-to-step-up-military-ties-with-intel-sharing-space-cooperation/story-6hGznJ1wcL0Xq4bmkD10TN.html
21-10-2020||India||MP High Court frowns upon large political rallies amid Covid-19 pandemic||The Gwalior bench of the Madhya Pradesh high court on Tuesday restrained district magistrates in 9 districts from giving permission to any political party or its candidate for any physical public meeting irrespective of its size if there is a possibility of a virtual election campaign.The districts include Gwalior, Guna, Morena, Bhind, Ashok Nagar, Datia, Shivpuri, Sheopur and Vidisha. The court which had been displeased by the conduct of political parties and candidates for assembly bypoll campaign, observed that right to health and life of a common man is comparatively more exalted, sacred and precious compared to the right to canvassing and campaigning for a candidate. “Thus, the right of a candidate to campaign has to yield to the right to health and life of the electorate,” a two-judge bench comprising justice Sheel Nagu and justice Rajeev Kumar Shrivastava said in an interim order.The court observed that unfortunately, political parties are doing everything to draw the common man out of the security and safety of his home to become a part of a congregation “to achieve their ulterior motive of gaining popularity to obtain votes, and leaving gullible and innocent common man to go home carrying Covid-19 virus with him and transmit the disease to his family members and friends”. “The district magistrates of all nine districts falling within the territorial jurisdiction of this court are restrained from giving permission to any candidate/political party for holding physical congregations of any number of people unless the political party applying for such a congregation is able to satisfy the district magistrate concerned that conduction of a virtual election campaign is not possible and the district magistrate passes a speaking order recording reasons of being satisfied of the inability of candidate/political parties to conduct virtual campaigning,” the order said.The court said the district magistrate’s permission to conduct the physical meeting ‘shall become effective only after the Election Commission of India (ECI) approves the same in writing’. At the same time, the court said, holding of physical congregation even if permitted by the DM and ECI can take place only after the political party/candidate concerned deposits money with the DM, which is sufficient to purchase double the number of masks and sanitizers required for protecting and sanitizing the number of people expected in the congregation. The candidate will have to file an affidavit that “he shall be personally liable to distribute masks and sanitizers to all the members of the congregation before the meeting/congregation starts,” the order said. The interim order passed is the third one from the court on a petition filed by a Gwalior-based advocate Ashish Pratap Singh who in his petition and subsequent interlocutory application pointed out gross violations of Covid-19 safety norms by political party leaders ahead of bypolls to 28 legislative assembly constituencies in the state slated for November 3. The court appointed three advocates as amicus curie to submit their own reports on the election meetings. Earlier, the court had directed the collectors in these districts to invoke penal provisions of Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code not only against the defaulting members of the congregation who fail to follow the Covid-19 protocol but also against political/governmental/state or social functionaries in whose name or on whose behest and behalf the said congregation take place. On being pointed out by the petitioner that FIRs were not lodged against Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and state Congress president Kamal Nath despite the court’s previous orders, the court directed the collectors concerned to ensure registration of FIRs against the two political leaders for breach of Covid-19 protocol. The court said instances pointed out in the past nearly 15 days gave a clear indication that functionaries, members of the political parties whether a common worker or the person at the helm, were taking no steps to avoid physical congregation. “The common agenda of the political parties appears to be to conduct as many and as large a congregation as possible with the ultimate objective of gaining popularity during the election campaign. This obviously is done at the cost of health and lives of those gullible and innocent citizens of this country who come from lower strata of society and are unaware of the risk they incur to their lives by being a part of such congregations”, said the court.Both the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress said they were studying the court’s latest order.State Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta said, “We are looking into the high court order. Election meetings are held to educate voters. Hence, restrictions on public meetings will limit the opportunities of the political parties to convey its policies and programmes to voters. We will see if we can make a prayer to the court to pass an order in consultation with ECI to make the campaigning a smooth one.” State BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “We are studying the court’s interim order. Hence, we can’t comment on it right now. However, till now there are no amended guidelines from the ECI. We are bound to follow the ECI guidelines in respect with elections. We will see if the ECI issues any fresh guidelines for elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-high-court-frowns-upon-political-rallies-in-bypoll-campaign-amid-covid-pandemic/story-r1xhoSBPosK5NVNKpHY6lJ.html
21-10-2020||India||India-Bhutan hydropower project bags prestigious Brunel Medal||The Mangdechhu hydroelectric project, an India-Bhutan venture, has been awarded the prestigious Brunel Medal for excellence in civil engineering by the UK-based Institute of Civil Engineers. India-backed hydropower projects in Bhutan are an example of win-win cooperation, providing a reliable source of inexpensive and clean electricity for New Delhi and generating export revenues for Thimphu, said officials who declined to be named. The 720-MW Mangdechhu run-of-river project was jointly inaugurated by the prime ministers of the two countries in August 2019, during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s state visit to Bhutan. It is one of seven hydroelectric projects being developed by Bhutan with India’s support as part of the Himalayan country’s plans to generate 10 GW of hydropower. The Brunel Medal was conferred on the Mangdechhu hydroelectric project authority on October 5. The Institute of Civil Engineers said the project provided employment opportunities to the local community, particularly families affected by the venture, and facilitated local people to take up business activities. The project also supported schools and health facilities by upgrading existing infrastructure. Several drinking water facilities and irrigation channels were developed by the project. With the coming on stream of Mangdechhu project, Bhutan’s electricity generation capacity created with India’s assistance crossed 2,000 MW. Both countries have listed hydropower development as one of the most important areas of bilateral cooperation. Since its commissioning, the project has earned revenues of Rs 1,300 crore, higher than the projected target of Rs 1,200 crore. Most of the 18.7 million units generated every day by the project meet the energy needs of Bhutan, and the surplus is exported to India. During the project’s construction between 2012 and 2019, authorities took up several social and environment projects for the local community, including a basic health unit and infrastructure for schools in Trongsa district of Bhutan. The project, completed at an approximate cost of Rs 5,000 crore, was funded by India through a 70% loan and 30% grant. The Indian government has constructed four hydropower projects in Bhutan – the 1,020-MW Tala project, the 336-MW Chukha project, the 60-MW Kurichhu project and the Mangdechhu project. Three more – the 1,200-MW Punatsangchhu-I, the 1020-MW Punatsangchhu-II and the 600-MW Kholongchhu – are under construction. Kholongchhu is the first joint venture model project between the two sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bhutan-hydropower-project-bags-prestigious-brunel-medal/story-YI65UJQGxp1e1DBRYj2HAN.html
21-10-2020||India||Harsh Vardhan launches CuRED, CSIR partnered clinical trials website||Union health and science and technology minister Harsh Vardhan launched CuRED, a website that gives comprehensive info about the numerous Covid-19 clinical trials that the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) is engaged in partnership with industry, other government departments and ministries.CSIR Ushered Repurposed Drugs (CuRED) provides information about the drugs, diagnostics and devices including the current stage of the trials, partnering institutions,their role in the trials and other details, as per a release by the Science & Technology Ministry.Harsh Vardhan lauded CSIR’s efforts in being at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 and giving priority to clinical trials, generating data for their regulatory approval, and helping launch drugs and diagnostics in the market.CSIR is exploring multiple combination clinical trials of anti-virals with host directed therapies for the potential treatment of Covid-19. It is working with the The Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy(AYUSH Ministry) for conducting clinical trials of AYUSH drugs. It has also undertaken safety & efficacy trials of AYUSH prophylactics and therapeutics based on individual plant-based compounds and in combination.In addition to these, CSIR is also involved in clinical trials of diagnostics and devices.Dr Shekhar C Mande, Secretary, Department of Scientific and Industrial Research(DSIR), DG-CSIR, Dr Ranjana Aggarwal, Dir. National Institute of Science ,Technology, and Development Studies(NISTADS) and Dr. Geetha Vani Rayasam, Senior Principal Scientist and Head, Science Communication and Dissemination Directorate CSIR HQ, were present for the occasion.CSIR Directors, Heads of Departments, and scientists involved in clinical trials joined the event virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsh-vardhan-launches-cured-csir-partnered-clinical-trials-website/story-gapjrNDzGTSnyAngLEwDxI.html
21-10-2020||India||Goa CM accuses Independent MLA of land deal ‘setting’, he withdraws support||Independent MLA Prasad Gaonkar has announced withdrawal of support to the BJP government in Goa after a war of words with chief minister Pramod Sawant, who had publicly accused him of attempting to do ‘setting’ over the acquisition of land for establishing an IIT in Goa. Gaonkar had lent his support to the BJP-led government in Goa since 2017.Gaonkar, a first time MLA, elected as an independent from the Sanguem constituency, has in a press conference, termed the chief minister’s utterances as irresponsible and completely unwarranted. “I have supported this BJP government through thick and thin earlier when Manohar Parrikar was the chief minister and they didn’t have the majority and even after Pramod Sawant was elected the chief minister,” Gaonkar said. “I challenge the chief minister to prove that I have been involved in any kind of land deals or ‘setting’ as alleged by him,” Gaonkar said. On Monday evening, Sawant, while speaking to reporters had claimed that Gaonkar was involved in attempts to push through ‘land deals’ and do ‘setting’ in the name of the IIT. Also Read: Porn clip shared from Goa deputy chief minister’s phone, blames ‘miscreants’Gaonkar’s withdrawal of support to the BJP led government will have no impact on the Pramod Sawant led government which enjoys the support of 27 MLAs, a majority of whom were not elected on BJP tickets back in 2017, but have since switched allegiances. Of the three MLAs who helped the BJP form the government back in 2017, only one -- minister of art and culture Govind Gaude continues to support the government. Gaonkar had earlier said that since there was opposition to setting up of the IIT campus at Melaulim village in Sattari taluka, it would be just that the sites identified within the constituency he represents in Sanguem be reconsidered. A permanent campus for the Goa IIT was first proposed to be set up in Canacona in South Goa where it faced opposition and therefore three possible villages were considered at Sanguem for the project. However, after present chief minister Pramod Sawant took charge, the government decided to set up the campus in Melaulim on a stretch of land, which is forested and is not being surrendered by villagers who claim to live off the produce from the land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-cm-accuses-independent-mla-of-land-deal-setting-he-withdraws-support/story-DhBvVpaRbY93pExQnYilgP.html
21-10-2020||India||Indian Army’s flood relief teams on standby in Hyderabad, Secunderabad||Flood relief teams from the Indian army have been put on standby in Hyderabad and Secunderabad for anticipated rescue operations of those affected due to heavy rain forecast for the coming days.Nine flood relief teams with boats are on standby, in response to the calls of the Telangana government, while additional teams will be sent as per the situation.Earlier, army’s relief teams had evacuated 153 people and distributed food packets to people in Bandlaguda area of Hyderabad following heavy rains on October 14 and 15.These preparations are over and above the current deployment of six flood relief teams with boats and medical facilities at Gulbarga and Yadgir districts of Karnataka from October 17 who have already evacuated 427 marooned people to safe locations. Rising water levels of Bhima and Krishna rivers has made it necessary to continue relief efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-s-flood-relief-teams-on-standby-in-hyderabad-secunderabad/story-q7TxlSwOIGtna4BuLr2ABI.html
21-10-2020||India||Union Cabinet approves adoption of Jammu and Kashmir Panchayati Raj Act||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the adoption of the Jammu and Kashmir Panchayati Raj Act, 1989, a government spokesperson said. Briefing the press after a Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said the move will help establish all the three tiers of grassroots-level democracy in Jammu and Kashmir like in other parts of the country. The three-tier system was not available in Jammu and Kashmir in the “pre-370 period”, Javadekar said, referring to Article 370 of the Constitution that was abrogated last year. The article gave special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. The promise made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Jammu and Kashmir and Home Minister Amit Shah in Parliament now stands redeemed, he said.This will help the people of Jammu and Kashmir elect their representatives at the village, block and district levels, he said. According to the minister, the process for local body polls would start soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-cabinet-approves-adoption-of-jammu-and-kashmir-panchayati-raj-act/story-ffQvGTKiOMgpzwTRcsWzYN.html
21-10-2020||India||Cabinet announces bonus for central govt employees: All you need to know||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved bonus for central government employees, just ahead of Dussehra. This was announced by Union minister Prakash Javadekar, who held a press conference to give details about the decisions taken in the Cabinet meeting.Here is everything you need to know about the Cabinet’s latest decision:The bonusThe Union Cabinet has decided to give productivity linked and non-productivity linked bonus for the year 2019-2020, Javadekar said. The move will benefit 30 lakh non-gazetted employees.The minister also announced that total financial implication will be Rs 3,737 crore.The financial implicationJavadekar announced that productivity-linked bonus will be given to employees working at commercial establishments, like railways, post office and defence production. There are 17 lakh non-gazetted working in these establishments. The cost of giving bonus to these employees will be around Rs 2,791 crore, said Javadekar.The other 13 lakh non-gazetted government employees will be given non-productivity linked bonus. This will worth Rs 946 crore, said the Union minister.How will the bonus amount be disbursed?Javadekar announced that the bonus will be disbursed immediately, in one installment, before Vijaya Dashami. The disbursal will be carried out through direct benefit transfer (DBT), he further said.This comes days after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced a Leave Treavel Concession (LTC) cash voucher scheme. The government announced the scheme, and the bonus today, to increase demand which will lead to spending thereby benefitting the economy.Strike callThe All India Railways Federation had given a call for a two-hour strike on October 22 if bonus is not declared by Wednesday.Every year, this bonus is given before Dussehra. But this year, the government has not yet announced bonus owing to the pandemic condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-announces-bonus-for-central-govt-employees-all-you-need-to-know/story-UkZluxcVF3QjII938Tj1UN.html
21-10-2020||India||Defence minister Rajnath Singh may visit Sikkim on Dussehra||Amid the ongoing border conflict with China, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is likely to visit Sikkim on this Dussehra to boost the morale of troops deployed against the People’s Liberation Army (PLA).The Defence Minister is likely to visit Sikkim on October 23-24 and also inaugurate a number of road projects and strategic bridges built for easy movement of troops and common citizens to border areas, defence sources said.The Defence Minister is also likely to do “shastra puja” at one of the local units deployed in Sikkim near the China border as per the Hindu tradition in which arms are worshipped annually in Dushehra by warriors. Last year, he had done it in France while receiving India’s first Rafale fighter aircraft from there.The Defence Minister may also visit the forward locations where India has deployed a large number of men and tanks to prevent any possible attempt of infiltration by the Chinese.India and China are engaged in a standoff since April-May this year starting from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh in Northeast. India has deployed close to 60,000 soldiers to counter the Chinese Army which first moved troops to transgress into Indian areas in Pangong Lake and other adjoining locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-may-visit-sikkim-on-dussehra/story-BMRQjlIlvtkOGl2RsKpKGO.html
21-10-2020||India||‘Lost’ river that ran through Thar Desert 172,000 years ago found||Researchers have found the evidence of a “lost” river that ran through the central Thar Desert, near Bikaner, as early as 172 thousand years ago, and may have been a life-line to human populations enabling them to inhabit the region. The findings, published in the journal Quaternary Science Reviews, represent the oldest directly dated phase of river activity at Nal Quarry in the central Thar Desert. The study by researchers from The Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History in Germany, Anna University in Tamil Nadu, and IISER Kolkata indicates that Stone Age populations lived in a distinctly different Thar Desert landscape than we encounter today. This evidence indicates a river flowed with phases of activity dating to approximately up to 172 thousand years ago, nearby to Bikaner, Rajasthan, which is over 200 kilometres away from the nearest modern river. These findings predate evidence for activity in modern river courses across the Thar Desert as well as dried up course of the Ghaggar-Hakra River, the researchers said. The presence of a river running through the central Thar Desert would have offered a life-line to Paleolithic populations, and potentially an important corridor for migrations, they said. The researchers noted that the potential importance of ‘lost’ rivers for earlier inhabitants of the Thar Desert have been overlooked. “The Thar Desert has a rich prehistory, and we’ve been uncovering a wide range of evidence showing how Stone Age populations not only survived but thrived in these semi-arid landscapes,” said Jimbob Blinkhorn from The Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History. “We know how important rivers can be to living in this region, but we have little detail on what river systems were like during key periods of prehistory,” Blinkhorn said. Studies of satellite imagery have shown a dense network of river channels crossing the Thar Desert, according to the researchers. “These studies can indicate where rivers and streams have flowed in the past, but they can’t tell us when,” explained Professor Hema Achyuthan of Anna University. “To demonstrate how old such channels are, we had to find evidence on the ground for river activity in the middle of the desert,” Achyuthan said. The team studied a deep deposit of river sands and gravels, which had been exposed by quarrying activity near the village of Nal. The researchers were able to document different phases of river activity by studying the different deposits. “We immediately saw evidence for a substantial and very active river system from the bottom of the fluvial deposits, which gradually decreased in power through time,” Achyuthan said. The researchers used a method called luminescence dating to understand when quartz grains in the river sands were buried. The results indicated that the strongest river activity at Nal occurred at approximately 172 and 140 thousand years ago, at a time when the monsoon was much weaker than today in the region. River activity continued at the site between 95 to 78 thousand years ago, after which only limited evidence for the presence of a river at the site, with evidence for a brief reactivation of the channel 26 thousand years ago, the study found. The river was flowing at its strongest during a phase of weak monsoon activity in the region, and may have been a life-line to human populations enabling them to inhabit the Thar Desert, the researchers said. The timeframe over which this river was active also overlaps with significant changes in human behaviour in the region, which have been linked with the earliest expansions of Homo sapiens from Africa into India, they said. “This river flowed at a critical timeframe for understanding human evolution in the Thar Desert, across South Asia and beyond,” said Blinkhorn. “This suggests a landscape in which the earliest members of our own species, Homo sapiens, first encountered the monsoons and crossed the Thar Desert may have been very different to the landscape we can see today,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lost-river-that-ran-through-thar-desert-172-000-years-ago-found/story-RCuBibrYEGcJsL9QmSC06N.html
21-10-2020||India||Odisha pins hopes on task force to ease man-animal conflicts; 4 trampled to death in 3 days||The Odisha government has formed a task force headed by its chief wildlife warden to prepare a 3-year master plan for reduction of man-animal conflict, which has seen elephants trample four persons to death in different parts of the state in the last three days.Principal secretary of forest and environment department Mona Sharma said the task force headed by chief wildlife warden HS Upadhyaya and comprising the heads of the four power distribution companies, NHAI officials and senior officials of the forest department would submit its report in the next six weeks.“The master plan would suggest different activities that the department needs to do in the next 3 years for reducing the man-animal conflict. The idea is to have a long-term plan instead of a knee-jerk reaction every time such a conflict occurs and prioritise the resources adequately. Funds under different schemes would be spent under the master plan,” Sharma said on Tuesday.The announcement came as rampaging elephants from neighbouring Jharkhand killed four persons in Mayurbhanj, Sundargarh and Angul districts taking the human casualty in man-elephant conflicts to 52 since April this year.In Mayurbhanj district, a 65-year-old woman was trampled to death while plucking flowers near her home on Tuesday morning. Subhadra Rana of Palashamundali village in Mayurbhanj district was chased by a tusker that had entered her village on Monday night. Two others in the village suffered injuries in the melee. On Sunday, 70-year-old Srikant Behera of Sarumula village in the same district, too, was trampled to death while returning home after watching a football match.Similarly, a farmer in Angul district was trampled to death by a tusker when he was in his paddy field. Farmer Bhaskar Bhukta was trying to drive an elephant away from his paddy field in Kamalpur village under Athamallik forest range Tuesday morning when the elephant charged at him, giving him little time to escape.On Sunday, 60-year-old Krishna Malar of Banki village under Bisra forest range of Sundargarh district came face to face with an elephant which trampled him to death. Villagers alleged that a herd of eight to 10 elephants has unleashed a reign of terror in the area.Also Read: Intense rain warning for Odisha, coastal Andhra and N-E IndiaIn 2019-20, Odisha recorded 115 human casualties and 132 injuries due to man-elephant conflict in a year, probably the highest ever in India. Retaliation by people with electric fences, live wire poaching, poaching for ivory etc have taken a heavy toll of elephant lives too.Wildlife activist Biswajit Mohanty said to mitigate human-elephant conflict, the government has taken up several steps but sadly they have not been effective as more and more people are losing their lives, limbs, crops and properties. Also Read: Kangana Ranaut gets rape threat from Odisha lawyer, he claims account was hacked, deletes it: report“The first step should be to reduce resentment among losers, mostly farmers. In case of injuries caused to humans by elephants or other wild animals, the compassionate guideline provides for a measly amount even when people have become permanently handicapped. To keep elephants off farmlands and human habitations, several steps can be taken but they have to be community based practices. Safe methods of driving away elephants must be practiced and abiding by the Supreme Court order should be a must. Fire crackers or projectiles should not be allowed. Crops that are unpalatable to elephants must be farmed in highly vulnerable areas,” said Mohanty.He added that to prevent most of the human casualties, elephant herds and lone males are required to be tracked to anticipate conflicts and warn locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-pins-hopes-on-task-force-to-ease-man-animal-conflicts-4-trampled-to-death-in-3-days/story-DxSsA7ALnv87MteulzCqYI.html
21-10-2020||India||‘Sack my govt if you want’: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh hands over resolution against farm laws to governor||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday handed over to Governor VP Singh Badnore the resolution passed against the farm laws in the state assembly and asserted that he didn’t care about President’s rule being imposed in Punjab or his government being sacked but the farmers. Singh, along with Aam Aadmi Party MLA Harpal Singh Cheema and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sharan Jit Singh Dhillon met the governor to submit a resolution against three farm laws -The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 - passed by the Centre during the monsoon season of the Parliament last month. On being questioned about talks of president’s rule being imposed in the state, the chief minister said, “Punjab’s voice has reached the Governor, he’ll pass it on to the President... I don’t care about the President’s rule. You want to sack my govt? Sack my government, I don’t give a damn. I am doing this for farmers of the state and the country.”  #WATCH: "Punjab's voice has reached the Governor, he'll pass it on to President... I don't care about President's Rule. You want to sack my govt? Sack my govt, I don't give a damn. I am doing this for farmers of the state and the country," says CM Captain Amarinder Singh https://t.co/5AaSN4Wta3 pic.twitter.com/EwRH1vQTviPledging to safeguard the interests of the state’s farmers, the Punjab assembly had on Tuesday passed four bills and a resolution to counter the three agriculture marketing laws enacted by the Centre. The farmers, who are protesting against the Centre’s farm laws, believe they would deprive them of government-fixed minimum support prices (MSPs) for their produce and put them at the mercy of big agribusinesses.“The government will take legal recourse if the governor does not sign the amendment bills passed in the state assembly to save the farmers and agriculture,” the Punjab CM said.Earlier in the month, Congress leaders including party’s former president Rahul Gandhi organised a tractor rallies in Punjab and Haryana to protest against the enactment of the ‘black’ laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sack-my-govt-if-you-want-punjab-chief-minister-amarinder-singh-hands-over-resolution-against-farm-laws-to-governor/story-VmjTgsQwAKRntmmLhHWyWK.html
21-10-2020||India||Should India review its relations with Taiwan?||China has reacted angrily to reports of possible talks between India and Taiwan on a trade deal at a time when there is a growing debate in New Delhi on whether the government should review its relationship with Taipei against the backdrop of the border standoff in Ladakh. India’s relations with Taiwan: India and Taiwan do not have formal diplomatic relations but since 1995, both sides have maintained representative offices in each other’s capitals that function as de facto embassies. However, in a sign of the sensitivities involved, both offices don’t mention the word “Taiwan” in their names. Taiwan has the Taipei Economic and Cultural Center in New Delhi, and India has the India Taipei Association in Taipei. India has backed the “one-China principle”, whereby countries formally recognise and have diplomatic ties only with China, and this has found mention in bilateral documents. In mid-2018, when relations between India and China were on the mend following the military standoff at Doklam, state-run Air India changed the name of Taiwan to Chinese Taipei on its website, in line with similar moves by other airlines following protests from Beijing. At the time, the external affairs ministry spokesperson had said the decision was “entirely consistent with international norms and our own position on Taiwan since 1949”. Also Read: China’s shaky victory at United Nations elections reveals its great fall | AnalysisHowever, India and Taiwan recently posted highly regarded diplomats as de facto envoys in each other’s capitals, signalling a desire to give impetus to their ties. India named Gourangalal Das, an up-and-coming diplomat handling relations with the US, as its representative in Taipei. Taiwan appointed Baushuan Ger, who was director general of the department of East Asian and Pacific affairs and had served in the US, as its representative in India. At the time, Taiwan News portal reported “the relationship with India is likely to become one of Taiwan’s most important diplomatic priorities in the future”. China’s position: At the end of China’s civil war, the defeated nationalists made Taiwan their seat of government in 1949 and the island nation was known as “National China” before the name of “Republic of China” was chosen for it. The Communists, who established the People’s Republic of China on the mainland, have threatened to use force to reunify Taiwan. Against the backdrop of China’s increasingly aggressive actions in recent months, fears have grown among experts about a possible military action against Taiwan, largely because of the US ceding its dominant security role around the world, though it continues to have a strong military relationship with Taiwan. Taiwan’s defence minister Yen De-fa told Parliament this month the air force had scrambled 2,972 times against incursions by Chinese aircraft this year, reflecting the gravity of the threats. Beijing has also been angered by the Indian media’s coverage of Taiwan in recent weeks, with the Chinese embassy sending a letter to journalists with dos and don’ts for covering Taiwan’s national day on October 10. President Tsai Ing-wen and foreign minister Jaushieh Joseph Wu have both raised their profiles in India with a string of tweets highlighting the need for closer ties between the two sides. Also Read: China warns India on trading with Taiwan, slams US-Tibet govt-in-exile meetingWhat’s next: These developments have coincided with a debate in New Delhi for a review of India’s ties with Taiwan in areas ranging from trade to Taipei’s presence at meetings of the World Health Organization (WHO), especially against the backdrop of the border standoff with China. The government has maintained a studied silence on the matter, though experts believe India needs to proceed with caution. Sana Hashmi, Taiwan fellow at the Institute of International Relations at Taiwan’s National Chengchi University, said negotiating a possible trade deal with Taiwan wouldn’t violate India’s adherence to China’s one-China principle, since countries such as New Zealand and Singapore are benefiting from economic agreements with Taiwan. Taiwan, she said, can be a perfect fit for India in its efforts to de-couple from the Chinese economy. “Considering strong complementarities and changing political equations, this is the apt time for India and Taiwan to engage in serious trade negotiations,” she added. “India should de-hyphenate its Taiwan policy from its relations with China. Economic and cultural relations with Taiwan can go parallel with India-China ties. India is a sovereign country and Beijing should not dictate how New Delhi, or any country for that matter, manages its commercial relations,” she said. “With a non-accommodative stance on the border and sending a diktat to Indian media on how to report on Taiwan, China is interfering in India’s internal affairs,” Hashmi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-could-review-relationship-with-taiwan-amid-border-standoff-with-china/story-e1FUQf9drB948CdpSWg1ZO.html
21-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand HC issues notices to rape accused BJP MLA,his wife on CBI probe plea||Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday issued notices to BJP MLA Mahesh Singh Negi and his wife Rita Negi while hearing a petition by the woman complainant who has accused the MLA of raping her and fathering her child and has sought a CBI inquiry in the case alleging the state police was trying to derail the investigation. In August, the woman had accused Negi of raping her several times and fathering her child and his wife of trying to hush up the matter by offering her money. Avtar Singh Rawat, the counsel of the petitioner said the court has issued notices to MLA and his wife and fixed the next hearing in the matter on November 10. The development comes a few days after BJP MLA Mahesh Singh filed a writ petition in HC seeking quashing of the FIR against him. Responding to the petition, the court on October 19 directed the state government and the complainant woman to file replies within three weeks, and stayed the arrest of the MLA till then. On October 2, the 30-year-old complainant had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding a CBI inquiry in the rape case. The four-page letter alleged that the administration and the police were not conducting a fair probe and were trying to save the accused MLA and pressuring her to compromise in the matter. The Dehradun police have, however, claimed they are carrying out a fair and unbiased probe. In September, the woman had also written to the state home secretary demanding a CBI probe in the matter Also Read: Triple Talaq activist Shayara Bano made vice-chair of women rights’ body after joining BJPOn August 13, Dehradun police had started a probe in the alleged extortion case against the woman after the wife of the BJP MLA from Dwarahat, Almora, Mahesh Singh Negi, lodged a complaint accusing the woman of demanding Rs ₹ 5 crore by threatening to lodge a false rape complaint against her MLA husband. The accused woman later on the same day released a video on social media in which she accused MLA’s wife Rita Negi of lodging a false complaint and alleged the MLA sexually harassed her for the last two years. She also claimed that she has a daughter with the MLA. She also demanded a DNA test of her daughter and the MLA to prove her claims. Also Read: Uttarakhand HC issues notice to Maharashtra Governor Koshyari over pending dues as former CMOn August 16, the woman filed a counter-complaint against the MLA for allegedly raping her on several occasions and fathering her child; she also accused his wife of trying to hush up the matter by offering her money. This is the fourth petition in the court in this matter; earlier, all three involved in the case, MLA, his wife and the complainant woman have filed pleas in the HC seeking quashing of FIRs against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-hc-issues-notices-to-rape-accused-bjp-mla-his-wife-on-cbi-probe-plea/story-Fie8rjBnrvzTLXOetZeJRL.html
21-10-2020||India||‘Covid-19 active cases below 7.5 lakh, 14 states have fatality rate below 1%’: Health ministry||As the daily increase in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to fall in India, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday that active cases settled below the 7.5-lakh mark for the second successive day.There are 7,40,090 active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 9.67 per cent of the total caseload, the health ministry data showed.With a high number of Covid-19 patients recovering every day, India’s steady trend of posting high levels of daily recoveries also continues. A total of 61,775 recoveries have been registered in a span of 24 hours in the country whereas 54,044 new infections were reported during the same period, the health ministry said.It also said that the national case fatality rate (CFR) has dropped to 1.51 per cent.The ministry added that 14 states - Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Bihar, Assam, Odisha and Kerala - are reporting case fatality rate of less than one per cent.The Centre has advised states and union territories to aim at bring down the CFR below 1 per cent.The health ministry also said that 77 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and union territories.India’s Covid-19 caseload crossed the 7.6 million-mark on Wednesday with 54,044 new infections being reported in a day. The death toll climbed to 1,15,914 with 717 fatalities being registered in a span of 24 hours, according to the health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-active-cases-below-7-5-lakh-14-states-have-fatality-rate-below-1-health-ministry/story-A4ikT5jRLhj3nllAjFkYCN.html
21-10-2020||India||Railway union threatens 2-hour strike on October 22, authorities warn of service break||Amid railway services gearing up for the ongoing festive season, All India Railways Federation has called for a two-hour strike on October 22 if bonus is not declared by Wednesday. Reports said the railway authorities have warned penal action against employees who attended a preparatory meeting on Tuesday in Mumbai.On October 20, when the railways started a number of festival special trains, the unions observed All India Bonus Demand Day where railway staff from all across the country were explained the callousness” of the authorities in disbursing the productivity-linked bonuses. Every year, this bonus is given before Dussehra. But this year, the government has not yet announced bonus owing to the pandemic condition. According to the union, the protest is not even for the bonus of this year. The bonus of 2019-20 is due and it is “unfair” to deny last year’s bonus, citing this year’s pandemic, the union has said.Determined to handle this sternly, the railway board has issued a circular to all divisions saying if any employee stops work on Thursday, action including service break, will be taken against them||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-union-threatens-2-hour-strike-on-october-22-authorities-warn-of-service-break/story-v9IdV0zQfoF9Yo96ZAaDIJ.html
21-10-2020||India||UP farmers forced to sell crops at less than MSP even now: Priyanka Gandhi||In her latest swipe at the Central government over the recently enacted farm laws, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said that farmers across Uttar Pradesh are forced to sell their paddy crops at prices less than the Minimum Support Price (MSP).The Congress leader, taking to Twitter, accused the BJP government at the Centre of not listening to the farmers. She also posted a video of a farmer alleging corruption in crop procurement at the Mohammadi Khiri mandi.“The BJP government is holding a government Khat Sammelan on the bills, which are against the interest of the farmers, but is not listening to the pain of the farmers. In almost all places in UP, farmers are forced to sell their paddy at Rs 1,000 to 1,100 per quintal Rs 800 less than the Rs 1,868 per quintal MSP,” she tweeted (roughly translated from Hindi).In the following tweet, she said, “This is when the MSP is guaranteed. Imagine what will happen when the MSP guarantee is removed.”This comes amid the protests against the recently enacted farm laws by opposition parties and farmers’ organisations at several places across the country. The opposition has alleged that the new farm laws do not guarantee MSP for the farmers.The BJP, on the other hand, has said that it is committed to continuing the MSP.Notably, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had last week termed the recent agriculture sector reforms “a very important step in improving the agriculture sector of the country and increasing the income of farmers” and assured that MSP and government procurement would continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-farmers-forced-to-sell-crops-at-less-than-msp-even-now-priyanka-gandhi/story-r9Dc831FBuwhhTxRJSPceN.html
21-10-2020||India||Uddhav says relief package for flood-hit farmers soon, doesn’t give a date||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said that the state will announce a relief package for farmers hit by damages to crops or property in flood-affected areas of the state in a couple of days. Thackeray made the statement during an interaction with farmers in Katagaon taluka of Osmanabad district where he is on a tour of the flood-affected areas. Thackeray said nearly 80% of the spot inspections have been completed. However, he stopped short of giving any rough estimate of the crop damages or damages to property in the flood-affected areas of western Maharashtra and Marathwada region.“I am aware that you all have come here with a lot of expectations from me [about] how much [package] will be announced. I don’t announce anything that I cannot fulfil. I have not come to announce anything so that you clap but I have come to comfort everybody that the government is with you... the spot inspections are nearly 80-90% completed; we have got an estimate. In a day or two, the [state] cabinet will meet. Whatever we decide will be to bring your life back on track,” Thackeray said.Also Read: NCW chief meets Maha Guv, raises issue of rising ‘love jihad’ cases in stateThere is increased pressure on the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government to announce the relief package for the flood-affected region. The Bharatiya Janata Party led by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis is also touring the region and demanding immediate compensation for farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-says-relief-package-for-flood-hit-farmers-soon-doesn-t-give-a-date/story-Pba9tEWWspL2gpA8B4RbMI.html
21-10-2020||India||Centre may review fare of repatriation flights||The Centre may review the pricing policy for repatriation flights being operated by local carriers to bring back Indians stranded abroad after several lawmakers expressed concern that the passengers were being charged exorbitant fares, people familiar with the situation said. Under the Vande Bharat Mission, which started on May 6, more than 2.2 million passengers have been flown home. The Air India group alone has operated a total of 3,588 flights carrying 590,000 passengers from different locations until October 19. Regular international flights have been suspended since March 22 because of Covid-19. The government has also created temporary travel bubbles, or reciprocal arrangements with other countries, under the Vande Bharat Mission. India has put in place such arrangements with 13 countries, including France, Germany, the United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, Japan, and the United States. Private carriers, too, have been allowed to fly special flights in these air bubbles. At a recent interaction with lawmakers, civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola also heard complaints related to refund of fares and cancellation charges apart from exorbitant fares, the people cited above said. Leaders including the Revolutionary Socialist Party’s NK Premachandran pointed out that for flights between the Gulf region and Kerala, passengers were being charged six to eight times the peak season fares. The civil aviation ministry also faced several complaints over delays in the refund of tickets and imposition of cancellation fees. Lawmakers pointed out that many passengers had not received full refunds even after the Supreme Court order. The ministry also faced several complaints over delays in the refund of tickets and imposition of cancellation fees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-may-review-fare-of-repatriation-flights/story-r9lX7ABOGTLmOJtArwt5mI.html
21-10-2020||India||Enforcement Directorate summons slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s wife||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned Richa, the wife of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, asking her to appear at its Lucknow office for questioning, officials said.The ED is probing a money laundering case, which was registered against Dubey and his 10 associates including his financier Jaykant Bajpai last month. According to officials, the case was registered under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.Reportedly, the economic offences wing had registered on the basis of around 60 FIRs against Dubey and his associates in different parts of Uttar Pradesh. Officials had said that they came across instances where prima facie money had crossed the border.Vikas Dubey, the main accused in the killing of eight policemen in Kanpur in July this year, was killed in an encounter by the police after he allegedly tried to run away while being brought to Kanpur from Madhya Pradesh, where he was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enforcement-directorate-summons-slain-gangster-vikas-dubey-s-wife/story-NQqphhMdBaU6osJYLCfqgK.html
21-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Why NCW chief Rekha Sharma is under fire and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Why NCW chief Rekha Sharma came under Twitter fireNational Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma has come under fire on social media after she met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday to discuss women safety related issues in the state, including the rising number of sexual assault cases and also the “rising cases of love jihad”. Read MoreJKCA money laundering case: Farooq Abdullah summoned by Enforcement Directorate againNational Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah, who is also an MP from Srinagar, has been summoned by Enforcement Directorate (ED) for questioning regarding the Jammu and Kashmir cricket scam for the second time in three days. Read MoreThere were hardly any celebrations in Beijing this month when President Xi Jinping’s China, often rebuked for human rights violations, made it back to the United Nations human rights council this month. Because tucked behind Beijing’s win, was a huge loss of support that many see as a reflection of China’s track record. Read MoreIPL 2020, KXIP vs DC: ‘I did wonder, I won’t lie,’ KL Rahul points an area that Kings XI Punjab ‘have to correct’Kings XI Punjab have shown that they belong with the high flyers of the Indian Premier League 2020 after securing victory in their last three matches of the season. After losing six out of seven matches, KXIP have managed to bounce back and now are in contention for a top-four finish. Read moreComedy Couple movie review: Saqib Saleem, Shweta Basu Prasad can’t double up the funnyThough it picks up a long list of issues, at its core, Comedy Couple wants to be about a man who cannot stop lying. But unlike Jim Carrey, it’s not a child’s magical birthday wish, but a lukewarm glass of gaumutra, that finally sets him straight. Read moreBigg Boss 14’s Hina Khan serves a gorgeous look in Sahil Kochchar’s Rs 33k pewter dressAs the buzz around television stars Sidharth Shukla, Gauahar Khan and Hina Khan exiting the Bigg Boss 14 house goes viral, the latter served a gorgeous look in a midi dress and the fashion police can’t take their eyes off. Read more‘Apart for 215 days, finally reunited’: Video of elderly couple leaves netizens teary-eyedSome videos are so beautiful and heartening that they are enough to leave one emotional. This reunion video of a couple, who had been married for 60 long years and was separated for more than 200 days, perfectly captures the essence of that category. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-why-ncw-chief-rekha-sharma-is-under-fire-and-all-the-latest-news/story-sMLFtT7IQaCwRkBBi7AikN.html
21-10-2020||India||Very large portion of Covid-19 vaccines likely to be manufactured in India: Gates Foundation CEO||A very large portion of Covid-19 vaccines are likely to be manufactured in India through the country’s strong and robust private sector partners, said Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation CEO Mark Suzman.In an interview to PTI, Suzman noted that India is doing everything it can right now with the resources at hand to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.“I think India is doing everything it can right now with the resources at hand, but we are all hopeful that next year as some of these vaccines should come out...and our expectation is that a very large portion of these are likely to be manufactured in India through the strong and robust Indian private sector partners and then that will be the key area to focus on in the next phase of the Covid pandemic,” he said.He underlined the need to have equitable global distribution of Covid-19 vaccines.“We believe passionately that there needs to be equitable global distribution, so everything we are doing is to make sure that the developing countries will be able to have access at the same time and at the same volumes as wealthy countries, because for a global pandemic that is essential, but then the exact pacing and distribution within the countries is going to depend on national guidelines with some of the global recommendations,” he said.He said the Bill and Melinda Gates foundation has been working at multiple levels to combat Covid-19.“We have been providing support, so called upstream, or research and development. We work with this organization, CEPI, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovation, which has been a leading partner in investing in the potential vaccines. We have developed something called a therapeutic accelerator which has raised over $125 million to help find treatments that are going to be effective against Covid,” he said.He said the foundation has been working to support a lot of work around diagnostics as well. “And in that context, we are strong supporters of this global effort, which India is part of, called COVAX, which is a multilateral initiative to procure vaccines at scale and then distribute them through the GAVI vaccine alliance to countries including India,” Suzman added.“And last but not least, we have also been directly supporting some specific investments, again some with Indian partners like Serum Institute of India and GAVI around particular vaccines which are very promising in order to make sure many of the products are being manufactured in real time and even ahead of regulatory approval for potential distribution because we want to make sure that the distribution goes to developing countries at the same time as rich countries, that you don’t have the time lag with rich countries having bought up early available market, which have been the risk,” he said.He said the biggest learning from the pandemic is that at all levels, global, regional, national, there needs to be a permanent infrastructure in place that is prepared and ready to go which will keep the world much better prepared for the next one, which will come.“It is not as if the pandemic was really that much of a surprise, maybe the scale, the speed and the exact nature of the pathogen could not have been predicted but as Bill Gates and others have been warning for years, this has been one of the most likely global crises,” he said.“But we know that unknown pathogens have the potential to come in and wreak havoc so we should never again be caught flat footed. We need a global infrastructure, regional infrastructure and national infrastructure and right down to the community health level,” he added.Responding to a question on how the Grand Challenges platform is relevant for the current pandemic situation, he said some of the networks and groups of scientists that joined the Grand Challenges are working hard on many aspects of Covid-19.“They also provided the platform that looks at related issues which is empowering scientific leadership in developing countries, particularly women, to think about what the long-term issues of the future are going to be or the present and the future, including but beyond Covid-19,” he said.Grand Challenges India was set up as a partnership of the Department of Biotechnology, Government of India, and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in 2012, and Wellcome also joined the partnership. Grand Challenges India works across a range of health and developmental priorities ranging from agriculture, nutrition, sanitation, maternal and child health to infectious diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-large-portion-of-covid-19-vaccines-likely-to-be-manufactured-in-india-gates-foundation-ceo/story-BKMEGjFexnyFuCXLeH9QSL.html
21-10-2020||India||Over 100,000 infants in India did not survive a month due to severe air pollution in 2019: Report||Over 116,000 infants in India died within a month after their birth due to exposure to severe air pollution in 2019, according to the State of Global Air 2020 report. US-based Health Effects Institute and Global Burden of Disease released the first such report analysing the impact of high air pollution on infant health on Wednesday. The report said that India had the highest burden of infant deaths due to air pollution followed by Nigeria (67,900), Pakistan (56,500), Ethiopia (22,900), and the Democratic Republic of Congo (1,200).Also Read: India recorded highest air pollution exposure globally in 2019: ReportIt is based on a growing body of research and evidence that suggests mothers’ exposure to polluted air during pregnancy is linked to increased risks to infants weighing under 2,500 grams at birth or those born before 37 weeks of gestation, as opposed to 38 to 40 weeks. Low weight and premature birth are linked to a higher risk of lower respiratory tract infections, diarrhoea, other serious infections as well as brain damage and blood disorders, jaundice that can be potentially fatal.“Although the biological reasons for this linkage are not fully known, it is thought that air pollution may affect a pregnant woman, her developing foetus, or both through pathways similar to those of tobacco smoking, which is a well-known risk factor for low birth weight and preterm birth,” the report said.Kalpana Balakrishnan, the director of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s Centre for Advanced Research on Air Quality, Climate and Health, said around 116,000 infant deaths can be prevented if air quality is as per the World Health Organisation’s standards. “That is how the attributable burden is identified. But the number seems large because population risks are often not perceivable because they have tiny risk on an individual level. For example, smoking, anaemia or maternal nutrition are all individual risks that can be dealt with on an individual level. But when it comes to air pollution, a very large population is at risk because of high overall exposure. India also has an underlying prevalence of low birth weight which also makes the risk pronounced.”Balakrishnan said the evidence from over 70 studies, including that of ICMR in India, show that exposures to household and ambient air pollution are associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes. “India has a long history of addressing multiple risk factors contributing to adverse pregnancy outcomes including maternal nutrition, anaemia, access to antenatal care, to name a few.”Balakrishnan said the recent evidence shows that air pollution must be included alongside these risk factors to address the burden of low birth weight and preterm births. Clean household energy initiatives offer some strategic near-term opportunities that can be directed at these vulnerable groups, Balakrishnan added. “Results from on-going randomised control trials In India are expected to strengthen the case for such interventions.”Balakrishnan said addressing the impacts of air pollution on adverse pregnancy outcomes and newborn health is important for low- and middle-income countries. “...[it is] not only because of the high prevalence of low birth weight, preterm birth, and child growth deficits but because it allows the design of strategic interventions that can be directed at these vulnerable groups.”Of all neonatal deaths attributable to air pollution globally, household air pollution accounted for about 64% of them. The rest were due to outdoor air pollution. The highest percentage of deaths attributable to household air pollution (80%) was estimated to be in the sub-Saharan region. The lowest was in high-income regions (less than 2%).Long-term exposure to outdoor and household air pollution contributed to over 1.67 million annual deaths from stroke, heart attack, diabetes, lung cancer, chronic lung diseases, and neonatal diseases in India last year, making air pollution the largest risk factor for deaths among all health risks.Based on experience from the SARS-CoV-1 outbreak between 2002 and 2004, the report said air pollution could lead to both a higher number of Covid-19 infections and deaths. Pallavi Pant, a scientist at Health Effects Institute, said the evidence on the link between air pollution and Covid-19 is rapidly growing. “It is clear that long-term exposure to air pollution can cause many of the health conditions associated with increased vulnerability to Covid-19 such as diabetes and chronic heart and lung diseases. Evidence increasingly suggests that people living in areas with high air pollution are likely to experience more severe outcomes from Covid 19,” said Pant. “Even before the Covid-19 pandemic hit, India carried a heavy burden of chronic respiratory and other diseases and India has also experienced high exposures for a long time. Exposures to air pollution have been shown to affect the human body’s immune defence making an individual more susceptible to respiratory infections such as pneumonia.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-100-000-infants-in-india-did-not-survive-a-month-due-to-severe-air-pollution-in-2019-report/story-EaUP0546eW2ghlWrfominO.html
21-10-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir fights back to halve active Covid-19 cases in 3 weeks||After substantial recoveries in October and a sharp fall in the number of fresh infections in the last two weeks, Jammu and Kashmir now has only 8,124 active cases of Covid19, down from 17,017 cases on September 30, according to official figures.The recovery rate is almost 90% and many patients are on the verge of being fully recovered after treatment at various Covid19 centres, official figures reveal..Jammu and Kashmir’s Covid-19 tally stands at 88,958 out of which 79,437 people have recovered and discharged from hospitals. A total of 1,397 people have died due to Covid-19 since the first case was detected in the union territory in March. Most of the deaths were reported from summer capital Srinagar which accounted for 335 casualties followed by the winter capital Jammu where 239 people have died. Currently, there are only 8,124 active cases of Covid-19.Dr Muhammad Salim Khan, Head Community Medicine, Government Medical College Srinagar said the fight against Covd-19 is a continuous process and those susceptible are at risk of getting infected. “It’s obvious cases will recover and some percentage would remain active at a given point of time,” he said.As against a daily average of 1,245 cases of Covid-19, October has recorded slightly more than half of that which is around 699 cases per day till date, according to official figures.In terms of fatalities also, the average daily deaths in October have been around 11 as against 16 in September. A total of 478 people died of Covid-19 in September, while 207 have died this month till October 19.However, health experts warned against complacency as many people with Covid-19 are being treated in their homes instead of hospitals. “Less patients are coming to hospitals now as many are receiving treatment at their homes and are recovering. The cases are on decline but people should not violate SoPs,” said a senior doctor posted at Chest Disease Hospital Srinagar. “With winter around the corner the people need to take more precautions to avoid the disease.”Dr Javaid Malik, Professor and Head of Department Chest Medicine SKIMS Medical College Bemina also cautioned people against lowering their guard. “If people follow the SoPs the cases will come down but if they start violating norms the cases can go up again. So everybody should be cautious about Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-fights-back-to-halve-active-covid-19-cases-in-3-weeks/story-X54J2fxLCXGkfHevz0LFHP.html
21-10-2020||India||Court firm on ‘no entry’ to Bengal’s puja pandals, eases limit for organisers||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday modified its order that declared all Durga Puja pandals as no entry zones and increased the number of people who are allowed inside the pandal at a time. The court has raised the cap on the number of puja committee members who can enter the pandal and also allowed dhakis (drummers) to enter the premises. More members, including local residents, can now enter the pandals to take part in the puja and the rituals. Earlier, the court had permitted the entry of 15-25 committee members and has now set the limit at 45 members for big puja pandals at a time. The committees are required to prepare a list of 60 names in advance. The names can be changed every day, court said and added that in case of small pujas the list would contain only 15 names and not more than 10 members would be allowed to enter at a time. The list can change every day and has to be prepared by 8 am. The ruling comes following a review petition filed by prominent puja organisers in Kolkata on Tuesday that cited “practical problems” in executing the court’s order. “The applicants state that this court may appreciate that the directions as given in the order dated October 19, may not be workable in view of the variable in-situ issues which the individual organisers are required to address whole holding the Durga Puja in the locality,” the petition stated, adding that Kolkata’s Durga Puja has been nominated for UNESCO’s 2020 list. “There are some practical problems as nearly 80% of the pujas in Kolkata are held in lanes which are not more than 18 – 24 feet wide. If they put up barricades, there would be no space left for visitors to pass through and people will virtually have to go back without seeing the puja,” Saswata Basu, general secretary of the Forum for Durgotsab, had said. The court had on Monday banned the entry of visitors inside the pandals virtually declaring them as ‘no entry zones’ to prevent any gatherings that may lead to a surge in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as doctors have warned. Though Durga Puja begins on Thursday, pandal hopping has already started in the state. Monday’s ruling was welcomed by doctors. They described it as “historic” said that if clubs and puja committees adhere to the directive the Covid-19 transmission would definitely be restricted to a certain level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-high-court-partially-eases-order-declaring-durga-puja-pandals-no-entry-zones/story-rxZwduPupOYb4AEir3VkLP.html
21-10-2020||India||Why NCW chief Rekha Sharma came under Twitter fire||National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma has come under fire on social media after she met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday to discuss women safety-related issues in the state, including the rising number of sexual assault cases and also the “rising cases of love jihad”.The official Twitter handle of the NCW India tweeted a photo of the meeting and mentioned “love jihad” as one of the issues discussed between its chairman and the Governor of Maharashtra.  Our Chairperson @sharmarekha met with Shri Bhagat Singh Koshyari, His Excellency, Governor of Maharashtra & discussed issues related to #womensafety in the state including defunct One Stop Centres, molestation & rape of women patients at #COVID centres & rise in love jihad cases pic.twitter.com/JBiFT477IU“Our Chairperson Rekha Sharma met with Shri Bhagat Singh Koshyari, His Excellency, Governor of Maharashtra and discussed issues related to women safety in the state including defunct One Stop Centres, molestation and rape of women patients at Covid-19 centres and rise in love jihad cases,” the NCW said. Why hide your cheap and misogynistic tweets now @sharmarekha?The BJP govt should hang its head in shame.The rapists supporting govt also endorses a misogynist as the head of the @NCWIndia.Under BJP, India truly has become no country for women.#SackRekhaSharmaThe tweet drew ire of social media users as the government in February told Parliament that the term ‘Love Jihad’ was not defined under the extant laws. The comment was made by junior home minister G Kishan Reddy who was answering to the question whether any of the central agencies have reported any case of love jihad from the southern state during the last two years.“Article 25 of the Constitution provides for the freedom to profess, practice and propagate religion subject to public order, morality and health. Various courts have upheld this view including the Kerala High Court,” G Kishan Reddy had said.Social media users dug up some old tweets of Sharma where she was seen making fun of women, politicians and women politicians. The tweets date back to 2012 to 2014, before she became NCW chairperson. In August 2015, Rekha Sharma was appointed the NCW chief and prior to that she was the BJP district secretary and media in-charge in Haryana.Following the Twitter outrage, Rekha Sharma has now protected her Twitter account. Her old tweets are not accessible anymore. ‘Love jihad’ is a term popularised by radical Hindu groups to describe what they believe is an organised conspiracy of Muslim men to force or trick Hindu women into conversion and marriage. The purported motives include expanding India’s Muslim population and aiding the Islamic State.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-ncw-chief-rekha-sharma-came-under-twitter-fire/story-zj82vLViKNuQ9R9ysaCKLK.html
21-10-2020||India||Police personnel always give their best without hesitation: PM Modi||Expressing gratitude, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that police personnel always give their best without hesitation, be it in preserving law and order or disaster management.“From preserving law and order to solving horrendous crimes, from assistance in disaster management to fighting Covid-19, our police personnel always give their best without hesitation. We are proud of their diligence and readiness to assist citizens,” he tweeted on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day on Wednesday.“Police Commemoration Day is about expressing gratitude to our police personnel and their families all across India. We pay tributes to all the police personnel martyred in the line of duty. Their sacrifice and service would always be remembered,” he added.Police Commemoration Day is observed every year on October 21 in memory of the CRPF personnel who made the supreme sacrifice at Hot Springs in Ladakh while fighting Chinese troops on this day in 1959.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-personnel-always-give-their-best-without-hesitation-pm-modi/story-ZO0Omc0kurxiNQSRA3zrwJ.html
21-10-2020||India||Chinese vaccine at $60, US to resume Oxford trial, health card in India: Covid-19 vaccine latest updates||With the UK government going for human challenger trial to quicken the pace of rolling out an effective Covid-19 vaccine, the race among countries to immune its nationals has been hotting up.Here are the latest developments from across the world:Chinese vaccine at $60A city in China’s Zhejiang province will offer experimental coronavirus vaccines to its residents, as China broadens an emergency use programme to people in non-priority groups, Reuters reported. Residents aged between 18 and 59 in the city of Shaoxing, who are not in priority groups, can apply online for inoculation. It did not name the vaccine, say when inoculation would start or how many doses would be offered. Shaoxing residents that choose to be inoculated will need to give reasons for wanting the vaccine on their applications and will be charged 400 yuan ($60) for two doses, with an additional inoculation fee of 28 yuan per dose, the city said.Also Read: What is ‘human challenge’ that UK cleared to speed up Covid-19 vaccine trial?US likely to resume Oxford trialThe United States will give its nod to resume the trial for Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine which was stopped in the country in September after the pharma company admitted adverse effect on two participants. The trial in other countries including India, the UK, Brazil resumed after a brief pause. But it was halted in the US so far.Also Read: 30 million frontline workers to get Covid-19 vaccine in phase 1Health card will be used in India, but not mandatoryAs Prime Minister Narendra Modi is emphasising on IT-based delivery of Covid-19 vaccines, it has been decided that health card ID under the National Digital Health Mission will be used to make vaccines available to all Indians. But the health ministry has clarified that it will not be mandatory. Other digital IDs will be used in case people don’t have health card.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-vaccine-at-60-us-to-resume-oxford-trial-health-card-in-india-covid-19-vaccine-latest-updates/story-1MO9PnVi9aU1oEZurWNmGJ.html
21-10-2020||India||India recorded highest air pollution exposure globally in 2019: Report||India recorded the highest annual average PM 2.5 concentration exposure in the world last year, according to the State of Global Air 2020 (SOGA 2020) report released on Wednesday. India was followed by Nepal, Niger, Qatar and Nigeria in high PM 2.5 exposures. This means people in India are exposed to the highest PM 2.5 concentrations globally.Also Read: India must wage an immediate, unified war against pollutionThe report also said that India has been recording an increase in PM 2.5 pollution since 2010 contrary to Centre’s claims that annual air pollution levels in the country are coming down. Out of the 20 most populous countries, 14 have recorded a gradual improvement in air quality but India, Bangladesh, Niger, Pakistan and Japan are among those that have recorded a modest increase in air pollution levels.SOGA, released by US-based Health Effects Institute and Global Burden of Disease (GBD), uses both data from ground monitors and satellite to make their assessments. To estimate the annual average PM2.5 exposure, or concentrations, GBD scientists link the concentrations in each block (they divide the globe in blocks or grids) with the number of people living within each block to produce a population weighted annual average concentration.Out of 87 health risk factors based on total number of deaths caused in 2019 assessed by the team, air pollution has the fourth highest risk globally preceded by high systolic blood pressure, tobacco and dietary risks. But in India, air pollution is the highest risk factor because of the huge burden of premature deaths it contributes to.India is also among the top ten countries with highest ozone (O3) exposure in 2019. Qatar recorded the highest O3 exposure followed by Nepal and India. Among the 20 most populous countries, India recorded the highest increase (17%) in O3 concentrations in the past ten years.On average, global exposure to ozone increased from about 47.3 parts per billion (ppb) in 2010 to 49.5 ppb in 2019. O3 is a major respiratory irritant which is not released directly into the air but is formed in a complex chemical interaction between nitrogen oxides (NOx) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in the presence of sunlight. NOx is emitted from the burning of fossil fuels (oil, gas, and coal) in motor vehicles, power plants, industrial boilers, and home heating systems. Volatile organic compounds are also emitted by motor vehicles, as well as by oil and gas extraction and processing and other industrial activities.The only silver lining for India though is that it has managed to reduce the number of people exposed to household air pollution. China reduced the percentage of its population exposed to household air pollution from 54% to 36%, while India reduced its percentage from 73% to 61% over the decade.Since 2010, over 50 million fewer people have been exposed to household air pollution. The Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana Household LPG programme and other schemes have helped to dramatically expand access to clean energy, especially for rural households, Health Effects Institute said in a statement.“At this time, the data indicates that there was a modest increase in outdoor PM2.5 levels In India over the last decade. We know from experience elsewhere that the air pollution problem is unlikely to be solved in the short-term. With the National Clean Air Programme and introduction of BS-VI emission standards, India has begun to take steps towards improving air quality and it is critical that the efforts are continued and expanded over the next few years in order to see improvements in air quality. This will require concerted action at both at the national and state and local levels,” said Pallavi Pant, scientist at Health Effects Institute.“Given the high exposure and staggering health burden of air pollution, India must show urgency and recognise air pollution as a regional-scale problem. The National Clean Air Program should be expanded beyond the urban centres with an air-shed approach prioritising the local and regional mitigation measures to achieve clean air goals for India,” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor, IIT Delhi.Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar has said in various platforms that Delhi’s air has improved significantly since 2016 while Central Pollution Control Board’s reports suggest that air pollution in India is towards a decline. Javadekar had said in the Lok Sabha last year that the government would resolve the toxic air pollution problem in Delhi in less than 15 years—the time Beijing took to curb a similar problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-recorded-highest-air-pollution-exposure-globally-in-2019-report/story-oOH8OTQEf276Sy0vrYMXyH.html
21-10-2020||India||Chhattisgarh hockey academy gets nod from SAI, sports excellence centre to come up in Bilaspur||For the very first time after the formation of an independent state, a residential hockey academy will be started soon in Raipur. Additionally, an ‘excellence centre’ is going to start in Bahtarai Bilaspur, turning the long-cherished dreams of Chhattisgarh players into reality.Under the Khelo India Scheme, a proposal for a residential hockey academy at Raipur and an ‘excellence center’ for athletic, wrestling and swimming at Bilaspur was sent to the Sports Authority of India (SAI) by the department of sports and youth welfare. The approval for both has been received by the state. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has added a new chapter in the development of sports in the state by taking the concept of Gadbo Nava Chhattisgarh into the playgrounds. He has enlivened the concept of holistic development, with the all-round development of children, especially the ones who share a special bond with sports.Efforts are now being made to embark on the realisation of ‘Gadbo Nava Chhattisgarh’ in the field of sports to enhance the sports talent of the youth of the state and to provide the appropriate training. Earlier, a proposal was sent to the Sports Authority of India for archery which has also been accepted. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and Sports minister Umesh Patel congratulated players, sports coaches and officials and employees of the State Sports and Youth Welfare Department after receiving approval from the SAI.The Chhattisgarh Sports Development Authority has been constituted by CM Baghel for the maintenance of available sports infrastructure and operation of residential sports academies in the state of Chhattisgarh. The selection program for the hockey academy to be started in Raipur is being prepared by the Department of Sports and Youth Welfare. All the facilities like hostel, school, kit, food and the residential academy will be made available to the trainee players selected for residential academy.Athletic, swimming and wrestling are the three major sports that have been selected for the excellence centre r to be started in Bahtarai Bilaspur. Sports and Youth Welfare Department is taking action to create new posts of trainers across the state. The MoU will soon be signed between the Sports Authority of India and the Sports and Youth Welfare Department of the state government for Chhattisgarh Hockey Academy Raipur.Two well-equipped hockey stadiums of international level have already been established in Raipur. The Sports Authority of India and the team of sports experts of Khelo India visited the Raipur Hockey Academy and availed information regarding the sports infrastructure and facilities available there.(This press release has been published without intervention from the edit.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-hockey-academy-gets-nod-from-sai-sports-excellence-centre-to-come-up-in-bilaspur/story-FggZulIaE7OoHGgUPGWH8L.html
21-10-2020||India||Agartala civic body holds screening, immunisation drive for its sanitation workers||Aiming at reducing the Covid-19 threat, the Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC), along with National Health Mission (NHM), started a massive check-up drive for its workers on Tuesday.Hundreds of vulnerable frontline workers, mainly engaged with keeping the city clean, were immunised against tetanus, typhoid and hepatitis as well as screened for non-communicable diseases like diabetes, hypertension and obesity on Tuesday.They have also been provided with health cards, said AMC Commissioner Dr Siddharth Shiv Jaiswal.“This section of workers, due to their nature of the job, is more vulnerable. They are also engaged in Covid duties. So a special campaign for their immunisation at their doorsteps has been arranged,” said Dr Jaiswal who is also the Mission Director of NHM.He added that with the immunisation, the antibody test against Covid-19 was also done simultaneously.Medical officer Dr Arpita Sinha said that keeping in mind that comorbidity could be more dangerous if affected with Covid, especially among this section of people, these special health camps were being organised. “Hence, two vaccines are being administered among the door-to-door garbage cleaning workers of the AMC, besides health check-up for non-communicable disease profile.”The AMC workers have thanked the organisers for the initiative.Babul Das, who is engaged with garbage collection since 1995, said that he participated in such a camp for the first time in his career on Tuesday. “Every moment, there is life risk in my job; not only for me, but my family members as well. The risk factor has increased several fold during the ongoing pandemic. So the immunisation camp is of great benefit,” he said.Another worker Anil Chandra Sarkar appreciated the camp, during which he was immunised against two potentially fatal diseases and got a health card.The AMC workers will also get free health check-ups, besides soap, sanitisers, masks and other safety gear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agartala-civic-body-holds-screening-immunisation-drive-for-its-sanitation-workers/story-p6c1avy3X0UlBeImzisLIN.html
21-10-2020||India||AYUSH ministry reviews interventions towards prevention,management of Covid-19||Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) Ministry Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha chaired a high-level meeting to review the various interventions made by the Ministry in the recent months to contribute to the preventive steps and management of Covid-19.Principal secretaries and secretaries of AYUSH and health departments of different states and UTs took part in the meeting held through video conferencing.An official release said on Tuesday that Kotecha appraised the states about the recently released National Ayurveda and Yoga Protocol for Management of Covid-19, the need to expedite the operationalising of AYUSH Health Wellness Centres approved under National AYUSH Mission (NAM) and the urgent need to improve the expenditure and fund flow under NAM.The AYUSH Grid project of the Ministry, which aims to establish a unified IT backbone for the sector, was discussed in detail.Information about the completion of a cloud-based AYUSH Health Management Information System (A-HMIS)which can be put to use by all AYUSH establishments was welcomed by all.The A-HMIS is one among the 14 different pilot projects that have been implemented under the AYUSH Grid project. The AYUSH Ministry invited all states/UTs to make use of this HMIS to streamline the hospital processes in their respective domains.The Secretary highlighted the important steps taken by the Ministry of AYUSH in the context of Covid-19, however, he cautioned that the protocol should not lead to a false sense of security.He sought active co-operation and participation of the states in the implementation of the protocol to manage Covid-19 pandemic effectively and explained that the release of such a protocol was a landmark in the mainstreaming of AYUSH systems.During the meeting, the states and UTs shared their experiences and activities they have conducted in the context of Covid-19.“The joint efforts and sharing of experiences, it was agreed by all, will lead to the potential of AYUSH Ministry’s systems being tapped on a nation-wide scale for fighting the pandemic,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayush-ministry-reviews-interventions-towards-prevention-management-of-covid-19/story-8Kg4qA58gTbFIZAAy0LzGO.html
21-10-2020||India||Police Commemoration Day 2020: Amit Shah pays tribute to police personnel, lauds role in fight against Covid-19||Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday paid tribute to all police personnel who have laid down their lives for the country, on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day.Speaking on the occasion at the National Police Memorial in New Delhi, Shah also said a total of 343 personnel had lost their lives during India’s battle against the Covid-19 pandemic.Beginning his address, the home minister said, “35,398 police personnel have sacrificed their lives from independence till today. I want to tell their family members that this memorial is not made up only of bricks, stones and cement, it also reminds the country that every single drop of the martyrs’ blood has taken India forward on the path of development.” अब तक 35,398 ​कर्मियों ने शहादत दी है, मैं सभी शहीदों के परिवार जनों को कहना चाहता हूं कि ये स्मारक(राष्ट्रीय पुलिस स्मारक) सिर्फ ईंट, पत्थर और सीमेंट से बना स्मारक नहीं है: गृह मंत्री अमित शाह https://t.co/RmLpNwmmiV pic.twitter.com/MjQ7jRNQnpShah further said it is because of those who have sacrificed their lives, people of the country can sleep peacefully. “Policemen have to be alert 24x7 even during festivals. When people celebrate festivals, a policeman still has to be on duty,” he said.Speaking on the role of the police in enforcing the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Shah said, “As home minister, I can proudly say that during lockdown, whenever needed, police personnel were there to provide help. Indian police fought against Covid-19 as frontline warriors, and the whole country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well, have appreciated them.”“During our battle against Covid-19, 343 police personnel lost their lives while serving the nation as Corona warriors,” he added. During our battle against #COVID19, 343 police personnel lost their lives while serving the nation as #CoronaWarriors: Union Home Minister Amit Shah while addressing the #PoliceCommemorationDay Parade at National Police Memorial, Delhi. https://t.co/4uaEMTVfyO pic.twitter.com/USb3azjFtlShah also paid tribute to ten Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawans who lost their lives in an ambush by the Chinese forces in Hot Springs in Ladakh on October 21, 1959.It is to commemorate their sacrifice that October 21 is observed annually as Police Commemoration Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-commemoration-day-2020-amit-shah-pays-tribute-to-police-personnel-lauds-role-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-0qcLbxxIBdteBK4SIdQ6TP.html
21-10-2020||India||With 54,044 new cases, India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 7.6 million-mark||About 54,044 new Covid-19 infections were reported in the last 24 hours in India, taking the total tally to 7,651,107. In the same period, 717 deaths have been recorded, continuing the trend of high recoveries across the country. On Tuesday, there were 46,790 new cases and 587 deaths.According to health ministry’s dashboard, the active number of Covid-19 cases stands at 7,400,90. Over 67 lakh people have recovered from the infection so far. Since the last week of September, Covid-19 cases on Oxygen support (in ICUs, ventilation, oxygen-supported beds) have shown a significant decrease, the ministry said adding that this trend aligns with the national decline of active cases to less than 10 per cent of the total cases.“The Centre’s focussed and comprehensive strategies have resulted in enhanced medical infrastructure, use of oxygen as part of the Standard Treatment Protocol for clinical management of patients, and extensive arrangements of oxygen supply across the country,” the ministry said.“There was no shortage of medical oxygen in last 10 months and won’t be any in future also. However, we have always believe in proactive and graded response to the pandemic and therefore taken proactive steps to augment the oxygen supply,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday, announcing the installation of oxygen generation plants in 246 hospitals in the country.Maharashtra, Karnataka, Keralam West bengal, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh continue to be the worst-hit states accounting for 64 per cent of the total active cases. Among them, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala contribute approximately 50 per cent of the active cases, health ministry data revealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-54-044-new-cases-india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-7-6-million-mark/story-rlfQm6oV7Y6auMoleNYxEO.html
21-10-2020||India||Digital health card won’t be mandatory for Covid-19 vaccine, clarifies health ministry||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India will ensure fast vaccine delivery through its existing digital network and the new digital health ID, the health ministry has clarified that ID will not be mandatory to have access to the vaccine. As of now, under the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM), digital ID is not mandatory and will not become so in future, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. “The NDHM, as it exists today, does not make a digital ID or health ID mandatory to receive service under the digital ecosystem that NDHM is creating. To say it would become mandatory for vaccination and those who do not have health ID’s would be deprived is probably not the right interpretation,” Bhushan said.Also Read: 30 million frontline workers to get Covid-19 vaccine in phase 1 “It would be almost like an electoral scenario where multiple IDs are prescribed beforehand so that no one is deprived of benefits of either voting on the day of election or vaccination on the designated day,” the secretary added. Addressing a meeting of top government health and research experts, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has recently advised that the vaccine delivery system can take a leaf out of the Election Commission of India’s modus operandi in conduction elections. The NDHM was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15 where he said everyone enrolled for the mission will get a health ID that will ease access to medical services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digital-health-card-won-t-be-mandatory-for-covid-19-vaccine-clarifies-health-ministry/story-3dOXe7M7IZKzL9ryyWJSjM.html
21-10-2020||India||Assure procurement of crops at MSP by state govt if Centre falters, demands SAD||Stressing that a lot still needs to be done to secure the future of Punjab’s farmers, the Shiromani Akali Dal(SAD) on Tuesday sought an assurance from chief minister Amarinder Singh that the state government will procure crops at Minimum Support Price(MSP)even if the Centre falters.The party’s statement has come in the wake of the State Assembly passing four Bills and adopting a resolution against the Centre’s contentious farm laws. The SAD and the Aam Aadmi Party(AAP) backed the Bills in the assembly while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has two MLAs in the state, stayed away from the special session called against the farm laws.Commenting on the passage of the Bills, SAD leaders claimed that the Congress government brought these after an ultimatum by farmers.“Still a lot needs to be done to secure the future of Punjab farmers,” said SAD legislature party leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon.The SAD leaders said their legislators were ready to resign en masse to ensure that the Centre gives the state its due. “The fight to secure justice for the ‘kisan’, ‘khet mazdoor’ and ‘arhtiyas’ (farmers, farm labourers and commission agents) as well as three crore Punjabis has just started,” Dhillon added. “Now, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh must give a categorical assurance that the state government will procure all crops, including wheat, paddy, cotton, and maize, at the minimum support price (MSP) if the Centre defaults on the same,” Dhillon said. Dhillon, along with senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia, said, “It is now clear that the Congress government, which was running away from calling a special session, was forced to do so due to an ultimatum served on it by farmers.”Majithia said even as all parties presented a united stand in the fight against the Centre, it was unfortunate that the Congress government did not share the proposed Bills with all stakeholders, including farmers and legislators before the House was convened. He said it would have been better had the government passed a Bill under the agriculture head by moving to make the entire state a single principal market yard to negate the implementation of the Centre’s farm laws. “Any such Bill would have received both the Governor’s as well as the Presidential nod for being a state subject. A huge opportunity has been missed,” Majithia claimed. Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema, whose party AAP had backed the Bills, later in a statement said, “The Punjab government is fooling people of the state”. He said they had been demanding that copies of the Bills to be brought by the government in the assembly should be given to legislators in advance but since these were tabled at the last moment, they did not have enough time to go through these. Cheema said after the Assembly proceedings for the day got over, they sought opinion about the state Bills from farmer leaders, legal experts and intellectuals. He said the question which arose was “can any state government negate the laws passed by Parliament”, and if not, then why is the state government fooling people, he asked. Meanwhile, farmers organisations decided to meet on Wednesday to chalk out the future course of action. Representatives of 30 farmers’ organisations will be meeting to decide the future course of action, Darshan Pal, member of their coordination committee told PTI. On the bills passed by the state Assembly, he said, “It remains to be seen whether the governor will give approval to the Bills passed by the state assembly.” He said while they would like the Union government to repeal or amend the farm laws, it was heartening that entire Punjab, including its people, political leaders and farmers were speaking in one voice. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday again appealed to farmers to call off their “rail roko” agitation to allow the transportation of coal, urea and foodgrain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assure-procurement-of-crops-at-msp-by-state-govt-if-centre-falters-demands-sad/story-UYHvMk4F27eIakBpfnkapM.html
21-10-2020||India||Principle of self-determination continues to be deliberately misused by particular delegation: India slams Pak at UN||In a thinly-veiled reference to Pakistan, India said the principle of self-determination continues to be “deliberately misinterpreted and misused” by a particular nation, even though it was not established by the United Nations(UN) to be used as a justification for undermining the territorial integrity of any member state.“Since the principle of self-determination, as considered on the agreed agenda of this committee, continues to be deliberately misinterpreted and misused by a particular delegation, it is pertinent to highlight once again that the United Nations has established the principle as a vehicle for the worthy cause of decolonization of the 17 Non Self-Governing Territories (NSGTs) on the agenda of this committee, and not as a justification for undermining the territorial integrity of any member state,” India said in a statement on ‘NSGTs and decolonization.’ India said it strongly believes that pursuing a pragmatic approach towards decolonization would surely lead to fulfilment of legitimate wishes of the people of NSGTs. “We must also strive to enhance cooperation with international agencies and actors and channelize resources for the 17 NSGTs.This would surely enable them to build capacities in their just and noble quest towards achieving long cherished goals,” the statement said. India said that as a former colony, it has always been in the forefront of the struggle against colonialism and apartheid since its own independence over seven decades ago. Since the creation of the UN, more than 80 former colonies have gained their independence and joined the family. “However, the process of decolonization that began with our own independence remains unfinished,” it said on Tuesday. In 2011, the General Assembly had proclaimed the current decade, 2011-2020, as the Third International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism, a period which is coming to an end this year. India noted that there still remain 17 NSGTs, which are in various stages of the decolonization process on the agenda of this committee. “We need to step up our efforts to conclude this long-drawn process,” the Indian side added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/principle-of-self-determination-continues-to-be-deliberately-misused-by-particular-delegation-india-slams-pak-at-un/story-WTG6nVsV9BOAUUI18zsAhO.html
21-10-2020||India||D-G ICMR’s ‘influenza virus from same family as Sars-Cov-2’ comment incorrect||Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general (D-G) of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has said that in theory, influenza vaccines could work against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as they belong to the same family, but in practice the two viruses do not have any similarities.“It is scientifically plausible that it may help because the virus belongs to the same family. However, there is no data or evidence to show that influenza vaccine will help. We know that in influenza vaccine the strain changes every year. It is highly unlikely that the vaccine will benefit in the treatment Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Bhargava.Influenza viruses are of four types: A, B, C and D. Human influenza A and B viruses cause seasonal diseases.According to the US Centre for Disease Control (CDC), influenza A viruses are known to cause flu pandemics. Usually, Influenza type C infections cause mild illness and are not known to cause human flu epidemics. Influenza D viruses primarily affect cattle and are not known to cause illness among humans.Also Read: Covid-19: FELUDA test likely to hit the market within the month“Flu-like symptoms can be caused by several viruses, including the influenza virus, rhinovirus, and even some coronaviruses other than Sars-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. However, the influenza viruses and coronaviruses belong to two different families. So far, there is no evidence that the flu shot might help against Covid-19. But, I have been receiving a lot of requests from the public because of growing fear and panic about the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Dr GC Khilnani, a former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi.Influenza A viruses are divided into subtypes based on two proteins on the surface of the virus: hemagglutinin (H) and neuraminidase (N). There are 18 different hemagglutinin subtypes and 11 different neuraminidase subtypes (H1 through H18 and N1 through N11, respectively).Current subtypes of influenza A viruses that routinely circulate in humans include A(H1N1) and A(H3N2).Influenza B viruses are not divided into subtypes, but instead are further classified into two lineages: B/Yamagata and B/Victoria.Also Read: Indian trials on multiple Covid-19 drugs make progress, have Atmanirbhar Bharat tilt“One influenza A (H1N1), one influenza A (H3N2), and one or two influenza B viruses (depending on the vaccine) are included in each season’s influenza vaccines… Seasonal flu vaccines do not protect against influenza C or D viruses. Flu vaccines will not protect against infection and illness caused by other viruses that also can cause influenza-like symptoms,” said CDC.Coronaviruses (CoVs) are members of the family Coronaviridae, which envelop viruses that possess extraordinarily large single-stranded RNA (ribonucleic acid) genomes. According to a paper published in the International journal of biological sciences, titled, Sars-CoV-2, An Emerging Coronavirus that Causes a Global Threat, “Currently, at least seven coronavirus species are known to cause diseases in humans. The viruses of 229E, OC43, NL63 and HKU1 only cause common cold symptoms, which are mild. Severe illness can be caused by the remaining three viruses, namely Sars-CoV, which resulted in the outbreak of Sars in 2002 and 2003 3,4; the coronaviruses that are responsible the Middle East respiratory syndrome (Mers-CoV), which emerged in 2012 and remains in the circulation in camels 7; and Sars-CoV-2, the viruses emerged in December 2019 in Wuhan in central China... “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/d-g-icmr-s-influenza-virus-from-same-family-as-sars-cov-2-comment-incorrect/story-GVhB5dzaNLW7kULMnrRjGL.html
21-10-2020||India||After Bihar Assembly Election 2020, another reshuffle in Congress on the cards||Congress president Sonia Gandhi is expected to execute another organisational reshuffle soon after the assembly elections in Bihar, introducing some new faces in different wings of the party, including the all-important communications department, people familiar with the development said. A Congress functionary said on the condition of anonymity that there are two vacancies as far as in-charges of states are concerned. While Shaktisinh Gohil is in charge of Bihar and Delhi, Dinesh Gundu Rao holds the charge of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Goa. “Delhi and Goa are likely to have new in-charges,” he added. In September this year, the Congress president announced major organisational changes, revamping the party’s highest decision-making body, the Congress Working Committee (CWC), and removing some key faces, including senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and Mallikarjun Kharge, as general secretaries. Also Read: Chirag Paswan’s LJP to fight on 137 seats, releases 3rd list of candidatesShe also formed a five-member special team that will help her in day-to-day matters and reconstituted the party’s Central Election Authority, which will conduct organisational polls to elect a new party president. The reshuffle came against the backdrop of 23 Congress leaders, including four CWC members (Azad, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada), writing to Gandhi on August 7, calling for full-time leadership and an introspection behind the “steady decline” of the 135-year-old organisation while outlining an 11-point action plan. The functionary quoted above said the head of the party’s Kisan cell, Nana Patole, is the Maharashtra assembly speaker, OBC (Other Backward Classes) department chairman Tamradhwaj Sahu is the home minister in Chhattisgarh. Also, Scheduled Caste department head Nitin Raut is the energy minister in Maharashtra. Surjewala, who is also the chairman of the party’s communications department, has been elevated as a general secretary and given the charge of Karnataka. “All these vacancies will be filled soon,” said the functionary. He said the move to revamp the central election committee (CEC), a panel that finalises the Congress candidates for any election, was deferred due to the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar. “This too will be taken up after the Bihar polls,” he added. Also Read: PM Modi has abdicated his responsibility in tackling Covid-19 pandemic: Sonia GandhiThe committee to help Sonia Gandhi in organisational and operational affairs, comprised AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik and Randeep Singh Surjewala, the party’s chief spokesperson. Wasnik was one of signatories of the letter. The five-member CEA will be headed by Madhusudan Mistry and the members are Rajesh Mishra, Krishna Byre Gowda, S Jothimani and Arvinder Singh Lovely, another letter-writer. The newly inducted general secretaries include Surjewala (Karnataka), Jitendra Singh (Assam) and Tariq Anwar (Kerala and Lakshadweep). The new in-charges were Dinesh Gundu Rao (Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Goa), Manickam Tagore (Telangana), Vivek Bansal (Haryana), Pawan Kumar Bansal (administration), Rajeev Shukla (Himachal Pradesh), HK Patil (Maharashtra), Devendra Yadav (Uttarakhand), Manish Chatrath (Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya), Bhakta Charan Das (Mizoram and Manipur), and Kuljit Singh Nagra (Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura). Those who were retained as general secretaries are Harish Rawat (Punjab), Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (Uttar Pradesh), Oommen Chandy (Andhra Pradesh), Ajay Maken (Rajasthan) and KC Venugopal (Organisation). Among the in-charges retained were RPN Singh (Jharkhand), Rajani Patil (Jammu and Kashmir), PL Punia (Chhattisgarh), Shaktisinh Gohil (Bihar and Delhi) and Rajeev Satav (Gujarat, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu). The functionary further said the Congress high command will also shift its focus on states, especially those going to polls in next two years. Many state units will have new chiefs, he added. Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat holds a ministerial position in the Shiv Sena-led coalition government in the state. Odisha Congress chief Niranjan Patnaik had offered to step down from the post soon after the Lok Sabha elections but was asked to stay put. The Congress leadership had also rejected the resignation offer of the party’s Punjab unit chief Sunil Kumar Jakhar. Last month, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury was named the party chief in West Bengal, which will be going to polls in April-May next year. Along with West Bengal, assembly elections will be held in Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. In 2022, state elections are due in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur, Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh. The mega team of 56 All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretaries will also see a major restructuring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bihar-assembly-election-2020-another-reshuffle-in-congress-on-the-cards/story-CXBcZUE723A2Q9ljgp9HVI.html
21-10-2020||India||Covid-19: FELUDA test likely to hit the market within the month||India’s first indigenously developed test for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) based on the genetic editing tool CRISPR/Cas-9 is likely to hit the market within the month, confirmed an official from the science ministry. The test, which was developed by researchers from the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, will be marketed by Tata Sons. The device had received the approval from the Drug Controller General of India last month. It was found to have high sensitivity of 96% and specificity of 98%, meaning it can accurately detect both positive and negative cases up to 96 or 98% of the time. Also read: Indian trials on multiple Covid-19 drugs make progress, have Atmanirbhar Bharat tiltAt least two other tests developed by institute from the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research have been submitted for approval and one other test has just been validated on clinical samples. The cost-effective and quicker test has been named after the fictional Bengali detective Feluda, who stars in series of novels by filmmaker Satyajit Ray. It is also an acronym for FNCAS9 Editor Linked Uniform Detection Assay. The test barcodes the Cas9 protein – a component of the CRISPR gene editing system – to interact specifically with the genetic material of SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19. This complex of Cas9 and CoV2 is then applied on a paper-strip test, which gives the result in the form of two lines for a positive and a single line for a negative just like the home pregnancy test. As the test uses a lateral flow paper-strip for giving a negative or positive result, it can be interpreted visually by anyone and does not require trained personnel. For the new test, samples are collected using a throat and nasal swab just the way it is done for RT-PCR tests. But once the RNA is extracted from the swab, testing the sample will be faster. The thermocycler machines used to process the samples is about 100 times cheaper than the traditional RT-PCR machines and are much readily available in smaller laboratories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-feluda-test-likely-to-hit-the-market-within-the-month/story-UO2jZyhnuXBeyMHcAOFp8I.html
21-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: AMU hospital removes two doctors connected to Hathras case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.2 doctors connected to Hathras case asked to go by hospitalTwo medical officers at the JN Medical College (JNMC) in Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) connected to the case involving the gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras were removed from their posts on Tuesday. Read moreIndia hands back PLA soldier who strayed across contested LAC in Ladakh to ChinaA People’s Liberation Army soldier, who was caught by the Indian army for straying across the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, was on Tuesday handed back to China at the Chushul Moldo meeting point, officials said. Read moreWhat is ‘human challenge’ that UK cleared to speed up Covid-19 vaccine trial?After mulling over the idea for a few days, the UK government on October 20 has given a go-ahead to start ‘human challenge’ trial so that an effective vaccine can be produced at the earliest. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘This team may have run out of juice,’ Head coach Stephen Fleming concedes CSK’s season might be overChennai Super Kings found themselves in a territory they never have in the history of the Indian Premier League. The franchise, for the first time, are on the verge of not making it through the playoffs in an IPL season. Read moreGMC unveils 2022 Hummer EV, world’s first all-electric supertruckThe covers are finally off of the much-anticipated GMC Hummer EV. After teasing it for more than a year, the US carmaker unveiled the third generation Hummer early on Wednesday. Read moreRobot dog Spot pulls rickshaw, video prompts mixed reactionsIf you’ve recently been around the Internet, you may have seen the videos of a robot dog called Spot. From strolling down a road to managing a flock of sheep, the clips are many. Now there’s a latest addition to that list. Read moreIPL 2020, KXIP vs DC: Kings XI Punjab beat Delhi Capitals by 5 wicketsKings XI Punjab put rode on a sensational half-century from Nicholas Pooran to pick up a 5-wicket win over Delhi Capitals in Dubai. Pooran scored 53 runs in 28 balls before he was dismissed by Kagiso Rabada. Rabada also dismissed Glenn Maxwell for 32, but Deepak Hooda and Jimmy Neesham finished off the 165-run chase in 19 overs. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amu-hospital-removes-two-doctors-connected-to-hathras-case-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ECK86bNi5jWFEEKDColRkK.html
21-10-2020||India||All terrorists have grown up in Madrasas: Madhya Pradesh minister’s shocker||Madhya Pradesh Culture Minister Usha Thakur said all terrorists have studied in madrasas, championing for the suspension of government funds to madrasas. “All fundamentalists and terrorists of the country have grown up in madrasas. Children are children and students are students. So I believe students of all religions should be collectively given the same education. See, Assam has done this. Religion-based education is increasing fanaticism and spreading hatred,” the minister said. All terrorists are raised in madrasas, they had turned J&K into a terror factory. Madrasas which can't comply with nationalism, they should be merged with existing education system to ensure complete progress of the society: Madhya Pradesh Minister Usha Thakur in Indore. (20.10) pic.twitter.com/1jQEgFBu2r“What culture are they (madrasas) teaching? If you are a citizen of this country, then you see all fundamentalists and terrorists have grown in madrasas. Jammu and Kashmir was made a factory of terrorists,” she added.Those who want religious education can obtain it at their own expense, as the Constitution gives them this right, the minister said.“Government’s financial assistance to madrasas must stop. The Wakf Board is economically the strongest organisation in the world and it would take care of funding for madrasas,” she said.Assam has recently decided to shut down state-run Madrasad and sanskrit tols and convert them to regular schools to bring uniformity in the education system. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/see-assam-has-done-this-says-madhya-pradesh-minister-on-shutting-down-madrasas/story-R6Q0IyDCjHS5rg8modYN9H.html
21-10-2020||India||Chennai-Bengaluru direct train service to resume from today||After a gap of more than six months, direct passenger train services between the southern metropolises of Chennai and Bengaluru will begin from Wednesday. Train services between the two cities had been suspended in March as part of the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.As announced by Southern Railway on Monday, a double-decker fully reserved special daily train will operate between the capital cities of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka from October 21. The train will have eight AC chair car coaches, as well as two luggage-cum-brake vans.As per the daily schedule, the special train will leave Dr MGR Chennai Central station at 7:25am and reach KSR Bengaluru station at 1:10pm. In the reverse direction, it will begin its journey at 2:30pm and reach its destination at 8:30pm.From Chennai to Bengaluru, the train will be numbered 06075 while in the opposite direction, it will be numbered 06076. During the journey, it will stop at Arakkonam, Katpadi, Ambur, Vaniyambadi, Jolarpettai, Kuppam, Bangarapet, Krishnarajapuram and Bangalore Cant. There will be an additional stop in the journey from Bengaluru to Chennai, at Perambur.Reservations for the train opened at 8am on Tuesday.The commencement of the special daily train’s operations comes at a time India is opening further from the nationwide lockdown, with metro services across the country now operational, albeit not at full passenger capacity. Similarly, schools, cinema halls, religious places, malls etc. have also reopened with strict Covid-19 protocols in place.(Read: Railways to run 392 festival special trains)Also, with festival season approaching, Indian Railways has announced 392 special trains, which will run from October 20 to November 30.(Read: Indian Railways’ 392 special trains begin operations. Check full list here)Karnataka and Tamil Nadu are among the worst Covid-19 affected states in the country. While Karnataka is the third worst-hit with 776,901 cases, Tamil Nadu is next with 694,030 infections thus far, as per the two states’ respective coronavirus dashboards. The two capital cities, too, are among the worst-affected cities in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-bengaluru-direct-train-service-to-resume-from-today/story-ka0XGlCjyPIyZ9AxM9QsiM.html
21-10-2020||India||Eye on China, govt to bar universities from pacts with India’s neighbours||The education ministry, after consultation with the Ministry of External Affairs, is considering making it mandatory for Indian universities to obtain prior permission from the government before signing any memorandum of understanding (MoUs) with educational institutions of countries that share land borders with India.The proposal was mooted by the education ministry after an August 9 review of China-funded Confucius Centres attached to universities here and also MoUs signed between Indian and Chinese universities. The Confucius program is financed by the Office of Chinese Language Council International which has been linked to China’s United Front Work Department (UFWD) now headed by President Xi Jinping. Ostensibly meant to teach Chinese language and culture, the Confucius program has been accused of promoting China’s viewpoint and act as a vehicle for propaganda. Several countries including Australia and the US have previously had issues with the institutes.The Confucius Institute had tied up with seven universities in India: Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University has an MoU; and the centres attached to the University of Mumbai and the School of Chinese Language, Ballygunge, Kolkatta are already active. As of April 1, 54 MoUs have been signed between Indian and Chinese educational institutions including for the exchange of students and faculty.While the ministry of external affairs was initially hesitant in mandating approvals for such partnerships with institutions from friendly countries like Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal that share land borders with India, HT learns that South Block now has no objections to the education ministry’s plan. “ We have discussed the matter with the education ministry. They will now have to implement this through an order,” said a senior South Block official who asked not to be named.This is a change from the past where universities signed MoUs with institutions in foreign countries without informing either the education or foreign ministries . The education ministry has also asked both the Mumbai University and Kolkata School of Chinese Languages to submit documentation pertaining to their partnership and details of their exchange activities with Confucius Headquarters in China for review.JNU has signed 12 MoUs with Chinese universities but there has been no activity on eight of the agreements. IIT Kharagpur has signed four MoUs, IIT Bombay has two, IIT Madras has four, IIT Delhi has four, IIT Guwahati has five, IIT Gandhinagar has one, IIT Roorkee has two and IIT Bhubaneswar has three MoUs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-china-govt-to-bar-universities-from-pacts-with-india-s-neighbours/story-VW3fbasiWN2FikFSrr1fEJ.html
21-10-2020||India||Intense rain warning for Odisha, coastal Andhra and N-E India||A low-pressure area has developed over the Bay of Bengal on Tuesday, which is likely to bring widespread and intense rainfall to coastal Andhra Pradesh (AP), Rayalaseema, Telangana and Odisha during the next three days and over Gangetic West Bengal and north-east India between Thursday and Saturday (October 22 to 24).The low-pressure area is likely to become more marked and move north-westwards during the next 48 hours and then north and north-eastwards over the next three days. Also read: Andhra CM asks officials to send speed boats for relief ops Under the influence of this weather system, widespread and heavy rainfall is likely over coastal AP, Rayalaseema, Telangana and Odisha during the next three days; over Gangetic West Bengal on Thursday (October 22) and over Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura on Friday and Saturday (October 23 and 24), the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its Tuesday bulletin.The monsoon withdrawal line is passing along Faizabad, Fatehpur, Nowgong, Rajgarh, Ratlam, Vidyanagar and Porbandar. Weather conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of monsoon from the remaining parts of Uttar Pradesh (UP), Bihar, Jharkhand, the rest of Madhya Pradesh (MP), the northern parts of Chhattisgarh, the rest of Gujarat and north Arabian Sea, parts of central Arabian Sea and the northern parts of Maharashtra during the next two-three days.Fishermen are advised not to venture into the central Bay of Bengal until Thursday (October 22), into the north Bay of Bengal between Thursday and Saturday (October 22 to 24); along and off northern AP and southern Odisha coasts on Wednesday and Thursday (October 21 and 22); along and off northern Odisha-West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Thursday and Saturday (October 22 to 24).“North-easterly winds will start picking up. Rainfall has also reduced significantly over central India and parts of UP and Bihar. We are not expecting a complete withdrawal of monsoon immediately, as the low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal is likely to bring intense rainfall to peninsular and north-east India,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre (NWFC). “In north-west India, we are expecting minimum temperatures to dip further amid dry winds,” she added.IMD had declared the end of monsoon season on September 30. During the post-monsoon season -- between October 1 and 20 -- the country has recorded 8% of excess rainfall. Widespread and heavy rainfall is also likely over Karnataka during the next two-three days; over Tamil Nadu (TN), Puducherry and Karaikal during the next two days and over Kerala and Mahe during the next 24 hours.A change in wind direction is also likely over north-west India in the next couple of days, according to the regional weather forecasting centre (RWFC). On Monday, moderate winds of up to 16 kilometres per hour (kmph) were recorded. The wind aided in dispersion of pollutants. North-westerly wind is blowing over western UP, Haryana and Punjab, where stubble burning is in progress. On Tuesday, wind speed had reduced to around 10 kmph. “Usually, wind speed reduces temporarily because of a change in direction. At present, the direction is north-westerly. However, we are expecting an easterly to south-easterly change in wind direction in the next couple of days, which may bring temporary relief from the impact of stubble fires,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, RWFC.Air quality index (AQI) in Delhi may worsen to the “very poor” category on Wednesday, according to the air quality early warning system under the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES).AQI between 301 and 400 is considered to be in the very poor category.The ventilation index was around 15,000 square (sq) metres (m) per second on Tuesday. The ventilation index is a function of the mixing height and the wind speed and defines the ability of the atmosphere to disperse contaminants. A ventilation index below 2,350 sq m per second is considered poor. Mixing height is the height at which pollutants mix in the air.Some parts of the Indo-Gangetic plains, including Varanasi, Muzaffarnagar, Moradabad and Ballabgarh, also recorded very poor category AQI on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intense-rain-warning-for-odisha-coastal-andhra-and-n-e-india/story-Ei0fTomduU16lPl8j3D9eM.html
21-10-2020||India||Naga groups slam NSCN (IM) on peace talks, back political solution||Against the backdrop of Nagaland government and civil society urging negotiating groups in the Naga peace talks to come together towards achieving ‘One Solution for One People’, the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), who have been engaged in talks with Centre since 2017, on Tuesday questioned the soundness of the ‘Framework Agreement’ of 2015 signed between the Centre and the NSCN (IM).Without naming NSCN (IM) directly, the NNPGs blamed the organisation for making toxic political expletives in statements and interviews, and for unprecedented labelling of apex Naga tribal bodies and civil societies as ‘anti-Naga’ and ‘traitors’ without compunction.This allegation comes close on the heels of an interview given by the NSCN (IM) chief Th. Muivah to a media house where he claimed that Nagas did not accept the union of India and there would be no settlement without a separate Naga flag and Constitution.“After twenty-three years of political talks, when a negotiator declares that Nagas do not accept the union of India or the Indian constitution, it could only mean political dialogue was a circus exercise for personal gains. The much-touted FA agreement of 2015, by the very utterance, becomes invalid,” asserted N Kitovi Zhimomi, convener, NNPGs. He said whether the statement was an emotional outburst or otherwise, the organisation owed an explanation to the Naga people.The working committee (WC) of NNPG in a statement stated that obsolete minds may consider 23 years of negotiations with the government of India as some sort of achievement and while they glorified themselves, generational catastrophe over lost decades have cost Naga society and polity dearly.The committee is of the view that there is massive expectation of the Naga people on the ‘Agreed position’ signed between the NNPGs and the government of India in 2017 as it offers the Naga people opportunity to chart their destiny as a people in consonance with their distinct history and identity while maintaining enduring, inclusive peaceful co-existence with the government of India.Also Read: Need to focus on roadmap for solution of Naga political issue, says CM Neiphiu Rio“As per the desire of the Naga people, WC-NNPGs will prepare itself to find an acceptable and honourable political solution with firm commitment that all unresolved matters shall be pursued through democratic and political process subsequent to the agreement with GoI. This aspiration of the Naga people must be given due space, time and respect by all entities who wish to stay away from an impending solution,” the statement of WC-NNPGs further said.Also Read: NSCN (IM) reaffirms flag and constitution demand for Naga peace dealThe statement comes amidst speculations that the Centre and Naga political groups were likely to ink the final agreement to resolve decades’ old Naga political issue anytime soon.Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio, whose government had recently convened an all stakeholders meet, has conveyed that the government of India has made its stand clear that there will be only one solution for the Indo-Naga political issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naga-groups-slam-nscn-im-on-peace-talks-commit-to-political-solution/story-zB8DKqVyjWmwlfmefWPPxH.html
21-10-2020||India||India hands back PLA soldier who strayed across contested LAC in Ladakh to China||A People’s Liberation Army soldier, who was caught by the Indian army for straying across the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, was on Tuesday handed back to China at the Chushul Moldo meeting point, officials said.The soldier was held in eastern Ladakh’s Demchok sector amid the ongoing border standoff in the sensitive theatre where both armies have deployed over 50,000 troops each along with advanced weapons and systems. The PLA soldier was identified as Corporal Wang Ya Long. In a statement released earlier, the Indian army had said that it had received a request from the PLA about the whereabouts of the missing soldier.“As per established protocols, he will be returned to Chinese officials at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point after completion of formalities,” the army statement had said.The PLA had issued a statement on Monday night saying a soldier went missing while looking for lost yaks on the evening of October 18. “After the incident, Chinese border guards took the initiative to report the situation to the Indian side as soon as possible, and hoped that the Indian side would assist in search and rescue,” Colonel Zhang Shuili, spokesperson of the Western Theatre Command, added. As the Ladakh theatre continues to remain tense, during the seventh round of military commanders’ talks on October 12 to defuse tension along LAC, the Indian side demanded comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April. The two sides have agreed to continue with the dialogue process to arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for early disengagement in the eastern Ladakh.India and China are expected to hold the eighth round of military talks this week, although a date has not been announced yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hands-over-pla-soldier-who-strayed-across-contested-lac-in-ladakh-to-china/story-HPtUaZsFsHxKKxpPfvMLhN.html
21-10-2020||India||Women allowed in Mumbai locals, Patna-Mumbai trains from today: All you need to know||From October 21, the Indian Railways proceeds a step further in unlocking as several new trains, decisions regarding ramping up the services are going to be implemented from today.Festival special trains from todayApart from the 392 festival special trains that started from October 20, a number of additional pairs of special trains will be running under East central Railway, staring from today.1. Train 02741 /02742 will be plied between Patna Junction and Vasco de Gama from October 21 to November 25. The weekly festival special train will leave Patna junction every Saturday while it will leave Vasco de Gama every Wednesday for Patna Junction.2. Patna-Mumbai bi-weekly train: Train (03259 /03260) between Patna and Mumbai will start from today. It will leave Patna every Wednesday and Sunday and it will leave Mumbai every Tuesday and Friday on its return journey from October 21 to December 1.3. The railways will run a festival special train (02395/02396) between Rajendra Nagar Terminal and Ajmer from October 21 to November 25.Also Read: From today, all women can board Mumbai local trainsWomen to be allowed in Mumbai localsFrom October 21, women passengers will be allowed to travel in Mumbai locals.1. All women commuters can board local trains from 11am to 3pm and from 7pm onwards.2. They will have to purchase tickets, but will not require QR code.3. Four ladies special local trains will be added from Wednesday.4. Between 11am and 3pm and after 7pm ,there will be no checking of women for QR code or identity card and only tickets will be checked.Kalka-Shimla toy trainThe Kalka-Shimla toy train was supposed to be back on track on Tuesday — after a gap of seven months. But owing to a technical snag, the service was cancelled. The train will start from Kalka at 12:10pm and arrive in Shimla at 5:20pm. The down train will depart from Shimla the next day at 10.40am and reach Kalka at 4.10pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-allowed-in-mumbai-locals-kalka-shimla-back-on-track-patna-mumbai-trains-from-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-jBTw7bj7yhXJhZ1KpvuNLM.html
21-10-2020||India||Delhi HC asks ICMR, CSIR to reply on pendency of approval to FELUDA test for Covid-19||The Delhi High Court asked Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to file affidavits regarding pendency of approvals to ‘FELUDA’, a test used for detecting Covid-19 infection.A direction from the division bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad came when the petitioner Rakesh Malhotra informed the bench that despite the fact that the Drug Control Authority has granted its approval to a test called ‘FELUDA’ on September 20, the same has not come out in the market due to the pendency of approvals at the end of ICMR/CSIR.Ahluwalia, Central Government Standing Counsel sought time to obtain instructions on this regard.The court also asked Delhi government to file an updated status report before the next date of hearing, i.e. November 11.Advocate Satyakam, representing Delhi government, has informed the court that the Sero-surveillance 4 in Delhi will conclude by day after tomorrow when all the samples shall be collected and it will take at least three weeks for the samples to be processed.The court asked the Delhi government to file report of Sero Surveillance-4 and cautioned them not to make it public through a preliminary or tentative reports of any nature before filing it in the court.The bench also noted that there have been repeated instances where the turnaround time for declaring the results has been crossing four days and said these things are unacceptable when a person tested is required to be isolated in that duration.“There have been occasions when the samples collected by the Delhi Government are sent to laboratories that do not entertain any queries for the reports, least over Saturdays and Sundays, leaving the persons concerned in a quandary more so when the Government has declared Un-lockdown 0.5 which requires all employees to report for work regularly; nor can the self-employed persons/professionals be expected to remain in isolation unnecessarily,” the court said.The turnaround time for declaring the results is far exceeding 24 hours and in fact extending to 84 hours, the court noted. The court also asked Delhi Government to look into the position and state in the next status report as to how the system is being streamlined to ensure that the turnaround time for declaring the results is strictly adhered to and the results, whichever way they may be, are conveyed to the person tested within 24 hours.The court was hearing petitions surrounding rapid testing of Covid-19 in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-asks-icmr-csir-to-reply-on-pendency-of-approval-to-feluda-test-for-covid-19/story-F0GvK33wkD3740BsWjtzYJ.html
21-10-2020||India||Outcry after Kashmir Times office sealed||Jammu and Kashmir authorities have sealed the Srinagar office of Kashmir Times, one of the region’s oldest and most prominent English-language newspapers, the publication said on Tuesday. Political parties and journalists criticised the move, but the state’s estates department said the premises were not being used as an office, but as a residence by the newspaper’s employees.The action came a week after a house allotted to Anuradha Bhasi, executive editor of the newspaper, in Jammu was re-allotted to the brother of a former legislator by the Jammu and Kashmir Estates Department. “Today, Estates Deptt locked our office without any due process of cancellation & eviction, same way as I was evicted from a flat in Jammu, where my belongings including valuables were handed over to ‘new allottee’,” wrote Bhasin,52, on Twitter on Monday.“Vendetta for speaking out! No due process followed. How peevish!,” she added.Bhasin has been a vocal critic of the government over curbs imposed on communications when the Centre on August 5, 2019, pushed through constitutional changes divesting Jammu and Kashmir of its special status under Article 370 of the Constitution, and reorganising the state into two Union territories 0-- J&K and Ladakh. She filed a petition in the top court demanding restoration of communications and measures to ensure the free and safe movement of media personnel. It was because of her petition that the court in January directed the administration of Jammu and Kashmir to review curbs on communications every week.On its website, the newspaper wrote that its office in a government building in Press Enclave that houses several other newspaper offices was “sealed without serving any cancellation or eviction notice to Kashmir Times or following any due process of law.”“The Estates Department employees who came to the office to lock it out told the Kashmir Times staffers working inside to move out. When the Kashmir Times management asked for the orders, the Estates Department officials said that they had no orders and asked them to approach the senior officers instead,” it said in a news report.Mohammad Aslam , deputy director of the Estates Department, said the newspaper was occupying two premises in Press Enclave, one of which was taken over by the department “amicably”.He said the premises that were taken over had been allotted to the late Ved Bhasin, founder of Kashmir Times and father of Anuradha Bhasin, in his individual capacity and after his death in 2015, its allotment had expired and was cancelled.“Their office is running in another quarter while this quarter was not in the name of Kashmir Times. It was being used for residential purposes by its employees and we requested for its vacation some two-three months back. Yesterday, they themselves handed over the facility,” he added.Political parties and journalists came out in support of Kashmir Times and Anuradha Bhasin.Former chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party leader Mehbboba Mufti wrote on Twitter: “Anuradha was one of the few local newspaper editors in J&K who stood upto GOIs {government of India’s} illegal and disruptive actions in the state. Shutting down her office in Srinagar is straight out of BJPs {Bharatiya Janata Party’s} vendetta playbook to settle scores with those who dare to disagree.”Another former chief minister and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah wrote on Twitter:: “This explains why some of our ‘esteemed’ publications have decided to become Government mouthpieces, printing only government press handouts. The price of independent reportage is to be evicted without due process.”A group of 11 journalists offered their professional services free to Kashmir Times to support its editorial team in sustaining “the paper in these difficult times”.“We are aware that Kashmir Times, and its editor, have been at the forefront of fighting against government curbs on communications and press freedom in Kashmir, especially post August 5 clampdown last year, when the majority of the local press was found wanting in reportage, choosing silence over speaking truth to power.”“In view of these government-sponsored intimidation attempts to silence an independent newspaper, we express our solidarity and support to its editors and our colleagues there,” the journalists said in a statement.The Kashmir Editors Guild (KEG) said it regretted the sealing of the Kashmir Times office.“The Guild sees the sealing as the continuation of an abnormality being enforced on Kashmir media for a long time, especially since 2010. In the last 10 years, successive regimes have created a very unpleasant history as for as operations of the media in Kashmir is concerned. Preventing circulation of newspapers, blacklisting the newspapers from getting government advertisements in Srinagar and Delhi, and interrupting negatively in the routine operations have adversely impacted the media. These are in addition to the issues that reporters face on a daily basis while gathering information, “ it said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outcry-after-kashmir-times-office-sealed/story-Euql8BWLpxBdqXDnAy4ThO.html
21-10-2020||India||US State Secretary Mike Pompeo, defence chief Mark Esper to visit India next week for 2+2 talks||India and the United States will hold their third 2+2 ministerial meeting in New Delhi next week, the US said Tuesday.The state secretary Mike Pompeo and the defence chief of US Mike Esper will travel to New Delhi for day-long in-person meetings, rare given the Covid-19 pandemic and the global shift to virtual interactions, with their Indian counterparts S Jaishankar and Rajnath Singh on October 27.“Secretary Pompeo and I will be there next week,” Secretary Esper said at Atlantic Council, a think tank, responding to a question about the upcoming 2+2. “It’s our second two plus two with the Indians, the third ever for the United States and India and it’s very important.”He added: “India will well be the most consequential partner for us, I think, in the Indo-Pacific for sure, in the century, and look it’s the world’s largest democracy, a very capable country, very talented people, and they face off every day, the Chinese aggression in the Himalayas, specifically along that line of actual control.”This will be the third edition of the India-US 2+2 that with India hosting the first in 2018 in New Delhi; the United States hosted the second in Washington DC in 201.9.An official announcement with detailed itinerary of the meeting and agenda was expected shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-state-secretary-mike-pompeo-defence-chief-mark-esper-to-visit-india-next-week-for-2-2-talks/story-evQ1nc56fdrBSvvXZfwdII.html
21-10-2020||India||Enforcement Directorate seizes Iqbal Mirchi kin’s assets||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached properties worth ₹22.42 crore including a hotel and a film studio in Mumbai belonging to the family members of late gangster Iqbal Mirchi, officials said on Tuesday. Other assets, attached under prevention of money laundering act, include a farm house, two bungalows and 3.5 acre land in Panchgani, they added. So far, ED said in a statement, it has attached assets worth ₹798 crore belonging to Mirchi’s family. These assets include overseas properties worth ₹203 crore. Mirchi, who died in 2013 in London, was alleged to be the right-hand man of terrorist Dawood Ibrahim for drug trafficking and extortion crimes. “He (Mirchi) was an international drugs dealer and smuggler who had amassed huge wealth and acquired various immovable properties and businesses across the globe,” the ED had said last year in a statement. According to the anti-money laundering probe agency, Mirchi indirectly owned various properties in and around Mumbai. It has filed a criminal case against Mirchi, his family and others last year to probe money laundering charges linked to their alleged illegal dealings in the purchase and sale of real estate assets in Mumbai. The probe is based on multiple FIRs lodged by the Mumbai police over the years. A charge sheet had also been filed against the family members before a Mumbai court in December 2019 and the court had subsequently issued open-ended non-bailable warrants against Mirchi’s sons Asif Memon and Junaid Memon and wife Hajra Memon. HT could not locate their legal representative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enforcement-directorate-seizes-iqbal-mirchi-kin-s-assets/story-VkwG2mhtA4D8TyWjzwa9sI.html
21-10-2020||India||Plasma therapy may not be used on patients||India is likely to remove convalescent plasma therapy from the National Clinical Management Protocol for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after it showed no benefits in treating patients of the viral disease.Convalescent plasma therapy involves transfusing critically ill Covid-19 patients with convalescent plasma (antibody-rich plasma from patients who recovered from the disease) so that they can fight the disease better.“We have had discussions at the National Task Force (NTF) and we are discussing further with the Joint Monitoring Committee. This (plasma therapy) may be deleted from the national guidelines,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, India Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Click here for full Covid-19 coverageICMR had conducted a pan-India study to determine the role of plasma therapy, and the Union health ministry had added it as one of the investigational therapies in the national protocol for treating Covid-19 patients.“The largest trial on plasma therapy has been done in India with 464 patients in 39 hospitals and 350 doctors. This paper was accepted in the British Medical Journal and we have received the proof and it is going to appear very soon. It is a full paper with more than 10 pages of hardcore science talking about the role of plasma in curing Covid-19,” said Bhargava.The primary outcome of the study was to check the proportion of patients remaining free of mechanical ventilation. Secondary outcome of the study was to monitor, among other things, mortality, duration of hospital stays, duration of intensive care unit stays, requirements of vasopressor (medicine to treat severely low blood pressure in critically ill patients) and days free of dialysis. “…and it clearly demonstrated no benefit in reducing mortality in moderate to severe cases of Covid-19. It also did not arrest the progression of disease from moderate to severe {cases}…,” Bhargava had said last month while releasing the interim study’s results.As reported by HT on Friday, October 16, Dr Bhargava confirmed that the national task force on Covid-19, and Union health ministry’s joint monitoring group, were also reviewing whether to continue the drugs remdesivir and hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) as part of the national Covid-19 treatment protocol, after the World Health Organisation (WHO)’s Solidarity Trial showed little or no benefit of these drugs on patients of the coronavirus disease. “India has been a participant for WHO’s 30 country Solidarity Trial. WHO has just put up their interim results of this trial on their website. This has not yet been peer-reviewed. However, we find that these drugs are not performing as we had expected. So, debate and discussion is ongoing at the national task force and the joint monitoring group. It will take into cognizance the results of these trials. And issue the advisories accordingly,” said Dr Bhargava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-therapy-may-not-be-used-on-patients/story-wcQ0Rhtxl44xmjIJ1NLOiL.html
21-10-2020||India||Festival season, small gatherings aid spread of Covid-19, warn experts||Small gatherings at home, jagratas, and shopping trips during Navratra is likely to lead to a surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi, according to experts who pointed to infection trends following some recent festivals that seeded new infections in states like Kerala and Maharashtra. The caution was also sounded on Tuesday by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who said the lockdown may have gone but the virus hasn’t, and people must maintain precautions till a vaccine is administered to the masses. “We have seen an increase in the number of cases after festivals – take the example of Ganesh Chaturthi in Maharashtra or Onam in Kerala. This is because people gather in large numbers and do not follow preventive measures like wearing masks, washing or sanitising hands, and maintaining social distance,” said Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director of internal medicine at Max hospital, Saket. The Capital too recorded a post-festival surge, which was evident following the Rakshabandhan and Eid weekend (July 31 to August 3). While India overall has recorded a sustained decline in new infections, Delhi has been reporting over 3,000 cases for a week (except on Sunday when fewer tests are conducted). On Tuesday, 3,579 cases and 41 deaths due to the infection were reported from Delhi. Household gatherings At a time when much of the current concern has been linked to large gatherings at Durga Puja pandals, experts said small gatherings at homes can also lead to a spread of infections. In the United States, for example, officials from Centres for Disease Control (CDC) found that small household gatherings were driving the pandemic and issued fresh warnings for Thanksgiving. “It is festival season and gatherings will happen. The problem is that people tend to get relaxed with their relatives around and do not follow safety measure. People eat together with their masks off at a distance lesser than 6ft. There are children around and you cannot keep an eye on them all the time; they might not get a severe form of the disease but they can transmit it to others who might develop severe symptoms,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDr Suranjit Chaterjee, consultant of internal medicine at Indraprastha Apollo hospital, agreed. “Families tend to come together during festivals, increasing the risk of transmission of Covid-19 from younger members who might get the infection from outside and pass it on to the elders, who in turn may develop severe symptoms. So, to protect everyone, even the young members of the family have to curtail their movement and try to stay away from the elders,” he said. Speaking or singing loudly At gatherings, people also tend to speak loudly or, at events like Jagratas, even sing. This too can spread the virus readily. “If you look at the evidence, when people are talking loudly or are singing, more virus is emitted and it travels further, increasing the risk of transmission. This is the reason several choirs and other such events have become super-spreaders,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research. A study from Lund University in Sweden shows the number of aerosol particles emitted when a person just breathes is 135/second. This doubles to 270/s when they talk normally. However, when they talk loudly, this number shoots up to 570 particles/sA person was noticed to having emitted 690 aerosol particles per second when singing (opera) and 980 particles per second when singing loudly. The emission dropped to 410 particles/s when the person sang loudly, but with a mask on. The particle emission was measured for 14 singers. “But people have a habit of taking off their mask when speaking to someone. This should be avoided, people need to keep their masks on at all times,” said Dr Broor. Pollution threatAir pollution levels are already on the rise in Delhi – an AQI of 223 was recorded on Tuesday – and it might further shoot up with Diwali just around the corner. “An increase in the number of cases is expected; the effect of Navratra and Durga Puja will be felt after ten to fifteen days. By then, it will be time for Diwali. The ensuing increase in pollution levels will also lead to people developing severe disease and more and more people needing ICU care,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at AIIMS. A study from Italy showed that Covid-19 mortality in northern part of the country stood at 12% as compared to 4.5% in the rest of the country. The researchers associated the high mortality with higher levels of air pollution in the region. Another study from Europe – Italy, France, Spain, and Germany – showed that 78% of all the Covid-19 deaths happened in five regions with higher levels of Nitrogen Dioxide. And a study by Harvard University showed that with every 1 μg increase in PM 2.5 long term exposure, the Covid-19 mortality went up by 8%. “When over 1 lakh people have died in India and over 10 lakh across the world, people need to understand that the situation is not normal and exercise constraints. They should give celebrations a miss this year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/festival-season-small-gatherings-aid-spread-of-covid-19-warn-experts/story-3UzT32Mw6MwhbPgLnFxTMJ.html
21-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||What does the handle of a water pump have to do with a counter to the Great Barrington Declaration, which has struck a chord with the Trump White House?Dispatch 183 on October 15 referred to the Great Barrington Declaration. The operative part of this declaration is: “The most compassionate approach that balances the risks and benefits of reaching herd immunity is to allow those who are at minimal risk of death to live their lives normally to build up immunity to the virus through natural infection, while better protecting those who are at highest risk. We call this Focused Protection.”In effect, the declaration , named after Great Barrington, Massachusetts, where it was drafted on October 4 at the American Institute of Economic Research — a libertarian think-tank that doesn’t really believe in the climate crisis — advocates herd immunity as the way out of the pandemic. It was authored by Dr Sunetra Gupta, an Indian-origin epidemiologist at Oxford University; Dr Jay Bhattacharya, also of Indian-origin, and a professor of medicine at Stanford; and Martin Kulldorf, a professor of medicine at Harvard. There’s no denying the academic credentials of the authors. And the declaration has its share of supporters; among others, Dr Scott Atlas, one of President Trump’s advisers, has supported the declaration. Atlas is Bhattacharya’s colleague at Stanford, and was in the news recently for claiming that masks are not effective in the fight against Covid in a tweet that pointed to an article by the American Institute of Economic Research that claimed this. Atlas subsequently walked back on his position, and over the weekend, Twitter removed his original tweet.In response to the Great Barrington Declaration, another group of experts published the John Snow Memorandum in The Lancet on October 14.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThis memorandum reinforces many of the truths we have come to know about Covid-19 (and which regular readers of this column and newspaper will be familiar with): that “Sars-CoV-2 spreads through contact... and longer-range transmission via aerosols, especially in conditions where ventilation is poor”; that it spreads rapidly across communities; that the fatality rate of Covid-19 is higher than that of other flus; that there is such a thing as long Covid; that “it is unclear how long protective immunity lasts”; and, most importantly, that the “transmission of the virus can be mitigated through physical distancing, use of face coverings, hand and respiratory hygiene, and by avoiding crowds and poorly ventilated spaces”.The memorandum also advocates the test-trace-isolate approach that many countries, including India, have adopted in their fight against Covid-19.The authors speak of the dangers of any approach that pushes for herd immunity, pointing out that this is “unsupported by scientific evidence”, that “uncontrolled transmission in younger people risks significant morbidity and mortality across the whole population” and that a rash of infections could “overwhelm the ability of health care systems to provide acute and routine care”.The John Snow Memorandum is named after a 19th century Englishman considered the founder of modern epidemiology. Urban legend has it that Snow curtailed a sharp outbreak of cholera in a part of London by identifying and removing the handle of a water pump in Soho, although, like most urban legends, the explanation is more nuanced. Snow’s contribution to epidemiology is actually far more significant — he conducted among the first known double-blind studies (when investigating the cholera outbreak, which he believed came from water supplied by a utility). In his seminal book On The Mode of Communication of Cholera (1855), Snow spoke of how he was able to conduct his study on a huge sample which was completely random (“three hundred thousand people of both sexes, of every age and occupation, and of every rank and station, from gentlefolks down to the very poor, were divided into two groups without their choice, and, in most cases, without their knowledge”) with one group getting water he suspected was unclean (because the companies supplying it sourced it from the Thames and didn’t treat it). Even today, the so-called randomised double-blind study is a valued technique in epidemiology, and such studies where one of the two groups is given a placebo form the basis of human clinical trials.Jon or John, I’ve always been on the side of the Snows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-evqaXcqBVnZWiDwBE7OQhJ.html
21-10-2020||India||Prime suspect in murder of 8-year-old dies by suicide within hours of recovery of boy’s body||A man suspected to be involved in the murder of an 8-year-old boy allegedly died by suicide in Ujjain, 190 km west of Bhopal, on Tuesday, police said. Ujjain police recovered the body of the boy, who went missing on Monday evening, from the room of the man who died by suicide later. His body was found hanging from a tree branch in Ambodiya village of the district on Tuesday morning, police said. He used to live as a tenant in a portion of the boy’s house in Shakti Nagar locality of Ujjain. The deceased didn’t belong to the locality where he lived as a tenant and the village where he died. He came from another town of the district, according to the police. Ujjain, superintendent of police, Satyendra Shukla said, “Kanha Prajapati, 8, son of Mukesh Prajapati, a resident of Shakti Nagar locality went missing on Monday evening. When the parents and relatives’ extensive search for the boy yielded no results the whole night Mukesh informed Nilganga police station about his missing son. The suspect accompanied Mukesh in the latter’s frantic search for his son.” “On Tuesday morning, police inquired about a locked room in Mukesh’s house. He informed the police team that the room was rented out to a resident of a town of the district aged between 30 and 35. When the police team opened the room it recovered the body of the boy Kanha covered with a mattress. The body of the boy had bruises and marks and he was killed with a sharp-edged weapon. When police inquired about the man living as a tenant in the room he was found missing,” said the SP. Police were trying to nab the accused as he was a prime suspect in the murder of the boy but in the evening his body was found hanging from a tree branch in the nearby village, said the SP.“The suspect was a habitual drunkard. As of now, we didn’t find any motive behind the murder of the boy.Police is investigating the matter,” the police officer said. (With inputs from Anand Nigam from Ujjain)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-suspect-in-murder-of-8-year-old-dies-by-suicide-within-hours-of-recovery-of-boy-s-body/story-YC71JJYaAfyrbwSAYKv7EM.html
21-10-2020||India||30 million frontline workers to get Covid-19 vaccine in phase 1||India is looking at vaccinating about 30 million people, including healthcare specialists, who are on the frontline of the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the first phase once protection against the viral disease becomes available, Union health ministry officials said on Tuesday.The 30 million include 7 million doctors and paramedics, in addition to 20 million other frontline health workers, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on the sidelines of a Covid-19 media briefing on Tuesday. The country has the infrastructure already in place to vaccinate the 30 million, Bhushan said. “We have the cold chain, vials, syringes and everything,” he added.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe first phase of vaccination has been tentatively scheduled between January and June 2021.“In the deliberations of the national expert committee on vaccine administration we have come up with a draft prioritisation plan. We have also tried to match the numbers which have come from this draft plan to the number of doses that would become available from tentatively January to July 2021. And we think if the present trials proceeded according to plan, and succeed, then the number of doses that will become available from January to July 2021 would be sufficient to immunize the priority list persons. That we are working on…,” said Bhushan. They added that even after a vaccine is made available, people cannot afford to let their guard down. “The same precautions (against the disease) will have to be continued even after the Covid-19 vaccine is developed. We have to remain cautious... we have to test, treat and isolate for a good time. The requirement for this may gradually reduce over time, but there is no scope for relaxation,” said Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief Dr Balram Bhargava.India has been running a successful Universal Immunisation Programme for the past 50 years, vaccinating about 25 million children and adults each year.“As a result we have more than 28,000 cold storages already existing across the country that are used to store several vaccines administered under the programme. All these facilities have temperature trackers that help upload information in real-time on our centralized server,” said Bhushan.“We also have our own digital platform that has all updated information — from vaccine procurement to storage, cold chain and transportation in refrigerated vehicles. If non-refrigerated vehicles are used, then to transport vaccines in them, a special kind of refrigerated boxes are used where temperature is regulated. This facility already exists in India, and what the government is contemplating is how to augment this facility to be able to deliver Covid-19 vaccine. For this, we have a national-level expert committee in place,” he added.Certain private hospitals are claiming that they have the infrastructure to store and administer large doses of Covid-19 vaccine. The health secretary said the government was engaging with private entities.“We are in constant engagement with private sector health care providers and going ahead as the contours of the plan develop we would be sharing it with you. We have surplus capacity for both vials as well syringes domestically in the country. We are in constant touch with the manufacturers. We also have an existing inventory within the ministry of health and family welfare which most of the people are not aware of. So, we will be utilizing our inventory, and we would also be utilizing the inventory that is presently available in the domestic industry,” Bhushan said.Experts say that it is good to stay prepared.“No one knows when the vaccine will be available for use but when it does many countries will be in line to procure it. It makes sense to start preparing now,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-million-frontline-workers-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-in-phase-1/story-W76e1pJ7toA4aod3hH234O.html
21-10-2020||India||Punjab passes bills to block Centre’s farm laws||The Punjab assembly on Tuesday passed four bills and a resolution to counter the three agriculture marketing laws enacted by the Centre last month, and pledged to safeguard the interests of the state’s farmers, who are concerned that the central legislation would deprive them of government-fixed minimum support prices (MSPs) for their produce and put them at the mercy of big agribusinesses.After a five-and-a-half-hour discussion, the bills were unanimously passed by all members of the ruling Congress, the opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) who were present in the House. After the passage of the bills, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, flanked by leaders of the opposition parties, met governor VP Singh Badnore and handed over copies of the four bills. “The government will take legal recourse if the governor does not sign the amendment bills passed in the state assembly to save the farmers and agriculture,” Singh said.The Punjab version of the central legislation is aimed at addressing the concerns of farmers and may be adopted by other non-National Democratic Alliance (NDA)-ruled states, including a provision to protect the MSPs that government procurement agencies pay for farmers’ produce. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 were pushed through in Parliament last month. Big farmers’ groups, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, say the Centre’s farm reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the system of MSPs and that deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before.Because the state laws are in conflict with the central laws, which have been signed by President Ram Nath Kovind, they would require presidential assent to be enacted.Singh said he had sought an appointment with President Ram Nath Kovind between November 2 and 5, and all Punjab legislators will together go to meet him to seek his intervention in the interest of the state. Singh was accompanied by Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, among others, to the meeting with the governor. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – the party in power at the Centre and behind the three central laws – has two members in the state assembly and both were conspicuous by their absence. The amendment bills — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020 — guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for wheat and paddy growers, and provide for imprisonment of not less than three years and fine for its sale or purchase below the MSPs. “No sale or purchase of wheat or paddy shall be valid unless the price paid for such agriculture produce under a farming agreement is equal to, or greater than, the MSP announced by the Central government for that crop,” reads section 4 of the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020. The state also seeks to reserve the powers to levy a fee on private entities for buying the produce of farmers anywhere in the state as well as regulate or prohibit the supply of and impose stockholding limits on essential food items.The House also adopted a resolution which demanded the annulment of the three “anti-farmer” laws and a proposed central Electricity Bill on power tariffs, which seeks to bar states from offering power subsidies, along with the promulgation of a fresh ordinance making the procurement of foodgrains at MSPs a statutory right of farmers.The fourth bill, an amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, bars courts from attaching landholdings below 2.5 acre in recovery proceedings.The two-day special session of the assembly was also extended by a day as the legislative business also included seven other bills which could not be taken up because the House adjourned to allow the CM and other legislators to meet the governor to hand over the bills. These remaining bills will be taken up on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-passes-bills-to-block-centre-s-farm-laws/story-M4f81IFhQ5ORDN21TBgWWJ.html
21-10-2020||India||One sentenced to death, 24 to life imprisonment for lynching 73-year-old Assam doctor||One person was sentenced to death and 24 others given life imprisonment on Tuesday by a court in Assam’s Jorhat in connection with lynching of a 73-year-old doctor last year. District and session judge Robin Phukan sentenced accused Sanjay Rajwar to death for murdering Dr. Deben Dutta, a resident doctor of Teok Tea Estate hospital in Jorhat district in August last year. On October 12, the court had pronounced 25 of the total 32 accused in the case as guilty while acquitting 6 others. One accused had died during trial. “Besides death sentence to one and life imprisonment to 24, the court directed all the 25 accused to pay a fine of Rs 1000 each, failing which they will have to undergo additional one month’s imprisonment,” said a prosecution lawyer after Tuesday’s verdict. An irate mob, mostly comprising tea garden workers, had assaulted Dr Dutta on August 31, 2019, holding him responsible for the death of a patient in Teok TE. He was rushed to the Jorhat Medical College, where he was declared brought dead. The pictures of the assault, which soon went viral on social media, created a sense of terror among doctors posted in tea gardens across Assam. At least seven doctors, who were working in tea gardens, had resigned within a week of Dr Dutta’s murder. Police had arrested 32 people, including three brothers of the deceased patient, following the barbaric attack under various sections of Indian Penal Code and the Assam Medicare Service Persons & Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage to Property) Act, 2011. The incident was condemned by Indian Medical Association (IMA) and doctors in Assam resorted to a one-day strike in protest. Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal had also ordered an inquiry into the incident. Investigation into the case was concluded within a record time of 21 days and a voluminous 602-page charge sheet submitted on September 21 last year. According to Assam Police, this is the first case in the country where ‘witness identity concealment approach’ was used. A total of 60 people including tea garden employees, journalists, the doctor’s family members, police personnel and forensic experts were named as witnesses. Of them 56 deposed during the trial of the case. According to reports, seven of the witnesses are being kept under a witness identity protection scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-sentenced-to-death-24-to-life-imprisonment-for-lynching-73-year-old-assam-doctor/story-KvrgzKvLEZOnQ7tnJOEKiJ.html
21-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s first radio-collared leopard found crossing Ganga near Haridwar||After the Uttarakhand forest department started monitoring leopards via radio-collaring recently, the first radio-collared leopard has been found to be swimming and crossing the Ganga River near Haridwar in the search of prey, which has surprised wildlife officials. Chief wildlife warden JS Suhag said, “We recently witnessed the first radio-collared leopard swimming and crossing the Ganga River in Haridwar forest division. It was a pleasant surprise for us. By radio-collaring the animal, we want to study the nature of the leopard, the areas it moves around, how much time it spends in what type of area, around what time it moves and habitat that the animal prefers.” The Uttarakhand forest department has started radio-collaring leopards to study their movement pattern and behaviour. Two leopards have been successfully radio-collared in the state in Haridwar and Narendra Nagar forest divisions since the last week of September. This leopard found swimming and crossing the Ganga was radio-collared in the last week of September in Haridwar forest division. The chief wildlife warden said that the leopard might have crossed the river in search of prey. On Tuesday, the chief wildlife warden informed that a second leopard was successfully radio-collared in Tehri Garhwal district. “Radio collaring of a second leopard was done after examining the health parameters of the animal by a team of the state forest department and Wildlife Institute of India. We checked the functionality of the radio collar took the animal deep inside the jungle in the night around 11:00 pm on Monday and released it. The signals are clear and are being tracked,” said Suhag. The chief wildlife warden further said that a total of 15 leopards are being radio-collared in different areas of the state, predominantly the Rajaji landscape. According to Neeraj Sharma, divisional forest officer (DFO) Haridwar division said, “This is the first time we have documented a leopard crossing the Ganga though radio-collaring. We are keeping a target of five leopards each from Haridwar and Dehradun forest divisions and another five from the Rajaji Tiger Reserve for radio-collaring and studying their behaviour. After learning about their movement, we will be able to form better strategies on how to reduce the man-leopard conflict.” AG Ansari, state-based wildlife expert said that leopards are known to be ace swimmers. “Leopards are ace swimmers and cross rivers in search of prey. From the Sundarban region, there are records of leopards swimming across water bodies crossing distances of three to five kilometres,” said Ansari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-first-radio-collared-leopard-found-crossing-ganga-near-haridwar/story-yZYZTOORl9bsqNg0xweHiN.html
21-10-2020||India||Ahead of Bihar assembly polls, Patna registers highest spike in Covid-19 cases in last 2 months||Patna with 392 new Covid-19 infections on Tuesday reported the highest single-day spike in cases in the last two months, raising fears of a pre-election and pre-festival surge in cases. The 1,837 new cases in the state during the last 24 hours pushed the state’s total tally to 2,06,961 with 1,011 fatalities. Of these, Patna accounted for the maximum of 33,257 cases and 247 deaths. Patna had reported 422 cases on August 19 that was its previous highest single-day surge in cases. The state capital’s death toll was 114 then. It has now gone up to 247. Prior to that, 399 cases were reported on August 13, when Patna’s toll was 91. The surge in Covid-19 infections was attributed to heavy influx of people due to the upcoming assembly elections and the festival season, said a senior health officer, requesting anonymity. “We have increased testing and are trying to motivate people who have tested positive to go in for home or institutional isolation. We are also increasing our information, education and counselling activities to educate people take precautions against Covid-19 in the upcoming festive season,” said Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh. Patna has 12 containment zones, with over 3,500 people residing in 438 households. Eight deaths were reported through the health department’s bulletin on Tuesday. Gopalganj reported two deaths while Buxar, Gaya, Muzaffarpur, Patna, Rohtas and Samastipur one each. Besides, five deaths were reported at AIIMS-Patna during the last 24 hours, according to Dr Sanjeev Kumar, its Covid-19 nodal officer. Of the deceased, four were residents of Patna and one of Purnia. As many as 1,100 patients had recovered, taking the total to 1,94,889, with a case recovery of 94.17%. The state tested 1,41,294 samples on Monday, reporting 1,837 new infections. Of these, Sitamarhi reported 114 cases, Nalanda 98, Saharsa 66, Gaya 64, Araria 59, Madhubani 57, Muzaffarpur 55, Bhojpur 53, Katihar and Madhepura 52 each, West Champaran 51 among others. Patna also topped in terms of cumulative cases at 33,257 and 247 deaths. Muzaffarpur with 9,280 cases and 36 deaths, Bhagalpur 8,149 cases and 65 deaths, Purnia 7,664 cases and 10 deaths, East Champaran 7,416 cases and 38 deaths and Madhubani 6,729 cases and 21 deaths were the other four districts with the maximum number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bihar-assembly-polls-patna-registers-highest-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-last-2-months/story-2LSAwpVurPZ762kO5HBazN.html
21-10-2020||India||Odisha Covid-19 patient goes missing from hospital, cremated without family’s knowledge||A 70-year-old man in Odisha, who had tested positive for Covid-19, went missing after being admitted in a Covid hospital. The deceased’s family members have alleged that he was cremated without their knowledge.Duryodhan Behera, 45, of Barda village in Dhenkanal district had suffered chest pains on September 28 after which his family members rushed him to Dhenkanal district headquarters hospital for treatment. After testing positive for Covid-19, Behera was admitted to the Covid Care Centre in Dhenkanal town on September 29.However, his son Pradipta Behera, who visited the Covid centre the next day to give him some personal articles, was told that his father had been shifted to SCB Covid-19 hospital in Cuttack with another patient on the night of September 29.The nightmares of Behera family was about to begin as they ran from pillar to post to get information about him.Also read: Delhi HC hears over 40k cases virtually since March, popular mode among advocates“I visited all Covid-19 hospitals in Cuttack from October 1, including the SCB Covid Isolation Center, but all of them denied receiving any such patient. I then contacted the Dhenkanal district collector who advised me to meet the chief district medical officer. I met CDMO Sujatarani Mishra who asked me to visit SCB Covid-19 hospital in Cuttack,” said Pradipta Behera.The family waited for the next two weeks and finally decided to complain against the Dhenkanal CDMO and the district magistrate at the town police station on October 16. Soon after the FIR, a medical team was sent to Cuttack on October 17 and all records were checked with Mangalabag police station under which the SCB Medical College and Hospital falls. The Mangalabag police station informed the Dhenkanal town police station that Behera has been cremated on October 7 after his body was kept in the mortuary of the SCB hospital for 3 days as an unidentified body.Alleging gross negligence by the authorities, Behera’s son said the ambulance carrying his father and another Covid-19 patient from Dhenkanal to Cuttack left both patients outside the SCB Covid Isolation Centre. “The second patient was admitted to the Covid isolation centre in SCB Medical College and Hospital as he had an attendant. There was no one to attend my father. He died outside the isolation centre unclaimed and unidentified and was later cremated. This is gross negligence,” said Pradipta Behera.“We had sent Behera to the Covid isolation ward in Cuttack. What can we do if the driver of the vehicle left him outside the isolation ward?” asked Dhenkanal CDMO Sujatarani Mishra. Bhubanananda Maharana, emergency officer of SCB Medical College and Hospital, said they would have known about Behera had he been admitted to the isolation ward. “It was the driver’s fault. He should have admitted the patient to the ward,” he said.The brother-in-law of the deceased however accused the officials in Dhenkanal of gross negligence. “Without informing us, they took my brother-in-law from Dhenkanal to SCB Hospital. While the government claims to be doing so much for Covid patients, why did they act irresponsibly? Strict action needs to be taken against those responsible,” said Suresh Behera, Duryodhana’s brother-in-law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-covid-19-patient-goes-missing-from-hospital-cremated-without-family-s-knowledge/story-bdED9qlK6s3MGgqqWTZaCK.html
21-10-2020||India||DRDO tweaks manual for ‘self-reliance’ push||The Defence Research and Development Organisation’s new procurement manual has raised the limit of advance payment to vendors, allowed awarding contracts to the second lowest bidder (L2) if L1 (the lowest bidder) backs out, and done away with the need to furnish performance bank guarantees — key measures that seek to provide a boost to the indigenous defence industry, DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday released the procurement manual (PM-2020) that seeks to encourage more participation from Indian industry, especially start-ups and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), for achieving self-reliance in the defence sector, the defence ministry said in a statement. The changes in the manual were suggested by a high-powered committee after a year-long study. The current industry base of DRDO consists of 1,800 MSMEs, defence public sector undertakings, ordnance factories and large-scale industries. “The new DRDO procurement manual will facilitate the indigenous defence industry by simplifying the processes and ensure their participation in design and development activities,” Singh said. The last major revamp of the manual was carried out in 2006, with some changes introduced a decade later in 2016. “Some more enabling measures of PM-2020 are exemption of bid security and performance security up to ₹10 lakh, no negotiations for commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) items/services wherever price discovery is happening through market forces and procurement of stores from development partners,” the ministry said, adding that the PM-2020 will facilitate faster execution of R&D projects.  The DRDO’s annual budget for procurement, R&D and grant-in aid is around ₹15,000 crore. Reddy said the new manual has simplified internal processes as well. “What took six months earlier will now be achieved in a month. Procurement will move at a faster pace. The delivery period extension process has been simplified too, with project directors being empowered to take quick decisions.” He added that PM-2020 has introduced a provision for leasing of equipment required for a short period if it is a better option to an outright purchase. “In the new PM-2020, the liquidated damage (LD) rate for development contracts has been reduced,” the statement said. The changes in the procurement manual were suggested by a high-powered committee set up in October 2019 and headed by director general (naval systems and materials) Samir V Kamat. The new manual incorporates at least 60 changes, most of them focused on supporting MSMEs. Raising the limit for advance payment to vendors/partners is seen as a significant step by analysts. Until now, they were receiving only 15% of the cost as advance but the new manual has raised it to almost 40%, the DRDO chief said. The decision to place orders with L2 if L1 backs out will do away with the need for re-tendering that causes delays in procurement, Reddy added. CII national MSME council co-chairman Ashok Saigal said MSMEs would benefit significantly from the increase in advance from 15% to 40%. “It is an important move as it will help MSMEs sustain themselves during the long gestation period of product introduction, qualification and coming into use in commercially meaningful quantities,” Saigal said. CII has around 9,000 members, with MSMEs accounting for 70% of that figure.In August, DRDO came out with a list of 108 systems and sub-systems that it would help the Indian industry design and develop to strengthen the local defence ecosystem — from mini unmanned aerial vehicles to fire detection systems and bullet proof vehicles to tank transporters. The other items on the list include NBC (nuclear, biological and chemical) shelters, missile canisters, navigation radars, satellite navigation receivers, mine-laying equipment and armoured engineering reconnaissance vehicles. The government has already announced that it will ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years, a significant step on the long road towards achieving self-reliance in the defence sector. The negative import list included artillery guns, light military transport aircraft, conventional submarines and long-range land attack cruise missiles. The detailed list of equipment published by the defence ministry in August also spelled out that the embargo on import will kick in between December 2020 and December 2025 for different categories of military hardware. The military hardware on the negative import list includes assault rifles, sniper rifles, short-range surface-to-air missiles, beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, corvettes, missile destroyers, light combat helicopter, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, a variety of radars and different types of ammunition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-tweaks-manualfor-self-reliance-push/story-YClki9Zf8HwEbcPSySEUsJ.html
21-10-2020||India||Lockdown gone, Covid-19 virus hasn’t, cautions PM Modi||Days before the start of an extended festival season, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday warned citizens that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was still active and present in India, there was no vaccine yet, and citizens would be putting their own lives and those of their family members at risk if they were irresponsible about safety measures such as social distancing norms and wearing masks.Modi, in an address to the nation, stressed that there was tremendous work being done — on a war footing, both globally and in India — to develop vaccines, some of which were in the advanced stages of trial. “The government is working on a plan to ensure that vaccines reach all citizens,” he said.“But till there is no medicine,” he cautioned, “don’t let your guard down.”The Prime Minister offered global examples — from the US and European countries — to suggest that any laxity could lead to a spike in infections. He also gave Indian examples, citing recent videos and photographs, to suggest that there was a pattern of growing carelessness and Covid-19 fatigue at home.He asked citizens to spread awareness about the risks of the disease as an act of national service.“This is not the time for carelessness. It is not the time to think that Covid-19 has gone or that there is no danger from Covid-19. We have seen videos and photographs in recent days where it is clear that people are either not following precautions or have been complacent. If you are being careless and are going out without a mask, you are putting yourself, your families, your elders and your children at risk,” he said. The PM’s remarks – in a 12-minute speech that served as an advisory and appeal, rather than one that made announcements about measures or guideline – come days before the Vijayadashami festival, which often sees large congregations at pandals, especially in West Bengal. It also comes before other festivals such as Dussehra, Eid, Chatth, and Diwali, many of which are public festivals. The onset of this period has brought forth tension between public health imperatives (which stipulate distancing) on one side; and religious traditions (where the expression of faith is often public), and economic considerations (this is a season which witnesses higher consumer spending) on the other.Weighing in favour of public health needs, but with some degree of festivity and economic activity, the PM said: “From the Janata curfew (March 22) to now, Indians have traversed a long journey. With time, economic activity has also slowly picked up. A majority of us are coming out of our homes. There is activity in the markets too. But we must not forget that even if the lockdown has gone, the virus hasn’t gone yet.” Saying that India had achieved relative success in the battle against Covid-19, Modi said that there was a “controlled situation” at the moment, but this must not worsen, and instead the effort must be to build on it. He cited data — 5,500 cases and 83 deaths per million in India against close to 2,500 cases and 600 deaths per million in countries such as the United States and Brazil — to stress that India has both a high recovery rate and low fatality rate. India also, he said, now, had nine million beds for Covid-19 patients, 12,000 quarantine centres, and 2,000 labs; and is close to completing 100 million tests. India has 7.65 million Covid-19 cases – the second highest in the world after the US, but its fatality rate of 1.5% is significantly better than most severely hit countries as well as the global average of 2.8%.The PM pointed to the US and Europe, and said that after a dip in cases, there was a “worrying spike” in cases in these geographies again, and said that until there was a vaccine, there must not be any weakness in the battle against Covid-19.Also Read | ‘Markets are bright again amid festive season but...’: Top quotes from PM Modi’s addressThe Congress said that that the Prime Minister should come out with concrete solutions to control the Covid-19 pandemic and revive the economy instead of giving “plain speeches”. After the PM’s address, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that the Modi government has “failed” on both the fronts and India has become the “Corona capital” of the world with the “highest” number of daily cases and deaths. “It is easy to give sermons. The country does not need plain speeches but concrete solutions,” he said in a tweet, quoting a phrase from saint Tulsidas.Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said: “Addressing the nation for the seventh time since the imposition of the lockdown PM Modi brushed aside all shortcomings in the tackling of the pandemic claiming the governments handling as a success.”“It is a very good thing that the Prime Minister raised the issue of the festival celebrations... even if festivals have to be celebrated, people should do so with their families within their homes rather than going out shopping or to crowded places,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-gone-covid-19-virus-hasn-t-cautions-pm-modi/story-BmdChs9VD3JZIBupe22n8K.html
21-10-2020||India||Shudder when I think of Oct 1947 carnage: Survivor of Pak-based violence in J&K||Shanti Devi was 22 when she fled her home in Chatra village in what is now Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, two young children in tow. A tribal militia was pillaging its way through her village, killing people and torching huts. Devi, now 105, remembers that the attackers -- aided by members of the Pakistani army -- abducted young children, killed adult men and raped the women. It was October 22, 1947, and the militia was part of a Pakistani design -- ultimately unsuccessful -- to forcibly capture Jammu and Kashmir. Her husband, Duni Chand, was a marginal farmer. Her family, along with hundreds of other Hindu and Sikh families, settled in Jammu’s Poonch district. Seven decades later, Devi says the carnage left an indelible scar. “Today I am 105 but I still remember the carnage in 1947. I still shudder whenever I think of it. It was a nightmare,” she said. Now a resident of Degwar near the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch in a neighbourhood called ‘Mohalla Purani Poonch’, Devi said the tribal raiders were especially cruel with Hindu and Sikh women, who were abducted, raped and forced to accept Islam. “Those who refused were slaughtered,” she added. Horror stories like that of Devi and hundreds of others are set to take centrestage on Thursday as India spotlights Pakistan’s role in instigating violence and terror in Kashmir months after Independence in 1947, when Islamabad-sponsored tribal militia, along with the Pakistani army, attacked the civilian population, wreaked humanitarian destruction, killed thousands, and came close to capturing the capital Srinagar before being repelled by Indian forces. The refugees forced to flee their homes have always marked October 22 as a Black Day. Now, after years of being in the shadows, they look forward to tell their stories but also hope for more government support. “We survived the carnage in PoK and continue to live in penury. We have a small land holding and a cow ---our only source to livelihood,” said Devi’s son Suresh Kumar. “I have a differently abled son and a daughter. No government ever thought of our miseries and we continue to live in oblivion,” he rued. Advocate Bakshi Dwarkanath, 82, said he was seven when he fled Chatra village, and on a clear day, their old hutment can be seen from across the LoC. “These raiders attacked Hindus and Sikhs in the night and raised Islamic slogans,” he said. At least 170 Hindus and Sikhs were herded into a house before it was set on fire by the raiders. “We slept in the maize fields every night out of fear that raiders may set afire our houses,” he added. The terrorised family saw their money and jewellery looted, but weren’t willing to convert; after walking for three days, they reached Pooch town. “I remember my aunt Shiv Dei, around 50 years old at that time, stayed back with her grandson. Being a rich lady, she gave her money and ornaments to the raiders to save their lives. They also converted to Islam,” said octogenarian. He also recalled some acts of kindness from their Muslim neighbours. Another resident of the locality, ex-serviceman Sardar Bachan Singh, 82, said his village of around 1,000 people in the erstwhile Bagh sector was wiped out by the militia. “Raiders with active help by Pakistani forces wanted to usurp the entire J&K. We had to flee with whatever belongings we could lay our hands on,” he recalled. He was 10 at the time. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shudder-whenever-i-think-of-the-oct-1947-carnage-it-was-a-nightmare-survivor-of-pak-based-violence-in-j-k/story-wmtMHdN9qf2Rg1Fd4Z82FO.html
21-10-2020||India||How the Punjab bills will negate new laws||Punjab Assembly on Tuesday passed three bills to counter some provisions of the Central farm reform laws approved in the monsoon session of Parliament last month to protests by farmers’ groups. The Punjab version of bills is aimed at addressing the concerns of farmers and may be adopted by other non-National Democratic Alliance (NDA)-ruled states, including a provision to protect the Minimum Support Price (MSP) that government procurement agencies pay for farmers’ produce. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 were pushed through in Parliament last month. Big farmers’ groups, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, say the Centre’s farm reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the system of MSPs and that deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than beforeHere is an explainer on the new provisions inserted in the Central laws by the Punjab government.Has the Punjab government nullified the Central laws?No. The Punjab government has added additional provisions in the three farm laws, providing safeguards to farmers while adopting the basic structure of the Central laws, which allow the private sector in production and trading of agriculture produce. The Punjab laws allow private entities to buy farm produce or enter contract farming, as the Central laws envisaged, but have included provisions that farmers’ bodies in the state have demanded. Has Punjab ensured MSP protection?Yes. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill 2020 has added a Section 4, which guarantees MSPs notified by the central government for wheat and paddy to all farmers, unlike the central legislation, which allowed the markets to decide the best price for the produce. Section 5 of the bill overrides any price mechanism suggested in the Central bill. The bill also provides for penal provisions for those who pay less than MSPs for farmers’ produce; they would be punishable with a jail term of no less than three years and a fine. The Punjab version of the contract farming bill makes it illegal to sign a contract with farmers for selling their produce below MSP. What is there by way of protection for agricultural markets?The bill also gives the Punjab government the right to levy a fee on private entities for buying the produce of farmers in any form --- physically or electronically --- anywhere in the state, thereby extending the mandi system to the entire state. The Central law had exempted private entities from paying any fees outside the mandis. The contract farming bill restores the primacy of agricultural produce marketing committees (APMCs) in the sale and purchase of agriculture produce, which was diluted by the Centre. What are the other safeguards?The bill also allows farmers to approach a civil court against private agribusinesses in addition to a sub-divisional magistrate’s court provided for by the central laws. Punjab has also introduced an amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, barring courts from attaching land holdings below 2.5 acres in any recovery proceedings; 86% of the farmers have less than 2.5 acres of land in the state.The Punjab CM has also introduced a bill to amend the Centre’s Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, nullifying its impact by maintaining status quo ante as of June 4, 2020, when this Central law was promulgated as an ordinance. The central law allowed the Centre to regulate supply of certain foods such as cereals, pulses, potato, pulses, onion and edible oilseeds only in circumstances such as a war, famine, a grave natural calamity and an extraordinary price rise. The bill restores the state’s power to regulate essential commodities and enforce hoarding limits on agriculture produce.Can Punjab directly implement these laws?As agricultural markets and lands are state subjects under entries 14, 18 and 22 of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, the state can frame laws covering them. However, entry 33 of the concurrent subjects, on which both the Centre and states can legislate, allows the central government to frame laws on the control of production, supply and distribution of products of any industry, including agriculture. Using this provision, the Centre has introduced the farm reform bills. It would now be a bone of contention between the Punjab government and the Centre, whether the changes proposed by the central laws are legally correct or not.Can the Centre negate Punjab laws?Yes, it can. As the Punjab laws are in conflict with the central laws, the Centre, by using its powers under Article 254 (2) of Constitution, can ask the Punjab government to seek approval of the President before notifying these laws. The President, normally, approves the bills after getting the Centre on board and can refuse to approve the bills. In case Punjab does not send the bills to the President for approval on grounds that agriculture is a state subject, the Centre can amend the Punjab farm laws to ensure uniformity of legislation across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-the-punjab-bills-will-negate-new-laws/story-woYTiStfiNzB50Ye6cP8AP.html
21-10-2020||India||Soon, mid-day meals likely in kindergarten||The Union education ministry has started working on a plan to expand its mid-day meals (MDM) scheme to children in kindergarten , and to also offer breakfast, and has written to the states and the union territories for their suggestions on the proposal. In a letter to the states on October 12, education ministry joint secretary R C Meena mentioned that the ministry was in the process of revision and modification of the existing scheme, adding that it was in keeping with suggestions made by the recently adopted National Education Policy (NEP) -- inclusion of pre-primary classes in the MDM scheme and the provision of a simple and energetic breakfast under the scheme.Currently, the MDM scheme caters to 116 million children from classes 1 to 8 in 1.134 million government schools. The centre contributes 60% of the cost of the scheme and the states put in the rest. The administration is by the state governments. In the budget for 2020-21, the Centre has budgeted ₹11,000 crore for the scheme.It is expected that the inclusion of kindergarten students will add another couple ofmillion beneficiaries. That, and the provision of breakfast, are likely to increase the budget significantly. Meena said in his letter that the suggestions from the states and UTs will be discussed by the Expenditure Finance Committee (EFC). ‘“It is recognized world over that 85 % capacity of cognitive and analytical brain develops in the first six years of a child,” said eminent educationist DrInder Mohan Kapahy, adding that the decision to extend MDM to young kids was an important decision for future of the country.Proposals by government departments, especially new ones that involve substantial financial implications, are reviewed by EFCs before they get the go-ahead.In the letter to the states, the education ministry also said that it had already taken on record the states’ suggestion that the honorarium paid to cooks-cum-helpers be increased and said that these were among the issues it was factoring in as it modifies and revises the scheme.Former Union secretary Uday Kumar Varma said the MDM scheme was brought in with two aims – to provide improved nutrition and to bring down the school drop out rate. Providing breakfast takes the aim of the scheme further, he said. “However, since substantial resources are needed, greater community participation is desirable. People with surplus foodgrains, resources etc should be encouraged to contribute to the scheme and committees at various levels can oversee the process,” he added.Last month, on the advice of the agriculture ministry aimed at helping farmers, the education ministry suggested that states and UTs include honey and mushrooms in the diets provided under the scheme. This would boost bee-keeping and mushroom production in the country, the ministry said then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soon-mid-day-meals-likely-in-kindergarten/story-kwvxR4RQPvJ3ygWvduy5sI.html
21-10-2020||India||2 doctors connected to Hathras case asked to go by hospital||Two medical officers at the JN Medical College (JNMC) in Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) connected to the case involving the gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras were removed from their posts on Tuesday.One had contradicted the state police’s claim that the victim wasn’t raped, while the other had signed some reports of the woman. Their removal comes a day after a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team visited the hospital and questioned doctors and staff in the hospital in connection with the case.The university authorities said the two men were recruited on a temporary basis because many doctors had fallen ill, and called their removal a routine step. One of the doctors, however, suggested that the version he had put forward may have led to his removal.The woman, who was shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi when her condition didn’t improve, died on September 29 of the injuries she suffered in the September 14 assault. Her forced pre-dawn cremation the following day triggered widespread public protests The two doctors who were removed by JNMC were Dr Mohammad Azimuddin Malik and Dr Obaid Imtiazyul Haque.Also Read | CBI questions youth who was first to reach crime spot in Hathras case againMalik had contradicted the version of UP police that the woman hadn’t been raped, saying the medical tests on her had been conducted too late to come to that conclusion. He questioned the gap between the day of the crime. September 14, and the day the tests were conducted, September 22. The UP police based their claim of no rape on a report by a forensic science lab, which received the samples on September 25. In a phone conversation, Dr Malik said that this may have led to his removal, but added that AMU authorities may be better aware of the reasons for his removal. “For concrete finding of rape, one needs to go for a test within four days of the incident and the test conducted after 11 days serves no purpose. This was all I had said and did not mention it in regard to the Hathras victim’s case,” said Dr Malik.Dr Haque said he was shocked at the termination of his services.“I joined when many of doctors at JNMC were ill and worked for two-and-a-half months amidst Covid-19, but came to known today (Tuesday) that my services are not required. I had not interacted with the media about the Hathras victim, which was sub judice, but had signed some medical papers related to the victim.” AMU authorities termed the removal of the doctors a routine administrative exercise;both Dr Malik and Dr Haque were working on leave vacancies after many doctors at JNMC had fallen ill and the hospital was in need of doctors. “Both these doctors were not permanent and were working on leave vacancy. Their term ended as regular doctors got well and joined their duties,” said Prof Shafey Kidwai, spokesperson for AMU. “A doctor on duty, even if contractual, is an authorised person assigned duty by the institution. His version should be acknowledged,” said a senior member of the Indian Medical Association, Lucknow, who requested anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-amu-removes-2-medical-officers/story-S5WygzatK22WrA7zzazL8L.html
21-10-2020||India||Farm laws: After Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan likely to follow suit||After Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan may be the next Congress-ruled states to introduce bills to counter the Centre’s farm reform bills in special sessions. Farmers’ leaders in different parts of the country, including those ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), urged their state governments to follow suit for safeguarding the interests of cultivators.The Punjab assembly on Tuesday passed the bills and pledged to protect the interests of the state’s farmers, who are concerned that the central legislation would deprive them of government-fixed minimum support prices (MSPs) for their produce and put them at the mercy of big agribusinesses.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Tuesday proposed a special session of the state assembly on October 27 and 28 to introduce similar provisions.His proposal was returned by state governor Anusuiya Uikey, who sought the reason for holding the session. “In the proposal sent by the state government, the ‘subject’ of the special session was not mentioned, hence the governor has asked for it, and it is nothing more than that,” an official at Raj Bhavan said.Baghel told reporters that the governor cannot prevent a government that has a full majority from holding an assembly session. “If governor has made some queries, then we will file {responses} by Tuesday evening and I don’t think permission will not be granted after that,” he said. Rajasthan transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said the Punjab bills were in the interests of farmers, and said the state government will soon call an assembly session to introduce similar bills. In September, the state government issued an order extending the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) law to the entire state to regulate private entities buying produce directly from farmers.With Punjab passing bills to provide farmers MSP protection, farmers’ bodies in neighbouring Haryana are building pressure on the state government led by the BJP to introduce similar safeguards. Like Punjab, 90% of the wheat and paddy produced in Haryana is procured by the government at MSPs.“Punjab chief minister has taken a bold step and now Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar should also follow him and pass similar laws in the assembly so that the farmers of Haryana continue to get the benefit of MSP,” said farmers’ leader Sewa Singh Arya.Haryana president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Gurnam Singh Charuni, said non-BJP state governments across the country should follow what he said was “the path the Punjab government has shown.” Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal said the Congress government in Punjab was “misleading innocent farmers”.“Congress should stop playing politics over MSPs,” he said. Shivkumar Sharma, president of the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangh, an organisation of farmers in Madhya Pradesh, said: “Punjab has taken a welcome step. I will request all the non-BJP ruled states to follow the Punjab model.”Madhya Pradesh’s farmers welfare and agriculture development minister Kamal Patel said: “Punjab government’s step in introducing its farm bills is a politically motivated move.”The BKU in Uttar Pradesh wants the state government to protect the interests of farmers. “We have not placed any demand to the Uttar Pradesh government to act like Punjab but we have been consistently demanding the Centre to amend the laws, addressing our reservations on some issues and also provide statutory guarantee on continuation of MSPs to farmers,” BKU leader Naresh Tikait said. A senior UP government official said on condition of anonymity that Uttar Pradesh had no plans to dilute the central laws. “Doing so is neither legally possible nor needed,” he said. (With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-after-punjab-c-garh-raj-likely-to-follow-suit/story-AaRjvFoZFuAzojbD9CxdvJ.html
21-10-2020||India||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa to undertake aerial survey of flood-hit districts on October 21||Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa will undertake an aerial survey of four flood-hit districts on Wednesday, after heavy rains battered the region last week.Speaking to mediapersons on Monday, he had said, “ Prime Minister Narendra Modi would respond to the woes of the people of Karnataka.The Centre would provide financial aid to the state soon.”He has reassured financial compensation to the people of north Karnataka.Karnataka Minister for Health and Family Welfare and Education K Sudhakar on Monday conducted a video conference with district collectors of flood-affected districts in the state to discuss the prevention of the spread of communicable diseases. As per a statement, Sudhakar instructed officials to initiate proper precautionary measures in flood-affected areas on a war footing, to prevent the outbreak of possible communicable diseases. Over 150 villages had been surrounded by water in Kalaburagi, making it the worst-affected district in the state. People of 50 villages have been evacuated to safer places. A total of 23,250 people have been evacuated to government care centres in the district, officials said. As many as 27 villages in the Vijayapura district have been affected and one person died due to floods. About 1,861 people in this district have been evacuated to care centres. The minister also instructed officials to provide clean and safe drinking water and quality food to the affected people at care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-to-undertake-aerial-survey-of-flood-hit-districts-on-october-21/story-WZp8GWt1g8P02vy6mpcbGJ.html
21-10-2020||India||‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign from October 21: Marshals, traffic police to spread awareness||At over 100 traffic signals across Delhi, environment marshals and traffic police officials will urge drivers to turn off their ignition as they wait for the light to turn green under the ‘Red Light on, Gaadi Off’ campaign, starting from Wednesday.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had on Monday announced that the government’s campaign will be kick-started from October 21 to educate drivers about the benefits of turning off their engines while waiting at signals.Rai had said that it will be an awareness campaign and no enforcement will take place, adding that the marshals will give red roses to the violators at the traffic signal to create awareness.Also Read | Monthly CMs’ meet necessary to stop stubble fires: Arvind KejriwalA government release quoted Rai as saying that the Delhi police has identified 100 key traffic signals and the government will deploy a total of 2,500 environment marshals to carry out this campaign. The minister also informed that local SDM and traffic police ACP will monitor this campaign and if required, transport department’s deputy commissioner (enforcement) will oversee the campaign.The campaign was first announced by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal last week. Last Friday, Rai chaired a high-level meeting which was attended by officials of the environment department, Delhi traffic police and the transport department to chalk out a detailed plan for its implementation.Rai also said that the Delhi government will write to all MPs, MLAs, councillors, resident welfare associations (RWAs), industrial and other social agencies to take part in this campaign.“Very recently, Hon’ble Chief Minister of Delhi, Shri Arvind Kejriwal launched a multifold campaign against pollution in the city, titled “Yudh Pradushan ke Virudh”. The first phase under this umbrella campaign was targeted at reducing dust pollution. The Delhi government has taken stringent measures against those who were found violating rules,” Rai said.The minister said that this campaign calls for a collaborative effort for the betterment of the citizens of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-light-on-gaadi-off-campaign-from-october-21-marshals-traffic-police-to-spread-awareness/story-8aWhZBYUK4DjbouO5IgmhP.html
21-10-2020||India||Assam’s Kaziranga National Park to reopen for tourists from October 21||Assam’s Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) will reopen for tourists from Wednesday, after a gap of over seven months. It was shut down in March because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak..This is the longest shutdown for KNPTR in its 112-year history.Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal would be formally reopening the park famous for its one-horned rhinoceroses and tigers, KNPTR authorities said. Following the Covid-19 outbreak, all five national parks and 18 wildlife sanctuaries in Assam, including KNPTR, which usually remains shut for around five months annually due to floods, were closed in March.The state government has prepared detailed protocols in the wake of Covid-19. All tourists will have to go through a screening process and anyone detected with disease-related symptoms such as high fever, cough and cold will be segregated and handed over to local health authorities.The elephant safaris won’t be allowed to operate during the first few days of the park’s reopening and may resume from November, according to the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-s-kaziranga-national-park-to-reopen-for-tourists-from-october-21/story-iVQo98HYUQyXCr2axT8hEJ.html
21-10-2020||India||In Pak terror plan to revive 2 routes, Pathankot airbase attack coordinator is key||Indian intelligence and security agencies have identified that terror groups targetting India are focusing their efforts on using the Sialkot-Shakargarh and Bhimber-Samani sectors, both of which have been used in the past by these groups to infiltrate India. The proscribed Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) is expected to use both sectors to infiltrate terrorists across the Line of Control (LoC) in coming months, intelligence reports reviewed by HT suggest, with the help of remnants of erstwhile Harkat-ul-Jihad-e-Islami (HuJI) network that are still operational in the area, and target Jammu and south Kashmir.According to a dossier prepared by Indian security agencies, these channels have been used in the past with terrorists involved in Nagrota army camp (November 2016), Sujwan (February 2018), Jhajjar Kotli (Sept 2018) and Nagrota toll plaza attack (January) having entered India through this channel, using the Bein nullah in Shakargarh to crossover into J & K.The dossier notes that Kashif Jan, Irfan Jhangvi and Shahid Latif, who coordinated the terror attack at Pathankot airbase in 2016, were actively involved in launching terrorists into India from Dehira and Sarjal in Shakargarh. A number of JeM terrorists have infiltrated India through the same route including Umar and Usman, sons of JeM’s chief Mazood Azhar, his elder brother and main accused in the 1999 IC-814 hijacking, Azhar Ibrahim, bodyguard of JeM’s defacto leader, Mufti Rauf Asghar, Mohammed Ismail, and an explosive trainer at Balakot camp , Rasheed Ghazi,. All these high profile terrorists infiltrated India in 2018.In January , senior JeM commanders Azhar Ibrahim and Masood Azhar’s son Abdullah are known to have supervised the terror group activities at launch pads in the Sialkot sector and regular movement of Jaish terror cadre has been reported there since February.Another Jaish operative Abdul Manan aka Doctor is also quite active in Sarjal in Shakargarh, according to the dossier. He was one of the key conspirators in the Nagrota Toll Plaza attack and works with a Pakistan-based Indian fugitive from Pulwama, Ashiq Ahmed Nangroo. A truck driver by profession, Nangroo is responsible for smuggling arms from Sialkot sector and move along the Jammu-Samba-Pathankot highway in the past.The Bhimber-Samani sector’s unique topography allows Pakistani terrorists easily access to Jammu-Rajauri-Shopian (Mughal Road) and enables them use this axis to carry out strikes in Jammu, Rajauri and Reasi and also allows them a route to tap south Kashmir, which is always on the boil.To push infiltrators, the Pakistani deep state has reactivated networks of former HuJI terrorist Nassarullah Masood Langryal, who is working through his key HuJI key operatives Mohammed Imran Zaffarwal of Bhimber in Occupied Kashmir and Tariq Bhai of Narowal in Pakistan Punjab, according to intelligence inputs. Langryal is also known to be in touch with a PoK based HuJI commander.Also Read | Pak fails to fulfil 6 key mandates of FATF; no action against Masood Azhar, Hafiz SaeedAccording to the dossier, given that the Taliban is its ideological Deobandi brother, the JeM has moved around 300-350 cadre for weapons training from Balakot and Peshawar camps in Pakistan to Taliban run camps in Kunar, Nuristan and Jalalabad provinces along the Durand Line.The dossier says that movement of terror cadre into Afghanistan could be to escape Balakot type of Indian air strike in the future or under pressure from Pakistan which is seeking to get itself white listed at the Paris plenary of FATF this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pak-terror-plan-to-use-2-routes-pathankot-airbase-attack-coordinator-is-key/story-7b6EzMslq1FSj9DvDpJcAM.html
21-10-2020||India||Two farmers found dead in Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar, suicide suspected||Two farmers allegedly died by suicide at separate places in Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar district, the state police said. Their families said crop damage and pressure of replaying debt pushed them to suicide.The body of one of the farmers, who was 35 years old, was found in a highly decomposed state hanging from a tree on Friday. He was reported missing on October 5. A member of his family said the 35-year-old was overburdened with loans due to damage to his crops over the last two years. “He sowed soybean seeds this year in his two-acre farm and but this year, too, the crop was damaged and he got the farmland levelled. Since then he was upset. He has two daughters...”Sub-divisional police officer Anurag Pandey said the farmer’s body has been sent for a post-mortem examination. “An investigation is going on.”The son of the second farmer, who was 50-year-old, said his father’s body was also found hanging from a tree. “My father was shattered as there was no growth in the crop in our agricultural field. He had taken a loan from moneylenders for farming also that he was not able to repay it.”Pooja Sharma, a local police officer, said the cause of death, in this case, can be ascertained only after the farmer’s post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-farmers-found-dead-in-madhya-pradesh-s-sagar-suicide-suspected/story-2AjJLXr1j2xKjSwO8Vrc3M.html
21-10-2020||India||Rains expected in Bengal during Durga Puja, says IMD||Rain is expected in Kolkata and other parts of West Bengal during Durga Puja, the region’s biggest festival that starts from next week, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.“Light to moderate [rain] is expected over Kolkata and other parts of South Bengal till October 20. The rainfall may increase from October 21. Probability of rain is more between October 22 and 24,” said an official at IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Kolkata.North Bengal is likely to get some rain also in the run-up to the festival.Durga Puja will be celebrated from October 23 to October 26. But the festivities and pandal hopping are expected to start on October 19.“A low pressure is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal around October 19. It could intensify thereafter. The system is expected to move towards Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. Moisture-laden winds from the sea will gush because of this, triggering rain,” said the official quoted above.October and November are part of the post-monsoon cyclone period and such systems often develop over the sea around this time. Some of the systems intensify into cyclones. Cyclone Bulbul, which killed scores of people, hit West Bengal in November 2019.The monsoon withdrawal from West Bengal is also likely to get delayed because of the low-pressure system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-expected-in-bengal-during-durga-puja-says-imd/story-bs2dcY2M3gPFNagtCRm8gI.html
