22-10-2020||India||JEE to be held in more regional languages: Pokhriyal||New Delhi Beginning next year, the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) for admission to elite engineering schools will be conducted in several regional languages, in line with the strong focus in the new National Education Policy (NEP) on promoting local languages, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Thursday.Nishank made the announcement in a post on the microblogging site Twitter. The minister added that the languages of states that conduct tests for admission to engineering colleges in their local languages will be added.“This decision has far-reaching implications as Hon’ble PM Shri @narendramodi ji has pointed out that top-scoring countries in PISA examination use mother tongue as a medium of instruction. The decision of JAB will help students comprehend questions better & score higher,” Nishank said in another tweet.JEE (Main) is now conducted in Hindi, English and Gujarati; several states have raised the issue of expanding the list of languages from time to time. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee recently asked why the examination couldn’t be conducted in Bengali if it could be in Gujarati.In July, the Union cabinet approved the first new education policy in 28 years, emphasising that the mother tongue, local language or the regional language should be the medium of instruction at least till Grade 5, but preferably till Grade 8 and beyond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jee-to-be-held-in-more-regional-languages-pokhriyal/story-bAE0itgW9Iw8SVALFUZIJI.html
22-10-2020||India||Number of Indian workers in Oman down 11%, shows data||New Delhi The number of Indian workers in Oman dropped by 11.2% this year as a result of the economic downturn due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the country’s “Omanisation” drive to replace expatriates which is expected to pick up pace in the coming months. The Indian community of about 700,000, including more than 567,000 workers, continues to be one the largest expatriate communities in Oman and people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that this was also the reason why the number of Indian workers had witnessed a sharp fall in the first six months of 2020. According to figures from Oman’s National Centre for Statistics and Information (NCSI), the total number of expatriate workers in the country fell by 9.3% in the first half of 2020, when compared to the same period last year. Expatriates now account for about 38% of the total population, a five-year low from the figure of 43.6% recorded in 2015. Most of the expatriates are Indians, Bangladeshis and Pakistanis. While, the number of Bangladeshi workers declined by 8.9% in the first half of 2020 to 590,748, the number of Pakistani workers also fell by 8.9% to 192,676.On Wednesday, Oman’s labour minister Mahad bin Said Ba’owain held a meeting with state-run firms to discuss the replacement of expatriates with Omani manpower and a programme to “Omanise” leadership and supervisory posts. The people cited above said the move wouldn’t have much impact on Indian workers as the government sector employs only about 52,000 expatriates. “With indications from several West Asian countries that locals will be given preference for jobs because of the Covid-19-related downturn, the long-term prospects of Indian workers is something that will need greater attention,” one of the people cited above said. In an apparent acknowledgement of these concerns, a senior external affairs ministry official spoke about the need for a “smarter and more sustainable” approach to human resource exchanges with West Asian countries while addressing a seminar last week on the theme “Gulf and West Asia - reimagining business beyond oil”. Sanjay Bhattacharyya, the secretary (consular, passport and visa and overseas Indians affairs), who oversees relations with the Arab world, described human resource exchanges and energy security as the “two biggest items” in India’s bilateral cooperation with West Asia. “With the changing nature of industry and services, the introduction of new technologies and the development of new skills, we can leverage our interaction on the human resources front to one that is smarter and more sustainable,” he said. Mobility agreements of the future can focus on integrating official migration platforms to ensure better flow of information between foreign employers and potential workers or professionals, and this in turn, will “facilitate selection of better and more skilled candidates...and improved job security”, he said. Bhattacharyya noted in his speech that Indians were still the largest expatriate community in West Asia, with some nine million workers and professionals or 30% of the total expatriate workforce, who “remitted $48 billion to India, which helped domestic development”. “With both India and the Arab region engaged in reforms and transformational changes in the economy, the strong political understanding and goodwill between the peoples can take economic engagement to a higher level,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-indian-workers-in-oman-down-11-shows-data/story-7b0wlf8zktev88oj2Or1CM.html
22-10-2020||India||There is no question of any realignment with Nitish Kumar: Tejashwi||After wrapping up a day of 12 back-to-back election meetings, Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD) chief ministerial candidate Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav, 31, spoke to Anirban Guha Roy about the crowds thronging his rallies, his inexperience in governance, the RJD’s Muslim-Yadav constituency, the possibility of a post-poll alliance with CM Nitish Kumar, prohibition, the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) factor, and charges that he has sidelined other members of his family, among other issues. Edited excerpts:Your meetings are getting large crowds. Will this translate into votes? People have got fed up with the Nitish Kumar government’s inefficiency, and the huge turnout at my meetings is a reflection of people’s anger against the government. I’m confident people are going to vote for change as they see hope in us to give the state new energy for all-round development, jobs to the youth, and upliftment of the poor. Nitish Kumar is calling you inexperienced and has questioned how you will get money for providing 10 lakh jobs? Our chief minister is a tired man now, and cannot handle the state anymore. If I am inexperienced, why are 20 NDA campaign choppers flying in the air to campaign against me? All of them have now come together to fight a 31-year-old. It means people are listening to me, and lending support to my issues, especially our commitment to provide 10 lakh permanent jobs to the youth by filling 4.5 lakh existing vacancies and also 5.5 lakh new jobs to improve the manpower required in various departments as per the national average. As far as the money for the jobs is concerned, fiscal prudence will help in mobilising funds. Only 60% of the state budget allocation is spent, and rest 40% is unspent. It amounts to Rs 80,000 crore of our state budget of Rs 2 lakh crore. And if the CM is saying there are no funds, he should be held accountable for not doing good fiscal management in all these years.In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the RJD did not get a single seat. Do you believe the traditional Muslim-Yadav vote bank will work since the Yadav vote shifted to NDA last time? It’s propaganda that the RJD counts on M-Y equations. We are not a party of M-Y but A to Z, getting votes over the decades from all sections of people. RJD chief Lalu Prasad would not have stayed in power had he got only M-Y votes. In last 2019 elections, the RJD contested 19 parliamentary seats and got around 20% votes . So did it all come from M-Y only? No. In this election, caste will not matter as this has become a people vs government election with a wave for change. In ticket distribution, we have given representation from all sections of people including EBCs , upper castes , minorities, Scheduled Castes and backward classes, as we want to represent all sections of people. Is there a possibility of your party RJD-led Grand Alliance realigning with Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) in a post-poll arrangement in case there is a hung assembly? Obviously not . These are all assumptions -- if A happens, then what will happens; if B happens, what will happen. Your question is what if Nitish Kumar is leaving the BJP? The question of taking him back arises if he leaves the BJP, isn’t it? So, has he left the BJP? No, he is with the BJP. Second, if there is a hung assembly , it will be seen as a mandate against the CM because it will be a reflection of people’s anger against him. So when people vote against him, then why would we take him? There is no question of any realignment with Nitish Kumar in the future. At the same time, I want to emphasise that there will be no hung assembly as people will give a decisive mandate to us. We will come to power with a comfortable majority on November 10, when results come out, and form the government. That is quite visible on the ground, and we can gauge the people’s mood. The LJP is contesting alone, and there is a perception that it will help the RJD . Will there be any post-poll understanding with RJD and LJP? LJP chief Chirag Paswan has said many a time that he is with the BJP as part of the NDA, and not with the JD(U). He has asserted there will no understanding with the RJD. The LJP chief has made the picture clear. I do not need to talk about it. As for what will help, what will not , I never think about it. In the by-election after the Lok Sabha polls last year, the HAM(S), led by former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, and the Vikassheel Insaan Party( VIP) contested alone . Many felt it would damage us. But we benefited ( RJD won two out of five assembly seats in bypolls in October). It will be assessed later on whether the LJP contesting alone with help somebody or damage somebody. The BJP-JD(U) is setting the poll narrative against the RJD by labelling its 15 years rule as Jungle Raj. There is also accusation of law-and-order deteriorating if the RJD comes to power? This is all part of an attempt to create fear psychosis among people, and divert attention of people from the 15-year rule of Nitish Kumar, who failed on all fronts, be it in generating jobs, bringing industries, checking migration, or getting special category status.We have already apologised to people for any mistakes and shortcomings during our rule, and are now exhorting people to give us one chance to serve. The NCRB data shows the state witnessed drastic rise in crime after 2018. It was the RJD that took a lead role in putting pressure on the state government in the Muzaffarpur shelter home sex abuse case. Will your government review the excise policy and prohibition enforced in the state from 2016, after coming to power? My strong belief is that prohibition should be there. But there are anomalies in implementation of prohibition. Due to the slackness of the state government, a black market to the tune of Rs 10,000 crore has emerged, and illegal wealth earned from Bihar is going to different states. This has happened because the implementation of the prohibition law is poor.We will surely look into this aspect. Besides, there is ban on liquor but other addictive items are available. What about them? What have they done to check it? The chief minister was campaigning for countrywide prohibition, but the BJP had opposed the prohibition law even in the state assembly. The RJD’s posters show Tejashwi. Your siblings, elder brother Tej Pratap and elder sister Misa Bharti, and even your mother and former chief minister, Rabri Devi, are not visible much in the campaign. The BJP has taken potshots as to how you have sidelined everybody to showcase yourself? This is all foolish talk. Isn’t RJD chief Lalu Prasad the party president? In the last election, there were big posters of CM Nitish Kumar only. Nobody has been removed or sidelined. In elections, some are at the front and some are behind the curtains. Those who work at the front, they are visible. Everybody is playing their role. Of course, my mother Rabri Devi is diabetic, and we don’t want to give her much exposure for health reasons. People are watching everything. They are not fools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-is-no-question-of-any-realignment-with-nitish-kumar-tejashwi/story-3kLYvstE3FatYWSoXIi2UL.html
22-10-2020||India||‘Too early to say’, AIIMS director on ICMR observation on discontinuing plasma therapy for Covid-19||Even as the Indian Council of Medical Research announced that plasma therapy may soon be discontinued from the Covid-19 national treatment protocol, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi’s Director Dr Randeep Guleria on Thursday said that it’s too early to comment on the government body’s observation and more data needs to be studied.“Plasma isn’t a magic bullet. We’ve to position it properly where it may be useful, rather than saying everyone will benefit from it. What we’re learning from Covid is that, treatment may be useful if the timing is proper,” Dr Guleria told ANI.The AIIMS director said that there was a need to look at more data to decide conclusively.“I think we need to look at more data. In the ICMR study, a large number of patients who were given plasma already had antibodies in their blood. We know that if you already have antibodies then giving antibodies from outside through plasma may not be of that much use. That is why most of the studies now suggest that plasma given early before a person’s own antibiotics have found may be useful,” he said.He observed that in treatment of Covid-19 infection, it is crucial to give the treatment at the right time.“If it’s given too late it may not be of much use and if given too early it may be more harmful,” he said.Recently, ICMR chief announced that Convalescent Plasma Therapy may be removed from the national guideline for the treatment of novel Coronavirus after an ICMR study revealed that it did not help in reducing mortality or slow the progression of Covid-19.Dr Balram Bhargava, Director General of ICMR in a Union health ministry’s briefing said: “We are discussing with the national task force on Covid-19 management and with the joint monitoring group that may be deleted from the national treatment guidelines on Covid.”The investigational therapy uses antibodies from the blood of a recovered Covid-19 positive patient and transmits it into the body of patients critical of the same infection.With exact remedy to eradicate or cure SARCOV2 virus unavailable, ages-old convalescent plasma therapy emerged as a treatment for Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/too-early-to-say-aiims-director-on-icmr-observation-on-discontinuing-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19/story-vy0Ck6Au6miMbxycuwtRBJ.html
22-10-2020||India||Manipur hospital shuts down OPDs, admissions after staffers contract Covid-19||The government-run Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences (JNIMS) in Manipur shut its normal OPD, casualty and new admission (non-Covid) for three days from Thursday after some health care staff tested positive for Covid-19, the hospital said.However, treatment of Covid-19 patients and those in the hospital wards is continuing.“In view of the spread of Covid-19 pandemic and to prevent further spread of the same Covid-19 to all the health care professional (HCP) of JNIMS and general public, it is ordered that all OPDs, casualty and all new admissions of non-Covid in JNIMS will be stopped/closed for three days from October 22 (8 am) to October 25 (8 am),” said Prof Th Bhimo Singh, Director, JNIMS in an order on Wednesday.During the shutdown period sanitization, fumigation and contact tracing/testing of all health care professionals in concerned wards, hostels, casualty and operation theatres shall be done in public interest, the order said.According to Prof T Rajen, Medical Superintendent of JNIMS, so far around 148 health care professions including the doctors had tested positive for Covid-19.There are more than 600 health care professionals in JNIMS.“During the shutdown period we are trying to take up certain measures to streamline the existing system by providing the necessary services so that the institute can serve the general public properly,” Prof Rajen said. He also said that at present the dedicated beds for the Covid-19 patients in the hospital are all occupied.On the first day of the closure of the hospital on Thursday, the personnel of the Manipur fire services sanitized the hospital premises.Chief minister N Biren Singh chaired a meeting on Covid-19 on Thursday and it resolved that the government will continue to provide all accommodation and equipment for treatment of those affected by the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-hospital-shuts-down-opds-admissions-after-staffers-contract-covid-19/story-JtPiRdcNo5gOrAAFK7qOAN.html
22-10-2020||India||Task of China talks is troops’ ‘comprehensive disengagement’, says India||India said on Thursday the immediate task of its diplomatic and military engagements with China is ensuring a “comprehensive disengagement of troops” in all friction areas in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The disengagement and de-escalation process has not moved forward despite several meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs and the senior military commanders of the two sides. The commanders are expected to meet for the eighth round of talks by next week. Ministry of external affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing that India and China were continuing their discussions through both diplomatic and military channels to peacefully resolve issues along the LAC. This was in line with the agreement reached by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi during a meeting in Moscow on September 10. “The immediate task is to ensure a comprehensive disengagement of troops in all the friction areas,” he said. The last meeting of WMCC was held virtually on September 30, and it was followed by the seventh meeting of the senior military commanders at Chushul on the LAC on October 12. “The two sides have reiterated their desire to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for disengagement as early as possible,” Srivastava said. The military standoff in Ladakh has entered its sixth month and tens of thousands of troops mobilised by both sides are now hunkering down for the harsh winter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/task-of-china-talks-is-troops-comprehensive-disengagement-says-india/story-TPMV4gOt0G6e4t9rmYpqCP.html
22-10-2020||India||Top medical body ICMR issues advisory for use of Feluda Covid test||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has issued an advisory for the use of FELUDA paper strip test, the country’s first indigenously developed test for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) based on the genetic editing tool CRISPR/Cas-9, which is likely to hit the market within a month.According to the ICMR advisory, no further reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) based confirmation is required for samples that are confirmed as positives or negatives by it; specimen collection and transfer of sample for the test must be performed using appropriate personal protective equipment; and testing should be carried out under appropriate biosafety (BSL2 level) precautions, following the standard RT-PCR guidelines laid down by the medical body.Feluda uses CRISPR gene-editing technology to identify and target the genetic material of Sars-CoV2, the virus that causes Covid-19. CRISPR, which is short for Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats, is a gene-editing technology that can be used to detect a specific snippet of DNA from a sequence.The paper strip test has been developed by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research- Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) and has been approved by the Drug Controller General of India for a commercial launch.The advisory also allows existing ICMR-approved government and private laboratories for SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR based testing to be used for this new test. No further approval would be required from ICMR for starting the test in existing laboratories; however, new labs wanting to start the test will need to apply for ICMR approval.“Any prescription for RT-PCR, CRISPR, TRUENAT, CBNAAT may be considered equivalent. All testing data should be essentially entered into the ICMR COVID-19 web portal on a real time basis. Other reporting mechanisms to the state and IDSP should also be ensured as per the laid down protocols of COVID-19 case reporting,” says the advisory from the top medical body.The kit has already been validated by the Department of Atomic Energy’s National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru.The test is named after a fictional detective created by the late Satyajit Ray, although it is also an acronym for FNCAS9 Editor-Linked Uniform Detection Assay. It has been developed by senior scientists Dr Debojyoti Chakraborty and Dr Souvik Maiti at CSIR-IGIB.Based on tests in over 2,000 patients during the trials at IGIB and on testing in private labs, the test showed 96% sensitivity and 98% specificity. This compares favourably to ICMR’s current acceptance criteria of RT-PCR Kit of at least 95% sensitivity and at least 99% specificity. Sensitivity is the ability of a test to correctly identify those with the disease (true positive rate), whereas test specificity is the ability of the test to correctly identify those without the disease (true negative rate).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-medical-body-icmr-issues-advisory-for-use-of-feluda-covid-test/story-xUftyyLYR93tZMMrpTSG5M.html
22-10-2020||India||Just like Swine Flu, Covid-19 may see spike during winter: AIIMS director||Rising air pollution combined with coronavirus infection and lung complications can possibly lead to serious consequences, and therefore, higher mortality, Dr Randeep Guleria, Director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Speaking with ANI, Dr Guleria stated that escalation of particulate pollution during the winter may not always be fatal but might have serious consequences, meaning that patients may need ICU or ventilator assistance, leading to higher mortality.Experts broadly have sighted ample examples that identified that the number of all respiratory viruses shoot up during the winter months and have observed that SARS-CoV-2 is primarily a respiratory virus.“Swine flu also shows a spike during winter months and it is likely that Covid-19 would also do the same. Coming to air pollution, there is data that shows air pollution may also lead to a higher prevalence of Covid-19. This is based on the study being done in the last few months in Italy and China,” Dr Guleria said.The study in Italy found a positive correlation between PM 2.5 concentration and higher deaths due to Covid-19.“If people are inhaling pollutants into the airways, that itself causes airways inflammation and leads to worsening of underlying respiratory conditions. In such a situation, if people get Covid infection, they may have a more severe infection which might lead to higher mortality because of this combination,” he said.While explaining the correlation between rising cases, winter and air pollution, Dr Guleria said, “This is particularly related to two things. Firstly, due to the fall in temperature, viruses can survive for longer periods of time in the environment, unlike summer. Secondly, due to winter people tend to stay indoors, in crowded and poorly-ventilated rooms (to conserve heat) which maximises person-to-person spread of the virus.”With the Air quality Index (AQI) oscillating between ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’ category, it has already come under notice that coronavirus cases have started spiking in Delhi.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) in its latest bulletin (4 pm) on AQI, showed that with 296 and 215 index values in Delhi and Gurugram’s, air quality rests in the poor category whereas in Faridabad, Ghaziabad, and Greater Noida it looms into very poor category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-like-swine-flu-covid-19-may-see-spike-during-winter-aiims-director/story-noRUJMgLnUv9kHmwxlbRsK.html
22-10-2020||India||Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh: States promise free Covid-19 vaccine after BJP’s poll promise in Bihar||A poll promise made by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Bihar is fast catching up with other state governments. Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh took a cue from the Bihar announcement to offer free vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami said on Thursday that once a vaccine for Covid-19 is developed, all people in Tamil Nadu will be immunised free of cost.“I would like to announce that as soon as the vaccine is developed (and made available to states) all people in Tamil Nadu will be immunised and the government shall bear the cost,” he said in Pudukottai during an official visit. Elections are due in Tamil Nadu next year.Shortly after this, Madhya Pradesh chief minister said that his government will also provide the Covid-19 vaccine to poor people of the state and the cost will be borne by the BJP government.“The day Covid-19 vaccine trial began in the country, the poor people started discussing if they will be able to bear the cost. Today, I want to clarify that every poor person will get free Covid-19 vaccine. We will win this battle,” Chouhan said in a tweet posted in Hindi. जब से देश में #COVID19 वैक्सीन का ट्रायल शुरू हुआ, देश के गरीब वर्ग में एक चर्चा भी शुरू हुई, "क्या हम ये खर्च वहन कर पाएँगे?"आज मैं स्पष्ट कर देना चाहता हूँ, मध्यप्रदेश में हर एक गरीब प्रदेशवासी को मुफ्त वैक्सीन मिलेगी।हम ये जंग जीतेंगे। pic.twitter.com/XcMaGYF70IHowever, there were some criticism of the BJP’s announcement with the party’s estranged ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) questioning of free vaccine is meant only for Bihar. “Free vaccine only in Bihar? It’s ridiculous! Does the whole country not pay taxes or are they not equal citizens of India? It’s the GoI’s duty to vaccinate the entire country. Using this life saving vaccine as a tool for votes is totally unethical,” SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal tweeted using hashtags #VaccineForVotes #COVID19. Free vaccine only in Bihar? It's ridiculous! Does the whole country not pay taxes or are they not equal citizens of India? It’s the GoI's duty to vaccinate the entire country. Using this life saving vaccine as a tool for votes is totally unethical.#VaccineForVotes #COVID19Punjab-based SAD had recently quit the central government and subsequently the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the passage of three farm bills. The Congress government in Punjab passed a resolution against the farm laws in the state Assembly earlier this week.The BJP, meanwhile, clarified that vaccine will be provided to all the people in the country at nominal costs. “Your attempt to twist Smt Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement reeks of desperation. All parties issue manifestos. Vaccines will be made available to all Indians at nominal costs. States can make it free. In #Bihar, we will,” BJP general secretary and Bihar in-charge Bhupendra Yadav said on Twitter in response to a tweet from Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, who took a jibe at the BJP’s announcement. Your attempt to twist Smt Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement reeks of desperation. All parties issue manifestos. Vaccines will be made available to all Indians at nominal costs. States can make it free. In #Bihar, we will. https://t.co/rDji6EBxuPUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan has last week said India is expected to have a Covid-19 vaccine in a few months and the country should be in the process of delivering it to people in the next six months.Presently, Covid-19 vaccines are in various stages of trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-madhya-pradesh-states-promise-free-covid-19-vaccine-after-bjp-s-poll-promise-in-bihar/story-5q8bUSVANfOQpzYA0QF5XN.html
22-10-2020||India||Serum Institute joins hands with German pharma major to develop Covid-19 treatment||Non-profit scientific research organisation IAVI, vaccine major Serum Institute of India and global science and technology firm Merck KGaA have entered into an agreement to develop monoclonal antibodies to fight Covid-19 and to ensure their prompt and equitable global access.The agreement is “to develop SARS-CoV-2 neutralising monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) co-invented by IAVI and Scripps Research as innovative interventions to address the Covid-19 pandemic”, the partners said in a statement on Thursday. The agreement builds on the advanced antibody discovery and optimisation expertise of International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI) and Scripps Research, and on Germany’s Merck KGaA’s and Serum Institute’s significant capabilities in design and scale up of accelerated manufacturing processes for mAb production, it added. If the SARS-CoV-2 neutralising antibody candidates being advanced through this partnership are shown to be efficacious in clinical trials, either as a single antibody or a potential combination of both candidates, Merck KGaA will lead commercialisation in developed countries, the statement said. Serum Institute will lead global manufacturing as well as commercialisation in low- and middle-low-income countries, including India, it added. “We’re acutely aware of the tremendous potential for monoclonal antibodies to be used in Covid-19 response. By combining the scientific achievements of IAVI and Scripps Research with our partners’ development, manufacturing, and distribution expertise, we are hopeful that this partnership will result in globally accessible antibodies that are available to all who can benefit from them,” IAVI President and CEO Mark Feinberg said.    On the agreement, Merck KGaA vice chair of the executive board and deputy CEO  Belén Garijo said: “Together with IAVI and Serum Institute, we look forward to demonstrating the potential application of these monoclonal antibodies in the management of Covid-19.” We share a common purpose to accelerate this promising science and deliver effective solutions that address global challenges presented by this pandemic, he added.    “I am extremely pleased that we have joined forces with IAVI and Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany in the fight against Covid-19 with the aim of developing monoclonal antibodies for global access,” Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla said. Under IAVI’s agreement with Merck KGaA and Serum Institute, the partners will conduct an accelerated, integrated program of preclinical and clinical research to evaluate the antibodies for treatment of Covid-19. A Phase I clinical trial is expected to start early in 2021, the statement said. Should the mAb candidates being developed be shown to be safe and efficacious, Merck KGaA and Serum Institute will help ensure that the therapy is rapidly and widely available and accessible, it added.   Joining the partners in this development effort are contract research and manufacturing firm Syngene International and bioengineering company ATUM, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-joins-hands-with-german-pharma-major-to-develop-covid-19-treatment/story-tZIoLg52mVqkNlIGvdhceL.html
22-10-2020||India||Assam cabinet announces funding for gaushalas to feed cows||The Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition government in Assam on Thursday approved to provide funds to ‘gaushalas’ (cow shelters) in the state to feed cattle. The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal. “Gaushalas are usually operated by trusts with public donations. But in some cases that money isn’t enough to feed the cows. Hence, the cabinet decided to do gap-funding of the additional amount needed by them,” parliamentary affairs minister Chandra Mohan Patowary told journalists. The oldest ‘gaushala’ of the state - Shree Gauhati Gaushala - was started in 1916. It has over 1,300 cows at present. The cabinet also decided to ask the state election commission to conduct elections to the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) within December 15. “It was decided that till the election process gets over, the ongoing Governor’s rule in the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) areas will continue,” Patowary said. Elections to BTC, which was ruled by Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), a partner in the BJP-led ruling coalition, was scheduled in April this year. But the entire Bodoland Territorial Areas District (BTAD), which comprises four districts, was placed under Governor’s rule the same month as polls could not be held due to the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cabinet-announces-funding-to-gaushalas-to-feed-cows/story-FrZHjmil9J76PTFWKHdAzM.html
22-10-2020||India||Mike Pompeo, Mark Esper in India next week for third 2+2 strategic dialogue||The ministry of external affairs on Thursday played down questions about India hosting the strategic 2+2 dialogue with the US just a week ahead of the American elections, saying the timing of the talks was largely in line with those of the two previous meetings. Experts have questioned the rationale of holding the key talks between the foreign and defence ministers of the two sides at a time when the US election could lead to a change of government. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and defense secretary Mark Esper will be on a two-day visit to India for the dialogue with their counterparts S Jaishankar and Rajnath Singh on October 27. Asked about this issue at the weekly news briefing, ministry of external affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “As regards the timing of the meeting, you would know that diplomatic calendars have their logic. You will notice that the earlier two meetings have also been held towards the end of the year.” Also Read: On India-US agenda, a plan to share defence intel from Ladakh to South China SeaThe maiden 2+2 dialogue was held in New Delhi in September 2018 and the second one in Washington in December 2019. The third dialogue will see India and the US consolidating their diplomatic and security ties, including institutionalised intelligence-sharing and efforts to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific. The signing of the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) is also on the cards to facilitate sharing of classified satellite and sensor data. “The third 2+2 ministerial dialogue will entail a comprehensive discussion on cross-cutting bilateral issues of mutual interest. In addition, both sides will exchange views on salient regional and global issues,” Srivastava said, declining to go into details. The discussions during these dialogues have enabled both sides to take forward their relationship and strengthen the institutional framework for cooperation across all sectors, he said. Pompeo and Esper will also have bilateral meetings with their counterparts, and meet National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mike-pompeo-mark-esper-in-india-next-week-for-third-2-2-strategic-dialogue/story-5uWTyQgz5U5KZEkMDJ7RcO.html
22-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Chirag Paswan’s fresh swipe at Nitish Kumar has cautionary note for PM Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chirag Paswan’s fresh swipe at Nitish Kumar has cautionary note for PM ModiAlluding to the volte-face by chief minister Nitish Kumar in the past, Lok Janshakti Party chief Chirag Paswan on Thursday sounded a word of caution to the electorate and also sent out a message to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, whose party is fighting the election in alliance with the JD(U). Read moreOnion prices continue to remain high at Rs 80-120 per kg across statesOnion prices ranged between Rs 80 to Rs 120 per kg in the retail markets in different cities, upsetting the household grocery budgets that are witnessing a constraint due to higher vegetable prices in the past one month. Read moreBihar poll temperature set to rise further with Modi, Rahul campaigning FridayThe political temperature in Bihar is set to go up substantially as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi take a direct plunge in electioneering Friday, addressing a series of rallies for their respective alliances in the state. Read moreAssam-Mizoram border issue: Trucks resume movement after 4 daysA day after Assam and Mizoram agreed to restore peace and normalcy on the interstate boundary following a clash, movement of trucks carrying essential items has resumed after four days, officials of the two states said on Thursday. Read morePakistan continues to provide safe havens to terrorist entities, says IndiaEven as the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) assesses Islamabad’s compliance with a counter-terror financing action plan, India on Thursday accused Pakistan of continuing to shelter terror groups and failing to act against UN-designated terrorists such as Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar and Dawood Ibrahim. Read moreCoronavirus pandemic: Doctors in Delhi see jump in breathing issues amid Covid-19, pollutionTop doctors in New Delhi are reporting a jump in respiratory problems among its residents, coinciding with the onset of peak pollution season in India’s capital and raising concerns about complications for Covid-19 patients. Read moreCoca-Cola results beat as sales improve from Covid pandemic lowsCoca-Cola Co beat revenue and profit expectations on Thursday as strong “at-home” sales helped the world’s largest soda maker bounce back from a shattering second quarter, sending its shares up 2% before the bell. Read more‘Cricket and…,’ Twitter India asks for three-word love stories. People reply and how!If you have been around the Internet for long, you may have seen posts which ask people to create a love story using minimum words. Twitter India has now joined the trend with their latest tweet and it has prompted people to share some rather interesting replies. Read moreHuman rights group says Lebanon probe into Beirut port blast flawedA leading international human rights group on Thursday said a Lebanon-led probe into the devastating port explosion in Beirut this summer has been marred by political meddling and lack of judicial independence, resulting in failure to yield credible results two months later. Read moreOn the Rocks movie review: Even a smooth Bill Murray can’t save Sofia Coppola’s average Apple comedyOn the Rocks, the new Sofia Coppola movie out on Apple TV+, feels like something she hastily wrote on a napkin once, and then promptly forgot about it. Why she decided to invest time and energy on the idea, perhaps unearthed during spring cleaning, is what we must get to the bottom of. Read moreAlaya F’s Rs 2.3 lakh dance class outfit includes stunning Louis Vuitton bag, Gucci sneakersAlaya F is easily one of the most sought after millennial actors and the 22-year-old debutante has been making the most of the coronavirus lockdown and posting about her diet, fitness routine, make-up tutorials and more. The Jawaani Jaanemann actor recently stepped out to attend dance classes at her Andheri studio in Mumbai and nailed her usual casual, sporty style. Read more#BoycottErosNow trends after pervy Navratri posts; when naughty turns raunchy Eros Now has stirred a massive controversy with raunchy social media posts around the Hindu festival of Navratri. The posts, which have now been taken down, have created a massive furore on social media with #BoycottErosNow becoming one of the top Twitter trends. Eros Now has now issued an apology and said that they did not intend to hurt anyone’s emotions.  Watch Here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-chirag-paswan-s-fresh-swipe-at-nitish-kumar-has-cautionary-note-for-pm-modi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5XOBrROgS87UwuyNx6GLMP.html
22-10-2020||India||Amid dissidence in BJP, BS Yediyurappa finds unlikely supporter in Siddaramiah||Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa who is facing dissidence in the BJP has found unlikely support with leader of opposition and Congress Legislature Party head Siddaramiah attacking the saffron party’s state unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel on Thursday.Siddaramiah accused Kateel of working against the CM to unseat him. In a series of tweets, Siddaramiah, a former chief minister, “Nalin is the face of the anti-Yediyurappa squad within BJP and he has been given the task to create strong opposition against Yediyurappa within their party. This squad is working tirelessly to lose in by-elections and eventually blame B S Yediyurappa for the loss.”The surprising backhanded support from Siddaramiah to the CM came two days after former Union minister and senior BJP leader Basvraj Patil Yatnal claimed that Yediyurappa’s days as CM were numbered. Yatnal also said that the party high command would replace Yediyurappa with a north Karnataka leader shortly.Siddaramaiah also said, “Kateel lacks spine to control his leaders. He does not have any capability to take action against his own party leaders who are targeting his own party Chief Minister.” The Congress leader also claimed that Kateel is a ‘cave dwelling wild man’ and ‘immature.’Earlier in the day independent legislator H Nagesh who supports the BJP and is currently the excise minister of the state, said that any move to jettison Yediyurappa would “finish not just the BJP government but the saffron party in the state”.Kateel who is also the MP from Dakshina Kannada district on the campaign trail in the Sira assembly segment which goes to bypolls on November 3, again clarified that there was no question of any change in leadership and that Yediyurappa would be the CM for the rest of the term. Refusing to comment further on the issue he said, “K S Eswharappa (Panchayati Raj Minister) and C T Ravi (national general secretary of BJP) have already made the party’s stance clear.”Kateel also hit out at Siddaramiah on Twitter. “I think your (twitter) account must have been hacked, if so please complain to the police. This kind of language doesn’t bring you respect. In case the account has not been hacked, I sympathize at your intolerance,” he wrote.Political analyst Manjunath commenting on Siddaramiah’s remarks said “The Congress leader is trying to just further the real internal divisions which exist between various factions within BJP. It is a fact that a section of BJP wants to oust Yediyurappa from Chief Ministership. Kateel is more of a Hindutva hardliner compared to Yediyurappa and thus the CLP leader’s remarks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-dissidence-in-bjp-bs-yediyurappa-finds-unlikely-supporter-in-siddaramiah/story-nacR3cZNA8zNFIhPEcqeiI.html
22-10-2020||India||Telangana pegs flood damage at Rs 9,400 cr as Central team visits Hyderabad||The Telangana government on Thursday projected an estimated loss of crops, properties and infrastructure to the extent of around Rs 9,400 crore due to recent heavy rains and flash floods in the state. Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar made a presentation to a five-member central team led by Praveen Vasishta, joint secretary in the Union ministry of finance on the extent of damage caused due to floods. A photo exhibition was arranged to depict the damages caused by the floods. The team, including R B Kaul, consultant, Union ministry of finance, K Manoharan, director, agriculture, S K Kushwaha, senior executive from transport and highways department and M Raghuram from Union ministry of water resources, went round several flood-affected areas in Hyderabad to assess the magnitude of the damage. At an interaction with the central team later, the chief secretary said the damage to public infrastructure was enormous. While the loss to crops was estimated at Rs 8,633 crore, loss to roads was estimated to be around Rs 222 crore. In Greater Hyderabad, the loss to the properties and roads is estimated to be around Rs 567 crore, he said. He said the state government had released Rs 550 crore for immediate flood relief measures and requested the central team to recommend liberal assistance from the Centre. Officials of various departments told the central team that there was an excess rainfall during the last 10 days, resulting in flooding of several residential colonies. The damage was more in Hyderabad and the surrounding districts. There were major breaches to three major tanks coupled with flooding in Musi river which inundated all low-lying areas. Earlier, the central team inspected the restoration works at Chandrayangutta, including repairs to road over bridge and removal of debris from nalas. The residents brought to the notice of the team members that flood water had entered their houses up to the first floor. The team noticed that many houses were still reeling under water. The GHMC officials, who accompanied the central team, said the inundation of colonies was mainly due to breaching of the Palle Cheruvu tank. The central team inspected the damages to properties, household articles and vehicles and also severely damaged roads and drains. The team visited Balapur, Hafeez Baba Nagar colonies in the old city, which were inundated due to breach of various tanks nearby. Praveen Vasishtra, the team leader, suggested taking up of permanent measures to avoid breaches of tanks in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-pegs-flood-damage-at-rs-9-400-cr-as-central-team-visits-hyderabad/story-vm4rCmrYHZYHn4lj5Fq56O.html
22-10-2020||India||Day before Imran Khan’s big FATF test, India hammers Pak for terror safe havens||Even as the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) assesses Islamabad’s compliance with a counter-terror financing action plan, India on Thursday accused Pakistan of continuing to shelter terror groups and failing to act against UN-designated terrorists such as Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar and Dawood Ibrahim. Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing that Pakistan had addressed only 21 of the 27 items in an action plan given by FATF to curb terror financing and money laundering. His remarks came against the backdrop of the multilateral watchdog’s virtual plenary meeting, which is widely expected to decide by Friday on retaining Pakistan in its “grey list”. Watch | India calls Pakistan ‘safe havens for terror entities’ ahead of FATF test Srivastava said Pakistani forces arrayed along the Line of Control (LoC) had carried out “3,800 unprovoked ceasefire violations” this year as part of efforts to push terrorists into Jammu and Kashmir. There were also efforts to drop arms and ammunition across the ceasefire line and smuggle weapons and narcotics across the international boundary using drones, he said. Also Read: Pak ISI finds its inspiration in IS tactics, preps to rain drone bombs in J&K“As is well known, Pakistan continues to provide safe havens to terrorist entities and individuals and has also not yet taken any action against several terrorist entities and individuals, including those proscribed by the UN Security Council, such as [JeM chief] MasoodAzhar, Dawood Ibrahim and (Lashkar-e-Taiba operations commander) Zakirur Rahman Lakhvi,” he said. “It is understood that Pakistan has addressed only 21 action items so far out of the total 27 points in FATF’s action plan. Six important action items are yet to be addressed,” he said. Though Srivastava did not give details, people familiar with developments said these six items included action against non-profit organisations and charities used by terror groups such as JeM and LeT to raise funds, and the prosecution of individuals linked to the illegal financial activities of terror groups.Also Read: Imran Khan window dresses Pak record on terror, gets groups to change tacticsSrivastava noted that FATF has well laid out standards and procedures for putting a country in its grey list or list of nations under increased monitoring and its black list or list of “high-risk jurisdictions subject to a call for action”. After a country is put on a list, it is assigned an action plan to be implemented in a stipulated timeframe. He said those found wanting in implementing their obligations are “held accountable and subjected to appropriate action”. He added the issue of Pakistan’s compliance is being looked into by the virtual FATF plenary meeting that will get over on Friday. In February, FATF had warned Pakistan that all deadlines for implementing the action plan had expired. It is widely expected Pakistan will be retained in the grey list. Srivastava accused Pakistani troops of continuing to engage in unprovoked ceasefire violations, often from civilian areas, to “support the infiltration of terrorists across the LoC”. This, he said, is a clear violation of the 2003 ceasefire understanding between the two sides. “This year, till date, Pakistani forces have carried out 3,800 unprovoked ceasefire violations. There have also been attempts to drop arms and ammunition across the LoC in the garb of civilian activities. We have also witnessed that Pakistan’s aid and abetment to cross-border terrorism [and] smuggling of arms and narcotic substances has spilled over to the international boundary, including through use of drones and quadcopters,” he said. India has maintained that there can be no dialogue with Pakistan till the neighbouring country stops backing cross-border terror.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-continues-to-provide-safe-havens-to-terrorist-entities-says-india/story-hbCPVid1kxbxpRfXZM8VoK.html
22-10-2020||India||Onion prices continue to remain high at Rs 80-120 per kg across states||Onion prices ranged between Rs 80 to Rs 120 per kg in the retail markets in different cities, upsetting the household grocery budgets that are witnessing a constraint due to higher vegetable prices in the past one month.The high price is expected till mid-November when the new onion crop from some parts of Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh is expected to arrive in the markets.There is a short supply of onions as crops have been damaged due to excessive rains in October in parts of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.In Lasalgaon, Asia’s biggest onion market, the prices of onions soared to Rs 7,050 per quintal on Thursday from Rs 4,801 per quintal a month ago.Narendra Wadhavane, secretary Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), Lasalga, said there is a tremendous shortage of onions due to the devastation caused by the rains.“We hardly have 4000 quintal of stock in the market currently compared to the normal 12,000 to 15,000 quintals in normal times,” Wadhavane said, adding that one-tenth of the trucks are bringing produce to the market as compared to normal times.On Thursday, onion was being sold at Rs 120 per kilogram in Chandigarh. “There is huge short storage of onions coming from Maharashtra,” said a vegetable trader, Rashwinder Singh, at Chandigarh wholesale fruit and vegetable market.In the industrial town of Ludhiana, onion has gone missing from the daily menu of many families as the prices touched Rs 100 per kilogram with the average price in the past two months being Rs 50.“We are not getting the requisite supply from Nashik. Crop from Rajasthan will take another month to arrive. Till then the prices will remain high,” said Gurkamal Singh, president, Arhtiya Association in Ludhiana district.In Lucknow, the retail price of onion was Rs 80 per kilo, double from the rate a fortnight ago. “A fortnight earlier the mandi onion prices were between Rs 30 and Rs 33,” said Sabir (who goes by the first name), saying as prices have risen there are also not enough buyers.Meera Yadav (54) gives the reason for Sabir not having buyers.“Onion is selling at Rs 80 per kg. Potato is at Rs 60 kg. Tomato at Rs 60 kg and gourd is selling at Rs 40 per kg. For a middle-class family like us which runs on limited income, we have no option but to reduce buying of these vegetables and cut on education to manage the household budget,” he said.Bhopal-based Ankur Tandon, resident of Sarabha Nagar, who works with a private marketing firm, said his entire monthly budget has gone haywire. “We are already managing with difficulty as my wife, who worked as a nursery teacher lost her job during the lockdown and I suffered a salary cut. The rising prices of onions have upset the entire budget,” he said.In Mumbai, a kilogram of onions was being sold for 100 on Thursday. Khushi Gupta, who lives in Lokhandwala, Andheri, said the rise in prices has turned into a double whammy for her.“We are now cutting down on the use of onions as we have already suffered due to lockdown. I don’t have a job for the last seven months and this has only made things worse,” she said.Hemlata Joshi, a housewife from Jeolikote in Uttarakhand’s Nainital, said, “We have almost stopped using onion in our dishes given the sky-high prices. The state government should do something to control the rate of vegetables like potatoes and onion in hilly areas.”Residents, however, believe that vendors are making a huge profit. Sandeep Bhalla, secretary of federation of sector welfare associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC), said as weekly sector mandis are closed, vendors are taking advantage and are charging higher rates than approved by the local administration. “People have no option but to bring down consumption,” he said.Hotels and restaurants have either stopped giving onions in salad or have increased prices of dishes. Chandar Prakash Khanduri, a dhaba owner in Library Bazaar in Haldwani, said, “We have been left with no option but to increase the prices of the vegetables that have onion as one of the ingredients.”Rajasthan, from where onion supply is likely to start from mid-November, has some good news. President Muhana Mandi in Jaipur, Rahul Tanwar said onions from Sikar and other places would come by mid-November. “The crop is good and it can put a check on the surge of onion prices,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/onion-prices-continue-to-remain-high-at-rs-80-120-per-kg-across-states/story-hUlcNuoqri8x2luNTcO3jJ.html
22-10-2020||India||Assam-Mizoram border issue: Trucks resume movement after 4 days||A day after Assam and Mizoram agreed to restore peace and normalcy on the interstate boundary following a clash, movement of trucks carrying essential items has resumed after four days, officials of the two states said on Thursday.Trucks that got stranded on both sides of the border since the clash between the people of the two states on Saturday night have started moving since this morning, though a major student body of Mizoram has launched a blockade on National Highway-306, which links the two neighbouring states.The student body Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP) said it has started the blockade at Vairengte in Mizoram’s Kolasib district near the border since Wednesday evening, claiming that people of Lailapur in Assam’s Cachar district have also put up a blockade.MZP president B Vanlaltana said that the agitation was also intended to protect Mizoram’s territory and mount pressure on the Centre and the state governments to resolve the long-standing inter-state border dispute.Vanlaltana said that 11 MZP leaders, including the vice-president Peter Chhangte were arrested in the small hours of Thursday for staging the blockade. The police, however denied this.Kolasib district Superintendent of Police Vanlalfaka Ralte, told PTI that some trucks carrying essential commodities have entered the state under police escort on Thursday morning from neighbouring Cachar district of Assam.Cachar district official spokesperson said, “More than 140 trucks have crossed over to Mizoram since this morning. A few trucks have also reached Lailapur from across the border.” Meanwhile, Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga has instructed officials to ask security forces not to withdraw from the border areas till a final decision is made by the Centre on the matter and normalcy returns to the area.Several people were injured in the clash that occurred between the people of the two states, during which several makeshift huts were torched on Saturday night.A home secretary-level meeting was held on Wednesday on the issue, in which the joint secretary to the ministry of home affairs (in-charge of North East), Satyendra Garg, was also present.Both the states agreed to restore peace and tranquillity along the border areas, provide security and instil a sense of safety among the people there.Garg held meetings with the Mizoram chief secretary and NGOs on Thursday in Aizawl over the border issue. He also called on Chief Minister Zoramthanga, officials said.Mizoram shares a 164.6-km border with Assam. Several dialogues held since 1995 to resolve the boundary problem have yielded little results.Meanwhile, a report from Imphal said that the Kuki Inpi Manipur, the apex body of Kuki tribes of Manipur, urged the Assam government to restore peace and normalcy in its border with Mizoram so that supply of essential commodities is not affected in the area.Kukis belong to a kindred tribe of the Mizos and they live mainly Manipur’s southern district of Churachandpur which shares border with both Mizoram and Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mizoram-border-issue-trucks-resume-movement-after-4-days/story-B01isfyA4zHOdiv8MTzo4I.html
22-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand forest dept buys inflatable boat for river patrol along Nepal border||The Uttarakhand forest department has procured an inflatable boat for patrolling Sharda islands in Sharda river along Indo-Nepal border in Champawat district, forest officials said Thursday.The Haldwani forest division for Sharda range will use the boat to patrol the Sharda river in which two big islands are situated.“Forest personnel will conduct effective patrolling to avoid timber smuggling from this area,” said Kundan Kumar, divisional forest officer (DFO), Haldwani forest division in the Kumaon region. Sharda river which is known as Mahakali in Nepal, forms a natural international border between India and Nepal in Uttarakhand. In Tanakpur area of Champawat district some small forest areas fall in the midst of the river islands. Forest officials have to use Tanakpur barrage and Nepalese territory to reach such forest islands. Forest officials said usually, forest patrolling staff could reach Sharda island by road only after crossing Bramhadev village of Kanchanpur district of Nepal. Apart from this, forest personnel can reach the island only by crossing the Sharda river. Since the international border has been sealed since March, it has thwarted regular patrolling of these islands and there is apprehension of illegal tree felling and timber smuggling,said an official. Kumar said two small forest islands - forest island 57 and 58 and spread over 830 hectares - are located in the river and had been difficult to patrol. “We have limited sources. Forest patrolling staff were using tyre tubes to reach the Sharda island and crossing the Sharda river. This puts their lives at risk all the time,” he said. There is no outboard motor in the boat and is has to be rowed.The officer also said that they were considering procuring a motor boat but maintenance and safety of the motor boat was a big challenge. “So, we decided to procure an inflatable boat. This boat can be deflated, moved around and stored easily,” said Kumar Mahesh Singh Bisht, ranger, Sharda range, Tanakpur, said, “We are yet to use the raft but it will be very useful as well as comfortable for our staff to conduct round the year patrolling and monitoring of forests along the international border.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-forest-dept-buys-inflatable-boat-for-river-patrol-along-nepal-border/story-Br6JIEqHCOYJUmYcJTo2UM.html
22-10-2020||India||Driver in Rajasthan’s Banswara disappears after allegedly killing wife, 2 kids||A man allegedly killed her wife and two children Wednesday night with a sharp weapon in Banswara, 530 km south of Jaipur, and then escaped, police said on Thursday. The police were informed of the murders by a relative who had gone to meet the accused and saw that his wife and children were lying dead in their house located in the Rata Talai area. “The accused who has been identified as Devendar Sharma, is around 40-years-old and is a driver by profession. He is a native of Dholpur district. He fled the spot after the incident. In the morning around 8am when one of the relatives went to the accused house he saw the bodies of the woman and her two children on the floor of the house after which he informed us,” said a district police official. He said a police team and forensic experts rushed to the crime scene to begin a probe. “The three deceased were identified as Neetu Sharma (37) and her two children were identified as Shweta Sharma (15) and Aryan Sharma (12). According to neighbours, the couple had an uneasy relationship and on Wednesday they had a fight too,” the police official said.Further investigation is on||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/driver-in-rajasthan-s-banswara-disappears-after-allegedly-killing-wife-2-kids/story-JlBbgLZiNBJN0tWQL1YQfM.html
22-10-2020||India||JMM, BJP candidates for Dumka bypoll served notices for allegedly campaigning without masks||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) candidate Basant Soren and Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Louis Marandi who are contesting the Dumka assembly seat in the bye-election in Jharkhand were served notices on Thursday for allegedly violating Covid-19 guidelines.Maheswar Mahto, sub divisional officer-cum-electoral officer of Dumka issued the notices following media reports that that the candidates and party workers were canvassing in the constituency without wearing masks in violation of Covid-19 guidelines.“All political parties have to strictly follow Covid-19 guidelines at their public rally in the bye-election otherwise legal action under different Sections of Disaster Management Act would be initiated”, the SDO said in his notice.The bypoll in Dumka is scheduled on November 3. Besides Basant Soren (younger brother of chief minister Hemant Soren) of JMM and former minister Louis Marandi of the BJP, there are 17 other candidates in the fray. The bypoll has been necessitated after the chief minister vacated the seat. In the assembly election last December, Soren had won from both Dumka and Berhait. He retained the Berhait seat and vacated Dumka. Senior BJP leader and the party’s Dumka bypoll in-charge Satyendra Kumar said his candidate Lois Marandi has received a letter and a reply is being sent. He denied any violation of Covid-19 guidelines by party members.“Not only our candidate but all leaders and party workers who accompany her in canvassing too always wear masks. Even before public meetings BJP workers distribute masks among the people on priority basis for safety”, Kumar said.JMM’s Dumka district unit’s secretary Ramesh Kumar said Basant Soren has not received any notice yet. He also denied any violation of the Covid guidelines.“Our candidate has not violated any guidelines of Covid-19 or Model Code of Conduct (MCC). The party would definitely reply if any such notice comes”, he said.Meanwhile, Louis Marandi has lodged a complaint with Chief Election Commissioner of India, Chief Electoral Officer of Jharkhand and deputy commissioner (DC) Dumka alleging that Soren has hidden some major facts in his affidavit and sought the cancellation of his nomination.Marandi has charged that Basant Soren has more land plots in his name than he has mentioned in his nomination papers. She also alleged that he has violated the Chotanagpur Tenancy Act by purchasing land from tribal people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jmm-bjp-candidates-for-dumka-bypoll-served-notices-for-allegedly-campaigning-without-masks/story-xrkqTIsa5h4EFtf1328jaJ.html
22-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Uttarakhand’s coronavirus fatality rate stands higher than the national average and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 case fatality rate higher than national averageAt 1.62%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) of people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand is higher than the national average of 1.51%, according to the Centre’s data. Since the pandemic began in mid-March, 960 people who tested positive for Covid-19 have died in Uttarakhand due to the virus and co-morbidities. Read moreJD(U) releases manifesto for Bihar polls, focus on empowering youth and womenThe ruling Janata Dal (United) on Thursday released its manifesto for the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections. The party’s vision document was released by JD(U) state president Bashistha Narain Singh. The manifesto was released with the slogan “poore hote vaade, ab hain naye irade (promises being fulfilled, now new intentions)”, according to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan. Read moreDelhi riots: Court dismisses Tahir Hussain’s bail pleaA Delhi court on Thursday dismissed the bail application of Tahir Hussain, the suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor from Nehru Vihar, in the three first information reports (FIRs) registered against him in connection with the north-east Delhi riots that had broken out in February. Read moreRajnath Singh likely to visit Sikkim on Friday, will spend Dussehra with troopsDefence minister Rajnath Singh will visit Sikkim to celebrate the festival of Dussehra with the troops of Indian Army posted near the China border, according to officials familiar with the developments. The visit comes at a time when India and China are locked in border tensions in the sensitive Ladakh sector. Read moreMumbai: Women commuters crowd booking officeLong queues of women passengers were witnessed outside Diva and Nallasopara railway stations on Mumbai suburban network on Thursday. From Wednesday, women commuters have been allowed to travel by suburban trains during non-peak hours in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Read moreTrump-allied groups pour $30 million into Barrett’s confirmation to Supreme CourtConservative non-profit groups plan to spend about $30 million by month’s end advocating Amy Coney Barrett’s confirmation to the US Supreme Court, according to people familiar with the activities. Read moreChinese state media’s warning to India on Taiwan also packs in a confessionAn ambush in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tirap sector that led to the death of an Assam Rifles soldier on Tuesday has put the spotlight back on China’s role to fuel insurgency in the northeast. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Sunil Gavaskar was angry’ Aakash Chopra reveals why former India captain was miffed with Delhi Capitals batsmanFormer India captain Sunil Gavaskar is a tough man to impress. Ask the innumerable batsmen who are trying to make a mark in Indian cricket, especially those in the IPL. Over the years, Gavaskar has been known to stress of the importance of getting the basics right – things such as grounding the bat properly while running between wickets, or giving yourself time when a batsman is new to the crease. Read moreHrithik Roshan’s mom Pinkie confirms she has tested positive for Covid-19: reportActor Hrithik Roshan’s mother Pinkie Roshan has confirmed that she contracted the coronavirus virus some time back and is in isolation. In an interview, she said that she is asymptomatic. Read moreUpdating default apps automatically resets them in iOS 14.1, fix might arrive in iOS 14.2Just last month we witnessed an iOS 14 bug that changed the default email and browser apps to Apple’s own Mail and Safari even after you changed it. However, the company did patch it later with an update to iOS 14.0.1. But it looks like a similar issue has cropped up again. Read moreJEE Main to be conducted in more regional languages from next year: Education MinisterThe Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Thursday announced that Joint Admission Board (JAB) will conduct the Joint Entrance Exam Main (JEE Main) exams in more regional Indian languages from next year. This has been done in line with the vision of the new education policy 2020, that promotes the use of mother tongue/ regional languages in school education. Read moreWatch: India successfully test-fires Nag anti-tank guided missile||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-uttarakhand-s-coronavirus-fatality-rate-stands-higher-than-the-national-average-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ROyGlfJCb08nBHpvpCxFrJ.html
22-10-2020||India||Once Covid vaccine is ready, it will be given free of cost to people of Tamil Nadu, says CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday said that as soon as the vaccine for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is ready, it will be given to the people of the state free of cost.The announcement comes on a day when Union minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while releasing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) manifesto for Bihar Assemblhy election, announced free vaccine for the people of the state.“Once Covid-19 vaccine is ready, it will be provided to all people of the state free of cost,” Palaniswami was qupted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier, the BJP had announced that people of Bihar would receive Covid-19 vaccination for free soon after the vaccine was available for mass production. The announcement was part of several promises made in its 11-point Sankalp Patra.BJP’s announcement to provide free Covid-19 vaccine in poll-bound Bihar did not quite go well with the opposition. Bhupendra Yadav, the party’s national general secretary and in-charge of Bihar, said the announcement should not be seen as a poll promise and that health is an important aspect of public policy.“If parties are allowed to talk about alleviating hunger and poverty, improving the lot of the farmers and offering jobs, why should they not talk about public health? It is an important aspect of public policy and should be addressed by all political parties in a reasonable manner,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-covid-vaccine-is-ready-it-will-be-given-free-of-cost-to-state-says-tamil-nadu-cm-edappadi-k-palaniswami/story-BdV2UZnhfG2lMtcYUsJwmN.html
22-10-2020||India||Chinese media meant to threaten India, ends up confessing role in northeast||An ambush in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tirap sector that led to the death of an Assam Rifles soldier on Tuesday has put the spotlight back on China’s role to fuel insurgency in the northeast. Tuesday’s attack by the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) came a week after China’s propaganda arm warned the Narendra Modi government against signing a much-speculated trade pact with Taiwan, threatening that Beijing could retaliate by supporting North-East separatists and stop recognising Sikkim as a part of India.Indian security officials said the timing of the attack by the NSCN-I-M, which has had a long history of links with the Chinese state actors, was mostly probably a coincidence but the Chinese state media’s threat had laid bare a truth wrapped in many layers of deniability in the past - links between North-East insurgent groups and Beijing.Although the links between Naga and Manipur insurgents to elements in the Chinese establishment date back to much before the 1971 war, the 1975 Shillong Accord between Government of India and Naga National Council was opposed by leaders such as SS Khaplang and Thuingaleng Muivah, who were then called the China Return Gang. Together, Khaplang and Muivah formed the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN) in 1980. They parted ways eight years later in 1988 to set up their own outfits; Muivah formed the NSCN (I-M) faction along with Isak Chishi Swu while Khaplang called his faction NSCN (K).To be sure, the NSCN (I-M), which is currently in talks with the government for resolution of the Naga issue, maintains that it does not have any links to the Chinese government. This claim, however, has been furiously contested by security officials and independent experts.Like Swedish-born northeast expert Bertil Lintner who, in his 2016 book “Great Game East: India, China and the struggle for Asia’s most volatile frontier”, documented how the leadership of first, the NSCN (I-M), and later Manipur’s People’s Liberation Army, were feted by the Chinese leadership for years. NSCN (I-M) co-founder Isak Chishi Swu, who died in 2016, had last made a quiet trip to Beijing as late as 2009.Nearly 15 years earlier, a top leader of insurgent group United Liberation Front of Asom Lohit Deuri had given security agencies graphic details of how unmarked Chinese weapons were transferred from Chinese ships to Bangladeshi dhow on the high seas and brought to India’s north-east, particularly Mizoram via land route during the Indo-Myanmar joint crackdown in the mid-nineties, codenamed Operation Golden Bird. Deuri, who belonged to the Paresh Barua group now called ULFA Independent, surrendered in 2000.Detailed interrogation of subsequent arrests of ULFA leaders also revealed that Chinese actors were behind the supply of 10 truck loads of arms to ULFA, All Tripura Tiger Force and the PLA in Manipur in 2004. The massive quantity of arms , grenades, rockets and ammunition seized from Chittagong Fertilizer jetty in Bangladesh on 1 April 2004 again had been transferred to a dhow from a Chinese ship on the high seas in Bay of Bengal.On 2 August 2010, Anthony Shimray, a senior NSCN (I-M) insurgent who oversaw supply of arms to the outfit, was picked up at Patna airport by Indian security officials. His interrogation led the Thai police to arrest arms dealer Willy Narue on 31 August. Interrogation of these two arms suppliers confirmed that two Chinese arms companies were to be paid $ 1 million for supply of weapons to north-east insurgents via ship from China’s port city of Dalian and then transported to India via land corridor in north Myanmar in October-November 2010.In January 2011, Indian agencies caught Chinese intelligence agent Qing Wang after she dodged local officials to enter Nagaland’s Dimapur without the mandatory restricted area permit and held an unauthorised meeting with Thuingaleng Muivah. She was deported for violating her visa conditions. During her detention, security officials, however, recovered her photographs with I-M leader Muivah, Nepal Maoist leader Prachanda and Kachin insurgent leaders on her laptop. A resident of Beijing, Qing posed as a journalist and left for Dimapur on Brahmaputra Mail from Old Delhi railway station on January 15, 2011 with Naga youth. It was found that she was an agent of the People’s Security Bureau and had visited India on a different passport in August 2010 by landing in Kolkata from Kunming in Yunnan Province of China.People familiar with the north-east insurgency said ULFA leader Paresh Barua, who is on the run in India, lives in Ruili in Yunnan Province across the Myanmar border with China. He isn’t the only one.The Chinese link with north-eastern groups was raised by Indian National Security Advisor Shivshankar Menon with State councillor Dai Bingguo at the 15th India-China Special Representative talks in January 2012. Dai totally denied the Chinese involvement and instead accused India of training and funding Tibetan insurgents against China.One of India’s most-senior experts on the north-east insurgency said the Chinese links with insurgent groups often used Pakistani deep state’s links in Bangladesh and the region. “But it is common knowledge that China wants to keep the pot boiling for India in the north-east with calibrated escalation,” added another top north-east expert in the national security system.The Chinese propaganda machine just spelt out the truth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-state-media-s-warning-to-india-on-taiwan-also-packs-in-a-confession/story-P4v2s5J77VhD3M8DBTvaRO.html
22-10-2020||India||Rajnath Singh likely to visit Sikkim on Friday, will spend Dussehra with troops||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will visit Sikkim to celebrate the festival of Dussehra with the troops of Indian Army posted near the China border, according to officials familiar with the developments. The visit comes at a time when India and China are locked in border tensions in the sensitive Ladakh sector.News agency ANI reported that Singh will visit Sikkim on October 23-24 and also inaugurate a number of road projects and strategic bridges built for easy movement of troops and common citizens to border areas.The defence minister is also likely to do “shastra puja” with one of the local units deployed in Sikkim at the forward location near the China border. As per Hindu tradition, the puja is performed annually at the time of Dussehra by warriors.The minister’s upcoming visit seeks to boost the morale of soldiers deployed in forward areas, the officials said.Last year, Singh had performed the shastra puja in France while receiving India’s first Rafale fighter aircraft from there.While the Ladakh sector has been the focus of the current round of border tensions with China, a tense confrontation between Indian and Chinese soldiers took place in north Sikkim in early May, just days after a brawl between rival troops on the northern bank of Pangong Tso.A skirmish at Naku La in Sikkim left four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers injured on May 9.The standoff, currently in its sixth month, has taken India-China ties to a new low, with troops even firing warning shots at friction points in August-September. This was the first instance of shots being fired along the Line of Actual Control since October 1975.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-likely-to-visit-sikkim-on-friday-will-spend-dussehra-with-troops/story-PnNBB23U2q5Y2n4biJ4EgL.html
22-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 case fatality rate higher than national average||At 1.62%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) of people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand is higher than the national average of 1.51%, according to the Centre’s data. Since the pandemic began in mid-March, 960 people who tested positive for Covid-19 have died in Uttarakhand due to the virus and co-morbidities. Dehradun tops the list with more than half the casualties at 550 deaths followed by the three districts of Nainital (137), Haridwar (119) and US Nagar (84) in the plains. Comparatively, the hilly districts have reported less deaths with Chamoli district reporting only a single casualty so far. There are 14 states in the country where the CFR is less than 1 % according to the data released by the Central government on October 21. Some of these states include Jharkhand, Bihar, Assam, Kerala and Telangana.In case of other states including Uttarakhand, the Centre has advised them to aim at bringing down the CFR to below 1%. While the recovery rate at the national level is 88.81%, in Uttarakhand, with 52,632 people having recovered out of 59,106 people who tested positive so far, the recovery rate has reached 89.05%. Out of Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally of 59,106, Dehradun district has reported the maximum of 16,434 cases followed by Haridwar (10,680), US Nagar (9,257) and Nainital (6949). The Himalayan state has so far tested over 9.41 lakh samples of which results of over 14,400 are awaited. The state currently has 69 containment zones in seven districts including a maximum of 30 in Dehradun district. Abhishek Tripathi, chief operational officer for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand said there are possibly many reasons for high fatality rate in the state compared to the national level. “With a large number of people having returned to the state, many of them also tested positive and died later. We are also getting many cases from Western Uttar Pradesh region at AIIMS Rishikesh. These are adding up here. Also, we have increased testing. We are conducting 8,000 to 10,000 tests daily. So it is natural that more people will be detected positive and accordingly death rate will also see a little surge. Then many people who have died due to other reasons like accidents, have also tested positive later. And maximum people have died due to comorbidities. But we are reporting all deaths of Covid-19 positive people,” he said. Anoop Nautiyal, from NGO Social Development for Communities Foundation, who has been analysing the Covid-19 data in Uttarakhand, said the state has been doing good with respect to most Covid metrics except for the death rate. “Recovery rate in the state is higher than at the national level, active cases have also reduced in the state, testing has been increased; the only concern that remains is higher death rate than the national average. Apart from efforts by the government, people should also report about complicated cases faster to the health authorities, so that death due to comorbidities is reduced,”, he said Nautiyal said CFR increased primarily from the first week of September and due to such a trend, the overall death rate has also increased in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-covid-19-case-fatality-rate-higher-than-national-average/story-7i1AcOldE14CzqrmEFEH9K.html
22-10-2020||India||‘Both nuclear powers India & China cannot afford to have a full-fledged war’:Lt Gen (Retd) Hooda||“The tense situation at Indo-China border in Eastern Ladakh will continue and will not ease-off as Chinese Army (PLA) has adopted to a stubborn stance and is not ready to disengage on-ground,” said Lt Gen (Retd) Deependra Singh Hooda, Former General Officer Commanding-in-Chief Northern Command.The veteran army general was speaking during the Virtual Meet on ‘The Future of Indo-China Relations’, organized by Chandigarh University, Gharuan. The Virtual Meet was attended by former Indian Army General, former Indian Navy Chief, National Security Experts, and Senior Administration Officials of Government of Punjab who interacted with the students to apprise them about the on-ground situation between the two Asian powers.Amongst other dignitaries who took part in the Virtual Meet on Indo-China relations included Admiral (Retd) Sunil Lanba, former Indian Navy Chief and Ex-Chairman of Chiefs of Staff Committee, Lt Gen (Retd) Parveen Bakshi, former General Office Commanding-in-Chief Eastern Command, Indian Army, Bharat Karnad, National Security Expert and Emeritus Professor, Centre for Policy Research and Rahul Bhandari (IAS), Secretary Higher Education, Water Resources, Mines & Geology, Government of Punjab.“Although a series of military level, diplomatic level and ministerial level talks have taken place between the two countries over the period of last months, yet the Chinese (PLA) has refused to disengage at ground level and maintain status-quo at Line of Actual Control (LAC). There might be some local incidents at LAC but both nuclear powers India & China cannot afford to have a full-fledged war,” said Lt Gen (Retd) Hooda, while giving details about the current border situation.“Both India and China have deployed huge number of army personnel who have prepared themselves for long term eyeball to eyeball situation, but Indian Army has a tactical advantage over Chinese (PLA), as the Indian Security Forces have operating experience at higher altitudes & hilly terrains in harsh winters,” Gen Hooda further added.“Currently there is huge trade imbalance between India and China which can be ascertained from the fact that Chinese products have 2.7 per cent penetration in Indian markets while Indian goods have merely 0.1 per cent penetration in Chinese markets. India’s 68 per cent of pharmaceutical formulations and 90 per cent of antibiotic medicines are currently coming from China,” said Rahul Bhandari, Secretary, Higher Education, Water Resources, Mines & Geology, Government of Punjab, while talking about the economic front.“Banning of social apps by Indian Government has not greatly impacted the Chinese Economy, as we are currently importing large number of goods like solar components, electronic goods, IT Hardware, Telecom Components, mobile phones, fertilizers and it will take India 5-10 years to be either self-reliant or search for new partners who can meet our technology needs,” Bhandari further added.Replying on the question of the possible threat of cyber attack by China, Admiral (Retd) Sunil Lanba said, “Indian Government is conscious about the fact that China has intruded deep into our technology and communication eco-system through the supply of components by the Chinese firms and that the threat of cyber attack from our hostile neighbor is real. Although the government is taking pre-emptive steps by increasing a nationwide alert and stepped up monitoring by intelligence agencies, but a lot has to be done in terms of hardware & technology installation.” “India should not rely on USA as it has not been a reliable ally which can be ascertained from the cases of Japan and South Korea. We should include South Asian countries like Vietnam, Taiwan as the fourth pillar of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (QUAD) who understands the ecosystem in Indo-Pacific region,” said Bharat Karnad, National Security Expert and Emeritus Professor, Centre for Policy Research. “India needs to speed-up its defence spending as the gap between China’s Defence Budget and Indian Defence Budget will touch US$ 500 billion by 2030 which create regional imbalance between the two Asian countries,” he further said. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/both-nuclear-powers-india-china-cannot-afford-to-have-a-full-fledged-war-lt-gen-retd-hooda/story-py6LnE3ZVc8TBQ37eB4eJI.html
22-10-2020||India||Centre working for fast development of West Bengal: PM Modi||Central government is continuously working for the fast development of West Bengal, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi adding that under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, houses have been constructed for around 30 lakh poor people.Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the people of West Bengal today on the commencement of Durga Puja virtually and said this festival reflects the unity and strength of India.“We are continuously working for the fast development of the state of West Bengal. Under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, houses have been constructed for around 30 lakh poor people. Over 90 lakh free gas connections given under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana,” said PM Modi. “Be it opening bank accounts of 22 crore women under Jan Dhan Yojana, granting governance to women under Mudra Scheme, be it Beti Bachao Beti Padhao campaign, or law against triple talaq, whether it’s free checkup facility during pregnancy for women or nutrition campaign or permanent commission in the Army, constant work is being done to empower the country’s women power,” he added. In the self-reliant India campaign, the strength of women is very big, PM Modi said. Speaking about West Bengal, PM Modi said, it was the land of Bengal itself that worked to make “Swadeshi” a resolution in the freedom movement.“Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore and Bankim Chandra Chatterjee gave the message of the self-reliant farmer and self-reliant life from the land of Bengal itself,” he added. “Durga Puja of Bengal gives a new glow to the perfection of India, gives new colours and gives new ‘Shringar’. It is the influence of Bengal’s awakening consciousness, Bengal’s spirituality and its historicity,” he said. PM Modi further stated, the great personalities from the land of Bengal, as and when required, with weapons and scripture, sacrifice and penance have served ‘Maa Bharati’. “I respectfully salute Ram Krishna Paramhans, Swami Vivekananda, Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Shri Aurobindo, Baba Loknath, Thakur Anukul Chandra, Maa Anandamayi and various other people like them. Many people might not know that the picture of Goddess Durga as Maa Bharati was also first made in Bengal by Abanindranath Tagore,” said PM Modi. The people of Bengal have such self-power, due to which they progress in every field and get achievements, said PM Modi. “People of Bengal have put the country on the path of progress and I believe they will continue to boost the country’s pride in a similar manner. Durga Puja is complete only when we overcome someone’s suffering or help a poor person,” he added. “The festival of Durga Puja is a festival that reflects the unity and strength of India. It is also a reflection of the traditions and culture that comes from Bengal,” PM Modi said.The Prime Minister took part in the commencement of Durga Puja celebrations in Kolkata, West Bengal, via video link. He addressed the people of the state, being telecast in every booth of the state’s 294 constituencies, following social distancing norms.He also spoke in Bengali to wish the people of the State.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-working-for-fast-development-of-west-bengal-pm-modi/story-PSSNEYAl5aKw9aQ1HHyHHK.html
22-10-2020||India||PM Modi’s Bengal poll pitch hinges on delivery of development, promise of change||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, while addressing the people of West Bengal on Durga Sasthi, which marks the beginning of Durga Puja, virtually set the tone for BJP’s campaign for the crucial 2021 assembly elections in the state. “The goal of Aatmanirbhar Bharat in the 21st century would be strengthened with the soil of Bengal,” Modi said, while quoting lines from Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore’s poem. The ruling Trinamool Congress is likely to face a tough challenge from the Bharatiya Janata Party in the coming polls. The BJP, which had made impressive gains in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls by winning 18 of the 42 seats, has already given a call for a TMC-free Bengal in 2021. The Prime Minister interspersed his praise for the people of Bengal with an inventory of the schemes piloted by the BJP-led centre and how they have helped the state. “Houses have been built for at least three million poor people in Bengal under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Nine lakh poor women have received free gas connections under Ujjwala Yojana. Bank accounts have been opened for at least 40 million poor people in Bengal under Jan Dhan Yojana. Also under Jal Jeevan Mission, pipelines for safe drinking water have been installed in at least five lakh households in Bengal,” he said. The BJP has already decided not to project anyone as its chief ministerial candidate for the upcoming polls. Instead, the party had said that it would highlight the ‘achievements’ of the Modi-government to counter the ruling Trinamool Congress in the state. Also Read: PM Modi invokes Durga to reaffirm commitment to women’s empowermentModi also said that Rs 8,500 crore have been sanctioned for Kolkata’s East - West Metro corridor and roads are being built to boost infrastructure between Nepal, Bangladesh and India. “Our aim is that people of Bengal should face less hardships and their life becomes easier. The BJP led-union government has adopted a rising-east policy and a series of decisions have been taken for the development of eastern India. Bengal has to play an important role in this (reorientation) and become its centre,” he said, adding that efforts are being continuously made so that people of Bengal can avail the benefits of development and the state prospers. Also Read: Calcutta High Court refuses to lift ban on entry of visitors inside puja pandalsThe Prime Minister, in a bid to connect with the masses during the biggest festival of Bengal, started and ended his speech with a few lines in Bangla and took the freedom to frequently use words and Bengali phrases. The BJP’s Bengal unit made elaborate arrangements for the live viewing of PM Modi’s virtual address. TV screens were put up in all the 78,000 election booth areas across the state. BJP karyakartas took part in a Durga Puja organised at Salt Lake, a satellite city of Kolkata. Adding a word of caution, the Prime Minister urged people to follow all safety protocols such as wearing masks and maintaining distance from each other while organising the Durga Puja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-bengal-poll-pitch-hinges-on-delivery-of-development-promise-of-change/story-TvsLpVIKDnx4qvsFmLdF6I.html
22-10-2020||India||Eknath Khadse, who quit BJP days ago, to join NCP on Friday||Eknath Khadse, the Maharashtra politician who resigned from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), will join the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Friday.In his resignation letter sent to Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil on Wednesday, Khadse said that he is resigning from the party due to “personal reasons”. Patil later said that Khadse’s resignation has been accepted.Shortly after resigning, Khadse held a press briefing where he blamed former chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis for his decision. He accused Fadnavis of playing “dirty politics” with him.“The then CM (Devendra Fadnavis) instructed the police to register an FIR against me on a false allegation of harassment by a woman. He said the case would be withdrawn later. A corruption inquiry was initiated against me in which I came clean. I suffered a lot in the BJP,” Khadse said.Also Read| There must be big reason behind his decision: Sanjay Raut on Eknath Khadse quitting BJPKhadse had been sulking since his unceremonious exit from Fadnavis government in 2016. He held about a dozen portfolios, but had to resign over corruption allegations. Khadse represented Muktainagar constituency in Jalgaon districts in Legislative Assembly several times.“The party has given me important positions but in return, I have worked and made big sacrifices for the party as well,” he said on Wednesday.Khadse further announced that he will join the NCP on October 23.The Maharashtra leader said that he was not upset with any other party leader except Fadnavis. “I have no grievances against any other leader from national or state leadership. I am upset with former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who made police file false cases against me.”Also Read: Devendra Fadnavis calls Eknath Khadse’s allegations against him ‘half truth’Khadse claimed that he even tried to raise the issue with the central leadership and told them about the deliberate attempt “to defame me” (by Fadnavis), but no heed was paid.Reacting to Khadse’s allegations, Fadnavis said he spoke half-truth.“It’s unfortunate that he resigned. He should not have resigned. As far as his allegation against me is concerned, he is speaking half-truth. He could have complained against me to the seniors. At this moment I won’t speak much on it but I will speak at the right time,” Fadnavis said at a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eknath-khadse-who-quit-bjp-days-ago-to-join-ncp-on-friday/story-J0NhLEBt7Wm56nLxzTC48M.html
22-10-2020||India||Malayalee expat in Dubai wins $ 1 million in duty-free raffle||A 46-year-old Keralite living in Dubai won the Dubai Duty Free Millennium Millionaire draw pocketing $ one million on Wednesday. The Dubai International Airport said Anub Pillai, a resident of Dubai for 21 years, won the draw which he bought online (ticket no 4512) on Oct 4.A father of two, Pillai works as a manager with a construction firm in the United Arab Emirates. “Initially I couldn’t believe it. I used to participate in big ticket raffles for more than a decade. A dream has come true for me. I am really thankful to Dubai Duty Free for running such amazing promotions,” he said adding he is yet to decide on how to invest the prize money.Indian nationals buy the maximum number of tickets and many of them have hit the jackpot. According to Dubai International Airport, Pillai is the 169th Indian to win US $ one million since the start of the Millennium Millionaire promotion in 1999. After the main draw, surprise draws for a luxury car and two motorbikes were also held. Another Indian, Vishal Raveendran, won one of the super bikes, Dubai Airport said. In August, Dipankar Dey, an optician hailing from West Bengal had won the big ticket raffle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malayalee-expat-in-dubai-wins-1-million-in-duty-free-raffle/story-lti9mAqDvCJVoFzpH7cHHP.html
22-10-2020||India||Government raps Twitter, asks it to respect India’s sovereignty||The government has written a sharply-worded letter to Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey over location settings of the social media site that showed Leh as a part of China, saying it raises questions about its credibility and neutrality, officials aware of the matter said on Thursday.“The [Union electronics and information technology ministry] secretary [Ajay Sawhney] has conveyed the government’s disappointment to Dorsey [in the letter],” said an official on the condition of anonymity. “It [location settings] was brought to our notice on October 18 when a senior journalist was doing a Twitter live from Leh... [he] noticed that the location showed that it [Leh] was in China.”The officials said Twitter must respect India’s integrity and sovereignty. “This is unacceptable and Twitter must explain it. They should also ensure that it never happens again. India is one of the countries with the maximum number of Twitter users,” the official cited above said.A second official said, “If you are working in India, you must respect the country’s sovereignty.”A Twitter spokesperson said the company remains committed to working with the government and that it respects the sensitivities involved. Twitter has acknowledged the letter, the spokesperson added.Journalist Nitin Gokhale was doing a Twitter live from Leh’s Hall of Fame, a war memorial for the fallen soldiers in Ladakh, when Twitter’s geo-tagging showed his location as part of China.“Twitter folks, I just did a live from the Hall of Fame. Giving Hall of Fame as the location and guess what it is saying Jammu & Kashmir, Peoples Republic of China! Are you guys nuts,” Gokhale tweeted. “Tweeple pl [please] put Hall of Fame Leh as your location for live broadcast and see what’s happening. It shows location as Jammu and Kashmir, Peoples Republic of China. I tested it again. Outrageous. Pl [please] flood Twitter with complaints. GoI [the government of India should take immediate action.”The issue has come up amid months-long border tensions between India and China in Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-raps-twitter-asks-it-to-respect-india-s-sovereignty/story-duZvjxKKXE4yX7GEQbW1QM.html
22-10-2020||India||Meghalaya CM launches ‘micro ATM’ service in rural areas||Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma has launched the ‘micro ATM’ service in rural areas of the state.He distributed the handheld devices, through which money could be withdrawn, to banking correspondent agents (BCA) on Wednesday.“Micro ATMs will take banking services to the doorsteps of people in rural areas.“The implementation of various development and welfare schemes get delayed due to the absence of basic banking infrastructure, because of which people have to travel long distances to avail the services,” Sangma said.The initiative is being promoted by the Meghalaya State Rural Livelihood Society (MSRLS) in partnership with the Meghalaya Rural Bank (MRB) and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD).The MSRLS had in June signed an MoU with the MRB to roll out the project in which 84 self-help groups (SHGs) functioning as ‘bank sakhis’ will be positioned with the bank’s branches as BCAs.As of now, every SHG will be provided with one micro ATM each, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-cm-launches-micro-atm-service-in-rural-areas/story-ZNRFFTdDgQO4Z2rz1IDQuK.html
22-10-2020||India||Free food grain for poor brought wheat prices crashing down, say traders||Traders who stocked wheat between April and June, hoping to earn greater profits by selling it later at a lucrative price anticipating a routine shortage in the later half of the year, are now a worried lot. To their utter disappointment, the wheat prices are at its lowest level in the state and also in the country, thanks to the free distribution of food grains— the government’s welfare intervention under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana to help the poor deal with the economic fallout of Covid-19 lockdown-- that is believed to have dramatically crashed the demand for wheat and flour (aata) in the market, say traders and officials.“Our firm purchased around 50,000 quintals of wheat from farmers/agents in April-May at or above the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,925 per quintal, fixed by the government. But today mandi wheat is selling for as low as around Rs 1,500 per quintal,” said Rajiv Sharma, manager of Lahoti Food Products Pvt Ltd in Lucknow’s Kasganj. According to Sharma, (atta) wheat flour and ‘maida’ (all purpose floor) sellers stock wheat in the months of April and May since wheat prices always soar August onwards due to its shortage after farmers sell their produce at the MSP to the government during the wheat procurement season between April and June.“But for the first time this year, wheat prices started dropping after July and reached its lowest level by September-October. Since the wheat prices are low, the price of ‘aata’ and ‘maida’ is also low in the same proportion, causing losses to the company,” Sharma explained. He said the wheat price in October last year was around Rs 2,000 per quintal which was above the MSP of Rs 1,840 per quintal. Also Read: Why Covid-19 pandemic has put the spotlight on contingency fundsRajendra Gupta, a prominent grain merchant in Lucknow, said that traders who had purchased stocks of wheat immediately after the harvesting to sell it later to customers, including flour mills, were in deep trouble this time as the low demand had brought the prices down substantially.Expressing a similar opinion, Pandey Ganj (Lucknow) Galla Vyapar Mandal leader Satish Kumar Tiwari said the market demand for wheat had been heavily curtailed resulting in a sharp price drop since July. “Few flour-mill owners are buying wheat from us since they do not have customers to purchase flour from them,” he said. “Now, most people come to us to get their own wheat grinded instead of buying flour from us,” said Lakhan Jaiswal, one flour-mill owner. Also Read: Coronavirus pandemic: What it takes to get to herd immunityAccording to Sharma, Gupta and Tiwari, the demand for wheat and flour started falling from July when the Central government started distributing free food grain to all ration card holders as a relief measure to mitigate the hardship of Covid-19 lockdown.“Free government distribution of ration alone is responsible for low demand for wheat and flour and hence the low prices,” Gupta said, “The situation will change only from December after the free ration distribution scheme ends in November,” he added.Under the free food grain distribution scheme, covering the state’s more than 80% population, each priority household with a public distribution system (PDS) card gets free five kg wheat/rice per head, per month plus one kg ‘chana’ or Bengal Gram per card per month. The Antyodaya families or the poorest families get a fixed quota of 35 kg food grain per card per month regardless of the number of family members. The free distribution is in addition to the regular food grain they get at a highly subsidized price of Rs 3 per kg for rice and Rs 2 per kg for wheat per head per month under the National Food Security Act.“If a family, for example, has five members, then it is getting 50 kg wheat and rice every month and this is more than enough for most families, obviating the need for them to buy wheat or flour from the market,” Sharma said.Food and civil supplies department additional commissioner (marketing), AK Singh also confirmed that the free distribution of ration did have a bearing on the market demand for wheat and on its price. “The impact of the free food distribution scheme on the demand and price of wheat products is quite palpable,” he said. Sources said a similar situation prevailed in most other states. “In fact, wheat prices are even lower in other states, including Punjab, Haryana, MP, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra,” they said, quoting Agmarknet data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-food-grain-for-poor-brought-wheat-prices-crashing-down-say-traders/story-BkX3sFxeWEhbMEbUCkto9O.html
22-10-2020||India||Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi tests positive for Covid-19, admitted to AIIMS Patna||Deputy chief minister of Bihar, Sushil Kumar Modi, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday afternoon. The BJP leader announced this on Twitter and said he has been admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Patna. Modi said that his parameters are perfectly normal adding that he will be back soon for campaigning.“Tested positive for CORONA.All parameters perfectly normal.Started with mild temp.No temp.for last 2 days.Admitted to AIIMS Patna for better monitoring.CT scan of lungs normal.Will be back soon for campaigning,” Modi said in the tweet.Ahead of the assembly elections in Bihar, Modi held a joint campaign with chief minister and JD (U) leader Nitish Kumar at Buxar and Bhojpur districts on Sunday. The BJP and the JD(U) are jointly contesting the elections which will be held in three phases - October 28, November 3 and November 7. Votes will be counted on November 10.Meanwhile, Bihar has registered over 208,000 Covid-19 cases till now which includes 196,208 recoveries, 11,010 active cases and 1,019 deaths. Over 9.5 million samples have been tested so far, the state health department bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-deputy-cm-sushil-kumar-modi-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-ND7lyFazNCkQY1l5Aw3GmK.html
22-10-2020||India||Car mechanic in Telangana kidnaps 9-yr-old boy for ransom, then kills him||Police in Telangana’s Mahabubabad district on Thursday arrested a 23-year old automobile mechanic who allegedly kidnapped and killed a nine-year old boy and set the body ablaze, on Sunday evening. The charred remains of the boy were recovered from Rallapusalapalli hillocks near Annaram village, a few kilometres from Mahabubabad town on Thursday morning, after the police arrested the accused – Manda Sagar from the town. Mahabubabad superintendent of police Nandyala Koti Reddy told reporters that Sagar had strangled the boy to death and later set the body ablaze within a couple of hours of kidnapping him. “Preliminary inquiries revealed that Sagar had kidnapped the boy only to make quick money in the form of ransom and enjoy a lavish life,” he said. The SP said the boy, son of a local Telugu television channel reporter, went out to play with his friends at around 5.45 pm on Sunday and did not return home. “The parents who searched frantically for the boy, came to know from his friends that an unidentified man took him on his motorbike. They immediately lodged a complaint with the town police station,” Reddy said. At around 9.45 pm, the boy’s mother received a call from an unknown person stating that he had kidnapped her son and demanded a ransom of Rs 45 lakh to release him. “He told her the entire family was kept under observation and threatened to kill the boy, if they complained to the police,” the SP said. He said special police teams were pressed into service to track the phone call and trace the kidnapper, but it turned out to be an internet call made through a mobile application. “It was difficult to trace the number. So, we took the help of technical experts from Cybercrime police in Hyderabad to identify the caller and his location,” he said. In the meantime, the kidnapper continued to make calls at regular intervals using different mobile applications till Wednesday morning. He even told the parents that their son was suffering from fever and he had given him medicines. Having no other option, the parents mobilised cash by borrowing from friends and relatives besides selling gold. As per the instructions of the kidnapper, the boy’s father went to a designated spot to hand over the money. “He waited for the whole day, but nobody turned up to pick up the cash,” the SP said. Meanwhile, the police who questioned as many as 30 people in and around the boy’s residence, managed to track the number on Thursday morning and identified the kidnapper as Sagar. They quickly arrested him from his residence in the town and questioned him. “During interrogation, Sagar admitted to have kidnapped the boy. The boy did not hesitate to go with him as he stayed close to his residence. However, after taking the boy to the hillocks, Sagar became nervous. Fearing that the boy would disclose his identity, he strangulated the boy to death, before setting fire to the body to destroy evidence,” Reddy said. The SP said the accused was still being questioned whether there were any other accomplices in the kidnap and murder incident. “As of now, Sagar is the only accused in the case. We shall disclose further details once the investigation is completed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/car-mechanic-in-telangana-kidnaps-9-yr-old-boy-for-ransom-then-kills-him/story-jsMcFNRkwdjmZnV3GVRApL.html
22-10-2020||India||Minister reveals why Maharashtra withdrew consent to CBI, it is about TRP scam||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh revealed that the state government suspected a politically motivated move to hand over the TRP scam case to CBI and hence withdrew the general consent given to the central probe agency through an order on Wednesday. Deshmukh added that though the CBI is a professional investigation agency, doubts are being raised over its use for political purposes. Maharashtra government on Wednesday issued an order withdrawing its general consent for CBI to conduct investigations in the state.“Section 6 of the Delhi Special Establishments Act empowers the state, making its consent mandatory for handing over any case to the CBI. By an order issued in 1989, Maharashtra had given general consent allowing the central agency to take over any case. We have withdrawn the same by issuing the order yesterday,” Deshmukh said at a press conference in Mumbai.Deshmukh said the state government suspected the possibility of TRP case’s transfer to the CBI for political reasons.“There is a growing murmur among the common public about the political use of the premier central agency of late. The Honourable Supreme Court too, had in the past termed CBI a ‘caged parrot’. We have seen how a few sensitive cases registered in Maharashtra were handed over to the central agencies. We anticipated a similar attempt in the TRP scam and hence the order has been issued. Mumbai police is investigating the TRP case very efficiently and has made a few arrests too. After the CBI registered an FIR in the TRP scam in Uttar Pradesh, there was a possibility of our probe being handed over to the Central agency,” he said.Also Read: Why Maharashtra withdrew consent to CBI for probes in state, Sena respondsDeshmukh pointed out that a few states like Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Sikkim, too, have issued such orders making their consent mandatory before handing over any probe to the CBI.Also Read: Shiv Sena takes potshots at PM Narendra Modi’s address to nation, calls it ‘best in last 7-8 months’In the recent past, the MVA government in Maharashtra and the BJP government at the Centre were involved in a tussle over investigations in sensitive cases. Immediately after it took over, the MVA planned to set up a special investigation team to probe Bhima Koregaon violence case, which was being probed by the Maharashtra police during the BJP rule in the state. However, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the case. Similarly, actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case was handed over to the CBI despite opposition by the Maharashtra government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-reveals-why-maharashtra-withdrew-consent-to-cbi-it-is-about-trp-scam/story-vhQorLdofUnro9Ck9TieuN.html
22-10-2020||India||India restores existing visas, except electronic, tourist and medical||The Centre on Thursday decided to make a graded relaxation in visa and travel restrictions for more categories of foreign and Indian nationals, who wish to enter or leave the country, amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. According to a statement issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB), the government has decided to restore with immediate effect all existing visas, except those that belong to the electronic, tourist and medical categories.“If the validity of such visas has expired, fresh visas of appropriate categories can be obtained from Indian missions/posts concerned,” the order said. Foreign nationals, who intend to visit India for treatment, are allowed to apply for a medical visa, including for their medical attendants, the PIB statement said. “The decision will enable foreign nationals to come to India for various purposes such as business, conferences, employment, studies, research, medical purposes etc,” it added. Also Read: It has been decided to permit all Overseas Citizens of India (OCIs) and Persons of Indian origin (PIO)cardholders and all other foreign nationals planning to visit the country for any purpose, except on a tourist visa, to enter by air or water routes through authorised airports and seaport immigration check posts. This includes repatriation flights operated under the Vande Bharat Mission, air transport bubble arrangements or by any non-scheduled commercial flights as allowed by the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation. However, all such travellers will have to strictly adhere to the guidelines of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW) regarding quarantine as a precautionary measure against the Covid-19 contagion, the order said. The government took a series of steps to curtail the inward and outward movement of international passengers since March 22 because of the Covid-19 outbreak..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-restores-existing-visas-except-electronic-tourist-and-medical/story-XJq4Dfz3sLRJMDkHmq7O8M.html
22-10-2020||India||Kashmir’s apple growers to benefit as Centre extends procurement policy||Apple growers in Kashmir are expected to get a boost after the Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the extension of the Market Intervention Scheme (MIS) for procurement of apples for the current season.Fruit is one of the major items of trade in Kashmir and generates a revenue of Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000 crore and provides direct or indirect benefits to 2.5 million people in the valley.Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha termed the decision to extend the MIS as a great relief for apple growers and said it will benefit the horticulture sector in J&K and thanked Prime Minister, Narendra Modi and the Union cabinet for extending the scheme.“The move will ensure optimum prices to the apple farmers and give necessary fillip to the economy. The scheme is a great relief for apple growers. It will provide a comprehensive insurance cover against any obstacle thus helping in stabilizing the income of the apple farmers. It will also address all issues related to marketing and transportation, in addition to providing optimum returns to apple growers” the Lt Governor said in a statement.Sinha said the government is committed to take forward the horticulture sector as it will contribute to the improvement of livelihood of apple growers.“Since 12 LMT (lakh metric tonne) of apples can be procured under this scheme, besides ensuring profitability, it will also create rural employment through supplementary services such as packaging, transportation.”The MIS scheme was launched for the first time in September 2019 and was widely appreciated by the apple growers across J&K particularly when they could not sell their produce due to the restrictions in Kashmir Valley following the revocation of Article 370.Officials said the scheme will stabilise the prices of the apple in the market and ensure reduction of distress sales.Under the scheme, apples will be procured by the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. (NAFED) directly from the growers/aggregators at optimum prices at five designated collection centres (Fruit & Vegetable Mandies) in Sopore (Baramulla), Parimpora (Srinagar), Shopian, Kulgam and Anantnag. The payment will be directly credited into the bank accounts of the growers through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode. “The scheme, among other things, will address all issues including marketing and grading of apples, procurement and storage. The scheme has been launched after taking into consideration the demands of apple growers,” said a senior officer of horticulture department.The Union cabinet has also allowed NAFED to utilize a government guarantee of Rs. 2,500 crore for this operation. The losses, if any, to be incurred in this operation will be shared between the Central Government and UT administration of J&K on 50:50 basis. Necessary infrastructure and facilities have been created at the designated collection centres for smooth operation of the scheme and senior-level functionaries from the horticulture department will be monitoring and supervising the procurement at the mandis.Officials said that representatives from NAFED and the National Horticulture Board will be associated with the procurement and other processes along with staff drawn from the horticulture and agriculture departments.“Market Intervention Scheme for procurement of apples through agency NAFED at 5 procurement centres of Kashmir has been extended this year. It is really an excellent step taken by the central government,” director of horticulture department Ajaz Ahmad Bhat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-s-apple-growers-to-benefit-as-centre-extends-procurement-policy/story-1ZYtTvU9fiZNsXHAGtVHhJ.html
22-10-2020||India||News update from Hindustan Times: India test-fires anti-tank missile Nag and all the latest news||Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India’s anti-tank missile Nag test-fired in Pokhran, ready for Ladakh deploymentThe Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) successfully completed the final trial of Nag anti-tank missile using a live warhead on a dud tank at Pokhran army ranges at 6.45 am on Wednesday.The shoulder launched four-kilometre range missile with imaging infrared seeker will now be inducted in Indian Army| Read MoreBihar Assembly Election 2020: BJP promises 1.9 mn jobs, free Covid-19 vaccine in its manifestoThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday countered the opposition Grand Alliance’s (GA) promise of providing 1 million government jobs in poll-bound Bihar by going many notches above and pledged to give 1.9 million jobs in different sectors| Read MoreAstraZeneca trial volunteer dies in Brazil. What it means for Covid-19 vaccine developmentIn September first week, pharma company AstraZeneca which is developing a Covid-19 vaccine in collaboration with Oxford University halted the trial process as two participants who took part in a trial developed adverse impact. Following this, the trial in other countries got stopped, triggering concern over vaccine safety| Read MorePakistan unlikely to exit FATF’s grey list: ReportPakistan may remain on the grey list of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) as it has been unable to comply with six of the 27 points in the global terror financing and money laundering watchdog’s action plan, a media report said on Wednesday| Read MoreIPL 2020: Mohammed Siraj reveals what Virat Kohli told him before giving the new ballMohammed Siraj made headlines on Wednesday night, bowling a spell for the ages. The Royal Challengers fast bowler produced figures of 3/8 from his four overs, including two maidens making him the first bowler to do so. However, Siraj alone doesn’t deserve credit for his breath-taking spell against Kolkata Knight Riders. Props to RCB captain Virat Kohli, who produced a master-stroke top make Siraj open the bowling and operate with the new ball| Read MoreShammi Kapoor’s son says he became a ‘wounded animal’ after mother Geeta Bali’s death, father’s second wife made him ‘human’ againLate actor Shammi Kapoor’s son, Aditya Raj Kapoor has recalled how his father’s second wife helped him get over the death of his mother, actor Geeta Bali. Aditya said that he became ‘a wounded, anguished, rebellious, howling animal’ in his youth and used to write ‘threatening letters’ to his father from boarding school| Read MoreWatch: Sonu Sood’s life-size statue at Kolkata pandal; actor respondsActor Sonu Sood, who helped thousands of migrants return home during the lCovid induced lockdown, has been honoured by a Kolkata Durga puja pandal with a life-size statue. The Keshtopur Prafulla Kanan Durga Puja committee has decided to make the struggle of the migrant workers during lockdown as the theme of their puja| Watch Here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-update-from-hindustan-times-india-test-fires-anti-tank-missile-nag-and-all-the-latest-news/story-H18Vi20DRuwGQ4L2gFFmWL.html
22-10-2020||India||PM Modi invokes Durga to reaffirm commitment to women’s empowerment||Invoking Goddess Durga, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday reaffirmed his government’s irrevocable commitment to women’s empowerment.Reaching out to the people of West Bengal during the state’s biggest festival, the prime minister said though it was being celebrated on a limited scale due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the “enthusiasm is still unlimited”.Noting that Goddess Durga was worshipped as a symbol of ‘Shakti’ (strength), Modi said his government was consistently working for the empowerment of women.“From opening Jan Dhan accounts for 22 crore women, giving soft loans to them under the Mudra Yojana, to launching Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao initiative, granting permanent commission to women in the armed forces and extending maternity leave from 12 to 26 weeks, we have taken a number of steps for their empowerment,” he told a gathering at Durga Puja celebration organised by the BJP.He also said anti-rape laws were made more stringent to include death penalty.“We are alert towards the security of women,” he said.The prime minister’s remark came in the backdrop of a string of incidents of rape and murder of women, including the Hathras incident that shocked the nation and triggered outrage against the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh.The prime minister recalled the contributions of reformers from Bengal like Ram Mohun Roy and Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, spiritual leaders Ramkrishna Paramhans and Swami Vivekananda, cultural giant Rabindranath Tagore, and revolutionaries like Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Khudiram Bose in shaping India’s national identity.Durga Puja, he said, was the epitome of pluralism and reflected the collective strength of India.The BJP had made elaborate arrangements for live viewing of the prime minister’s virtual address from the national capital.The event was televised live at over 78,000 polling booths across the state’s 294 assembly constituencies.Assembly polls are likely in West Bengal around April-May next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-invokes-durga-to-reaffirm-commitment-to-women-s-empowerment/story-JW8Og5QG3EOfSWRBHMYSFK.html
22-10-2020||India||Centre relaxes visa restrictions, allows foreign students, businessmen, but not tourists||Extending further relaxations to Covid-19 travel restrictions, the Centre on Thursday has decided to allow more categories of foreign nationals and Indian nationals to travel to India. All OCI (Overseas Citizen of India) and PIO (Persons of Indian origin) card holders and all other foreign nationals intending to visit India for any purpose, except on a tourist visa, will be allowed to enter by air or water routes through authorised airports and seaport immigration check posts., the new visa rules said. This also includes flights operated under Vande Bharat Mission, air transport bubble arrangements or by any non-scheduled commercial flights as allowed by the ministry of civil aviation.All such travellers will, however, have to strictly adhere to the health ministry guidelines, the notification said. Under this graded relaxation, the Centre has also decided to restore with immediate effect all existing visas (except electronic visa, tourist visa and medical visa). If the validity of such visas has expired, fresh visas of appropriate categories can be obtained from Indian Mission/Posts concerned, the ministry of home affairs has said.Foreign nationals planning to visit India for medical treatment can apply for a medical visa including for their medical attendants. In its earlier order, the home ministry had specified four categories of OCI cardholders to travel to India. Those were:1. Minor children who hold OCI cards and whose parents are Indian nationals.2. OCI cardholders who wish to com eto India for some medical emergency of immediate family members or death.3. Married couples when one is an OCI card holder and the other is an Indian national4. Students who are OCI cardholders and at least one of their parents is and Indian national or an OCI card holder. With the new rules coming into force all OCI and PIO card holders will be able to come to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-oci-pio-card-holders-allowed-to-travel-to-india/story-fzDXpHZS0BsCP2ICeOaFoL.html
22-10-2020||India||‘Raises questions over your neutrality’: India writes to Twitter on wrong geotag for Ladakh||India has conveyed its disapproval to Twitter for reportedly showing Jammu and Kashmir as part of China in its location tag in a live broadcast. Amid the ongoing standoff with China, India warned Twitter that any attempt by the social media giant to “disrespect sovereignty and integrity of India, which is also reflected by the maps, is totally unacceptable and also unlawful”.Such attempts not only bring disrepute to twitter but also raises question on its neutrality, fairness, Ajay Sawhney, secretary of the electronics and IT department wrote to Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey.Also Read: Twitter lands in hot water after J-K displayed as territory of ChinaThe incident came to the fore on Sunday when author and national security analyst Nitin Gokhale started live broadcast on Twitter from the Hall of Fame — a war memorial in Leh. The location tag displayed in the video was marked ‘Jammu and Kashmir, People’s Republic of China.’Twitter acknowledged the issue and blamed technical snag for it. “We became aware of this technical issue on Sunday, and understand and respect the sensitivities around it. Teams have worked swiftly to investigate and resolve the concerned geotag issue.Responding to the letter, Twitter spokesperson said Twitter remains committed to working with the government of India. “We respect the sensitivities involved and have duly acknowledged the letter,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raises-questions-over-your-neutrality-india-writes-to-twitter-on-wrong-geotag-for-ladakh/story-zPEV6X3c21XivqUNjW06kK.html
22-10-2020||India||Polling underway in Bihar for 8 legislative council seats||Voting began Thursday morning for elections to eight seats in the Bihar legislative council, four each from graduate and teachers constituencies at 1,063 polling stations in five divisions Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga, Saran and Kosi.Polling began at 8 am and will end at 5 pm. The results will be declared on November 12. The legislative council has a strength of 75.As many as 59 leaders are in the fray from the graduate constituencies, while electors of teachers’ constituencies would decide the fate of 43 contestants. More than 3.48 lakh electors in the eight constituencies would be exercising their franchise.The Janata Dal (United) and the Congress have fielded three contestants in four graduate constituencies - Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga and Kosi. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has fielded its candidates on all four seats, while the BJP, the Nationalist congress Party (NCP) and the CPI have put up one candidate each. Information and public relations minister Neeraj Kumar is contesting from Patna’s graduate constituency. There are a total of 59 candidates in the fray The BJP has fielded four candidates for elections from all four teachers’ constituencies - Patna, Saran, Tirhut and Darbhanga. Nawal Kishore Yadav is contesting on BJP ticket from the Patna seat. Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha is seeking his re-election from Darbhanga seat. The nominees of the RJD and the CPI are also trying their luck in two separate constituencies. The graduate constituencies have a total of 4.08 lakh voters, who include 3.07 lakh men and 1 lakh women and 46 third gender voters. The teachers’ constituencies have 40,413 electors including 31,694 men, 8,715 women and 43 of the third gender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polling-underway-in-bihar-for-8-legislative-council-seats/story-RXmiK2OfS8NF6oqkyXytGO.html
22-10-2020||India||Tripura CM called ‘little Hitler’ for seeking to uproot ‘communist seeds’||After Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb called upon his party workers to uproot the communists from the state by 2023 while spreading the messages of nationalism and also those shared by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the CPM responded by calling the CM ‘little Hitler’, and claimed that history would not forgive him. The state would go for assembly polls in 2023. “We should keep our focus on only one thing till 2023 - uprooting the seed of the communists from Tripura. We need to work in this direction. We need to spread messages of nationalism and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to each and every corner of the state and only after that will our organisation be strengthened,” Biplab Deb had said, during a party programme held in Ambassa of Dhalai district, on Sunday. The CPM responded by alleging Deb’s words resembled that of a fascist. “Being in a constitutional post, a chief minister cannot make such a statement. His words sound like a fascist. History will never forgive this little Hitler,” the statement said. The Left party further claimed that during the reign of the BJP-IPFT government, democracy has been trampled in the state. They claimed that during their 31 months old regime, the ruling coalition was behind attacks on the opposition leaders and activists, killing many and setting party offices on fire, since the formation of the alliance’s government in 2018.Also Read: Tripura government announces special provision for sacked teachers in clerical, staff postsHowever, Deb had earlier blamed the opposition for holding a negative attitude despite the “good work” done by his government and urged the party workers to spread the word about the government’s developmental initiatives on social media. Also Read: Agartala civic body holds screening, immunisation drive for its sanitation workers“Though many developmental activities have been done since 2018, those are not reflected due to the negative attitude of the opposition. I urge you all to become active on social media to spread our developmental activities among the people,” said Deb. Deb had earlier asked workers to ensure that household in Tripura hung pictures of Swami Vivekananda in their homes to ensure BJP remains in power in the state for the next 30-35 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-cm-called-little-hitler-for-seeking-to-uproot-communist-seeds/story-d42PfoBj4lPu0vBuKxt4bJ.html
22-10-2020||India||Why Maharashtra withdrew consent to CBI for probes in state, Sena responds||A day after the Maharashtra government withdrew the general consent given to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe cases in the state, the Shiv Sena on Thursday said the decision was taken in view of the central agency’s “interference in the matters of the state.”Vineet Agrawal, principal secretary (special), home department, confirmed the order that withdraws the contest and makes it mandatory for CBI to seek the state government’s permission before taking up cases within its borders. Maharashtra is the fourth state to issue such an order.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that the federal agency has the authority to probe. “In case of a national issue, CBI has authority to investigate. We had to take this decision because of its interference in the matters of the state already being probed by our police,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The MVA government’s decision came a day after the central agency said it would investigate the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) fraud case after registering an FIR on the recommendation of the Uttar Pradesh government.The case is currently being probed by the Mumbai Police which is interrogating three channels including Republic TV. Eight people have been arrested so far on charges including cheating and criminal conspiracy. With the Maharashtra government’s decision in place, the CBI cannot be stopped from investigating the case or questioning people in this particular case but it will have to take the state’s approval to take over the Mumbai Police’s FIR, a retired CBI official told HT. According to a former advocate general of Maharashtra Shrihari Aney, the ongoing probes (such as the one into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput) will not be affected by the move. Also, the CBI can seek an appropriate court order if it intends to investigate a case in Maharashtra if the state government denies consent, he added. The federal agency has not yet commented on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-maharashtra-withdrew-consent-to-cbi-for-probes-in-state-sena-responds/story-xsvplf82MBXWwXOZuPYdyH.html
22-10-2020||India||Voting for Ladakh hill council picks up pace, it’s a straight fight between BJP and Congress||Voting to elect sixth Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC)-Leh, began at 8 am on Thursday and about 30% votes had been polled till noon to decide the outcome of a straight contest between arch-rivals BJP and Congress to rule the 30-member council.“People are turning up in all the 294 booths and the polling is on smoothly,” said additional district commissioner Sonam Chosjor, also the returning officer for the polls. He said there were no adverse reports from any of the 294 polling booths till 10 am in the vast Leh district, where the temperature plummets to sub-zero in the night. “We had made all the arrangements in advance. Polling parties along with polling material and security personnel had reached the 294 booths set up in 26 constituencies in advance,” Chosjor said. Out of the 294 polling booths, 15 have been identified as hypersensitive, while 45 are classified as sensitive. A total of 89,788 voters will elect 26 councillors to the LAHDC, while four will get nominated to the 30-member council. 94 candidates are in the fray for the 26 seats, the results for which will be declared on October 26. Also Read: 2G services extended in J-K, high-speed data in Ganderbal, UdhampurThe ADC also informed that as a special arrangement for elderly voters above the age of 65 and for the differently-abled, the administration had reached out to them on October 13 and 14 for advance casting of votes.“Our teams took personal ballots from them at their homes,” he said, and added that around 1,000 elderly voters including 104-year-old Abe Tsering of Kunjus had availed the facility.For the first time in the history of LAHDC polls, votes are being cast using electronic voting machines (EVMs). BJP and Congress have fielded their candidates on all the 26 constituencies while Aam Aadmi Party has fielded 19 candidates. 23 independents are also in the fray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slow-start-to-voting-for-ladakh-hill-council-polls-it-s-a-straight-fight-between-bjp-and-congress/story-7LsTiPWoRWYE3ts5Il2yRL.html
22-10-2020||India||Shiv Sena takes potshots at PM Narendra Modi’s address to nation, calls it ‘best in last 7-8 months’||A sarcastic editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation on Tuesday was the best in the last seven-eight months. It said that the prime minister spoke like a “concerned guardian” and the address was on a “spiritual level”. It further added that Modi had a “radiant glow” on his face which would take away all the nation’s problems.“The seven-eight minutes that he spoke about corona was the best address in the last seven-eight months...Modi’s speech was that of a concerned guardian... He came, he spoke. White beard, radiant face. This radiance will remove the darkness of challenges we are facing,” the editorial published on Thursday said.Also Read: Lockdown gone, Covid-19 virus hasn’t, cautions PM ModiThe editorial added that Prime Minister Modi did not speak on unemployment, when everybody expected him to. “Prime Minister said that financial turnover is increasing. But he did not speak on how he would control the demon of unemployment that has gripped the nation after coronavirus outbreak. It was expected that the PM would make a statement on that, but Modi escaped it,” editorial said.It added that Prime Minister Modi did not touch upon the points raise by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. “What did Prime Minister Modi give to the nation in his address? What was new in his speech? What did he give for the flood-affected region of Maharashtra? What financial package did he announce? There can be such criticism. Still, his short address was effective,” the editorial read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-takes-potshots-at-pm-narendra-modi-s-address-to-nation-calls-it-best-in-last-7-8-months/story-V2NC3oguVEmCJjXrlviBsK.html
22-10-2020||India||In a stunning con job, man sold shares of ghost firm for Rs 34.12 crore, accused refused bail||The Bombay high court last week refused anticipatory bail to a man from Mumbai who allegedly duped a businessman of crores of rupees by selling him 1,37,000 shares of a non-existent company for Rs 34.12 crore.Justice Sarang Kotwal refused pre-arrest protection to Shishir Agrawal after noticing that the matter was serious and his custodial interrogation was necessary for the purpose of investigation.Agrawal was booked by the economic offences wing of the Mumbai police along with his father Ashokkumar, on the basis of a complaint lodged by Nirmal Kumar Gangwal, alleging that in year 2017, he was introduced to Ashokkumar by one Pawan Jain as a businessman running a firm named Intimate Fashions India Ltd and was later induced to part with crores of rupees under the guise of investment in shares of the public limited company, which had plans to establish a chain of shops across the country by opening 70 outlets.Initially the complainant invested Rs 8.50 crore by purchasing 34,000 shares of the company. In October 2017, the complainant received a share certificate and the shares were transferred to his company, Brescon Advisors Private Ltd. Next month he purchased another 34,500 shares in the non-existent company by paying an additional amount of Rs 8.62 crore.In August 2018, the complainant was offered and purchased 68,500 more shares in the company, thus totalling his investment in the non-existent company to Rs 34.12 crore. The next month, he even received an email declaring that in the annual general meeting of the company, the complainant was appointed a director and he even received ‘dividend’ for the years 2018 and 2019.The complainant started enquiring about the company after Ashokkumar did not respond to his queries. When he started searching for the company, he realised that it did not exist. He found one Intimate Fashions (India) Limited listed with the Registrar of Companies, Chennai, but neither was Ashokkumar it’s chairman nor was the complainant nominated on its board of directors.After persistent demands by the complainant, Ashokkumar repaid an amount of Rs 19.50 crore, leaving Rs 14.62 crore unpaid.Also Read: There must be big reason behind his decision: Sanjay Raut on Eknath Khadse quitting BJPShishir Agrawal conceded before HC that no such company by the name of ‘Intimate Fashions India Ltd.’ was ever in existence. He, however, claimed that it was a money lending transaction and the idea of showing it as an investment was floated by the complainant himself to evade taxes. The defendant also claimed that no misrepresentation was ever made to Gangwal and he being a chartered accountant would not have invested such a huge amount without making appropriate enquiry. Besides, he claimed, the entire transaction was carried out by his father, not by him.Justice Kotwal, however, refused to accept the contentions. The judge noted from a statement of a witness that Agrawal himself, in 2012, got the annual report and balance-sheet of the non-existent company printed from the witness.Also Read: No adverse effect of Oxford University vaccine on 163 Mumbai volunteers during clinical trials, says BMC“Thus the Applicant (Agrawal) has actively participated in creating forged documents. The misappropriation is huge. The Applicant was involved in creating forged documents in respect of the same company whose name was repeatedly used to cheat the informant,” said justice Kotwal, while refusing to grant pre-arrest bail to him.The judge also took note of the fact that Agrawal was part of the memorandum of understanding signed by his father with the complainant for refunding the outstanding amount of Rs. 14.62 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-stunning-con-job-man-sold-shares-of-ghost-firm-for-rs-34-12-crore-accused-refused-bail/story-tgSZt2DNcsIbQbSVZ99h7I.html
22-10-2020||India||There must be big reason behind his decision: Sanjay Raut on Eknath Khadse quitting BJP||A day after Maharashtra leader Eknath Khadse announced that he would be quitting the BJP to join NCP — a coalition partner of Maharashtra’s Maha Vikas Aghadi government — Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut sympathised with him and said there must be compelling reason behind his decision.68-year-old Khadse has been with the BJP since 1987. “If in this phase of his life, Eknath Khadse is quitting BJP with tears in his eyes after serving the party for 40 years and now joining NCP, then there must be a big reason behind his decision. Unki kundli jamm gai hogi (His future must have been bleak in the party),” Raut said.Also Read: Maharashtra leader Eknath Khadse quits: NCP’s gain, but is it BJP’s loss?Khadse has blamed former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis for “destroying his life”. “Devendra Fadnavis destroyed my life. I spent four years in mental tension. I repeatedly said in my speeches that you are forcing me out of the party. I feel sad about quitting the BJP but I had no choice. There were attempts to frame me on false charges of rape,” Khadse said. Khadse will be joining Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Friday.In June 2016, Khadse had resigned as revenue minister and from other 11 departments after he faced corruption charges. He represented Muktainagar constituency in Jalgaon district in the legislative assembly several times.Also Read: Devendra Fadnavis calls Eknath Khadse’s allegations against him ‘half truth’Claiming that he has no animosity towards the party and any other leader, Khadse said his only Fadnavis was responsible for his decision. “I have no grievances against any other leader from national or state leadership. I am upset with former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who made the police fabricate false cases against me. One case of outraging the modesty of a woman was registered against me on the orders from Fadnavis who was then CM and home minister. Similarly, corruption cases in Bhosri land deal and cases by anti-corruption bureau were registered against me, though nothing came out of them. I urged my party leadership and Fadnavis on various platforms to give me reasons for the punishment, but I never got a reply,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-must-be-big-reason-behind-his-decision-sanjay-raut-on-khadse-quitting-bjp/story-tQS19qwbs9Hr4VOhTETJIM.html
22-10-2020||India||PM Modi inaugurates Durga Puja event in Bengal, renews pitch for Covid-19 protocols||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday addressed people of West Bengal on the occasion of the beginning of Durga Puja, the biggest festival in the state.PM Modi’s address, which he delivered virtually, took place on Durga Shasthi or the sixth day of the ongoing nine-day Navratri festival.Last night, the prime minister had tweeted: “Durga Puja is an auspicious occasion, which celebrates the victory of good over evil. We pray to Maa Durga to bless us with strength, happiness and good health.”“Sisters and brothers of West Bengal, tomorrow, on the auspicious day of Maa Durga Pujo’s Mahashashti, I would join the Divine celebrations via video conferencing and shall also be extending my greetings to everyone. Do join the programme live,” he had posted in a subsequent tweet. Sisters and brothers of West Bengal, Tomorrow, on the auspicious day of Maa Durga Pujo’s Mahashashti, I would join the Divine celebrations via video conferencing and shall also be extending my greetings to everyone. Do join the programme live!Here are the major highlights from PM Modi’s speech:*PM ends his speech in Bengali, says can’t stop himself from speaking in Bengali and apologises for errorsPM recalls Swadeshi movement, says it was Bengal which turned Swadeshi into an ‘oath’ during freedom movement.*PM says people have shown great restraint in celebrating Durga Puja amid Covid-19 and urges everyone to wear masks and follow social distancing during celebrations.*’Durga Puja reflects unity and strength of India, as well as traditions and culture of Bengal,’ says PM Modi*Under PMAY, 30 lakh houses have been built for poor: PM Modi*Have to move forward with mantra of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas,’ says PM Modi*West Bengal has to play a significant role in ‘Purvodaya’, says Prime Minister*PM Modi says Rs 8,500 crore have been approved for Kolkata’s East West Metro*Have to reach meet objective of ‘Sonar Bangla’ through Atmanirbhar Bharat: PM Modi*Mission to empower women is going on at rapid pace in India says PM Modi*PM Modi pays tribute to various eminent personalities from West Bengal*PM Modi says people from West Bengal are taking India forward*It feels like I’m not in Delhi but right in West Bengal with all of you says, PM Modi*PM Modi begins his speech by wishing the people of West Bengal in Bengali||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-durga-puja-address-pm-to-address-people-of-west-bengal/story-di5bIfCh9fdJHpdWrFCcNP.html
22-10-2020||India||For 3rd consecutive day, active Covid-19 cases in India remain below 7.5 lakh||With 55,839 fresh Covid-19 cases registered in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid tally on Thursday stands at 7,706,946. But the number of active cases is seeing a steady decline for the third consecutive day, the data released by the health ministry has revealed.Active cases refer to the number of people infected by Covid-19 at present whereas the total tally includes the number of recovered people as well. On Thursday, the active Covid-19 cases stood at 7,15,812. On Wednesday and Tuesday, the numbers were 7,40,090 and 7,48,538 — all below the 7.5 lakh-mark.In the last 24 hours, 702 fatalities have been recorded. On Wednesday, the national case fatality rate dropped to 1.51 per cent. The Centre has asked state and Union Territory governments to bring down to rate to below 1 per cent. At present 14 states/UTs, including Mizoram, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Arunachal Pradesh, Kerala, Nagaland, Odisha, Assam, Bihar, Telangana, Manipur, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, meghalaya, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, are reporting case fatality rate below 1 per cent. Maharashtra continues to report maximum number of daily cases, followed by Kerala, Karnataka, West Bengal, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-3rd-consecutive-day-active-covid-19-cases-in-india-remain-below-7-5-lakh/story-FM4YZ95jxmGIb8OzNNBXvN.html
22-10-2020||India||National chemist association writes to PM Modi; offers to help with Covid-19 vaccine delivery||After private hospitals, the All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD) has come forward to offer help to the Indian government with the delivery of vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The government is currently making logistical arrangements for the procurement, storage and delivery of the vaccine against Covid-19, whenever it is available for use.In a letter written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the president of the association JS Shinde, and honorary general secretary, Rajiv Singhal, have urged him to utilise the established supply chain for vaccine distribution.According to estimates, there are about 8.5 lakh brick and mortar chemist and druggist stores currently operating in the country.“Our country is passing through challenging situations of COVID-19 Pandemic… We 8.50 lakh members of AIOCD assure you that our members will actively support by making medicines available without any interruption. Also, vaccines require an unpoured line of cold chain, right from production point to delivery and administration of dose to a person. Here to before all kinds of vaccines have been successfully distributed by our members’ year on year. All required infrastructure is available with those of our trade members to manage intact cold chain with experience,” the letter read.Also Read: Deceased AstraZeneca trial volunteer didn’t receive Covid-19 vaccineThe members recently had an online meeting with the president of the organisation, wherein they gave their consent to help with the delivery of the Covid-19 vaccine.“We request you to advise concerned ministries and departments to issue guidelines for use of our channel members for distribution of COVID-19 vaccines,” the letter further read.Over a 100 vaccine candidates are currently under various stages of trial across the globe. In India, at least three vaccine candidates, including two indigenously developed ones, are in the advanced stages of clinical trials.Dr Soumya Swaminathan, World Health Organization chief scientist, on Wednesday said that at least a couple of vaccines could be available for use against Covid-19 by early 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-chemist-association-writes-to-pm-modi-offers-to-help-with-covid-19-vaccine-delivery/story-tAEEgdb1weegvXwEfW4FTK.html
22-10-2020||India||12 years of Chandrayaan-1: The mission renewed interest in moon with discovery of water||India’s first mission to the moon, which was also its first scientific space exploration mission, was launched 12 years ago. Chandrayaan-1 successfully reached the lunar orbit 21 days later and has remained there since. Although the satellite continues to move around the moon, due to failure of circuitry it stopped transmitting data in August the following year. The mission is credited with finding water on moon. This renewed the interest of countries in the moon, with the US announcing the Artemis programme, aimed at sending humans to the moon in 2024. The US is the only country to have sent humans on the moon with six of its Apollo missions between 1969 and 1972. No human has been on the moon since. After reaching the orbit, the Chandrayaan-1 dropped an impactor probe from the satellite on November 14, 2008 to check the chemical composition of the lunar atmosphere as it went through and the debris where it struck. The impactor crashed, as planned, near the South Pole of the moon at a point that is now called ‘Jawahar Sthal’. Also Read: India’s space telescope completes 5-year mission life, will continue to function: ISRO chiefThe analysis of the data from this probe showed the first sign of water near the surface of the moon. This was re-confirmed using another scientific payload of National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) sent on the same mission called Moon Mineralogy Mapper. India has since sent another mission to the moon, Chandrayaan-2, a decade after the first one. The Russian space agency could not deliver a lander and rover and it was indigenously designed. India decided to land on the moon during its second mission—it would have been the fourth country to do so after the former Soviet Union, US, and China. India chose to land close to the South Pole, where there was more probability of physically detecting water using the lander and rover. However, during the 15 minutes of controlled decent, the lander-rover crashed just 2.1km above the surface of the moon. India now plans to send another mission to the moon which will comprise of just a lander and a rover and use the existing orbiter to communicate with earth. The mission was to take place next year but is likely to be delayed due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-years-of-chandrayaan-1-the-mission-renewed-interest-in-moon-with-discovery-of-water/story-pA3BQ6SpGP1f1tCUrOudpO.html
22-10-2020||India||Parliament’s unusual order to staff: Don’t wash utensils, lunch boxes in the complex||Hundreds of Parliament employees who bring lunch from home now face an unusual problem: they are not allowed to clean utensils and lunch boxes in the Parliament complex anymore. An internal circular issued by Lok Sabha secretariat on Wednesday said that the authority has taken “a serious view” of the issue. “It has been observed that the officers and staff are washing utensils and lunch boxes in the washrooms of Parliament House Complex,” the circular said. “This, apart from resulting into blockage of drainage system and causing inconvenience to the users, also causes deterioration in the standard of overall cleanliness and hygiene,” the circular added. Also Read: Govt issues draft rules for Rashtriya Raksha University ActA higher number of Parliament staff are now bringing lunch from home as the canteens have stopped serving food as part of the measures to tackle the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The canteens, earlier run by northern railways, were barred from cooking as the authorities wanted to avoid crowds. Even as the canteens continue to serve tea and snacks, officials are left with little option but to bring food from home. They have now been asked to “desist from washing their utensils and lunch boxes” and to “ co-operate in maintaining the desired level of cleanliness and hygiene”, according to the circular. The Indian Parliament has more than 2,000 officials and staff and 1,000 security personnel. An internal report of the canteen committee of Parliament showed that the staff and the security personnel, not the MPs, mostly eat in the canteen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-employees-cannot-wash-utensils-and-lunch-boxes-in-the-complex-anymore/story-VgAJv2SXrKfTnMKz0OP7aJ.html
22-10-2020||India||Lufthansa to operate 10 weekly flights in India, Air India will operate 7 in Germany||India-Germany air travel stalemate comes to a ‘fair’ resolution as German carrier Lufthansa has now agreed to operate 10 weekly flights in India against 20 flights that it was operating till October beginning. Air India, on the other hand, was operating only three to four flights in Germany leading to a disparity in the number of flights which contradicts the air bubble agreement, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation said earlier. Flights between India & Germany recommence under air bubble arrangement. Lufthansa will operate from Delhi (4 days), Mumbai (3 days) & Bengaluru (3 days). @airindiain will operate 5 weekly flights from Delhi & 2 every week from Bengaluru to Frankfurt.@MoCA_GoINow it has been decided that the German carrier will fly 10 flights — four to and from Delhi, three to and from Mumbai and other three to and from Bengaluru. Out of Air India’s seven flights a week, five will be to and from Delhi and two to and from Bengaluru.Also Read: International flights: India-Germany flights to start from October 26 after brief suspension of air bubbleOwing to the disparity in numbers, India, Germany air bubble — an agreement between two countries to allow their airlines to operate both-way travels — stood suspended. All flights between the two countries were cancelled till October 20.On October 16, Air India announced its resumption of Germany flights beginning from October 26. It also said that the schedule will continue till March 28, 2021.Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said earlier that foreign carriers won’t be allowed if that comes in way of Indian carriers. Reports said Germany was not ready to increase the number of Air India flights as it was apprehensive of importing Covid-19 cases from India.With Lufthansa flying 10 per week and Air India seven, the parity remains but the ministry had said earlier that it was not insisting on total parity. Even near-parity will do, Hardeep Singh Puri had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-germany-international-flights-lufthansa-to-operate-10-weekly-flights-in-india-air-india-7/story-rjMjsYBYasS2jsdEjPma3I.html
22-10-2020||India||2G services extended in J-K, high-speed data in Ganderbal, Udhampur||The Jammu and Kashmir administration extended 2G internet service facility for the residents of the Union Territory till November 12 on Wednesday.Meanwhile, as per the order high-speed mobile data services will be available in Ganderbal and Udhampur districts. Services in the whole of the region will be available for post-paid sim cardholders only.Furthermore, the order specified that fixed-line internet connectivity, without any speed restrictions, will continue to be made available.“The directions shall be effective from October 21, 2020 and remain in force till November 12, 2020, unless modified earlier,” the order copy by the Principal Secretary to the Government, Shaleen Kabra, read.The officials have been asked to communicate the same to the service providers in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2g-services-extended-in-j-k-high-speed-data-in-ganderbal-udhampur/story-j9Xjr7ZiSGiy2r2r1DiqTI.html
22-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to address Bengal on Durga Puja today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Narendra Modi to address Bengal on Durga Puja as BJP gets into poll modePrime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually address the people of West Bengal on Thursday around 10 am on the occasion of the beginning of Durga Puja, the biggest festival in the state. Read moreINS Kavaratti to be commissioned into Indian Navy todayArmy chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane will on Thursday commission anti-submarine warfare (ASW) ship INS Kavaratti into the Indian Navy at the Naval Dockyard in Visakhapatnam. Read moreIs death of volunteer a roadblock for Astrazeneca? Covid-19 vaccine latest developmentsIn September first week, pharma company Astrazeneca which is developing a Covid-19 vaccine in collaboration with Oxford University halted the trial process as two participants who took part in a trial developed adverse impact. Read moreIPL 2020: Injured Dwayne Bravo leaves message for CSK fans after being ruled outDwayne Bravo’s exit from the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2020 came as a huge blow for Chennai Super Kings who are in the middle of a poor run. The Caribbean all-rounder hurt his groin in CSK’s match against Delhi Capitals, leading to his unwanted exit from the tournament. Read more‘Find Salman Khan’s humour condescending’: Ex-Bigg Boss contestant Karanvir Bohra defends Rubina DilaikActor and former Bigg Boss contestant Karanvir Bohra has defended current contestant Rubina Dilaik in her stance against host Salman Khan. Rubina in a recent episode complained that Salman had crossed a line while addressing her and her husband, Abhinav Shukla, who is also a participant on the show. Read moreGone in 10 minutes: GMC Hummer EV edition 1 sold out in record timeIt took only a matter of 10 minutes for the first edition of GMC Hummer EV to be sold out in United States shortly after its launch on Wednesday. Despite a steep starting price of $112,595, the iconic off-roader broke the internet yesterday. Read moreMilind Soman’s honest ‘selfie’ video schools netizens on importance of sleep to ‘deal with stress effectively’Back from the US after an envious vacation with his wife, Bollywood’s supermodel and self claimed “fitness addict” Milind Soman is now unwinding back in Mumbai. Giving the Internet a break from his flood of romantic pictures from New York with wife Ankita Konwar, Milind was seen training fans on how and to find a “restful sleep” and its importance to practice mindfulness. Read moreSpace humour: Moon ‘photobombs’ the Sun, NASA tweets. Seen it yet?Are you someone who often finds yourself searching for different content related to the Earth, Moon and far far beyond? Then this tweet by NASA may just be tailor-made for you. Even if you’re not a space enthusiast, this share may just make you say “wow.” It’s a GIF showing the Moon “photobombing” the Sun. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-to-address-bengal-on-durga-puja-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-bxnwlVnRb6j6vRm8Ept2EP.html
22-10-2020||India||4-5 big steel plants to be set up in Chhattisgarh’s Maoist-infested Bastar region||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has approved setting up of several major steel plants in Bastar for development of the region, officials said on Wednesday. The announcement was made after a delegation of Sarpanch Sangh from Dantewada visited the chief minister at his residence on Wednesday and handed over a memorandum with the demand to establish industries in the region. “Chief minister approved their demand and said that Shaheed Mahendra Karma Ji (Congress leader from Bastar who was allegedly killed by Maoists in Jiram Valley attack in 2013) always wanted Dantewada and Bastar to have major industries. As per his vision, we would develop the Bastar region. The state government would initiate the establishment of four to five major steel plants in the region,” a press release issued by Chhattisgarh Public Relations Department on Wednesday stated. Also Read: Maoists threaten to kill those working on road projects; 6 vehicles blown up After handing over the memorandum to establish steel plants on the 500 acre land available in Ghotpal-Heeranar area of Geedam block, the delegation told CM that no land acquisition from farmers would be required for setting up these plants, the release stated. Also Read: BSF jawans in Malkangiri unearth 7 IEDs planted by suspected MaoistsThe delegation said that establishing industries in Dantewada, Kanker, Kondagaon and other locations would create better employment opportunities for the local youth, the press release stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-5-big-steel-plants-to-be-set-up-in-chhattisgarh-s-maoist-infested-bastar-region/story-twmZc7JVsc8kdlhpYNpL7H.html
22-10-2020||India||ISRO releases draft policy to regulate space communication by private players||In line with its mandate to open up the space sector for private players, the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has released the draft of a new Spacecom Policy 2020 to govern the commercial use of orbital slots, satellites, and ground stations for communication needs. The policy details how private players can get authorisation for setting up new communication satellites and ground stations. Comments on the draft policy have been sought, with the last date of submission being November 4. The policy will come into effect once the Union cabinet clears it. Allowing private players in the space communication sector will also enable India to keep pace with the growing demand for satellite-based broadcasting, network connectivity, and global mobile personal communication. This will also establish India as a significant player in the global space communication sector, the document states. Also Read: India’s space telescope completes 5-year mission life, will continue to function: ISRO chiefThe policy will allow only Indian entities to seek authorisation for orbital slots for new satellites, services based on existing satellites and setting up new ground stations. However, any company sending a communication satellite in space will also be liable for any damages to other objects in space and the environment. To cover this, companies will have to provide a financial guarantee or insurance cover at the time of seeking authorisation from the department of space and later from Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe). The policy will also protect India’s orbital resources or slots. Getting designated orbital slots is a long-drawn process that needs a lot of technical coordination and negotiations with other satellite operators of multiple countries to ensure interference-free operation of all satellites. The private players will be able to acquire these orbital slots from the department of space PSUs at a cost. However, there is an international time-stipulation for launching a satellite into the designated orbit and continued occupancy is essential. So, to protect the orbital slot, the private companies will have a timeline for operationalising satellites. And, if any company is unable to replace a satellite, the slot will be allocated to another. India has brought in 32 indigenous operational communication satellites since 1980s. In addition, all existing ISRO -operated satellites—such as INSAT and GSAT—will be handed over to the PSUs, like the New Space India Limited, at “no or notional cost” which can then charge as deemed fit for commercialisation. “Although I haven’t gone through the policy yet, it is a step in the right direction. However, what we really need is a comprehensive space policy that will map out how will the government’s announcement of opening up the space sector be actually executed, and the policy and regulatory framework that would be needed. Such a policy will also map out the scientific missions that will be undertaken by ISRO, while leaving the routine missions to the private sector. It should clearly detail the needs of India’s space sector and allow for a fair competition for the private space sector to deliver,” said Rajeswari Rajagopalan, head of Nuclear and Space policy at the Observer Research Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-releases-draft-policy-to-regulate-space-communication-by-private-players/story-hcrB1xAKZDFNQdI0y4GatJ.html
22-10-2020||India||Covid-19: IIT-Kharagpur develops tabletop testing device||Researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur have developed a portable tabletop machine that can diagnose coronavirus disease (Covid-19) test within an hour.The device, named ‘Covirap’, has been validated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the researchers are in talks with manufacturers to market the product. With a sensitivity of 94% and specificity of 98%, it’s almost as accurate as the gold-standard reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.It makes accurate Covid-19 diagnosis cheap, fast and accessible. The cost of the machine will depend on the level of automation needed, but at the laboratory setting, it cost the team Rs 5,000 to manufacture the machine. The cost of each test will be around Rs 500 to Rs 600. Also read: What is the Feluda test that will be commercially available by October 31?“There is no need for a temperature-controlled laboratory for the device or a cold chain for the reagents. The master mix of reagents is available in test tubes that have to be mixed with the RNA sample collected from the patient and run in the machine. After the processing is complete, a simple paper strip dip test has to be done. To ensure accuracy in reading the test, even without trained professionals, the strips have to be put in a small cartridge and a mobile-based system reads it to give results. Multiple tests can be run in a single cycle,” said Dr Suman Chakraborty, professor in the department of mechanical engineering at IIT-Kharagpur. The device uses one human gene as control and two genes from Sars-Cov-2 to detect the infection. Dr Arindam Mondal, a part of the team that developed the machine and assistant professor in the school of biosciences at IIT-Kharagpur, said, “During the testing phase of patient samples, all kits developed by the institute, were transported in an uncontrolled environment for hours to the testing unit that shows high levels of stability of the reagents that are being used for the testing.” “To check the performance of the device, we tested 200 patient samples using both RT-PCR and Covirap. We were pleasantly surprised; the results of both the assays were comparable. In fact, the sensitivity and specificity went up to 99% if RT-PCR results where less than 30 cycles of amplification were needed were considered,” said Dr Mamta Chawla Sarakar, virologist from the ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases, where the kit was validated.The researchers not just developed the machine, but the method used is also completely new. The team has applied for an Indian patent for the process. The machine is based on a technology called Reverse Transcription-Loop Mediated Isothermal Amplification (RT-LAMP) that uses constant heat to amplify the genetic material of the virus. After the pre-programmed amplification, the method developed by researchers from IIT-Kharagpur uses an additional heating step that improves the accuracy of the test. “This second heating step – and I cannot provide much detail – has been patented by our team. It is not used anywhere in the world. And, it’s not just Covid-19, this machine can be used to test for other infections such as tuberculosis, dengue, and malaria at low cost without much infrastructure. We kept in mind the situation in Kharagpur, from where people have to be rushed to Kolkata for any medical emergency,” said Dr Chakraborty. “While the institute can produce the testing kit up to a certain scale, patent licensing will facilitate commercialisation opportunities for medical technology companies,” said Dr VK Tewari, director, IIT-Kharagpur. “The innovation has made high-quality and accurate Covid-19 test affordable for the public. A test conducted by Covirap costs around Rs 500. The price point can further be reduced through government’s intervention. The machine can be developed at a cost of less than Rs 10,000 with minimal infrastructure requirements. The portable device has made the technology affordable for the public. Besides, the test results can be made available within an hour,” said Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’.He said the device would impact the lives of people living in rural India, as it could be operated on a low-energy supply. Minimally trained rural youths are also equipped to operate the machine, he added. (With inputs from Amandeep Shukla)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-iit-kharagpur-develops-tabletop-testing-device/story-pgPHbN7UiLUjfLHGXqTdkO.html
22-10-2020||India||India’s anti-tank missile Nag test-fired in Pokhran, ready for Ladakh deployment||The Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) successfully completed the final trial of Nag anti-tank missile using a live warhead on a dud tank at Pokhran army ranges at 6.45 am on Wednesday. The shoulder launched four-kilometre range missile with imaging infrared seeker will now be inducted in Indian Army.The Nag trial comes after the DRDO tested the helicopter launched Stand-off Anti-Tank Missile (SANT) with beyond 10 km range from Balasore testing range in Odisha on October 19. Although the missile will ultimately integrated with attack helicopters in future, the test was conducted from ground and was successful.According to senior government officials, the Nag anti-tank missile is now ready for induction at locations such as the East Ladakh sector as it has completed 10 successful user trial with the weapon finding and then hitting the target.The DRDO has been on a missile testing spree for a little over a month with only the 1,000 km range sub-sonic cruise missile Nirbhay, developing a snag during a test earlier this month. The missile is now expected to test fired in the coming months as the technical snag in the booster has been identified and rectified by the missile team.The final trial of Nag anti-tank missile means that the Indian Army will no longer have to import this weapon from either Israel or the US for the range of four kilometres. It was due to unavailability of a credible anti-tank weapon, that India had to buy around 200 pieces of Spike anti-tank missiles from Israel as emergency purchases after the aggression by People’s Liberation Army in Ladakh. The Spike missiles were purchases after the Galwan flare-up on June 15 after which both India and China have deployed troops all along the 1597 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh.The need for anti-tank missile was sorely felt after PLA amassed artillery, rockets and tanks in occupied Aksai Chin to deter India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nag-anti-tank-missile-ready-to-be-inducted-sant-missile-tested-fired-from-balasore/story-TXGqJQ1rko16xWuqga2Z5K.html
22-10-2020||India||Is senior citizen concession withdrawn? Has train fare gone up? All you need to know||The Indian railways is running 392 special festival trains from October 20 to November 30. These new trains are special trains keeping the festival rush in mind as regular passenger train services have been suspended during the lockdown. The Congress has accused the railways of “hiking” the train fares by 25 to 30 per cent. For example, sleeper class travel between Patna and Mumbai costs Rs 670 but special train ticket costs Rs 920.Why have fares gone up?The railways said there has been no unscheduled hike in fares. As per rules, fare for special trains running during peak demand seasons like festival season, summer holiday season is different and higher than regular mail or express time-tabled trains, it has said.Also Read: Railways to run 392 ‘festival special’ trains Is senior citizen concession withdrawn?The railways offers concessions to 53 categories including those for senior citizens, students, sportspersons, medical professional etc. Some of the concessions stand withdrawn due to the Covid-19 pandemic as a move to discourage people from travelling. At present, students and people with some medical conditions are only eligible for concession. But the railways have clarified that it is not withdrawing the other concessions. The decision is under review as normal passenger trains remain suspended.After a nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 to arrest the spread of Covid-19, the railways first started Shramik special trains and a few special passenger train in May. In the following months, more special trains were added to the list. The festival trains, too, come under this category and, hence, the regular fares and concessions remain suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-why-are-festival-train-fares-high-is-senior-citizen-concession-withdrawn/story-ZgnB1WpndJbkEV8OlBOzvL.html
22-10-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi to address Bengal on Durga Puja as BJP gets into poll mode||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually address the people of West Bengal on Thursday around 12 noon on the occasion of the beginning of Durga Puja, the biggest festival in the state. According to senior leaders of the BJP, the prime minister’s message would be live streamed on giant screens in at least 10 puja pandals across the state, including the one at EZCC in Salt Lake which is being organised by the Bengal BJP’s women’s wing for the first time. A senior BJP leader said that Modi’s address on Durga Shasthi (the sixth day of the nine-day festival) would virtually kick start the party’s campaign for the crucial assembly polls in 2021. The BJP has decided not to project anyone as its chief ministerial candidate for the upcoming polls. Instead, the party would highlight the ‘achievements’ of the Modi government to counter the ruling Trinamool Congress in the state. Also Read: Calcutta High Court refuses to lift ban on entry of visitors inside puja pandals A cultural program is also being organized on the sidelines of the puja at EZCC where Babul Supriyo, union environment and forest minister is expected to perform. Noted dancer Dona Ganguly and her daughter are also expected to perform along with their troupe. Dona Ganguly is the wife of former Indian skipper and current Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president Saurav Ganguly. Also Read: Bimal Gurung’s GJM to support TMC in Bengal Assembly polls 2021, exits NDA“With elections coming, our poll battle will pick up once the festive season is over. Protests would continue meanwhile. We are waiting for the prime minister’s address as this might also give us some directions,” said a senior leader of the party. Earlier this week, BJP president JP Nadda visited North Bengal where the party grew exponentially and had won seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019. After the Durga Puja, Union home minister Amit Shah is likely to visit south Bengal where the ruling TMC still holds its ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-address-bengal-on-durga-puja-as-bjp-gets-into-poll-mode/story-rPsUee3IjGQVf4mBlbmGZO.html
22-10-2020||India||West Bengal: Heavy rainfall likely to play spoilsport in Durga Puja celebrations||Widespread and heavy rainfall is likely to impact the ongoing Durga Puja celebrations in West Bengal and neighbouring Odisha. A well-marked low-pressure area has formed over the west-central Bay of Bengal on Wednesday. It is likely to move north-westwards on Thursday. It will move north-eastwards towards West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts across north-west Bay of Bengal off Odisha coast during the next 48 hours.The low-pressure area is likely to intensify into a depression by Thursday, and into a deep depression the following day, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Widespread and heavy rainfall, measuring between 64.5 and 115.5 millimetres (mm) per day, is likely over Andhra Pradesh (AP) and Gangetic West Bengal (115.6-204.4 mm per day) on Thursday. A similar weather condition is likely to occur over north-east India because of the low-pressure. Extremely heavy rainfall, measuring over 204.4 mm per day, is also likely over Tripura and Mizoram on Thursday and over Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura on Friday.Fishermen are advised not to venture into west-central Bay of Bengal and along and off AP coast until Thursday, into the North Bay of Bengal and along and off Odisha-West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts until Saturday (October 24) evening. Pollution levels have also increased in north-west India and several towns in the region recorded very poor air quality on Wednesday. Panipat, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Lucknow, Faridabad, Bhiwadi and Baghpat recorded very poor air quality, while Delhi continued to remain in the poor category.The national capital recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 256 on Wednesday. AQI between 202 and 300 and from 301 to 400 are considered in the poor and very poor category, respectively.The wind direction is variable, but it is likely to shift towards the north-east, albeit temporarily, on Thursday.Widespread stubble burning incidents were reported from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh (UP), which are likely to impact the AQI in Delhi-national capital region (NCR).However, the impact would be low because of better mixing height and ventilation, the air quality early warning system of the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoeES) said. The ventilation index on Wednesday was approximately 10,000 square (sq) metres (m) per second. The ventilation index is the function of the mixing height and the wind speed. It defines the ability of the atmosphere to disperse contaminants. A ventilation index below 2,350 sq m per second is considered poor. The mixing height is the height at which the pollutant mixes in the air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-warning-for-bengal-during-durga-puja/story-tGZpwWjwRn5EqI4Q2fMf0H.html
22-10-2020||India||INS Kavaratti to be commissioned into Indian Navy today: All you need to know about warship||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane will on Thursday commission anti-submarine warfare (ASW) ship INS Kavaratti into the Indian Navy at the Naval Dockyard in Visakhapatnam.Ahead of the ship’s commissioning, Indian Navy, in a statement, said the warship portrays the growing capability of the force.Here’s all you need to know about INS Kavaratti:(1.) It is the last of four indigenously-built ASW under ‘Project 28’ or or Kamorta-class corvettes of the Navy. It’s a class of ASWs currently in service with the Navy.(2.) ‘Project 28’ was approved in 2003. The other three warships under this project are INS Kamorta (commissioned in 2014), INS Kadmatt (2016) and INS Kiltan (2017).(3.) INS Kavaratti has up to 90% indigenous content. The use of carbon composites to build it has been described as a ‘commendable feat achieved in Indian shipbuilding.’(4.) The warship has been designed by the Navy’s in-house organisation, the Directorate of Naval Design (DND). Kolkata’s Garden Research Shipbuilders and Engineers (GRSE), meanwhile, has built it.(5.) Further, it has state-of-the-art weapons and a sensor that can detect and take action against hostile submarines. It also has a good endurance for long-range deployments.(6.) It has completed sea-trials of all its systems fitted onboard and, hence, will be commissioned as a combat-ready platform.(7.) INS Kavaratti derives its name from the eponymous INS Kavaratti, which was an Arnala class missile corvette. The older INS Kavaratti operated during the 1971 Bangladesh liberation war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ins-kavaratti-to-be-commissioned-into-indian-navy-today-all-you-need-to-know-about-warship/story-PPT1V7rc5jElyG9DboIzgP.html
22-10-2020||India||Devendra Fadnavis calls Eknath Khadse’s allegations against him ‘half truth’||Former Maharashtra chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis termed Eknath Khadse’s resignation from the party on Wednesday unfortunate and on the latter blaming him for the move, Fadnavis held that he would speak at the right time. Khadse, from Jalgaon district of north Maharashtra, was one of the prominent leaders of the BJP in the state. He has now decided to join the Sharad Pawar led- Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Friday. His daughter-in-law and MP Raksha Khadse will continue working for the BJP and there was no other party MLA or MP joining him, he said.The 68-year-old leader, who was also denied an election ticket in the state assembly elections held last year, said he had nothing against the central or state BJP leadership but Fadnavis. He accused the former chief minister of fabricating false cases against him. “I am upset with former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who made the police fabricate false cases against me. One case of outraging the modesty of a woman was registered against me on the orders from Fadnavis who was then CM and home minister. Similarly, corruption cases in Bhosri land deal and cases by anti-corruption bureau were registered against me, though nothing came out of them,” Khadse said in Jalgaon. He added that he sought reasons for the “punishment” from the party leadership and Fadnavis on various platforms but I never got a reply. Also Read| Maharashtra leader Eknath Khadse quits: NCP’s gain, but is it BJP’s loss?Fadnavis, however, responded to the allegations levelled against him by saying Khadse was speaking half-truth and that he would comment on the issue at the “right time.” “It’s unfortunate that he resigned.He shouldn’t have resigned. As far as his allegation against me is concerned, he’s speaking half-truth. He could have complained against me to seniors. At this moment I won’t speak much on it but I’ll speak at the right time,” the former CM was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The apparent cold war between the two leaders began with the party leadership choosing Fadnavis for the chief ministerial post when Khadse was expecting it after the BJP’s win in the 2014 state assembly elections. A fuming Khadse was given revenue and a bouquet of portfolios, but he continued to be bitter about the “injustice meted out to him”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/devendra-fadnavis-calls-eknath-khadse-s-allegations-against-him-half-truth/story-nLFLvSqyw1FJt4nGwn0RkN.html
22-10-2020||India||UP: Allahabad High Court grants bail to journalist Prashant Kanojia||The Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Wednesday granted bail to journalist Prashant Kanojia in a case pertaining to alleged sharing of an objectionable social media post on Ram Temple.A bench of Justice A R Masoodi passed the order on the bail plea of Kanojia. The petitioner had pleaded that he was innocent and was implicated due to ulterior reasons.Kanojia was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh Police on August 18 from Delhi. The FIR against him was registered here at the Hazratganj Police Station on August 17 for allegedly sharing an “indecent” post on his Twitter handle and saying that he did it on the directive of Hindu Sena chief Sushil Tiwari, who denied the allegation.The FIR registered on the complaint of sub-inspector Dinesh Kumar Shukla said, “On August 17, it was seen that Prashant Kanojia through his twitter handle (@Pjkanojia) had uploaded an indecent post related to Ram temple stating that it was done on orders of Tiwari.” The post was uploaded to “malign Tiwari’s image”, said the sub-inspector in his complaint, adding that “such posts can disturb peace”. The case against Kanojia was lodged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including section 420 and those of the Information Technology Act.Kanojia was earlier arrested in June last year for allegedly posting objectionable remarks against Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on the social media. He was granted bail on the orders of the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-allahabad-high-court-grants-bail-to-journalist-prashant-kanojia/story-9MMFlkZb5PKfWmhmHbT4AO.html
22-10-2020||India||Calcutta High Court refuses to lift ban on entry of visitors inside puja pandals||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday refused to lift the ban on the entry of visitors inside puja pandals, a day before the start of Durga Puja – the biggest festival in West Bengal. The court, however, provided some relief to puja organisers by raising the cap on the number of committee members and local residents into a pandal; and allowing the entry of dhakis (drummers) as part of the celebrations. “No further modification is thought appropriate so that the effect of the effect of the order is not diluted or the purpose thereof defeated,” stated the order passed by the division bench of the Calcutta high court on Wednesday. In its order on Monday, the high court banned the entry of visitors inside the Durga Puja pandals to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and mandated putting up barricades outside these enclosures. It also capped on the number of puja committee members who can enter the pandal – 25 for big pujas, and 15 for smaller ones. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The virus refuses to go away. Though the healthcare facilities in the state have been augmented, with the limited resources available, the state can only do so much. In such a situation, it may be judicious to err on the side of prevention that to allow the festivities to go on without any checks and repent later that adequate resources may not be available to provide for the massive cure that may become necessary,” stated the order passed on October 19. Five applications were filed by various puja organisers in and around Kolkata and the Forum for Durgotasab seeking a modification of the court’s order. These review petitions were heard on Wednesday. Making changes in its earlier order, the court said that in big pandals, where the area is more than 300 square metres, not more than 45 persons may enter at a time; and in smaller pandals, not more than 15 persons should be present at the same time. The bigger pandals will need to give the names of 60 people who want to enter the enclosure every day by 8 that morning, while the smaller pandals will have to give a list of 20 names.“Even though we had urged the court to raise the cap on the number of puja committee members entering the pandal every day to 100, we are happy with Wednesday’s modifications. This would allow puja committee members and local residents to enter the pandal in rotation every day. But it is unfortunate that local residents won’t be able to gather inside pandals to perform the Anjali and Sindur Khela. The entry of visitors remains banned,” said Saswata Basu, general secretaryof Forum for Durgotsab, an umbrella organisation of over 350 prominent puja committees in Kolkata, which the review petition. Lawyers said that Sindur Khela can be organised beyond the 10-metre barricaded zone for big pujas and 5-metre no-entry zone for small pujas. Similarly, Anjali can also be performed in the same way from a distance. This year, than 37,000 community pujas are being organised across the state, including more than 2,500 in Kolkata. The list does not include pujas which are held inside housing societies and houses. The festive season begins at a time when Bengal has been witnessing a spike a Covid-19 cases. Bengal reported 4029 new cases on Tuesday, of which 809 new infections were reported in Kokata alone. The positivity rate for West Bengal has jumped from 6.9% to 9.2% in the last one month. “Visitors’ entry inside pandals remains banned. This is an exceptional year because of the pandemic situation. We can celebrate next year. This year we need to stay away from crowd. The High Court has given some orders. Now it is up to the state government, police and club authorities to implement it,” said Sabyasachi Chatterjee, the lawyer who filed the original PIL for petitioner Ajay Kumar De.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-high-court-refuses-to-lift-ban-on-entry-of-visitors-inside-puja-pandals/story-DZEr2svDRd3c6DcH6rt0NO.html
22-10-2020||India||Election Commission seeks response from Kamal Nath over ‘item’ remark||The Election Commission of India (ECI) asked former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath on Wednesday to explain his allegedly sexist description of state minister Imarti Devi as an “item “. The Commission gave Nath 48 hours to explain the remark, failing which action will be taken against him. Nath’s remarks was found to be in violation of the model code of conduct in place in the state because of assembly by-elections due on November 3, the ECI said.“Now, therefore, the Commission gives you an opportunity to explain your stand in making the above said statement within 48 hours of receipt of this notice, failing which the Election Commission of India shall take a decision without further reference to you,” a notice issued by the ECI said.The move came in the wake of the National Commission for Women (NCW) asking the election watchdog to look into the matter and take action. The NCW also sought an explanation from Nath over the alleged derogatory remark.Also Read | ‘His opinion’: Kamal Nath responds to Rahul Gandhi disapproving ‘item’ remark“The NCW has come across several media reports where Shri Kamal Nath, Leader of Opposition in the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly, made offensive and derogatory remarks against a woman minister in a political rally in Dabra,” the Commission said in a statement. “The Commission strongly condemns this irresponsible and disparaging statement made by the leader. The words used in the video are highly defamatory and shows disrespect towards the dignity of a woman.” Addressing a campaign rally on Sunday in Gwalior’s Dabra town, where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has fielded Imarti Devi in the by-election, Kamal Nath said the Congress candidate was a “simple person” unlike his opponent who was an “item”. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Tuesday he disapproved of Nath’s controversial remark.  “Kamal Nath ji is from my party. But one can’t treat women with disrespect. I don’t approve the language used by the senior leader. It is unfortunate,” he said. “Our women are our pride. They should be protected and I don’t appreciate this type of language…,” he added.Nath refused to apologise. “It is Rahul ji’s opinion” was his response when reporters asked about Gandhi’s comments on the escalating row. “Why should I apologise when I did not intend to insult anyone? If anyone felt insulted, I have already expressed regret,” Nath said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-seeks-response-from-kamal-nath-over-item-remark/story-1U8MGKeVwjbPANfq6uOlRN.html
22-10-2020||India||Karnataka minister demands expulsion of fellow BJP legislator for remarks against CM||A day after former union minister and current BJP MLA from Vijayapura, Basangouda Patil Yatnal claimed that the party high command would replace Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa shortly; there have been calls for him to be expelled from the party. K S Eshwarappa, minister for rural development and panchayati raj who is also a former BJP state unit chief and deputy CM speaking to reporters in Koppal, said that Yatnal must be “expelled from the party without even being given notice”.Yatnal on Tuesday had accused CM Yediyurappa of focussing only on Shivamogga district which is his powerbase and neglecting other parts of the state. He had also claimed that the high command would replace Yediyurappa with a North Karnataka leader as the Chief Minister of the state shortly. A majority of the 117 BJP MLA’s in the assembly have been elected from Northern Karnataka.Opposition leaders including Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah taunted the CM over Yatnal’s remarks and had said a faction of the BJP was trying to overthrow the CM. The Congress, Siddaramaiah had said was ready to face polls if the government fell due to internal bickering within the BJP.While the CM himself has remained mum on the issue, several of his party leaders including state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel and the political secretary of Yediyurappa, M P Renukacharya have all denied that there would be a change in the leadership. Kateel declared that ‘Yediyurappa would be the CM of the state for the next three years’. Some of the party leaders have accused Yatnal of attacking the CM for not getting a cabinet berth.However, Yatnal after launching a blistering attack on the CM publicly, again defiantly tweeted today saying, “For the welfare of Karnataka and to be a voice of the people I am doing my job with a clear conscience. It is not my nature to fall at somebody’s feet to become a minister.”Eshwarappa attacked Yatnal saying that, “some people are issuing statements just to be in the limelight. I appeal to BJP president Kateel to expel him without giving notice. If he had grievances why did he keep quiet in the legislature party?” The minister also claimed that nobody could destabilise the BJP government in the statePolitical analyst Prof Harish Ramaswamy though says that internal party differences and cabinet not being expanded are some of the reasons why the internal BJP fight is coming out into the open. “I don’t believe that action would be taken against Yatnal as he is as senior a leader as Yediyurappa and also hails from the influential Lingayat community. It is unlikely that Yatnal would have made these comments without some backing from Central leaders.”The Karnataka unit of the BJP tweeted quoting state party president Nalin Kumar Kateel, “There is no question of a leadership change. Yediyurappa will remain the CM for the next three years. Action will be taken against those violating party discipline.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-minister-demands-expulsion-of-fellow-bjp-legislator-for-remarks-against-cm/story-tWLsD24iSzuZDF8nquZ2aL.html
22-10-2020||India||Physical rallies only if virtual not feasible: Madhya Pradesh HC||Voicing displeasure over the conduct of political parties and candidates at a time the coronavirus disease pandemic is raging, the Gwalior bench of the Madhya Pradesh high court has directed the administrators of nine districts in its jurisdiction to grant permissions for physical public rallies only if virtual meetings are not possible ahead of next month’s assembly bypolls.The court also ordered that first information reports (FIRs) be lodged against Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and state Congress president Kamal Nath for alleged breach of Covid-19 protocols. District magistrates should not permit political parties and candidates from holding physical meetings, irrespective of the size of the crowd, if they can campaign digitally in Gwalior, Guna, Morena, Bhind, Ashok Nagar, Datia, Shivpuri, Sheopur and Vidisha, the bench ruled. The right to health and life of ordinary people is more sacred and precious when set off against the right to campaign of candidates in an election, the court observed. “Thus, the right of candidates to campaign has to yield to the right to health and life of the electorate”, said the court in its interim order, passed on Tuesday but released on Wednesday.Political parties are doing everything they can to draw the common man out of the security and safety of his/her home to become part of a congregation “to achieve their ulterior motive of gaining popularity to obtain votes, and leaving gullible and innocent common man to go home carrying Covid-19 virus with him and transmit the disease to his family members and friends”, read the order.Voting for 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh bypolls will take place on November 3. The high court’s interim order, passed by a bench of justices Sheel Nagu and Rajeev Kumar Shrivastava, said: “The district magistrates of all nine districts falling within the territorial jurisdiction of this court are restrained from giving permission to any candidate/political party for holding physical congregations of any number of people unless the political party applying for such a congregation is able to satisfy the district magistrate concerned that conduct of a virtual election campaign is not possible and the district magistrate passes a speaking order recording reasons of being satisfied of the inability of candidates/political parties to conduct virtual campaigning.” The court said the district magistrate’s (DM) permission to conduct the physical meeting “shall become effective only after the Election Commission of India (ECI) approves the same in writing”. Even if a physical congregation is permitted by the DM and the ECI, it can take place only after the political party/candidate deposits money with the DM that is sufficient to purchase double the number of masks and sanitisers required for protecting those attending the event. The candidate will have to file an affidavit that “he shall be personally liable to distribute masks and sanitisers to all the members of the congregation before the meeting/congregation starts”, the court added. The interim order was passed on a petition filed by Gwalior-based advocate Ashish Pratap Singh, who complained of violations of Covid-19 safety norms by political party leaders ahead of the bypolls The court appointed three advocates as amicus curiae (friend of the court) to submit their own reports one election meetings. The court had earlier directed district collectors to invoke penal provisions of the Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code not only against the members of the congregation who fail to follow Covid-19 protocols, but also against political and government functionaries responsible for organising such an assembly. On the petitioner pointing out that FIRs had not been lodged against Union minister Tomar and former chief minister Kamal Nath for speaking at and being present in overcrowded rallies despite the court’s previous orders, the bench directed the district administrations to ensure the registration of complaints against both for breach of Covid-19 protocols. After the court’s interim order on October 12, FIRs were lodged against several other political leaders for organising or speaking at such rallies. State Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta said the party was studying the court order. “Election meetings are held to educate voters. Hence, restrictions on public meetings will limit the opportunities of the political parties to convey their policies and programmes to voters. We will see if we can make a prayer to the court to pass an order in consultation with ECI to make the campaigning a smooth one.” State BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said: “We are studying the court’s interim order. Hence, we can’t comment on it right now. However, till now there are no amended guidelines from ECI. We are bound to follow ECI guidelines in respect with elections. We will see if ECI issues any fresh guidelines for elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/physical-rallies-only-if-virtual-not-feasible-madhya-pradesh-hc/story-HXLh0CibnRaCfDBwevUz3I.html
22-10-2020||India||India, US 2+2 meet set for October 27||The third 2+2 ministerial dialogue next week will see India and the US consolidating their diplomatic and security ties, including institutionalised intelligence-sharing and efforts to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar will host US defence secretary Mark Esper and secretary of state Mike Pompeo in New Delhi on October 27 for a rare personal meeting amid the pandemic, during which the signing of the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) is on the cards to facilitate sharing of satellite and sensor data. As the relationship with India has bipartisan backing in the US, the meeting is expected to build on past gains even though it is being held days ahead of the US presidential election on November 3. Announcing the meeting on Wednesday, the external affairs ministry said Pompeo and Esper will be in India during October 26-27 for the dialogue, who agenda includes “all bilateral, regional and global issues of mutual interest”. The first 2+2 dialogue was held in New Delhi in 2018 and the second in Washington in 2019. Pompeo told the media in Washington that during the upcoming visit, which will also take him to Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Indonesia, he would focus on working with the four countries “to preserve a free and open Indo-Pacific”. “I’m especially looking forward to doing that with secretary Esper in our 2+2 ministerial dialogue with our Indian friends,” he said. “I’m sure that my meetings will also include discussions on how free nations can work together to thwart threats posed by the Chinese Communist Party.” Speaking at the Atlantic Council on Tuesday, Esper didn’t rule out the possibility of the two sides signing an anticipated maritime information-sharing agreement. He added that India will be “the most consequential partner for us...in the Indo-Pacific...in the century”. He also spoke of India facing “Chinese aggression in the Himalayas, specifically along that Line of Actual Control (LAC)”. BECA is considered the fourth and last of the foundational agreements to be signed by India and the US. The two sides have been sharing real time intelligence under the Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA), which was signed in 2018. The two countries signed the General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) in 2002 and the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity there is a strong possibility the two sides could finalise a pact for an institutionalised relationship between the Defence Intelligence Agencies of the two sides. This will allow the two sides to share tri-services intelligence, including developments ranging from the South China Sea to the Himalayas. This proposal has been hanging fire for some years without any results. BECA, which is yet to be cleared by the Indian cabinet, will enable India to buy armed unmanned aerial and underwater platforms from the US, which will be loaded with neighbourhood terrain maps for pin-point targeting. The maps will also help in precision flying of US-made platforms acquired by India and enhance the capability of platforms such as Apache attack helicopters and Chinook heavy lift helicopters. A decision to acquire armed drones has been communicated to the US, and the two countries are now going beyond exercises into other domains such as space and undersea. The two sides are also expected to discuss China’s aggression in Ladakh and its muscle flexing in the South China Sea, as well as counter-measures that the Quad needs to put in place to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific for global trade, the people said. The troubled peace process in Afghanistan and terrorism emanating from Pakistan will also be on the agenda as New Delhi fears more violence in Kabul after the anticipated pullout of American forces. Though India participated in the opening of the intra-Afghan talks in Doha, it is concerned about the hold of Pakistan’s security establishment on the Taliban. Esper referred to the first tri-service military exercise, Tiger Triumph, the USS Nimitz’s drills with the Indian Navy and the first defence cyber dialogue in September, and said: “As we expand our collaboration into new domains...these efforts will strengthen what may become one of the most consequential partnerships of the 21st century.” Separately, a bipartisan group of 14 US senators have expressed “strong support” for India’s decision to include Australia in the Malabar naval exercise with the US and Japan, saying in a letter to India’s ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu that it is an “invaluable” move from an operational perspective. “From an operational perspective, the addition of such a uniquely capable and stalwart partner, like Australia, to this naval exercise is invaluable, providing increased interoperability, strengthening threat assessment abilities and enhancing the maritime roles and missions of the four naval powers,” the letter said. The signatories included John Corny and Mark Warner, the Republican and Democratic co-chairs of the Senate India Caucus, and Republicans Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz and Josh Hawley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-2-2-meet-set-for-october-27/story-oehhSqsD6nQFN4n0lC6oTP.html
22-10-2020||India||Siblings drown in Agra Canal in south Delhi’s Sarita Vihar||Two sisters, aged 15 and 8 years, died due to drowning in Agra Canal in south Delhi’s Sarita Vihar while collecting plastic bottles and other articles floating in the water on Wednesday afternoon, police said. The brother of the two girls and other children saw them drowning and screamed for help. But by the time help arrived and the sisters were rescued, the two had died, police said.Additional DCP (southeast) Kumar Gyanesh said that around 2 pm, the Kalindi Kunj police station received a call regarding drowning of two girls in Agra Canal. A police team reached the spot and enquiry revealed that the two sisters Anjali,15, and Priyanka,8, were playing near the canal with their brother and other children. “While playing they went to pick some plastic bottles and other articles floating in the water in the canal. They went deep into the water and drowned. The other children screamed for help and some locals rushed there and rescued the children with the help of private divers,” said the additional DCP. According to the police, the two sisters were rushed to AIIMS in a CATS ambulance and private vehicles where they were declared brought dead. The mother of the dead sisters, Rajkumari, works as a domestic help in Kailash Colony. The children were being looked after by their uncle. “The spot was inspected by the crime team. Statements of the family members and other people were recorded but they did not suspect any foul play. The bodies of the girls were shifted to the mortuary for autopsy. An inquest proceeding has been initiated,” the additional DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siblings-drown-in-agra-canal-in-south-delhi-s-sarita-vihar/story-vbVSCnylvEouEK9ivNzuYJ.html
22-10-2020||India||With 3 months left for it to begin, security personnel for Kumbh Mela to arrive in phases||With nearly three months to go for the commencement of the Mahakumbh Mela in Haridwar, the Mela administration has started planning for security aspects in advance. Mela police administration is also ensuring preparation and planning in case Covid-19 spread is curbed by March 2021 and there is major footfall of pilgrims. The four-month long fair will be manned by the Uttarakhand Police as well as central paramilitary personnel of the Indo Tibetan Border Police, Central Reserve Police Force and Provincial Armed Constabulary among others. The arrival and deployment of the Kumbh Mela security personnel is being planned in five phases which may be changed according to restrictions, e-passes, number of pilgrims approved by the government during Kumbh, mela officials said. According to Inspector General of Kumbh Police Force Sanjay Gunjiyal, elaborate security arrangements are being planned for the mega fair with emphasis on ensuring effective force deployment and utilisation. “Already under the first phase, local cops of the Kumbh force from the state police have arrived and in another three to four phases the rest of the personnel will arrive, as the Kumbh date nears. Coordination, sharing of intelligence input, information, traffic control and also adhering to social distance norms will be priority for the Kumbh mela force,” said IG Kumbh Gunjiyal. For the first time Mela Force Police lines will also get shifted from inner-city Rishi Kul ground to the outer Neeldhara area adjacent to Ganga for Mahakumbh. At this police line Kumbh Police stations will be based and a briefing hall will be set up to ensure the convenience of addressing a large number of mela force personnel at one place itself. “Apart from companies of paramilitary forces, a bomb disposal squad, commando unit and anti-mine team have been sought from the Central government for Kumbh Mela. From terror threat to intelligence information sharing, communication set up requirement and keeping tab through drone surveillance, the Kumbh Mela will be a thoroughly secure one,” said Kumbh force Circle Officer Prakash Chandra Deoli. As part of the buildup for the Kumbh, mela force administration had recently invited Prayagraj Range Kumbh 2019 Deputy Inspector General, Uttar Pradesh KP Singh to seek guidance and for devising strategy and planning for the Haridwar Mahakumbh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-3-months-left-for-it-to-begin-security-personnel-for-kumbh-mela-to-arrive-in-phases/story-Try315OJsoyXDnLNcq5DlL.html
22-10-2020||India||New glands found in the human body... in 2020!||Scientists have identified a previously unknown set of salivary glands in the upper part of the throat, discovering what could be the first set of major glands to be found in the human body in 300 years and paving the way for techniques that could improve the quality of life for people who receive radiation therapy for cancers of the head and neck.The new set of glands are about 1.5 inches on average and lie in the nasopharyngeal region, behind the nose and above the throat. The researchers, from the Netherlands Cancer Institute in Amsterdam, said in their report that sparing these glands in radiotherapy could help reduce the difficulty in salivation and swallowing that patients of head and neck cancer experience after radiation therapy.“The human body contains a pair of previously overlooked and clinically relevant macroscopic salivary gland locations, for which we propose the name tubarial glands. Sparing these glands in patients receiving radiation therapy (RT) may provide an opportunity to improve their quality of life,” the researchers wrote in the paper published in the open access journal, Radiotherapy and Oncology. More research is likely needed to confirm that these are indeed a new major set of salivary glands, and if confirmed, it would be the first discovery of new salivary glands in about 300 years, according to a report in Science.The new glands have been labelled as tubarial salivary glands because these are situated over a piece of cartilage called the torus tubarius.The discovery was accidental since the researchers were studying prostate cancer. “People have three sets of large salivary glands, but not there. As far as we knew, the only salivary or mucous glands in the nasopharynx are microscopically small, and up to 1000 are evenly spread out throughout the mucosa. So, imagine our surprise when we found these,” said radiation oncologist Wouter Vogel, who was among the researchers, according to a statement. Head and neck cancers are a leading contributor to India’s cancer burden, with a large majority comprising cancer of the oral cavity, followed by that of the pharynx (part of the throat behind the mouth and nasal cavity), according to the Indian Council of Medical Research’s cancer registry.Radiation oncologists in India agree that this discovery could improve the quality of life after radiotherapy in cancer patients.“One of the major side-effects of radiation therapy is that it damages a part of the salivary gland leading to permanent disability -- a person may experience dry mouth, have difficulty in speech, eating, etc. The focus of advanced radiotherapy techniques such as image-guided or the intensity-modulated ones is largely to save the salivary glands. This extra pair that has been discovered has the potential to mitigate the side effects as during the therapy, lower glands are affected, and this being on the upper side will remain out of the radiation field,” said Dr PK Julka, former head, radiation oncology department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi (AIIMS-Delhi).The salivary gland system, known till now, is a three paired major glands and roughly 1,000 minor glands spread throughout the aerodigestive tract (the respiratory tract and the upper part of the digestive tract, including the lips, mouth, tongue, nose, throat, vocal cords, and part of the oesophagus and windpipe) submucosa (the layer that supports the mucosa membrane).“This discovery needs to be studied further as there is more work that needs to be done to actually establish the discovery of this set of glands,” added Dr Julka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-glands-found-in-the-human-body-in-2020/story-3jq2QEX2sNG7eDZx4T476H.html
22-10-2020||India||Human rights body notice for Meghalaya govt over deaths of 877 infants in 4 months||Seeking detailed reports of the death of 877 newborn infants and 61 pregnant women in the state, the Meghalaya Human Rights Commission (MHRC) on Tuesday issued notices to the health and family welfare and social welfare departments.Hearing a petition filed by social activist Agnes Kharshiῖing, the MHRC directed the Commissioner and Secretary, health services, and additional chief secretary of the social welfare department to respond to the allegations made by the petitioner “…to submit a detailed report on the matter so as to reach the state commission within 30 days from the date of receipt of the notice for further necessary orders”.The Commission also expressed concern over the matter which raises serious issues of violation of human rights as Article 21 of the Constitution mandates for the protection of life and personal liberty of every citizen. It also pointed out that the right to life and health is a fundamental right and it is the paramount duty of the state to protect and safeguard such rights of any individual.In her petition, Kharshiῖing, also, the president of the Civil Society of Women’s Organization (CSWO) sought the intervention of the MHRC with regard to the death of 877 newly born infants and 61 pregnant women in the state during the months of April till July, this year due to diseases other than the coronavirus.Elaborating on this, Kharshiῖing told HT over phone that the death of the 877 infants and 61 pregnant women as clarified by the Director of Health Services was due to lack of medical attention, pneumonia, and birth asphyxia and the death of most of the pregnant women happened since they were not admitted to the hospital or health care centre for institutional delivery.She further stated that the state has 12 big hospitals including private ones, 30 Community Health Centres (CHCs), 110 Primary Health Centres (PHCs), and also government-run civil hospitals in each of the 11 district headquarters, and the state suffers from a paucity of ambulances with only 72 ambulances serving the entire state with one or two ambulances for PHCs and CHCs.She alleged, “The right to health is integral to the right to life, and the government has a constitutional obligation to provide health facilities which in this case the fundamental rights under Article 21 is being violated,” she emphasised. “We need to ensure that such cases are minimised as much as possible. Right to life is applicable to all and newborn infants and pregnant women are no less. They need to be protected at all costs.”Reacting to the notice of the Commission, the state health department has acknowledged receipt of the same. Secretary of the department MN Nampui told HT, “We have duly received it and taken note of the content of the notice. We have written to the health directorate asking for response to the same following which the government will table its report before the Commission. Rest assured an in depth study over the matter will be conducted by the government.”Meanwhile, the Meghalaya State Commission for Women and the Meghalaya State Commission for Protection of Child Rights were also included as opposite party respondents in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/human-rights-body-notice-for-meghalaya-govt-over-deaths-of-877-infants-in-4-months/story-HloYkRlNiHPc8GFYTdE50J.html
22-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||As some of the regular readers of this column know, my reading has expanded since March to include dense academic papers published in serious journals that make me wish I had paid more attention to science and math during my college years. Late Tuesday/early Wednesday, two papers that dropped on the journal Science’s website piqued my interest. One was titled “Neuropilin-1 is a host factor for SARS-CoV-2 infection” and another “Neuropilin-1 facilitates SARS-CoV-2 cell entry and infectivity”. The two papers are already beginning to make waves in epidemiological circles, and have also been reported by some specialised websites. There is a reason for this: 10 months into the pandemic’s run, there are still many unanswered questions about Covid-19 and the coronavirus that causes it. This isn’t surprising. What is surprising is the pace of scientific research that has helped us answer many other questions about Covid-19 and Sars-CoV-2. Among the important unanswered (or partially unanswered, because we do know some part of the answer) questions are those about the virus’s infectivity, and its ability to do more damage than typical respiratory infections do (which it does by targeting other body organs). And the two papers in Science provide answers to these, which would make them among the most important pieces of research on the coronavirus to be published in recent months.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe second paper, published by researchers from Munich’s Technical University, University of Helsinki, and other institutions, finds that neuropilin-1 (NRP1) boosts the infectivity of Sars-CoV-2. Neuropilin 1 is a protein widely present in human cells. Previous studies have shown that the Sars-CoV-2 virus has a furin cleavage site. The S-protein of the virus has a site which can be cleaved by furin (a common human protein; it is an enzyme). Think of furin, then, as a can opener of sorts. The component of the viral protein thus cleaved interacts with ACE2, a cell surface receptor. ACE stands for angiotensin-converting enzyme. And it is this receptor that provides a channel for the viral protein to enter the cell. Clearly, furin is needed for cleavage (or breaking the spike protein), and ACE 2 for facilitating entry into the cell. And the paper found that infection of the virus increased in the presence of NRP1.The first paper, by researchers from the University of Bristol and others, showed that while furin cleaves the S protein into “two associated” proteins, S1 and S2, one of these proteins (S1) binds well with neuropilin 1, facilitating the entry of the virus into cells, and boosting infectivity. Two independent studies then have arrived at the same conclusion. And because NRP1 is found in cells in several parts of the human body, it isn’t surprising that Sars-CoV-2 is able to target several body organs and systems. Interestingly, the second study found (on the basis of pathological analysis) that olfactory nerve cells in the nasal cavity that were infected by Sars-CoV-2 had NRP1 – something that could explain why the loss of a sense of smell is seen in some Covid-19 patients – and that a “SARS-CoV-2 mutant with an altered furin cleavage site did not depend on NRP1 for infectivity”, a finding that shows a strong relationship between the presence of neuropilin 1 and the infectivity of the virus that causes Covid.As the first paper puts it: “NRP1 thus serves as a host factor for Sars-CoV-2 infection and may provide a therapeutic target for COVID-19.”This could simply involve something that blocks NRP1. For instance, the second study found that an antibody that blocked neuropilin reduced Sars-CoV-2 infection by around 40%. Even as we pin hopes on a vaccine for Covid-19, research such as that detailed above points to possible therapeutical interventions that could save lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-9EPJi1H1B8kue222ZpcVTN.html
22-10-2020||India||India’s PM2.5 levels worst in world in 2019||India recorded the world’s highest annual average concentration of PM 2.5 exposure in its air in 2019, according to the State of Global Air 2020 (Soga 2020) report released on Wednesday, extending to a decade the rising streak of the common air pollutant that has emerged as a respiratory health risk in the Capital and other cities. According to the report, India was followed by Nepal, Niger, Qatar and Nigeria in  exposure to PM 2.5, which are fine, inhalable particulate matter with diameters that are generally 2.5 microns, or about 30 times smaller than a strand of human hair.India has been recording an increase in PM 2.5 pollution since 2010, said the report. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)’s 2019 report indicates that the national average PM 2.5 concentrations has recorded a rising trend in the past three years owing to an increasing number of vehicles on the roads and re-suspension of natural dust.Out of 20 most populous countries, 14 have recorded a gradual improvement in air quality but India, Bangladesh, Niger, Pakistan and Japan are among countries that have recorded at least a modest increase in air pollution levels measured by PM 2.5 content, said the report.The report comes on top of others showing India to be one of the countries with the world’s worst air quality. Two-thirds of the most polluted cities, or 21 out of 30, are in India, and Delhi has the worst air among all national capitals, according to the 2019 World Air Quality Report by IQAir AirVisual.Also Read | Over 100,000 infants in India did not survive a month due to severe air pollution in 2019: ReportPM 2.5 pollutants, made up of hundreds of chemicals, are emitted into the air by construction sites, unpaved roads, fields, and smokestacks or fires, and by power plants, factories and automobiles. They can enter the blood stream via the respiratory system to travel throughout the body, causing health problems such as asthma, lung cancer and heart disease.“We need to read the complete report to be able to respond. But we can say that PM 2.5 standards were set only in 2009 following which monitoring began. So, we do not have trends for the entire decade as monitoring has gradually improved. Also, it’s not possible to say that the country is seeing a decline or rise in pollution levels. Some cities are improving while some cities are also showing fluctuating trends,” said a senior CPCB official.Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar has said at various forums that Delhi’s air has improved significantly since 2016. He said in the Lok Sabha last year that the government would resolve the toxic air pollution problem in Delhi in less than 15 years — the time Beijing took to stanch a similar problem.“Satellite data of the past 10 to 15 years shows there is an overall increase in air pollution levels. But in the past two years we are seeing a marginal improvement based on satellite data. We are studying what could be the factors leading to this improvement. Is it meteorology or a reduction in emissions also? We may publish a paper on our findings soon,” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor at Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi. “In India, we do not have India-specific risk function which assesses how much of a risk, say air pollution, poses to developing various diseases. India should now do those long-term studies. The composition of particulate matter also has a huge impact on health... like is it dust or industrial emissions... so health impacts may vary by region. The bottom line is that exposure to PM 2.5 is very high in India.” he added.Dey said the National Clean Air Programme, which aims to reduce the concentration of PM2.5 and PM10 (coarse pollution particles) in 102 so-called non-attainment cities by 20% to 30% by 2024 from the 2017 annual average levels, will be crucial.Soga, released by the US-based Health Effects Institute and Global Burden of Disease project, uses both data from ground monitors and satellite data to make its assessments. To estimate the annual average PM2.5 exposure, scientists at the latter link the concentrations in each block (they divide the globe into blocks or grids) with the number of people living within each block to produce a population-weighted annual average concentration.Out of 87 health risk factors assessed by the team based on the total number of deaths caused in 2019, air pollution emerged as the fourth highest risk globally, preceded by high systolic blood pressure, tobacco and dietary risks. But in India, air pollution is the highest risk factor because of the huge burden of premature deaths it contributes to. India is also among the top 10 countries with the highest ozone (O3) exposure in 2019. Qatar recorded the highest O3 exposure followed by Nepal and India. Among the 20 most populous countries, India recorded the highest increase (17%) in O3 concentrations in the past 10 years.On average, global exposure to ozone increased from about 47.3 ppb (parts per billion) in 2010 to 49.5 ppb in 2019. O3 is a major respiratory irritant that is not released directly into the air but is formed in a complex chemical interaction between nitrogen oxide (NOx) and volatile organic compounds in the presence of sunlight. NOx is emitted from the burning of fossil fuels (oil, gas, and coal) in motor vehicles, power plants, industrial boilers, and home heating systems. The one silver lining for India is that the country managed to reduce the number of people exposed to household air pollution. China reduced the percentage of its population exposed to household air pollution from 54% to 36%, while India reduced its percentage from 73% to 61% over the past decade.Since 2010, more than 50 million fewer people have been exposed to household air pollution. The Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, under which free cooking gas connections are provided to poor households, and other schemes have helped to dramatically expand access to clean energy, especially in rural areas, the Health Effects Institute said in a statement.“At this time, the data indicates that there was a modest increase in outdoor PM2.5 levels in India over the last decade. We know from experience elsewhere that the air pollution problem is unlikely to be solved in the short-term,” said Pallavi Pant, a scientist at Health Effects Institute.“With the National Clean Air Programme and introduction of BS-VI (Bharat Stage-VI) emission standards, India has begun to take steps towards improving air quality, and it is critical that the efforts are continued and expanded over the next few years in order to see improvements in air quality,” she said.TOP 5 countries with highest population weighted annual PM 2.5 exposure (in micrograms per cubic metres):India 83.2Nepal 83.1Niger 80.1Qatar 76Nigeria 70.4||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-pm2-5-levels-worst-in-world-in-19/story-jBvcqHfgftYQHiqbeEgUEI.html
22-10-2020||India||Odisha Lokayukta serves notice to BJD MLA over allegation that he blew up a flood embankment||An MLA of the Biju Janata Dal and 5 others including government officials have been issued a notice by the Odisha Lokayukta over allegations by an RTI activist that he conspired to damage an irrigation embankment during floods in August this year that led to submergence of thousands of acres of farmland.The office of the Lokayukta served a notice to BJD MLA Pranab Balabantaray and five other officials of works and water resources department including a relative of the MLA for hearing in the matter in December after RTI activist Sarbeswar Beura lodged a complaint. The complaint alleged that on August 28 this year, the irrigation embankment road from NH-5 (Gokarneswar) to Budhalinga Majhipada Road for preventing the waters of Kelua River entering the farmlands, was damaged by dynamites that inundated 4000 hectares of standing paddy crop in 7 gram panchayats of Jajpur district.“Balabantaray with the help of junior engineer Naren Jena and others engaged miscreants to damage this embankment through explosives for suppression of the irregularities and misappropriation of huge amount of money in the construction work. This embankment did not witness any strong current in flow of flood water to cause any damage to the embankment. There was a deep-laid conspiracy to destroy it,” the RTI activist alleged.He further alleged that the embankment was sanctioned in 2016 by the office of the Executive Engineer (Roads and Buildings), Panikoili division at an estimated cost of Rs 21.99 crore.“Junior engineer Naren Jena, uncle of the MLA, who was in charge of supervising and monitoring the construction of the said embankment road, had demanded huge gratification from the contractor which resulted in substandard work. When I filed the RTI application with the office of executive engineer (Roads and buildings) of Panikoili division in Jajpur seeking details of information about the work, the PIO did not provide any information. Apprehending that the corruption in the poor civil work of the embankment would be exposed, it was destroyed during the floods,” alleged Beura.Neither BJD MLA Balabantaray nor the party commented on the allegations though HT sought their comments.Earlier, the opposition BJP too had accused the BJD MLA of blowing off the river embankment in flood-affected Jajpur district with dynamite seeking stringent action against him. BJP state general secretary Lekhasri Samantsinghar had alleged that the 300-feet breach in the embankment of the Kelua River was deliberately created.The water resources department has also lodged an FIR with the local police as its preliminary probe revealed that the breach was an artificial one. “An FIR has been lodged with the Dharmashala police station in connection with creation of the breach in Kelua river embankment using dynamite,” the engineer-in-chief of water resources department Jyotirmaya Rath said.The floods in Odisha in August had left 17 people dead and over 10,000 houses damaged while affecting 1.4 million people in 20 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-lokayukta-serves-notice-to-bjd-mla-over-allegation-that-he-blew-up-a-flood-embankment/story-F86HI8Qb0lVpM44YoJn7iI.html
22-10-2020||India||‘Unwarranted’: Navy responds to obstacle charge in Goa’s ‘development’||Amid complaints by members of the Goa government that need for clearance by the Navy authorities for any construction in the vicinity of the Dabolim airport was an obstacle to the “development” of the state, the Navy has hit back terming such utterances as “entirely unwarranted”, while insisting that it has a clear charter of duties which it has never exceeded.The Navy operates the dual purpose Goa International Airport, which is also a naval base.“There have been statements reported by TV channels and print media regarding clearances required from the Indian Navy for construction in the vicinity of Dabolim Airport. It is reiterated that clearances/restrictions are in accordance with the Ministry of Civil Aviation (Height Restrictions for Safeguarding of Aircraft Operations) Rules, 2015,” the Navy said. “Since the Indian Navy operates the civil airport at Dabolim, cases for NOC in respect of Dabolim Airport are processed by Indian Navy as opposed to purely civil airfields in the country where such clearances are processed by the Airports Authority of India (AAI),” Navy spokesperson K P Ajesh said in a statement.The statement comes after members of the Mormugao Planning and Development Authority, a planning body that is dominated by political leaders that allow for or withhold construction permissions, have been speaking to the media lamenting that the need for clearance by the Navy authorities in the vicinity of the airport was an added obstacle to the “development” of the state.“Unfounded allegations like Indian Navy is ‘restricting development’ in Goa are uncalled for as aviation safety at Dabolim is of paramount concern and will not be compromised. The issue of permits/NOCs is purely driven by international safety standards and has no relation with hindering development in Goa, least of all by the Indian Navy,” the Navy has insisted.“Statements made in the media like the Navy wanting to ‘control Goa’ are entirely unwarranted and the nation’s Armed Forces have a clear charter which is never exceeded. The Indian Navy has been in the forefront to render assistance to the local citizens during times of crisis such as floods, etc,” it added.The Navy pointed out that in the early days of the coronavirus pandemic when flights operations were suspended, it ferried samples collected in Goa to the lab in Pune as the state was yet to set up its own testing lab for Covid-19 samples. Similarly, the Navy also pitched in and helped transport PPE kits for the doctors in the state. Earlier this year, Minister of Panchayati Raj, Mauvin Godinho who is also a member of the Mormugao Planning and Development Authority, had accused the Navy of trying to rule Goa by proxy, for what he said was dictating the nature of constructions around the airport.It later transpired that a close aide of Godinho, who was also a builder, was seeking to regularise two residential complexes that fell within the flight approach path, a move that was steadfastly rejected by the Navy as the buildings didn’t meet the height restrictions that are mandatory around the airport.The Bombay High Court at Goa had in an order directed the Navy to act against buildings that violated the height restrictions and came down heavily on the Mormugao Planning and Development Authority for trying to save the allegedly illegal buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unwarranted-navy-responds-to-obstacle-charge-in-goa-s-development/story-KrHjlkYMzr3SHlPUww5xPN.html
22-10-2020||India||Ganeshguri flyover inaugurated in Guwahati||Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Wednesday inaugurated the Ganeshguri flyover in Guwahati on Wednesday.The state government tweeted that the newly-built flyover at Ganeshguri as extension of the original flyover would come as a relief for residents of Guwahati as it is expected to reduce the traffic congestion to a great extent.The newly built flyover at Ganeshguri as extension of the original flyover comes as a sigh of relief for residents of Guwahati as it is expected to reduce the traffic congestion to a great extent.@CMOfficeAssam @cmpatowary pic.twitter.com/UXsVHDnYUHIn a tweet, Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sharma described the 425.5 metre flyover worth Rs 58.74 crore as an epitome of the dedication shown by the Public Works Department team despite difficulties faced due to the Covid pandemic.(This report has been updated to correct information relating to the location of the flyover. The error is regretted)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganeshguri-flyover-to-be-inaugurated-in-guwahati-today/story-n3ASogsphMNrb8vnRGC8xL.html
22-10-2020||India||Northeast border row: Mizoram agrees to pull back forces from Assam||Four days after violence along the inter-state border injured several people, Mizoram on Wednesday agreed to pull back its security forces from areas in Assam. The decision was taken at a meeting of senior officials of both states on Wednesday evening with Satyendra Kumar Garg, joint secretary (in charge of northeast), Union ministry of home affairs, at the circuit house in Silchar, Assam. “We will move back the security forces which had come down to Assam side. This should help stranded vehicles to enter Mizoram. There was no discussion on the border dispute in today’s meeting,” Mizoram home secretary Pi Lalbiaksangi told journalists after the meeting. Garg, who reached Silchar to diffuse the tense situation along the border, said that the discussions between both states were very fruitful and Assam and Mizoram have agreed to resolve issues amicably through talks. Assam home secretary Gyanendra Dev Tripathi said that both sides have agreed to restore peace and normalcy along the border areas and efforts are underway to resume movement of trucks stranded at the border. The areas along the border between two states have been tense since Saturday after some residents of Vairengte in Kolasib district of Mizoram set on fire temporary huts made by residents of Lailapur in Cachar district of Assam on a stretch of disputed land. Mizoram says the huts were built on ‘no man’s land’ while Assam claims the area as theirs. Following the incident, residents on the Assam side have blocked the highway going to Mizoram and hundreds of goods-laden trucks on way to the neighbouring state are stranded. Earlier on Wednesday, a home secretary-level meeting between both states was held at an army camp close to Lailapur along the inter-state boundary and it was attended by senior police and district officials. As part of confidence building measures, both sides agreed to hold interactions among deputy commissioners, superintendents of police and divisional forest officers of border districts once a month. Mizoram home secretary Lalbiaksangi requested Assam officials to ensure movement of stranded trucks while Tripathi requested the Mizoram side to take action against miscreants who burnt down huts on the Assam side on Saturday and also ensure there is no encroachment of reserve forests. “We are for people to people contact and keeping every mode of communication open so that the camaraderie and bonhomie that exist between people of both neighbouring states prevail,” said Tripathi. Talking to journalists after the meeting, Lalbiaksangi assured that the Mizoram government will provide security to trucks coming from the Assam side. “Our priority is to maintain peace and ensure movement of the stranded trucks. The other issues including the border row can be discussed later,” Assam Police’s Special DGP (Border) Mukesh Agarwal told journalists. Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6 km long boundary. Mizoram was part of Assam till 1972, when it became a union territory. It became a state in 1987. There have been minor skirmishes in the past with Mizoram seeking delineation of the border on the basis of East Bengal Frontier Regulation of 1873.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northeast-border-row-mizoram-agrees-to-pull-back-forces-from-assam/story-1W5QdY0uuC7A2InUTC5RiN.html
22-10-2020||India||Farmers ease ‘rail roko’ protest in Punjab||Farmers’ bodies in Punjab eased their three-week-long “rail roko” agitation by allowing the passage of goods trains in the state on Wednesday, a day after the assembly passed four bills and a resolution to counter the three controversial farm legislations enacted by the Centre last month. “We have decided to allow only goods trains from today (Wednesday) till November 5,” said Jagmohan Singh Patiala of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) after meeting of 30 farmers’ organisations in Chandigarh. Chief minister Amarinder Singh welcomed the decision, saying it was in the interest of the state’s economy and its revival. He said the farmers had shown their concern for the people of Punjab. However, farmers, who have been protesting against the Centre’s farm reforms laws since September 24, said passenger trains would not be allowed and their representatives would keep vigil at railway stations. Patiala said the protest outside the premises of state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and the gherao of business establishments of some corporate houses would continue until November 5. “The next course of action will be announced in a meeting fixed for November 4,” he added. Commenting on the four bills passed by the assembly, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal said it was a “big achievement” in the farmers’ agitation. “It has happened for the first time that a special session of the assembly was called and the bills were passed under pressure from farmers. It has marked a beginning of big political movement and it could spread to other states also,” he added. Rajewal said farmers’ bodies are prepared for a long haul. The Punjab version of the central legislation is aimed at addressing the concerns of farmers and may be adopted by other non-National Democratic Alliance (NDA)-ruled states, including a provision to protect the MSPs that government procurement agencies pay for farmers’ produce.Big farmers’ groups, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, say the Centre’s farm reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the system of MSPs and that deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before.The Centre’s ruling BJP says the fears are unfounded and the three laws will usher in much-needed reforms in the agriculture sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-ease-rail-roko-protest-in-punjab/story-TZDwhQga7WrkmqUy6TMVJJ.html
22-10-2020||India||Anti-tank missile with 10km range to be tested in 2 months||India is developing a new air-launched missile capable of knocking out enemy tanks from a stand-off distance of more than 10km, and a crucial test of the weapon will be conducted in two months at a time when the country is locked in border tensions with China in the Ladakh theatre, top officials familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. The indigenous missile -- named stand-off anti-tank missile (Sant) -- is expected to be mated to the Indian Air Force’s Russian-origin Mi-35 attack helicopters to arm them with the capability to destroy enemy armour from an improved stand-off range, one of the officials cited above said, asking not to be named. The existing Russian-origin Shturm missile on the Mi-35 can target tanks at a range of 5km. The other weapons on the gunship include rockets of different calibre, 500kg bombs, 12.7mm guns, and a 23mm cannon. Sant -- being developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) -- will be launched from a Mi-35 helicopter gunship for the first time in December, in what is being seen as a developmental milestone. “Preparations are being made for the maiden test-firing of the missile from a Mi-35 gunship. A series of air-launched tests will follow next year after which the missile will be ready for induction,” said a second official on condition of anonymity, adding that the missile will have lock-on after launch and lock-on before launch capability. A lock-on means the target has been detected and the missile will hit it irrespective of any change in the target’s position. The plan is to test the new missile from the attack helicopter eight to 10 times before it is declared operational by the end of 2021, the second official said. “An improved stand-off capability -- from 5km to 10km -- to target tanks will be a good capability enhancement for the Mi-35. If the helicopter can engage enemy armour from a distance of 10km, it is unlikely to take a hit from ground fire,” said former IAF chief Air Chief Marshal Fali H Major (retd). The existing anti-tank missiles developed by DRDO -- the Nag and Helina -- have an effective range of under 5km. While the Nag missile is launched from a modified infantry combat vehicle (called the Nag missile carrier or Namica) and has a range of 4km, the Helina or helicopter-based Nag is for mounting on the Dhruv advanced light helicopter and can strike targets up to 5km away. The Sant missile was successfully tested from a ground launcher on Monday off the coast of Odisha -- the 13th test-firing of a missile by India in less than two months in the midst of the border stand-off with China and deadlocked talks to reduce tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). Neither the defence ministry nor DRDO made any public announcement on the October 19 test. The key tests recently conducted by India include the supersonic missile-assisted release of torpedo (SMART) to target submarines at long ranges, a new version of the nuclear-capable hypersonic Shaurya missile with a range of 750km and the anti-radiation missile launch to take down enemy radars and surveillance systems. India is also developing a new class of ultra-modern weapons that can travel six times faster than the speed of sound (Mach 6) and penetrate any missile defence. In early September, DRDO carried out a successful flight test of the hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time from a launch facility off the Odisha coast. Only the United States, Russia and China have developed technologies to field fast-manoeuvring hypersonic missiles that fly at lower altitudes and are extremely hard to track and intercept. India could develop hypersonic cruise missiles powered by air-breathing scramjet engines in about four years. Mach 6 translates into a speed of 7,408 kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-tank-missile-with-10km-range-to-be-tested-in-2-months/story-Lrc3BQKUNxX1tjtRwg8ckJ.html
22-10-2020||India||Central team cautions Bihar on spike in Covid cases during festive season||A three-member Central team has cautioned Bihar of a possible spike in Covid-19 cases with elections and festival season just around the corner. It asked the state to be particularly cautious during the upcoming Chhath festival next month. It was on Tuesday that the state capital Patna reported 392 new infections, the highest single day spike in cases in the last two months. The team held a marathon five-hour discussion with state health officials on Wednesday, and also visited the Patna Medical College Hospital and the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH). The state officials made power-point presentations of the total cases, positivity rate, containment measures put in place, testing, isolation of patients and utilisation of institutional beds. It went to the two state-run medical colleges to assess their infrastructure and preparedness to cope with a possible spike in cases. It also enquired about availability of oxygen through centralised pipeline at the two hospitals. The team was likely to visit an adjoining district near Patna on Thursday to assess medical infrastructure there. State health officials were tightlipped about the central team’s observation after visiting the PMCH and the NMCH. Barring Patna, most of the districts had a positivity rate of less than 5% on real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), which is a confirmatory test for Covid-19. Patna’s positivity rate was over 7%, said sources. “Members of the Central team generally do not say anything. They just jot down points on the basis of their inspection, or the presentation the state makes before them. The team lead briefs the principal secretary of the department concerned before leaving, and the officials submit their report to the ministry concerned that later trickles down to us,” said an officer of the health department. Health officials made light of the Central team’s visit, saying it was a “routine visit” to assess the Covid situation ahead of three-phase assembly elections in the state, beginning October 28. “This is the fourth visit of a central team to Bihar since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state in March. Similar teams have gone to other states. Central teams have visited Maharashtra seven times during the same period,” said an officer requesting anonymity. Bihar cadre bureaucrat Atish Chandra, posted as joint secretary in the ministry of agriculture, led the Central team. Dr CS Taklekar from the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, New Delhi, and Dr Dependra Kumar Rai from AIIMS-Patna were the other members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-team-cautions-bihar-on-spike-in-covid-cases-during-festive-season/story-do5z1yHyyCg6VkSaVQV7sN.html
