23-10-2020||India||As onion prices soar, govt sets stock limit for traders||Onion prices are currently more than 100% of the past five years’ average, prompting the government to declare them as an essential commodity and imposing limits on how much traders can store. Retail traders of onion can stock onion only up to two tonne of the vegetable, while wholesale traders are permitted store up to 25 tonne, the consumer affairs ministry said Friday, a measure aimed at discouraging hoarding of the bulb, as prices spiral during the ongoing festive season. Rains in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana have disrupted harvests and damaged crops, trimming supplies to markets.“The all-India average retail price variation of onions as on 21 October when compared to last year is 22.12 % (from ₹45.33 to ₹55.60 per/kg) and when compared to last five years’ average is 114.96 % (from ₹25.87 to 55.60 per/ kg). Therefore, the prices have increased by over 100% when compared with average of last 5 years and thus the price triggers under EC Act have been reached,” the ministry said. Price levels needed to invoke stock limits under the recently amended Essential Commodities Act have been breached and the stockholding limits will be in place till December 31, consumer affairs secretary Leena Nandan said. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) law, passed last month in Parliament, allows the government to regulate perishable commodities when an extraordinary price rise occurs. The ministry statement further said: “In order to moderate the price rise, the government took a pre-emptive step by announcing a ban on onion export on 14 September so as to ensure availability to domestic consumers at reasonable rates, before the expected arrival of Kharif onion.” It added: “Thus the retail price rise was moderated to some extent, but recent reports of heavy rainfall in the onion growing districts of Maharashtra, Karnataka,Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradeshhave created concerns about damage to Kharif crop.”On Twitter, consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal said: “To control rising onion prices and curb hoarding, PM @NarendraModi government has taken the third step. Imposed stock limit of 2 tonne on retailers and 25 tonne on wholesalers.” The two earlier steps were to impose a ban on exports on Sept 5 and offloading of onions from the a federally held reserve. “Past experiences show that during sustained supply-side pressures, measures such as stock-holding limits may not dramatically alter the demand-supply mismatch,” said Abhishek Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-onion-prices-soar-govt-sets-stock-limit-for-traders/story-V4UgBybhTWF0tY5qwsdQDL.html
23-10-2020||India||‘India building ‘Asian NATO’ through Quad?’ S Jaishankar answers||The emergence of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, which brings together India, Australia, Japan and the US, is an outcome of today’s multi-polar world, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. “It is very much in keeping with the times, and we will find increasingly in a multi-polar world, and a more fractured world...these ad hoc combinations of countries who will work together,” he said during an online interaction organised by the Public Affairs Forum of India (PAFI). The four countries in the Quad had come together because they find it useful to consult on issues of mutual interest, such as maritime security, connectivity counter-terrorism, resilient supply chains and humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, Jaishankar said in response to a question on whether India is involved in building an “Asian NATO”. The world has moved from the Cold War era, marked by two dominant blocs and non-alignment, to a time of greater multi-polarity, when more countries can shape and influence outcomes, he said. The West has become less collective, there has been a change in the power of the US and the world has also witnessed the rise of China, he added. Earlier this month, Jaishankar participated in the second ministerial meeting of the Quad, where the four countries agreed to continue working for a free and open Indo-Pacific against the backdrop of China’s growing assertive behaviour. Next month, the navies of the four countries will participate in the Malabar exercise, with Australia recently accepting India’s invitation to join the drills. Referring to the changing dynamics in global power equations, Jaishankar described the rise of China as a “big geo-political event of our lifetimes”. The multi-polar world will create its own logic, he said. “The underlying idea is a consistent India. Independent India will express itself very differently and that is today in an example like Quad. Quad is not the only example where four countries have found it useful to consult on issues which are in their common interest,” he added. As India grows, it may have similar arrangements with other countries as well, Jaishankar suggested. “Since we have so many agendas as we become bigger, we will have areas where we will work with other countries,” he said. This wasn’t a dramatic shift, as India had also worked with other countries in the past, he said. “You had three countries who felt they had a common interest in working together to strengthen their hand vis-a-vis the West. The three countries were Russia, India and China. So before there was a Quad, there was a triangle,” he said. The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific amid China’s increasingly aggressive behaviour has led to some quarters describing the Quad as a coalition with the aim of countering Beijing. Senior US officials have also spoken about the possibility of regularising and formalising the Quad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-building-asian-nato-through-quad-s-jaishankar-answers/story-zBVAmTRIeXhnukEcHb8DbJ.html
23-10-2020||India||It’s a much better time than before for actors: Ahem Sharrma||Actor Ahem Sharrma, best remembered as Karna of TV series ‘Mahabharat’, is currently shooting in Lucknow for Sanjiv Jaiswal’s film ‘Bagawat’. Life came to full circle for ‘Brahmarakshas’ actor as he is shooting for his first project in the state capital after his TV debut in 2008 series ‘Chand ke Paar Chalo’ that was set here but shot in Mumbai. “I was very curious about Lucknow as my co-actor Yami Gautam and others used to talk so much about the city. I played a London-return son of nawab. All that grew my curiosity further about tehzeeb, people, language, old-world charm and food. Then I came once for a show promotion which was just touch-and-go. This time I got chance to stay for long and despite pandemic I took out time for the city tour and had ‘chaat’ at Hazratganj,” he said with host of praises for the city and its people. Giving an insight about his current project he said, “I have never done such a role before and all I can say is that the audience will be in for a big surprise. The character is also very far from real me as the film is based on caste conflicts, revolts against atrocities and I’m representing a certain class.” Ahem has done couple of films but admits that television has given me lot of love and recognition. “Main bahut shukraguzar hu is medium ka,’ that gave me a chance to play legendary Karan, which is certainly a dream role for any actor. I feel blessed that I was able to reach out to a large audience with my character.” The actor believes in quality over quantity, “I have been very selective while taking up TV as it’s a long-term commitment. As far as films are concerned, I have done a few films but it couldn’t reach to right audience. In fact, I started my career with film the ‘Blue Oranges’ but it did not click. Had there been OTT platforms then it would have surely worked. But, it’s great that today we have a medium with a global reach. . It’s a much better time than before for actors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-a-much-better-time-than-before-for-actors-ahem-sharrma/story-lHt0WOSSwFYBFG8rsBluzH.html
23-10-2020||India||No tolerance for corruption, no place for middlemen in new India: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said there is “no tolerance for corruption” and “no place for middlemen” in new India, underlining that his government has worked tirelessly for removing corruption from the country.In his message for Vigilance Awareness Week, to be observed by all government departments from October 27 till November 2, PM Modi said, “We have worked tirelessly to remove corruption and to punish the corrupt. In new India, there is no tolerance for corruption and no place for middlemen”.He further asked the citizens to play the role of “equal partners” in the fight against corruption.“It is imperative that vigilant citizens as equal partners strengthen the processes for effective delivery unto the last,” the PM added in his written message.The Vigilance Awareness Week is observed every year by all government departments on the call of Chief Vigilance Commission (CVC), the apex body having superintendence of vigilance administration and anti-corruption measures in central government and its organisations. The theme of this year’s week long program is “Satark Bharat, Samriddh Bharat (Vigilant India, Prosperous India)”.The Commission has asked all government departments this year to conduct various activities with zeal and enthusiasm “to eliminate corruption in public life”.The PM said that the theme this year invokes collective alertness of all citizens for a strong and prosperous India and the observance of vigilance week “will inspire people to rededicate themselves for the new work culture of transparency and responsibility”.He said, “We are marching ahead with resoluteness to build a New India that is self-reliant, a nation that continuously expands its capabilities and focuses on skill acquisition. Our resolve is powered by people’s participation.”“Our vision of development is human-centric, one where the fruits of prosperity reach everyone in an equitable manner. This can be realised only when 130 crore Indians remain aware and vigilant and perform their duties and responsibilities as proud citizens,” the PM’s further added.Talking about the steps taken by the government in the last few years, the PM said: “...we have repealed several outdated laws and simplified processes. We have been striving to utilise technology optimally to improve Ease of Living and enhance Ease of Doing Business.”According to people familiar with the developments, some major steps taken by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, led by PM Modi in the last six years, include setting up a court monitored Special Investigation Team (SIT) to keep a check on generation of black money.The SIT has, till March this year, detected Rs 70,000 crore worth black money, which includes Rs 16,000 crore in offshore accounts.The Black Money act 2015 was passed by the government which allows 90% penalty on undisclosed assets.In 2016, the government passed Benami Transactions Amendment Act, which enables confiscation of Benami property. Subsequently, in 2018, Fugitive Economic Offenders (FEO) act was brought in which allowed agencies to confiscate properties of fraudsters abroad as well. Till now, former liquor baron Vijay Mallya and diamond businessman Nirav Modi have been declared as FEOs and their extradition is being pursued in the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-tolerance-of-corruption-no-place-for-middlemen-in-new-india-pm-modi/story-JKIewV8igNkf6fBSHnOEXN.html
23-10-2020||India||TRP Scam case: Arnab Goswami to appear before Mumbai police on October 24||Arnab Goswami, Republic TV editor-in-chief, will be appearing before Mumbai Police on Saturday in connection with the probe into the alleged TRP scam case. Goswami was earlier exempted from appearing before Mumbai Police on October 16 after his lawyer submitted a plea.A first information report (FIR) under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) such as criminal breach of trust, criminal conspiracy and cheating has been filed by the Mumbai Police’s Crime Branch against Republic TV channel and its senior officials. The FIR also names two other local regional channels in the matter. The FIR claims that these channels have manipulated TRPs (Television Rating Point), which then decides who gets more advertisements. So far, six people have been arrested in the case.Mumbai Police on Friday filed a fresh FIR against Republic TV and its employees for allegedly maligning the police’s image and inciting ‘disaffection’ among the police officers against commissioner Param Bir Singh. The FIR also names the channel’s executive editor, two reporters, anchor and several editorial staff members.The new FIR filed on Friday has been lodged by the Special Branch-1 (SB1), which is the intelligence wing of the Mumbai Police. The FIR, which was filed by a sub-inspector at the Social Media Lab (SML), has been registered at the NM Joshi Marg police station. According to the FIR, the police officials at SML on October 22 observed that Goswami’s TV channel broadcasted a show under its segment ‘Biggest Story Tonight’ which alleged that commissioner Param Bir Singh is spoiling the Mumbai Police’s image and his orders are not acceptable to the junior officials in the department.“By broadcasting such content, the channel and its journalists intentionally tried to incite disaffection among the police personnel against the police commissioner and the act also maligns Mumbai Police’s image,” the complainant said in the FIR.This is the fourth criminal case filed against Republic TV channel and its employees by the Mumbai Police. Apart from this and the TRP case, Goswami already has two FIRs registered against him at the Pydhonie police station and NM Joshi Marg police station respectively on charges of instigating communal tension and spreading hatred between two communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-scam-case-arnab-goswami-republic-tv-chief-to-appear-before-mumbai-police-on-october-24/story-NDjzfpaarJQMiDnUVAc9mK.html
23-10-2020||India||Amid criticism, Nagaland clarifies Hornbill Festival will be held virtually||The Nagaland government has attracted criticism from various quarters after a notification of its tourism department asking allied departments to initiate preparations for the annual Hornbill Festival, which is held from December 1 till 10, was circulated on social media platforms.Although the department had later clarified in sections of local media that the state’s premier festival would be organised virtually, opposition Naga People’s Front (NPF) swiftly reacted against celebration of any festival amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The NPF issued a statement on Friday terming the move of the NDPP-BJP coalition government in the state as a ‘suicidal mission’ as Covid cases are spiking up day after day.“Even if the celebration may be in virtual form, a festival is a festival, and in any festival, celebration without people’s participation there cannot be any celebration. Therefore, if the government is in the process to celebrate the festival without public participation then there is no need to hold any celebration,” the NPF said.Reminding the government that the virus could not be stopped from entering the state even when total lockdown was imposed, the party questioned as to how far it was safe to celebrate the Hornbill Festival in whatever way the government was contemplating, and whether the government could assure the safety of participants.While stating that the Hornbill Festival used to be a perfect opportunity to improve the state’s tourism sector and a time to showcase the traditional heritage of its tribes to the outside world, the opposition party felt that the influx of international and domestic tourists into the state during the pandemic would prove catastrophic.The tourism department had recorded a total of 2,82,811 visitors in the 2019 edition of the Hornbill Festival, including 3,015 foreign tourists and 55,584 domestic tourists.As of Friday, Nagaland’s Covid positive cases have reached 8,436, including 22 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-criticism-nagaland-clarifies-hornbill-festival-will-be-held-virtually/story-1OZx7rnVIB4Ain7t45uYYM.html
23-10-2020||India||PM Modi to interact with CEOs of leading oil, gas companies on Oct 26||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with CEOs of leading global oil and gas companies in the annual event organized by NITI Aayog and Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas on October 26 via video conferencing. PMO said that India is an important player in the global Oil and gas sector being the 3rd largest consumer of crude oil and the 4th largest LNG importer.“Realizing the need for India to graduate from a passive consumer to an active and vocal stake-holder in the global Oil & Gas value chain, NITI Aayog initiated the first roundtable of global Oil & Gas CEOs with the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India in 2016,” it said.This is the fifth such event organized by NITI Aayog and Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas. Around 45 CEOs of major Oil and Gas companies will attend the event this year. “The objective behind the meeting is to deliver a global platform to understand best-practices, discuss reforms, and inform strategies for accelerating investments into the Indian Oil and Gas value chain. The event also grows in stature with the rise of India, the world’s third-largest energy consumer, which is likely to see over USD 300 billion investment by 2030 in the Oil & Gas sector to meet rising demand,” PMO said. Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas and Minister of Steel will provide the opening remarks.Key global Oil and Gas stakeholders like H.E. Dr. Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber CEO, Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) and Minister of Industry and Advanced Technology, UAE, H.E. Saad Sherida al-Kaabi, Minister of State for Energy Affairs of Qatar, Deputy Chairman, President & CEO, Qatar Petroleum, H.E. Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo, Secretary-General, OPEC, Austria, will lead the session with their inputs on the Oil and Gas sector. Dr Igor Sechin, Chairman & CEO, Rosneft, Russia, Bernard Looney, CEO, BP Ltd., Patrick Pouyanne, Chairman & CEO, Total S.A., France, Anil Agarwal, Chairman of Vedanta Resources Limited, Mukesh Ambani, Chairman & Managing Director, RIL, Dr. Fatih Birol, Executive Director, International Energy Agency, France, Joseph Mc Monigle, Secretary-General, International Energy Forum, Saudi Arabia, and Yury Sentyurin Secretary-General, GECF will also share their inputs to the Prime Minister.The Prime Minister will also inaugurate the India Energy Forum by CERAWeek, now in its fourth year. It is hosted by IHS Markit, a world leader in critical information, analytics and solutions. The event will convene an international group of speakers and a community of over a thousand delegates from India and over 30 countries, including from regional energy companies, energy-related industries, institutions and governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-ceos-of-leading-oil-gas-companies-on-oct-26/story-rMCuYnLIgCDFp093uApnDJ.html
23-10-2020||India||FATF keeps Pakistan off blacklist for now, warns that it can’t take forever||The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) on Friday decided to retain Pakistan on its “grey list”, giving it time till February next year to address what the multilateral watchdog said were “very serious deficiencies” in its efforts to counter terror financing. The decision was announced at the end of FATF’s three-day virtual plenary meeting, and the body’s president, Marcus Pleyer, cautioned that Pakistan would not be given a chance “forever” to address outstanding issues. Repeated failure to deliver on FATF’s action plan would result in a country being put in the “black list”, he said. Pakistan was placed in FATF’s list of “jurisdictions under increased monitoring” or grey list in 2018 for failing to control terror financing and money laundering. In a virtual repeat of the warning issued to Pakistan in February, FATF said in a statement: “As all action plan deadlines have expired, the FATF strongly urges Pakistan to swiftly complete its full action plan by February 2021.” Pleyer, at a virtual news conference, said Pakistan had “largely addressed” 21 of 27 items in its action plan and the government had signalled its commitment to complete the rest. “But it is clear [that] even though Pakistan has made progress, it needs to do more. Pakistan cannot stop, it needs to continue to carry out reforms, particularly to implement targeted financial sanctions and prosecute and sanction those financing terrorism,” he said. The work done by Pakistan “definitely means the world has become safer but the six outstanding items are very serious deficiencies that still have to be repaired, and for that reason, the risks [have not been overcome]”, Pleyer added. In an apparent reference to Pakistan’s repeated failures to meet deadlines for the action plan, Pleyer said: “As long as we see that the country is progressing with the action items, and we have seen progress with Pakistan, we give them a chance to repair the outstanding issues but we don’t do this forever.” He added, “You can look at other countries where after a while, we have seen there is no longer progress on the action plan and the action plan has not been completed, then the countries are pushed to the black list.” Pleyer made it clear Pakistan wouldn’t be out of the woods with mere completion of the action plan. Once FATF’s plenary agrees that all 27 items had been completed, there will be an on-site visit by an assessment team to verify information given by Pakistan and see that all measures are working effectively. “After that on-site visit, the next plenary will then decide whether Pakistan has indeed fully and effectively completed the action plan and then there is a decision on whether Pakistan would leave the grey list or not,” he said. Besides, Pleyer cautioned that Pakistan is also subject to an evaluation by FATF’s regional affiliate, the Australia-based Asia Pacific Group. In its latest report issued in September, APG concluded Pakistan has fully complied with only two of 40 recommendations to counter terror financing and money laundering, and that it was “non-compliant” on four recommendations, “partially compliant” on 25 and “largely compliant” on nine. FATF’s statement said Pakistan should continue addressing its “strategic deficiencies”, including demonstrating that law enforcement agencies are identifying and investigating the widest range of terror financing activity and that investigations and prosecutions target designated persons and entities. Pakistan should demonstrate that terror financing prosecutions result in “effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions”, and it should show “effective implementation of targeted financial sanctions” against terrorists designated by the UN Security Council and those acting on their behalf by preventing the raising and transferring of funds, identifying and freezing assets, and prohibiting access to funds and financial services. Islamabad should also demonstrate enforcement and action against non-profit organisations, which are often used as fronts by Pakistan-based terror groups, the statement said. Pleyer brushed aside a question on whether Pakistan is being discriminated against by saying the country is being treated in line with the same rules that have been accepted by 205 countries globally. He also dismissed a question from a Pakistani body about the alleged involvement of Indian banks in terror financing, saying FATF isn’t an investigative body. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the six action items FATF is pressuring Pakistan to implement are the “most crucial ones that will help finish off the terror groups”. “Pakistan has was hoping to convince the watchdog to remove it from the grey list but FATF has taken a more serious view and asked Pakistan to go full throttle and terminate the state’s support to terror groups, which Pakistan will find difficult to do given the history of these groups being used as proxies by the army,” he said. “Implementing the full action plan won’t be easy because of the fear of retribution from these terror groups. We can expect Pakistan to enact more dramas, such as a crackdown and prosecution of terrorists, before the next FATF meeting,” he added. There was no immediate reaction to FATF’s decision from Indian officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fatf-keeps-pakistan-off-blacklist-for-now-warns-that-it-can-t-take-forever/story-t2v3AQXgichIlOZriQaBBJ.html
23-10-2020||India||Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine gets nod for Phase 3 trial. Here’s how it came through||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has allowed Bharat Biotech International Limited to conduct the Phase 3 clinical trials of its vaccine candidate against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) but added a few riders. A subject expert committee on Covid-19 at the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) had recommended granting permission to the Hyderabad-based pharma company for conducting latest phase of the clinical trial of its vaccine ‘Covaxin’ after assessing the safety and immunogenicity data of Phases 1 and 2 trials.Covaxin is being indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The vaccine maker had applied to the DCGI on October 2 seeking permission to conduct Phase 3 randomised double-blind placebo-controlled multicentre trial of its Covid-19 vaccine.Also read | India’s first Covid-19 vaccine will be at least 60% effective: Bharat BiotechThe Phase 3 clinical trial of Covaxin will cover around 28,500 subjects, aged 18 years and above, and it will be conducted in 21 sites across 10 states, including Delhi, Mumbai, Patna and Lucknow. DGCI had granted permission to Bharat Biotech in July to conduct phase I and II clinical trials to develop the indigenous vaccine for Covid-19.Here’s how the recommendation for Phase 3 trial of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine came through:1. Bharat Biotech was asked to submit complete safety and immunogenicity data of the phase 2 trial as well as some clarifications before proceeding to the next stage.2. The Phase 3 clinical trial application proposed a dose of 0.5 ml on day 0 and 28, news agency PTI cited sources as saying.3. The Hyderabad-based firm presented its data from Phases 1 and 2 along with animal challenge data in two species, including non-human primates (NHP), on the inactivated coronavirus vaccine (BBV152) along with the proposal to conduct event-driven Phase 3 clinical trial to assess the efficacy of the vaccine, the recommendations stated.Also read | Bharat Biotech in talks to take vaccine candidate global4. “After detailed deliberation and based on the available evidence, the committee recommended for grant of permission to conduct Phase 3 clinical trial subject to the condition that the primary efficacy endpoint for symptomatic cases should be amended as below...,” the recommendations said.5. Once a suspect case is confirmed the principal investigator will evaluate the clinical information to classify it as a symptomatic case.6. “Two criteria must be met for a participant to be a confirmed symptomatic case. Either criteria A or B with positive RT-PCR confirmation,” the recommendations said.7. The first criterion includes shortness of breath or difficulty in breathing, new-onset anosmia or ageusia, oxygen saturation of <94 per cent or escalation in supplemental O2, pneumonia diagnosed by chest X-ray or CT scan, evidence of shock, ICU admission/death (one or more).8. The second includes fever, chills, new cough, myalgia or fatigue, headache, sore throat, nausea or vomiting, diarrhoea, congestion/runny nose (one or more symptoms).(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-s-covid-19-vaccine-gets-nod-for-phase-3-trial-here-s-how-it-came-through/story-Hcxt2OVsWr7gPxw6dnvxKP.html
23-10-2020||India||Ajit Pawar welcomes ex-BJP leader Khadse in NCP||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday welcomed former BJP leader Eknath Khadses induction into the NCP, saying his entry will energise the Sharad Pawar-led party.Taking to Twitter, Ajit Pawar said Khadse’s leadership will help expand the party in the Khandesh region (north (Maharashtra) and also in other parts of the state.Khadse (68) hails from Jalgaon district of Khandesh.Ajit Pawar’s comments came amid media reports that his absence at a party event to induct Khadse indicated he was unhappy over the development.NCP chief Sharad Pawar himself trashed the reports earlier in the day after Khadse and his daughter Rohini joined the NCP.Ajit Pawar has been in home quarantine as a precautionary measure though he has tested negative for Covid-19.“I welcome the state’s senior leader honourable Mr Eknathrao ji Khadse saheb in NCP from the bottom of my heart. Khadse saheb and Rohini Taais entry into the NCP will definitely energise the party,” Ajit Pawar tweeted in Marathi.He also said that the seniority and experience of those who joined the NCP with Khadse will definitely be respected in the NCP.Khadse quit the BJP on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajit-pawar-welcomes-ex-bjp-leader-khadse-in-ncp/story-XeM236WDR60PqUDRxRdIhK.html
23-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: FIR against Republic TV for inciting ‘disaffection’ against Mumbai top cop and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.FIR against Republic TV for inciting ‘disaffection’ against Mumbai top copThe Mumbai police on Friday registered a fresh FIR against Republic Television channel and booked its executive editor, anchor, two reporters and other editorial staff members for allegedly inciting “disaffection” among the police personnel against commissioner Param Bir Singh and maligning the city police’s image. Read morePakistan opens fire along LoC, India retaliates ‘befittingly’After a lull of six days, Pakistan on Friday evening opened heavy firing in three sectors along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district, prompting India to retaliate in equal measure. Read moreFATF dashes Pak hopes of getting out of grey list, then a harsh rebukeThe Financial Action Task Force (FATF), the world’s top anti-terrorism monitoring group, on Friday voted to keep Pakistan on a grey list for the Imran Khan government’s failure to fully comply with a 27-point action plan handed to it, people familiar with the matter said. Read moreChina builds new structures near LAC, relocates troops. India reads a messageEven as India and China discuss disengagement from friction points in Ladakh at the military-diplomatic talks, the People’s Liberation Army is constructing new structures and relocating troops and equipment to occupied Aksai Chin in Tibet as well as Xinjiang with no intention of backing off from the 1,597 km of Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh at least this winter. Read moreIPL 2020, MI vs CSK: Why Rohit Sharma is not playing against Chennai Super Kings - ExplainedMumbai Indians suffered a huge blow ahead of their Indian Premier League 2020 contest against Chennai Super Kings on Friday. MI captain Rohit Sharma was ruled out of the match, and it was allrounder Kieron Pollard who took over the captaincy duties from the MI opener. Read moreMahesh Bhatt to take legal action against relative Luviena Lodh after she called him a don, accused him of harassment in videoFilmmaker Mahesh Bhatt’s lawyer has responded to the video posted by actor Luviena Lodh on Instagram on Friday. In the video, Luviena accused Mahesh of harassment and intimidation. Luviena began the video by introducing herself as the wife of Mahesh’s nephew, Sumit Sabharwal. Luviena said that Sumit supplies ‘drugs and women’ to various actors and that Mahesh knows all about it. Read moreCovid-19 has been an accelerator for chatbot techAs the pandemic continues, making most of the global workforce operate remotely, the reliance on technology by all sectors - retail, IT, financial services, the government, etc. - only surges. Read moreClose your eyes: A first-of-its-kind film for the blind tells a story in soundA conversation and a question. That’s how India’s first-of-its-kind audio feature film for the visually challenged came about. Filmmaker Sanamjit Talwar already had a script in place for his second project, Gulfam (Kashmiri for “like a rose”), the story of a six-year-old Kashmiri boy whose mother is killed by militants. Read moreSidharth Malhotra hosts fundraiser in form of virtual dumb charades to help kids battling cancerStepping ahead for a noble cause, actor Sidharth Malhotra on Friday invited his fans for a fundraiser to help provide nutrition and hot meals to children battling cancer and announced that five lucky winners will get a chance to play a virtual game of dumb charades with the actor. Read moreWATCH: Kangana Ranaut ‘waiting to be in jail soon’, hints over Aamir Khan’s silenceActor Kangana Ranaut on Friday said that “the government (is) trying to put me in jail” after a complaint was filed against the actor at a Mumbai court for “spreading hate and breaking the brotherhood, integrity of the country” through “provoking hate speeches” given by her. The actor took to Twitter and said, “I worship people like Savarkar, Neta Bose and Rani of Jhansi. Watch Here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-fir-against-republic-tv-for-inciting-disaffection-against-mumbai-top-cop-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xzirbBZtN8VC4ECqJo7ydJ.html
23-10-2020||India||Pakistan opens fire along LoC, India retaliates ‘befittingly’||After a lull of six days, Pakistan on Friday evening opened heavy firing in three sectors along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district, prompting India to retaliate in equal measure.Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, “Pakistan violated ceasefire in Kirni, Qasba and Malti sectors along the LoC in Poonch around 1800 hours (6 pm). Pakistani troops initiated unprovoked ceasefire violations and opened small arms fire that was soon followed by shelling. Indian Army retaliated befittingly”.There were no injuries on the Indian side till reports last poured in.Pakistan on October 16 had opened heavy fire on Indian positions and forward villages along the LoC in the Mankote sector of Poonch district in the morning and then in the evening opened fire in Hiranagar sector of Kathua district where a middle aged man was hit by splinters in Manyari village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-opens-fire-along-loc-india-retaliates-befittingly/story-vTNzmOW5fm27Ew1Vv4RO6N.html
23-10-2020||India||‘Thakur village’ signboard sparks tension in UP’s Meerut area||Tension prevailed in Bastora Narang village of Hastinapur in Meerut after a group of Thakurs declared it a ‘Thakur village’ on Wednesday. They put up a sign board to this effect at the entrance of the village, with paintings of Maharana Pratap and Prithviraj Chauhan. Other communities, including Scheduled Castes, Muslims and Kashyaps objected to this move and submitted a complaint in the Hastinapur police station on Thursday, accusing the Thakurs of provoking people and trying to incite a caste confrontation in the village. The village has a population of over 8,000, dominated by Thakurs, followed by Scheduled Castes, Muslims, Kashyaps, Sikhs and other communities. Gram Sabha member Indramani Jayant said, “We have lived here for generations amid peace and brotherhood. Now some notorious elements are trying to incite a caste-flare-up.” Station house officer of Hastinapur police station Ashok Kumar visited the village on Friday after the signboard picture started doing the rounds on social media. He held a meeting with villagers to resolve the issue. Kumar claimed that the issue was resolved after members of both sides agreed in writing that the board would be repainted with ‘Village Bastora Natang Welcomes You’. Villagers, however, said that the Thakurs had merely omitted the word ‘Thakur’ and ‘Rajputana’ instead of repainting the board and writing a welcome message on it. Deshraj Kashyap, a villager, said that it all started on Wednesday when a group of Thakurs painted a state government board put up for the publicity of PM Saubhagya Yojna. It was then installed at the entrance of the village after writing “Thakur Gram Bastora Narang me aapka hardik Swagat hai”(Thakur village Bastora Narang heartily welcomes you) with pictures of Maharana Pratap and Prithviraj Chauhan. Indramani Jayant demanded that action should be initiated against those who attempted to sabotage peace and harmony in the village and the controversial board should immediately be uprooted. SHO Kumar said that those who were involved in it would be identified and strict action will be taken against them. He said that no case had been registered in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thakur-village-signboard-sparks-tension-in-uttar-pradesh-s-meerut/story-jRV6sqvucxntN9CcBhYHJK.html
23-10-2020||India||FIR against Republic TV for inciting ‘disaffection’ against Mumbai top cop||The Mumbai police on Friday registered a fresh FIR against Republic Television channel and booked its executive editor, anchor, two reporters and other editorial staff members for allegedly inciting “disaffection” among the police personnel against commissioner Param Bir Singh and maligning the city police’s image.This is the fourth criminal case registered against Republic TV channel and its employees by the city police.The latest FIR is registered by the Special Branch-1 (SB1), the intelligence wing of the city police, at the NM Joshi Marg police station. The complainant Shashikant Pawar is a sub-inspector posted at the Social Media Lab (SML).The SML is entrusted with duties of monitoring content on social media platforms and television channels and identifying posts, fake news, rumours and other content that has potential to create unrest in the city or can lead to any communal tension or law and order situation in the city or state.As per the FIR, on October 22 the police officials at SML observed that the Republic TV (English) channel telecast a show under the segment Biggest Story Tonight, with a caption line: ‘Revolt Against Param Bir Singh? Senior officer part of the probe gives details’.The news item telecast on the channel alleged that Param Bir Singh is tarnishing the image of Mumbai police and his orders are not acceptable to the junior officers in the department, states the complaint.The news show was anchored by Shivani Gupta and reporter Sagrika Mitra based on the news story gathered by Republic TV Reporter Shawan Sen.“By broadcasting such content, the channel and its journalists intentionally tried to incite disaffection among the police personnel against the police commissioner and the act also maligns Mumbai Police’s image,” the complainant stated in the FIR.The police have booked Republic TV anchor Shivani Gupta, reporter Sagrika Mitra, reporter Shawan Sen and executive editor of the show Niranjan Narayan Swami and other editorial staff.They all have been charged with section 3 (1) of The Police (Incitement to Disaffection) Act, 1922 and 500 (defamation) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code.Arnab Goswami is already facing two FIRs at the Pydhonie police station and NM Joshi Marg police station for inciting communal tension and spreading hatred between two communities.The city police have also initiated chapter proceedings against Goswami and have issued him a show cause notice around two weeks ago. The channel is also facing an investigation in the Television Rating Point (TRP) scam.Republic Television channel officials did not respond to queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-republic-tv-for-inciting-disaffection-against-mumbai-top-cop/story-fbh3rjBKjhhhTz5vqtXRCP.html
23-10-2020||India||‘Lucknow gives very pleasant vibes’||Leaving a well-paid job behind to pursue her dream of acting, actor Donal Bisht feels that she is more than glad to have taken the decision. “I believe that passion should be followed else one tends to regret it later in life. I left a media job, of a flourishing anchor, to fulfill my dream. I remember how I used to work throughout the month in Delhi and travel to Mumbai for auditions on off days. It was very difficult to persuade my parents as for them I had a good job and that was important,” said the pretty actor during her recent visit to Lucknow for a shoot. The ‘Dil Toh Happy Hai Ji’ actor said that being camera friendly made her crack auditions promptly. “Yes, it took me just four months before I was able to get roles in shows like ‘Kalash Ek Vishwas’, ‘Ek Deewana Tha’, ‘Roop’, ‘Ek Mard Ka Naya Swaroop’ among others. As an actor, I got opportunity to portray stories of different characters. Being an anchor did make me camera-friendly and it was easy to emote as I was never camera shy.”Her Lucknow visit was for a video shoot. “It was a short visit but still I loved it. I got such pleasant and spiritual vibes from the city that it made me all de-stressed. Hopefully next time I’ll get more time to savour Mughlai delicacies,” Donal said. Talking about her current shows she said, “Thankfully in these tough times I’m able sustain and get quality work. Web series ‘The Socho Project’ is a beautiful musical story where I play a rockstar whereas the other series is a very emotional drama with actor Iqbal Khan. I enjoying playing both characters completely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow-gives-very-pleasant-vibes/story-xdXNS4dnOrTdHhrDaJjrDM.html
23-10-2020||India||‘I don’t do roles that fail to excite me’||After a career span of almost two decades, versatile actor Shakti Anand wishes to only do projects that excite him. “Unlike two decades back, the audience today is smart and fast. They have an in-built dislike button. That being so, I don’t wish to give my blood and sweat to a show, or series, that fails to excite me. ‘Maza nai ayega toh public watch nahin karegi’ irrespective of the money spent on the project,” said Anand, best remembered for shows like ‘Saara Akaash,’ and ‘Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi.’He said that having big names in the cast does pull in audiences to a show, “Audiences trust those actors who they have watched on screen for years but that charm is short-lived, say for a week. After that it’s only script and right characterisation that can take a show forward,” he said. About working during the pandemic, Anand said, “I was working during the peak of the pandemic, as my project demanded it, and so we shot in Goa. Initially, I was in a state of panic but as the work started it was all okay. Luckily, work continued to pour in and being selective, I picked up two-three projects both for OTT as well as TV.” Anand is currently shooting for a web as well as a TV show and enjoying playing diverse characters. “When I was offered TV daily ‘Humari Waali Good News’ I loved the idea but was in two minds to age on screen and play a lifeless character that has nothing much to do. But when they confirmed the script, my role actually did come out well etched. On the web, I’ll be seen playing an antagonist in the upcoming series ‘Naxalbari’ and I’m loving every bit of it. Another OTT series is also in the pipeline.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-don-t-do-roles-that-fail-to-excite-me/story-Nc1A2HLgJ6ZyRVCCfytO6I.html
23-10-2020||India||Lucknow keeps festive spirit high||Durga Puja festivities started off in high spirits but with precautions. A number of pandals in the state capital began the celebrations with ‘sthaphana’ ritual in presence of core-committee members on ‘shrashti’ (sixth day) of Navratri. Thin attendance was witnessed at the puja pandals, which for the first time were sans food stalls, ‘bhog’ counters and entertainment zones. Pushpanjali (offering of flowers) to the deity has been replaced by ‘aanjali’ (offering with imaginary). The fun element full of chit-chat, gossip, baithiki and adda baazi at food counters might be missing this year but puja spirit still remains high, said Jayonto Sarkar of Trans Gomti Dussehera & Durga Puja Committee. “Instead of Chandrashekar Azad Park we organised puja at a guest house with a limited entry to abide by the safety rules. We are not encouraging people from outside and admission has been restricted from nearby-areas only,” he informed. Ankita Khan, who has set her wardrobe for all the days, shares that the dress code on ‘ashtami’ will be a bright saree this year. “For the first time due to pandemic my sister, who is working in Bangalore, couldn’t fly down. Till last year during puja we used to enjoy late night pandal hopping near my residence on La Touche Road but this time the pattern has been tweaked though our rejoicing spirits are high,” she said. Manoj Bhadra, president of Bondhu Mahal, B-Block, Indira Nagar informed that this time they have got a three-feet idol. “From Friday we hope for a bigger turnout so we are all geared up to abide by all the protocols. People are not allowed to hang round and throng the pandal.” Thursday being the first day of puja the celebration was a low-key affair. But a good turnout is expected in coming days amid norms of social distancing. “Appeal to all is to follow all the guidelines and be safe. All pujas are providing live ‘darshans’ too so there no need to get disheartened,” added Bhadra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow-keeps-festive-spirit-high/story-hdTb7i82pgQi6mK6WhtY0K.html
23-10-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate 3 projects in Gujarat tomorrow. Here’s how they will help||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate three key projects, including the Kisan Suryodaya Yojana for farmers, in Gujarat on Saturday. Among them will also be the Paediatric Heart Hospital attached with UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology and Research Centre in Ahmedabad and a mobile application for telecardiology at the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital. He will also inaugurate the ropeway at Mount Girnar near Junagadh in Junagadh district.Here are the details of the three projects which will be inaugurated by PM Modi:Kisan Suryodaya YojanaFarmers in the state will be able to avail power supply from 5am to 9pm under the Kisan Suryodaya Yojana every day. The Gujarat government had recently announced the Kisan Suryodaya Yojana to provide day-time power supply for irrigation. The state government has allocated a budget of Rs 3,500 crore for installing transmission infrastructure under this scheme by 2023, according to a government statement.Dahod, Patan, Mahisagar, Panchmahal, Chhota Udepur, Kheda, Tapi, Valsad, Anand and Gir-Somnath have been included under the scheme for 2020-21. The remaining districts will be covered in a phase-wise manner by 2022-23. The statement said that 234 ‘66 kilowatt’ transmission lines, with a total length of 3,490 circuit kilometre (CKM) will be established under the project. This will be in addition to 220 KV substations, it added.Paediatric Heart HospitalThe Prime Minister will also inaugurate Paediatric Heart Hospital attached with the UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology and Research Centre in Ahmedabad. He will also launch a mobile app for telecardiology at the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital. According to the statement, the UN Mehta Institute will now become India’s biggest hospital for cardiology in addition to being one of the select few hospitals in the world with a world-class medical infrastructure and medical facilities.The UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology is undergoing expansion at the cost of Rs 470 crore, the statement said, and the number of beds will increase from 450 to 1,251 after the completion of the project. The institute will also become the biggest single super speciality cardiac teaching institute in the country and one of the biggest single super speciality cardiac hospitals in the world, it added.The research centre will house India’s first Advanced Cardiac ICU on Wheels with operation theatre, which will be equipped with ventilators, Intra-Aortic Balloon Pump (IABP), haemodialysis, Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) machine among others. Fourteen operation centres and seven cardiac catheterization labs will also be started at the institute, according to the statement. The building is equipped with safety precautions like earthquake-proof construction, firefighting hydrant system and fire mist system, it added.Girnar ropewayThe Prime Minister will also inaugurate the Girnar ropeway, which will provide a scenic view of the areas surrounding Mount Girnar. There will be 25-30 cabins, which will carry eight people each, and the distance of 2.3km will now be covered in just 7.5 minutes through the ropeway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-3-projects-in-gujarat-tomorrow-here-s-how-they-will-help/story-f3V9im8rAv7dQNNrwglM9K.html
23-10-2020||India||Railways’ 50 year legacy of serving food at Parliament ends in November, ITDC to take over||Government’s tourism arm ITDC will take over the catering for the Parliament house on November 15 as the house has ended its more than 50-year-old association with the Northern Railways that has been providing catering facility in Parliament house complex since 1968. ITDC is the government’s body that runs the luxury five-star Ashok Group of hotels.According to a letter reviewed by HT that has been written by the Lok Sabha secretariat to the Northern Railways on October 19, the operations of the catering units in Parliament House Estate including the Parliament House, Parliament House Annexe, the Parliament library building and pantries will be taken over by the India Tourism Development Corporation Limited (ITDC) from November 15.The staff deployed by the Northern Railways has been asked to report back to their department by November 15.“The Northern Railway may, accordingly, hand over the electronic gadgets viz. Computers, Printers etc. provided by the Lok Sabha Secretariat to ITDC and furniture items, equipment, gadgets etc to CPWD for being handed over by them to ITDC,” the letter said.Northern Railway has been providing catering facility in the Parliament house complex since 1968 on ‘no-profit-no-loss’ basis and the loss incurred by the Railway as a result thereof is subsidised to Northern Railway by the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats in the ratio of 2:1.The catering services in the Parliament house complex are mainly for members of Parliament. Officers/staff of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats and other dignitaries also availed the catering services.Northern Railway currently runs four catering units in Parliament house complex viz. Parliament House, Parliament House Annexe, Parliament Library Building and Parliament House Reception Office. Overall functioning of these catering units is being looked after by the Lok Sabha secretariat.Also Read: The catering services in the Parliament house complex are mainly for members of ParliamentDuring the monsoon session of the Parliament, railways was reduced to only distributing and serving the food inside the House complex as the northern railway-run Parliament canteen was closed due to Covid 19 and no cooking was allowed.Hindustan Times on July 9 had reported that ITDC will take over the House canteen by the next session.The process to find a new vendor was started last year after concerns about the quality of food were raised. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla was personally looking into the issue. ITDC had made a detailed presentation to the Speaker in July. Officials present at the meeting had told Hindustan Times earlier that Birla emphasised the need to ensure the “quality of the food.”At present, the canteen serves a total of 48 food items for lunch and evening snacks, from boiled vegetables to Kesari bath. But items such as poha, mutton cutlet or bonda are not available regularly. According to canteen officials, the vegetarian thali (Rs 40) and chapattis (Rs 2 each) are the most sought-after food in the Parliament complex.Also Read: On quiet visit to Mumbai, NCB boss preps for crackdown in Bollywood drugs caseAccording to data available with Lok Sabha officials, out of the Rs 17 crore subsidy, only Rs 24 lakh was spent on account of the MPs. Visitors, security personnel, government officials, and journalists covering Parliament accounted for the rest. During a session, an average of 4,500 people eat daily at Parliament.Every year, Northern Railway submit their subsidy claim showing the sales made and expenditure incurred in providing catering services in Parliament house complex. As a mandatory practice, the claim amount submitted by the Northern Railways is vetted by the finance ministry. The provision of subsidy amount in the budget allocation of Lok Sabha secretariat is made on a year to year basis by taking into account the amount incurred/released in the previous year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-50-year-legacy-of-serving-food-at-parliament-ends-in-november-itdc-to-take-over/story-rBL9toJMaSUsDqWMOZQFqK.html
23-10-2020||India||5 dead, 3 injured in a fire at a firecracker factory in Tamil Nadu’s Madurai||At least five people were killed and three injured in a fire that broke out at a firecracker factory in Tamil Nadu’s Madurai on Friday, according to reports. The fire was caused by a series of explosions that took place inside the factory and severely damaged the structure, police said, according to a report in news agency PTI. Among the five victims that were killed in the fire, three were women. Many other workers managed to escape the factory in time, police added. The fire service units from Srivilliputhur and Virudhunagar were rushed to the spot to douse the fire. DMK president MK Stalin condoled the deaths and urged the government to ensure safety precautions are taken in fireworks factories as Diwali is just around the corner. Stalin also sought adequate compensation for the bereaved families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-dead-3-injured-in-a-fire-at-a-firecracker-factory-in-madurai-reports-ani/story-fGs7OMvpNMQOhDzpxhkrwO.html
23-10-2020||India||Donald Trump’s comment on India as filthy sets off calls for cleaner air||US President Donald Trump’s description of India as a filthy place with polluted air has unleashed calls on social media for urgent clean-up action, particularly over New Delhi, the world’s most polluted capital.Defending the clean air in the United States, Trump made the comment during his final debate on Thursday with Democratic rival Joe Biden ahead of the Nov 3 presidential election, saying “Look at India. It’s filthy. The air is filthy.”On Friday, air pollution in New Delhi and surrounding cities was at its worst in eight months, with the air quality index surging above 300 on a scale of 500, indicating “emergency conditions”.Trump referred to India to defend his decision to pull out of the Paris climate accord, said one environmental expert.“Trump’s commentary on India’s air in the backdrop of his justification from withdrawing from the Paris pact is unfortunate and juvenile,” said Vimlendu Jha, the founder of an activist group, Swechha.“America is historically the largest emitter in the world and currently the second largest one,” he added.Trump was correct, said Kapil Mishra, a member of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Trump is right,” Mishra said on Twitter. “Our air quality is actually filthy. In Delhi, we are breathing poison. Time for all of us to come together and deal with the real reasons.”Also Read | Poor air quality is a danger to public health. Adopt a holistic approach Modi’s Hindu nationalist party is not in power in New Delhi, which is ruled by the liberal Aam Aadmi (Common Man) Party, officials of which have often sparred with BJP functionaries over blame for the poor quality of air in New Delhi.In a 2017 interview with Reuters, Trump complained that China, India, Russia and other countries were paying too little to help poorer countries battle climate change under the Paris accord’s Green Climate Fund.“It’s not a fair situation because they are paying virtually nothing and we are paying massive amounts of money,” he said at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/donald-trump-s-comment-on-india-as-filthy-sets-off-calls-for-cleaner-air/story-fM1SefD46I9EBgCqFT2HhJ.html
23-10-2020||India||China soldier who strayed into Ladakh carried sleeping bag, mobile: Official||A Chinese soldier who was held by the Indian Army after he strayed into India in the Ladakh sector on October 19 and was returned the next evening was carrying a military sleeping bag, a storage device and a mobile phone along with a charger, officials familiar with the developments said on Friday. Corporal Wang Ya Long was apprehended in eastern Ladakh’s Demchok sector after he strayed across the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), amid the ongoing border tensions with China in the sensitive region where both armies have deployed more than 50,000 soldiers each with advanced weapons and systems.“The PLA soldier was apparently moving from one location to another on the Chinese side of the LAC when he lost his way. He was carrying a sleeping bag, a storage device, his military identity card and a mobile with a charger. He was released after a thorough interrogation and completion of the necessary formalities,” the officials said. He was returned to the PLA at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point, where senior commanders from both armies have been holding military talks to reduce friction in the eastern Ladakh theatre. On the day he was held, the army said in a statement that Corporal Wang had been provided medical assistance, including oxygen, food and warm clothes to protect him “from the vagaries of extreme altitude and harsh climatic conditions”. Indian and Chinese military commanders met for the seventh time on October 12 in their latest attempt to defuse tensions. The Indian side demanded comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the talks. The two sides agreed to continue with the dialogue process to arrive at a mutually-acceptable solution for early disengagement in the eastern Ladakh theatre. In a joint press statement issued a day after the talks, they said they had a better understanding of each other’s positions in the sector after the latest round of talks. India and China are expected to hold the eight round of military talks soon, although a date has not been announced yet. The situation in the eastern Ladakh theatre will also figure prominently on the agenda for the upcoming Army commanders’ conference that will be held in New Delhi from October 26-29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-soldier-who-strayed-into-ladakh-carried-sleeping-bag-mobile-official/story-RIJsQMbeRO9rgj2GIDMBJI.html
23-10-2020||India||SII readying 1 billion doses of 5 Covid-19 vaccines: Adar Poonawalla||Serum Institute of India (SII) is readying one billion doses of five different vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across the world before the end of 2021-22, a report has said. Adar Poonawalla, the chief executive of the world’s largest vaccine maker by volume, said his company plans to launch at least one vaccine every quarter likely by the beginning of next year.These will include Covishield, Covovax, COVIVAXX, COVI-VAC, and SII COVAX. Covishield, which is being developed by the United Kingdom’s Oxford University, and licensed from British-Swedish drug-maker AstraZeneca, is currently undergoing Phase 3 of clinical trials in India among nearly 1,600 people. Serum Institute of India has partnered with AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine candidate, which is expected to be launched in the first quarter of next year and immunisation can start by January if the clearances are given early.Also read | IAVI, Serum Institute sign pact with Merck to develop coronavirus neutralising antibodies“The plan is to launch at least one vaccine every quarter beginning with Covishield, which we licensed from AstraZeneca, likely by start of 2021... We are already making 20-30 million doses and can increase the production to 70-80 million a month. Currently, we are consciously producing less considering the shelf life of the vaccine,” Adar Poonawalla told BusinessToday.in on Thursday.It reported that the second anti-coronavirus disease vaccine from Serum Institute Life Sciences (SILS), a new company floated by SII, is likely to be Covovax, which is a spike protein vaccine being developed in association with biotech firm Novovax.Novovax has an arrangement with SII to produce one billion doses of the vaccine in 2021. The BusinessToday.in report said that the Phase 1 clinical trial of Covovax began in May 2020 in Australia and it is currently into the second phase of development. A phase-3 clinical trial with up to 30,000 subjects is expected to begin by end of 2020, it added.Also read | No adverse effect of Oxford University vaccine on 163 Mumbai volunteers during clinical trials, says BMCAdar Poonawala said the new manufacturing facility SILS is coming up near the SII facility in Pune and will take two years for completion. Poonawalla also said, according to BusinessToday.in, that SILS will outsource the capacity of SII until then.Poonawalla added that the privately-held company has already invested 70% of the Rs 3,000 crore capex required in land, buildings, plants, raw materials, and other related infrastructure. SII will postpone its earlier expansion plans to develop a few new vaccines for the US and European markets. “Once completed, between SII and SILS, we will have a capacity to manufacture over 2.3 billion doses of coronavirus vaccines, provided there is demand and requirement,” the report quoted Poonawalla as saying.India’s infection tally went up to 7.76 million with 54,366 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 690 related deaths, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-readying-1-billion-doses-of-5-covid-19-vaccines-adar-poonawalla/story-zOzN90HaVPOy45d1G10eoJ.html
23-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India looks forward to army chief’s Nepal visit to put bilateral ties back on even keel and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India looks to army chief’s visit to Nepal to bring ties back on even keelIndia is looking to army chief Gen MM Naravane’s upcoming visit to Nepal to help put bilateral ties back on an even keel after a bitter border row, especially by building on the traditionally strong ties between the two armies, people familiar with developments said on Friday. Read moreNCB boss preps for crackdown in Bollywood drugs case after Mumbai visitNarcotics Control Bureau director general Rakesh Asthana returned to the national capital Delhi on Friday after a quiet visit to Mumbai to review investigations by the federal agency in the drugs trafficking case launched after Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in June this year, people familiar with the matter said. Read moreRahul Gandhi blames PM Modi for migrant crisisCongress leader Rahul Gandhi launched a blistering attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday , raising India-China issue, migrant crisis in his first election address on Friday — in Hisua. Read moreTrump ‘pours fuel on racist fires’: BidenDonald Trump is one of the “most racist presidents” in modern history, Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden said, as he tore into the current US President during the final presidential debate and accused him of pouring “fuel on every racist fire”. Read moreKareena Kapoor on Saif’s reaction when she told him about 2nd pregnancy: ‘Unfortunately, there is nothing filmy in my house’Actor Kareena Kapoor Khan is all set to welcome her second baby with husband Saif Ali Khan. In a recent interview, Kareena was asked about Saif’s reaction to hearing the ‘good news’ for the first time. Saif and Kareena are already parents to three-year-old son, Taimur. Their second child will be arriving sometime early next year. Read moreWoman’s ‘how it started vs how it’s going’ tweet about making sleeping mats wins heartsScrolling through Twitter, you may have come across several posts titled ‘how it started and how it’s going’. Not just highlighting some hilarious moments, this trend on social media is also the perfect way to showcase personal growth, achievements, relationship milestones and more. Several such posts have won the hearts of tweeple and among them is this one posted by Twitter user Em. Read moreMaharashtra invites Tesla to invest in stateMaharashtra is looking for potential investment from the US electric car major Tesla in the state and has held discussions with the company, weeks after Tesla revealed its plans to enter the Indian market. Read moreBarcelona tie with Juventus could see fans returnBarcelona may be able to welcome some fans back for their Champions League tie against Juventus at the Camp Nou in December, the Catalan regional government said. Talking to Catalan daily Sport, the region’s General Director for Sport, Gerard Figueras, said preliminary discussions had taken place between authorities and Barca about the return of fans amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreFrom Beyonce to Burj Khalifa, here are Bollywood’s most insensitive, culturally inappropriate momentsWe are in the year 2020, possibly the most eventful since the World Wars, and conversations around health, patriarchy, feminism, sexism, colourism, nepotism, racism and many such ‘isms’ have taken centre stage. The coronavirus pandemic and ensuing lockdown has been quite an enlightening time for most of us. Read moreWatch: ‘Reducing student loans in Biden’s plans’: US press secretary to Kamala HarrisUS Press Secretary to Senator Kamala Harris, Sabrina Singh said that Democratic Presidential candidate Joe Biden has a plan for Indian-Americans. Sabrina said, “I think what is going to woe Indian-American voters across the country is our plans. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-looks-forward-to-army-chief-s-nepal-visit-to-put-bilateral-ties-back-on-even-keel-and-all-the-latest/story-ZJlItfSmFraS1pyBMNccML.html
23-10-2020||India||Adani Group set to begin airport operations in 3 new cities, including Ahmedabad||After winning the bid to acquire the operations of the Mumbai airport in August this year, Adani Enterprises Limited (AEL) is currently preparing itself for a new set of airport takeovers in the coming days. The group would essentially, for a 50-year-lease, maintain the operations, management and development of the airports at Mangaluru, Lucknow and Ahmedabad from October 30, November 02 and November 11 respectively.The decision has been made after the company was asked by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to take over the three airports before November this year.As announced in the company’s Annual Report of 2019-2020, Adani Group considers itself “well-positioned to become leading airport operator in India.” The report also announced that the group won the bids for operations in six airports at Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Mangaluru, Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram, under the Public Private Partnership (PPP) model announced by the central government.The company also said that they would operate under a hybrid business model that comprises two revenue structures - aero and non-aero revenues. The non-aero revenues would be aimed at tapping the potential of “non-passenger airport visitors.”While there were plans to handle airports in the post-Covid-19 era in the report, the lockdown induced by the pandemic has widely hindered Adani’s plans for airport domination. The company announced in June this year that the acquisitions of operations in Guwahati and Jaipur airports were halted, as reported by Mint.Another challenge that the company faced was a legal battle with the Kerala state government after the latter opposed the privatization of Thiruvananthapuram airport, calling it ‘not in public interest.’ However, the Kerala High Court on October 19 this year dismissed the contention of the state government, as reported by the Mint.Members of the opposition have alleged favouritism on part of the central government for offering all airports to the Adani Group. “There’s a clear violation of norms in giving airports to a single private entity. Govt ignored the advice of some of its own ministries and departments. Changes in norms enabled Adani group to win all six bids,” Congress leader had said, according to news agency ANI.Despite the challenges, Adani would proceed with the takeovers as announced earlier, a press release from the AAI mentioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adani-group-set-to-begin-airport-operations-in-3-new-cities-including-ahmedabad/story-RPot8tkA8YsT6GsrucDv7L.html
23-10-2020||India||Pak approves bill for review of Kulbhushan Jadhav’s conviction fearing sanctions: Jadhav’s friend||Pakistan decided to approve the bill for review of Kulbhushan Jadhav’s conviction to avoid sanctions from United Nations Security Council (UNSC), Jadhav’s friend Arvind Singh said on Friday. “I see it as positive news. They (Pakistan) also fear if they would not have approved the bill they could have got sanctions from the UNSC. Now, this has given us hope that things will happen in a structured way,” Singh told ANI.He also said that there will be a lot of repercussions if Pakistan will not act according to the verdict of the International Court of Justice (ICJ). “If they will not act according to the ICJ verdict there will be a lot of repercussions. The realisation of that itself has given us hope that thing will actually move in the right direction.”He further said that India has been very vocal about all the documents relating to the Kulbhushan Jadhav and emphasised, “We need consular access which should be unconditional and unimpeded.”Arvind Singh’s statement comes after Pakistan National Assembly’s Standing Committee on Law and Justice approved the bill for review of Kulbhushan Jadhav’s conviction on Wednesday.Jadhav has been sentenced to death by a military court for espionage.Pakistan claims that Jadhav was arrested from Balochistan in 2016 on charges of espionage. India has rejected Pakistan’s allegations and said he was kidnapped from the Iranian port of Chabahar. In early 2017, a Pakistani military court sentenced him to death.Federal Minister for Law and Justice Farogh Naseem said that the bill to review the conviction of Jadhav has been introduced with the directives of the International Court of Justice (Review and Reconsideration) Ordinance, reported Dawn.The ordinance allows Jadhav to file an appeal against his conviction in a high court.Farogh warned that in case the bill was not adopted by Parliament, Pakistan could face sanctions for not complying with the ICJ’s verdict. The law minister said that India could be filing a contempt petition against Pakistan in the ICJ by promulgating the said ordinance.Recently, India had lashed out at Pakistan for failing to provide consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav.The ICJ had upheld India’s claim of the Pakistani regime committing the grievous violation of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations on several counts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-approves-bill-for-review-of-kulbhushan-jadhav-s-conviction-fearing-sanctions-jadhav-s-friend/story-VhGEubsB9YE4uP9yZQm8dP.html
23-10-2020||India||Watch: Navy demonstrates combat readiness; missile sinks target in practice drill||In a demonstration of its combat readiness in strategic sea lanes around India, the Indian Navy on Friday released a video of an anti-ship missile destroying a sinking ship with “deadly accuracy” somewhere in the Arabian Sea.The missile was fired by frontline corvette INS Prabal as part of a mega naval drill involving aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya and a number of warships, attack helicopters, aircraft and other assets of the Navy.An Indian Navy Spokesperson tweeted that the missile homed in on its target, an old ship, hitting with deadly accuracy at its maximum range.“#AShM launched by #IndianNavy Missile Corvette #INSPrabal, homes on with deadly accuracy at max range, sinking target ship,” he said.Watch: Indian Navy’s INS Prabal fires anti-ship missile in practice drill, sinks target Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh on Thursday reviewed the operational preparedness of his force at various shore-based locations a well as at sea.He also addressed a select group of combatants of the Navy’s Carrier Battle Group over a broadcast from the INS Vikramaditya, India’s only aircraft carrier, and reviewed the force’s overall combat readiness, officials said.In his remarks, Admiral Singh complimented his force for continuously maintaining “peak combat-readiness” and “high tempo” of operations over the past few months, they said.The Indian Navy has significantly increased its deployment in the Indian Ocean Region, in an attempt to send across a message to China in the wake of escalation in tension between the two countries.Giving an overview of the prevailing security situation, the Chief of Naval Staff stated that the Navy would continue to maintain a high-tempo of operations in coming months. “He also complimented the Carrier Battle Group and its combatants for accurate and effective weapon firings, which left no doubt about the Navy’s readiness to meet any emergent contingencies,” the Navy said in a statement on Thursday.A carrier battle group is a mega naval fleet comprising an aircraft carrier, accompanied by a large number destroyers, frigates and other ships.“Indian Navy continues to maintain a high tempo of operations and combat-readiness despite the Covid-19 pandemic by adhering to stringent protocols onboard warships, submarines and aircraft squadrons and bases, and is fully prepared to tackle challenges in the maritime domain,” the Navy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-india-navy-demonstrates-combat-readiness-ins-prabal-fires-missile-in-practice-drill/story-bW9NhAifq6cBVGpvcFmZjN.html
23-10-2020||India||Karnataka degree, diploma and engineering colleges to open from Nov 17. Here’s what you need to know||Engineering, diploma and degree colleges, which were shut for students due to the coronavirus pandemic, will reopen from November 17, the Karnataka government announced on Friday. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan said the decision to reopen these educational institutions was taken during a meeting chaired by chief minister BS Yediurappa. Yediurappa chaired the meeting of officials from the health, social welfare, backward class, finance, transport and education departments along with Narayan. Narayan said the decision to reopen these colleges was taken after several rounds of consultative meetings with all stakeholders. Students had also been demanding that classes be restarted, he added. Each college would have a task force and deputy commissioners of districts have been authorised to coordinate and monitor things at their district level, he also said.“We have not discussed it for now. That flexibility will be looked into, keeping exams in view. For now, we are trying to give impetus on learning. As per UGC guidelines we will be conducting classes. Online classes have already started in October,” he said when asked about any decision to cut short the syllabus.Karnataka, which is among other severely affected states, has 100,459 active cases, 671,618 people have recovered, 10,696 have succumbed to the coronavirus disease.Here is what you need to know about the guidelines:1. Students will have an option to either attend the classes physically or online or can go in for blended learning by using both options.2. Students can register online and those who want to attend classes by coming to colleges should have consent from their parents.3. Decision on the strength of classes - how they have to be held and the number of batches - will be decided along with all the necessary safety SOPs.4. All necessary safety measures will be taken and transport arrangements will be made to facilitate smooth conduct of classes for students who will stay at hostels for Scheduled Caste (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) and Other Backward Class (OBC) and social welfare hostels.5. Narayan said priority will be given for practical classes and pointed out that guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) also provided an opportunity to conduct offline classes from November.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-degree-diploma-and-engineering-colleges-from-nov-17-here-s-what-you-need-to-know/story-RlDBAKpkjFwgHQ7j8fJ3hN.html
23-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: BJP’s promise of free Covid vaccine completely legal, says Ravi Shankar Prasad||Amid the criticism from opposition parties over BJP’s free coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine promise to the people of Bihar in its election manifesto, Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Friday cleared the air by saying the provision of free vaccine to Bihar after the requisite approval is completely legal. The BJP’s 11-point manifesto was released by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, BJP Bihar chief Sanjay Jaiswal and party’s national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav on Thursday. Apart from the free vaccine promise, other points in the manifesto included creation of 1.9 million jobs in Bihar and the evolution of the state as an information technology (IT) hub. Prasad termed the vaccine promise as a ‘historical step’ and said that no opposition party should have any issues if the BJP is thinking progressively and giving priority to health care. According to news agency ANI, the Union law minister while addressing a press briefing in Patna said “It is shocking that some are terming it a political ploy. Should promises made for improving health care, caring for people’s health not be made? This declaration is completely legal, it only is problematic for people who make tall claims before elections but do not implement it on the ground.”Prasad pointed out the free vaccine promise shows the party’s commitment towards people’s health adding that it is a revolutionary step. Several opposition parties have labelled the BJP’s vaccine promise an election stunt. On Friday, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut questioned whether non-ruled BJP states would be denied free access to vaccine. He added that such promises show the party’s discriminatory nature. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday had tweeted, “GOI just announced India’s Covid access strategy. Kindly refer to the state-wise election schedule to know when will you get it, along with a hoard of false promises.” Meanwhile, Chattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday also accused the BJP of politicising public health. (With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-bjp-s-promise-of-free-covid-vaccine-completely-legal-says-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-lVsEsCnAhtuDmMnvTeDWFP.html
23-10-2020||India||India looks to army chief’s visit to Nepal to bring ties back on even keel||India is looking to army chief Gen MM Naravane’s upcoming visit to Nepal to help put bilateral ties back on an even keel after a bitter border row, especially by building on the traditionally strong ties between the two armies, people familiar with developments said on Friday. Naravane is expected to be in Nepal during Nov 4-6, when he will meet his Nepalese counterpart Gen Purna Chandra Thapa and top civilian leaders. Nepal’s President Vidya Devi Bhandari will also confer the honorary rank of general of the Nepali Army to Naravane at an investiture ceremony. Ahead of Naravane’s trip, Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) chief Samant Kumar Goel made a low-key visit to Kathmandu on Thursday during which he met Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli. Oli’s spokesman Surya Thapa was quoted by media as saying that Goel’s discussions with Oli focussed on not allowing any “interruption in friendly relations between Nepal and India [and] resolving all outstanding issues through dialogue and continuing mutual cooperation”. Also Read: Nepal Government not to bear costs of Covid-19 test, treatmentBilateral ties were hit in May after defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a key border road to Lipulekh region, which is claimed by Nepal. Kathmandu responded by issuing a new map that showed Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, all controlled by India, as part of Nepalese territory, exacerbating the row. The two sides are yet to hold talks on the border issue, though the people cited above said on condition of anonymity that the visits by the RAW and Indian Army chiefs are expected to calm relations and prepare the ground for more substantive engagements. “The ties between the two militaries are very robust and there are 136,000 Indian Army pensioners in Nepal, who form part of the strong links between the two sides,” said the person cited above. Oli’s decision to remove deputy Prime Minister Ishwar Pokhrel – who was critical of India – from the defence ministry during a cabinet reshuffle on October 14 was seen by some in New Delhi as an indication of a desire to improve ties before the Indian Army chief’s visit. However, the people played down speculation in this regard. “We see this more as an internal compromise between two groups in the Nepal government and more of an internal matter for them,” one of the people said. Also Read: Himalayas poised for a series of big earthquakes, may extend to Delhi, Chandigarh: StudyThe people noted that Nepalese leaders themselves have referred to what is called the “roti-beti ka rishta” – a reference to close links forged through trade and inter-marriages in border districts of the two countries – and said this one of the foundations for the strong economic and political linkages with Nepal. Despite China’s efforts to forge stronger economic links, Nepal’s access to the sea is via India, and it imports a large proportion of its requirements from and through India. Nepal imported goods worth $6.52 billion from India in 2017 and exported goods worth $420.18 million the same year. India’s security establishment also continues to have concerns about China’s activities along Nepal’s borders, including possible encroachment of territory, despite a recent denial issued by both Kathmandu and Beijing about the reported occupation of land by Chinese troops in the remote border district of Humla. “There are reports that China has illegally occupied Nepal’s land in several places spread over the border districts of Dolakha, Gorkha, Darchula, Humla, Sindhupalchowk, Sankhuwasabha and Rasuwa. Several of these places are catchment areas of rivers,” a second person said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-looks-to-army-chief-s-visit-to-nepal-to-bring-ties-back-on-even-keel/story-5Ps0sF6jdRo0HDAIp1IIaJ.html
23-10-2020||India||Priyanka Chaturvedi, Amruta Fadnavis lock horns on Twitter over Mumbai Police’s Axis Bank accounts||Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi and Devendra Fadnavis’s wife banker Amruta Fadnavis crossed swords on Twitter on Friday morning over Mumbai Police’s salary accounts in Axis Bank. The duo often engage in Twitter spats.On Thursday, the Mumbai Police decided to transfer 40,000 accounts from Axis Bank to HDFC Bank. Amruta holds a senior position in Axis Bank.Lauding the decision of moving the accounts, Priyanka Chaturvedi wrote on Twitter, “Mumbai Police will transfer salary accounts of 50,000 cops from Axis bank soon. Much-needed move considering how arbitrarily the bank was chosen and state government employees’ salary accounts moved overnight.” Axis Bank is not my family Bank-it’s third largest listed private sector bank and I’m an employee who has worked for the same bank for 18 years! How will an opportunistic दल बदलू understand this honesty & hard work! These accounts were acquired in 2005-basis technology & services https://t.co/bFDnvjiaEaQuoting the tweet, Amruta wrote, “Axis Bank is not my family Bank — it’s third largest listed private sector bank and I’m an employee who has worked for the same bank for 18 years! How will an opportunistic dal badlu (turncoat) understand this honesty & hard work! These accounts were acquired in 2005 — basis technology and services.” Why did it hit you so hard when I didn’t even mention you and why does the decision of Mumbai Police hurt if it isn’t your family bank? I said it was arbitrary, why did it hit you? 😀About the दल बदलु bit, maybe Eknath Khadse ji will best respond to you. 🤭🤭 https://t.co/qwAfRHNYZFThe spat went on and Priyanka Chaturvedi, who quit the Congress to join Shiv Sena in 2019, sharply reacted to the ‘turncoat’ jibe and drew parallel to Eknath Khadse. “Why did it hit you so hard when I didn’t even mention you and why does the decision of Mumbai Police hurt if it isn’t your family bank? I said it was arbitrary, why did it hit you? About the dal badlu (turncoat) bit, maybe Eknath Khadse ji will best respond to you,” the Shiv Sena leader wrote. Eknath Khadse quit BJP — a party which he served for decades — blaming Devendra Fadnavis for “destroying” his life. The veteran leader joined NCP on Friday. Let me reiterate-acquisition of police accounts by #Axis Bank Govt Dept (erstwhile UTI bank) was done merely on basis of Bank’s technology & services offered ! Mandate for these accounts was received way back in 2005 on 29th Oct! Dirty politics cannot bog down the honest & strong pic.twitter.com/U4MjtTbyWtExplaining why Mumbai Police transferred its salary accounts to Axis Bank, Amruta Fadnavis said it was done “merely on basis of bank’s technology and services offered”. “Mandate for these accounts was received way back in 2005 on 29th Oct! Dirty politics cannot bog down the honest and strong,” Amruta wrote. White lies to what extend - you did not mention me ? I’m in an organisation which believes in professionalism and not boot licking - do not mess with a person who has nothing but a straight, transparent life & lives without dubious goals https://t.co/IpCppCwK82Mumbai Police’s contract with Axis Bank ended on July 31, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-chaturvedi-amruta-fadnavis-lock-horns-on-twitter-over-mumbai-police-axis-bank-accounts/story-3PdmqGnc3hYQcyoPLeyaTM.html
23-10-2020||India||Amazon refuses to appear before Joint Committee of Parliament on Data Protection Bill||E-commerce giant Amazon has refused to appear before the Joint Committee of Parliament on the Data Protection Bill on October 28 and this amounts to breach of privilege, panel chairperson and BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi said on Friday.Lekhi said that “the panel is unanimous in its opinion that coercive action can be suggested to the government against the e-commerce company”.“Amazon has refused to appear before the panel on October 28 and if no one on behalf of the e-commerce company appears before the panel it amounts to breach of privilege,” she told PTI.Also Read| Stop selling fake Khadi products: Centre to Flipkart, Amazon, SnapdealMeanwhile, Facebook’s policy head Ankhi Das appeared before the panel on the issue of data security on Friday.Facebook India representatives were asked some tough and searching questions by the members of the panel, sources said.During the meeting, a member suggested that the social media giant should not draw inferences from the data of its users for commercial benefits of its advertisers.The panel has summoned officials of micro-blogging site Twitter on October 28, and Google and Paytm on October 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amazon-refuses-to-appear-before-joint-committee-of-parliament-on-data-protection-bill/story-lFux2r0JxmH1N00lhlCUvK.html
23-10-2020||India||Maharashtra announces Rs 10,000-crore relief package for state’s rain-hit areas, amount to be disbursed before Diwali||The Uddhav Thackeray-led government in Maharashtra government on Friday announced a relief package of Rs 10,000 crore for the rain-affected parts of the state, saying the amount will be disbursed before Diwali. The announcement from the chief minister’s office came days after Thackeray took a review of the estimated losses to crops, livestock, structure in the areas which were hit hard by the rains.Thackeray, while speaking to reporters, also claimed that the Maharashtra government is yet to receive a total of around Rs 38,000 crore from the Centre. He made the comments after holding a meeting with the key leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) on the issue. Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar also took part in the meeting held at the chief minister’s official residence ‘Varsha’ here via video-conferencing.“I don’t like the word package, but we will give Rs 10,000 crore assistance... It will be used for different purposes,” Thackeray said.The retreating monsoon caused damages to harvest-ready crops across over 7 lakh hectares, in more than 10 districts in central and western Maharashtra. Farmers were expecting bumper crops until torrential rain hit areas like Solapur, Sangli, Kolhapur, Satara, Osmanabad, Latur, Beed and Aurangabad last week after satisfactory rainfall this monsoon. Also Read | From house to farm, heavy rains leave villagers with huge losses in MaharashtraThe rains flattened standing crops like soya bean, cotton, gram, sugarcane, pomegranate. Cash crops, like cotton, soya bean and sugarcane also suffered extensive damage. Solapur in western Maharashtra and Osmanabad in central Maharashtra are the worst-affected.Officials have said that district collectors and divisional commissioners of the affected districts have been directed to complete spot assessments and release compensation at the earliest.At least 29 people were killed last week due to heavy rainfall last week in five districts in western Maharashtra. The Konkan region had sustained crop losses due to Cyclone Nisarga in June and heavy rainfall affected crops across 1.80 lakh hectares in Vidarbha in August. The state has already raised a demand with the Centre for relief to affected farmers.Uddhav Thackeray toured flood-affected districts in western and central Maharashtra on Monday after opposition parties criticised him. They had said that the chief minister should assess the loss after the rains from the ground instead of evaluating the situation through video conferencing.Also read | What is Maharashtra govt doing to help rain-hit farmers, asks FadnavisThackeray began his two-day tour of flood-affected districts in western and central Maharashtra on Monday. Thackeray, along with other senior ministers from his cabinet, visited villages that were hit by heavy rainfall in Solapur and then went to Osmanabad.Devendra Fadnavis, the leader of opposition and former chief minister, also began his three-day tour of flood-hit districts on Monday. Before that, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar visited villages in Solapur and Nanded last Sunday as part of his two-day tour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-announces-rs-10-000-crore-relief-package-for-state-s-rain-hit-area-amount-to-be-disbursed-before-diwali/story-NPHCjHAuSB0MyfdjJgPbKO.html
23-10-2020||India||Serum Institute’s new firm, Bharat Biotech’s stage 3 trial: Covid-19 vaccine latest updates||Vaccine development in India got a shot in the arm after Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin got approval for the third phase of clinical trials. Serum Institute of India, which is conducting trials of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine in India, is also developing a treatment for Covid-19 treatment. The Pune-based vaccine maker has entered into an agreement with German’s Merck and New York’s IAVI.A look at the latest developments:SII has floated a new companyPune’s SII has set up a new company Serum Institute of Life Science, which will only focus on research and development. In an interview to Forbes which listed Poonawalla group chairman Cyrus Poonawalla as one of India’s top 10 richest persons this year, CEO Adar Poonawalla has said the new company is building a “pandemic-level” manufacturing unit in Pune.Bharat Biotech’s phase 3 trialIn collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research, Bharat Biotech is developing an indigenous vaccine against Covid-19. So far, Bharat Biotech’s vaccine has shown positive results which is why the company cut the size of the second phase trial short and is now moving to the third and final phase. The third phase will be conducted on 28,500 subjects aged 18 years and above in 10 states.Zydus Cadila’s vaccineThis vaccine candidate is under phase two of the clinical trial, the data of which will be available by November. After that, this candidate will proceed towards the third phase aiming March 2021 as the deadline for their vaccine development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-s-new-firm-bharat-biotech-s-stage-3-trial-covid-19-vaccine-latest-updates/story-1IgXHXVOW9gkRAsaN2BIWL.html
23-10-2020||India||Ivermectin not to be included in Centre’s coronavirus management protocol||Ivermectin, an antiparasitic drug, being touted as a possible treatment for the coronavirus infection will not be included in the Health Ministry’s Clinical Management Protocol for Covid-19, sources said on Thursday.Some states including Uttar Pradesh are already using the drug off-label not only as a treatment option but also as a prophylaxis against Covid-19, a source said.Already widely used against intestinal parasites and scabies, it is relatively a safe and cheap drug.The experts of The Indian Council of Medical Research(ICMR’s) National Task Force for Covid-19 and the Joint Monitoring Group held its meeting on Thursday to deliberate on whether the drug should be included in the national treatment guidelines.“Following deliberations, experts decided not to include Ivermectin in the national clinical management protocol for Covid-19 because of lack of sufficient evidence on its efficacy based on randomised trials held in India and abroad,” a source said.The Health Ministry has allowed the use of Remdesivir for restricted emergency use purposes in moderate cases under  “investigational therapies” in the Clinical Management Protocol for Covid-19.The ministry has also okayed off-label application of Tocilizumab, a drug that modifies the immune system or its functioning, and convalescent plasma for treating  Covid-19 patients in moderate stage of the illness as “investigational therapies”.It also recommended Hydroxychloroquine for patients during the early course of the disease but not for critically ill ones.The centre has also included an inexpensive, widely used steroid Dexamethasone in treatment protocols for Covid-19 patients in the moderate to severe stages of their illness among other therapeutic measures.The ministry advised use of Dexamethasone, which is already used in a wide range of conditions for its anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant effects, as an alternative choice to Methylprednisolone for managing moderate to severe cases of coronavirus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ivermectin-not-to-be-included-in-centre-s-coronavirus-management-protocol/story-H2ahRiDO3nvCqktOBJGPjP.html
23-10-2020||India||Plea in SC lists reasons to raise women’s marriageable age, power imbalance is one||A transfer petition filed in the Supreme Court demanding uniform marriageable age of 21 years for men and women claims that the disparity in age of marriage has resulted in aggravating the gender inequality that exists within a marital relationship.The petition has been filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay demanding that his petition on the same question pending with the Delhi high court is transferred to the Supreme Court along with a similar petition filed by one Abdul Mannan, pending with the Rajasthan high court.Since the issues raised in the two petitions are similar, Upadhyay invoked the power of the Supreme Court under Article 139A which allows cases involving the same or substantially the same questions of law, pending before two or more high courts, to be transferred to the Supreme Court.The transfer petition said, “While men are permitted to get married at the age of 21, women are married when they are just 18. The distinction is based on patriarchal stereotypes, has no scientific backing, perpetrates de jure and de facto inequality against women, and goes completely against the global trends.”The petition claimed that 125 countries have uniform minimum age of marriage for boys and girls and by ending the discrimination in age, women will have equal opportunities as men to pursue their education, employment opportunities without being hindered by family compulsion to get married.Upadhyay argued that women in a married relationship are expected to perform a subordinate role vis-à-vis the husband. “This power imbalance is deeply aggravated by the age differential, because age itself constitutes a hierarchy of power. A younger spouse is therefore expected to respect and be servile to her elder partner, that aggravates the pre-existing gender-based hierarchy in the marital relationship,” his petition stated.All laws that deal with marriage, whether it be the Hindu Marriage Act, Special Marriage Act, Indian Christian Marriage Act or the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, have fixed the marriageable age for men and women as 21 and 18 respectively.Also Read: Muslim League’s women wing urges PM Modi not to raise marriageable age for womenUpadhyay raised the demand for uniform minimum age of marriage before the Delhi high court in August last year. On August 19, 2019, the Delhi HC issued notice to the Centre for its response. Around the same time, another petition came to be filed before the Rajasthan HC raising the same issue. The Rajasthan HC issued notice to the Centre on Abdul Mannan’s plea on February 5, 2020.Both petitions have said that the marriageable age discrimination is a violation of fundamental rights of equality (Article 14), protection against discrimination (Article 15), and dignity of life (Article 21) and also India’s commitment under the Convention on Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-lists-reasons-to-raise-women-s-marriageable-age-power-imbalance-is-one/story-dUOy4ptNQQOVzWpBS2EPwJ.html
23-10-2020||India||On quiet visit to Mumbai, NCB boss preps for crackdown in Bollywood drugs case||Narcotics Control Bureau director general Rakesh Asthana returned to the national capital Delhi on Friday after a quiet visit to Mumbai to review investigations by the federal agency in the drugs trafficking case launched after Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in June this year, people familiar with the matter said.Asthana’s overnight visit to Mumbai comes ahead of a crackdown being planned by the NCB that is expected to target celebrities in Bollywood and the drug suppliers. “You can expect some action in the next two weeks,” a senior NCB official told Hindustan Times, declining to reveal details at this stage.The NCB has already arrested more than 20 people in this case including actor Rhea Chakraborty who was released on bail earlier this month after spending nearly a month behind bars. Her brother is still in jail after the Mumbai high court, which set her free, ruled that Showik appeared to be “an important link in the chain of drug dealers”.Also Read: Delhi next on NCB radar to launch Mumbai-style crackdown on drugsWell before Rhea Chakraborty walked out of prison, the NCB had already expanded the ambit of its probe to cover other celebrities as well. Actors Deepika Padikone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor and Rakul Preet Singh, fashion designer Simone Khambatta and celebrity manager Shruti Modi were questioned last month.“There has been forward movement in the investigation, both on the demand side from Bollywood as well as the supply side,” an official familiar with the probe said. There are people who have a day job in the film industry but are also involved in the drugs racket, the official said.On the supply side, the NCB has already busted a module in Kerala’s Kasaragod that was linked to the Bollywood case and is tracking down the main narcotics suppliers to Mumbai.Also Read: 142 drug syndicates, heroin trade under NCB’s scannerAsthana, who spent most of his time hopping from one meeting to another, was told that investigators had been able to establish the heroin and amphetamine were making their way to Mumbai either through Afghanistan-Pakistan channel or via Mozambique-Maldives-Sri Lanka route. cocaine comes from South America, either via South Africa and other African countries.The NCB has already reached out to their counterparts in the United States, Britain, Canada and South Africa - to take action against the traffickers in related cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-quiet-visit-to-mumbai-ncb-boss-preps-for-crackdown-in-bollywood-drugs-case/story-rOdh5KBdUifNgjZrjciAAP.html
23-10-2020||India||Odisha engineer worked as MGNREGS worker after losing job, rescued||A civil engineering graduate in Odisha, who had lost his job in a road construction company in Chennai during the Covid-19 lockdown, had to work as a labourer in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) till the district collector intervened.In another district, a tehsildar saved a school-going boy from working as a migrant labourer after his studies were affected due to lack of a smartphone.Anant Beria, who did his civil engineering in Odisha, had lost his Rs 15,000 a month job in Chennai during the lockdown. With his savings wiped out, Beria, the eldest child of his family, was forced to come back to his home in Jurlakani village in Deogaon block of Bolangir district.Beria would probably have been toiling away as an MGNREGS worker had Bolangir district collector Chanchal Rana not chanced upon him during his visit to Deogaon block on Tuesday.“I found him digging a canal under MGNREGS with his father Baisakhu. It was a little disturbing for me. As an engineering graduate, he was supposed to be in a better place, doing more skilful work. So, we offered him the job of a data entry operator in National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) cell of the district where he would get better remuneration. I would also personally try to get him a job matching his education and skills,” said Rana, who is also an engineer by education.Also Read: Odisha Lokayukta serves notice to BJD MLA over allegation that he blew up a flood embankmentBeria and three of his siblings were brought up with much hardship by their daily wager father Baisakhu Beria. “As he did not get any work after returning home from Chennai, he decided to work under MGNREGS. After all one has to survive,” said Beria’s father.Over 6.6 million white collar professional jobs were lost from May till August 2020 as per Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). Those rendered jobless during the pandemic included engineers, physicians, teachers and accountants.In Malkangiri district, tehsildar of Kalimela, Alok Kumar Anugulia managed to save Kondh tribal boy Surendra Khara from the clutches of labour mafia by buying him a smartphone so that the boy could resume his online classes.Khara, a Class IX student of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya-1 in Malkangiri district, was all set to migrate to Bhadrachalam district in Telangana as a daily wager to arrange money for a smartphone for his online classes. The Kalimela tehsildar got to know about the local labour mafia trying to entice the boy and rescued him.Khara, 18, did not have a smartphone, and could not join the online classes of his school. “Though I had textbooks, there was no one in my village to guide me. I was scared of lagging behind in studies and decided to migrate to Bhadrachalam in Telangana. I thought I would earn enough to buy a smartphone, come back within two months and resume my studies,” he said.However, Khara panicked when he learnt that the labour agent was not taking them to Bhadrachalam but to Bengaluru. He and others in the group were then rescued by Jai Malkangiri, a volunteers’ group.“He is good in his studies. His 17-year-old brother and 14-year-old sister have already dropped out from school and become daily wagers. I want him to study and so bought him a smartphone. I did not want the student dropping out because of a smartphone. I have suggested that his family moves him to Mathili where he will stay with the volunteers of Jai Malkangiri so that the local labour mafia can’t entice him. Once his school re-opens he would go,” said the tehsildar.As per Odisha school and mass education department, about 38 lakh out of 60 lakh students in Odisha did not have access to online education, forcing several parents in Odisha to sell their belongings to buy smartphones for their children. A couple in Mayurbhanj district had to sell their milch cow to buy a smartphone for their daughter. Similarly, a housewife in Cuttack district had to sell her gold earrings to buy a smartphone for her daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-engineer-worked-as-mgnregs-worker-after-losing-job-rescued/story-NqRcGqu9MbK5ppVfefaOXP.html
23-10-2020||India||Praise for Nitish Kumar, Central govt schemes: What dominated PM Modi’s election speeches in Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday addressed two back-to-back election rallies in Sasaram and Gaya on his first campaigning day in Bihar. The Prime Minister is scheduled to address another rally in Bihar today — at Bhagalpur, where Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will also address an election rally.What featured prominently in both of his addresses were praises for Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and the Centre’s development plans for Bihar.Earlier today at Sasaram, Narendra Modi acknowledged Nitish Kumar’s fast action to tackle the Covid-19 situation of the state. “Had Nitish Kumar not acted fast, the pandemic could have killed many more people in Bihar,” PM Modi said.In his second rally at Gaya, he reiterated his trust in the Nitish Kumar government. Talking about Naxal activities, Modi in Gaya said, “In the last few years, a lot of effort and strict actions have been taken to limit the activities of Naxals in the country. Naxal presence has now been restricted to limited areas.”“The opposition parties have formed a ‘pitara’ against NDA, they call it ‘Mahagathbandhan’. But each and every citizen of Bihar is aware of every bit of that Mahagathbandhan which allowed naxal movement in the past,” the PM added.In both the addresses, the prime minister mentioned Svamitva (Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas) Scheme, which aims to use drones to maintain land records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/praise-for-nitish-kumar-central-govt-schemes-what-dominated-pm-modi-s-election-speeches-in-bihar/story-RCEaRNawfcA1WTutfsGRoM.html
23-10-2020||India||Surgical, N-95 masks can reduce Covid-19 cough-cloud by 7, 23 times: IIT-Bombay study||Surgical and N-95 masks can reduce the volume of a coronavirus disease (Covid-19)–laden cough-cloud by seven and 23 times, respectively, according to a recent study conducted by two scientists from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) - Bombay.The study, which was published in a journal by the American Institute of Physics on Tuesday, sets out to estimate the volume of air contaminated by the cough of a Covid-19 patient. Professors Amit Agrawal and Rajneesh Bharadwaj, who are attached to IIT-Bombay’s department of mechanical engineering, has conducted the study.The findings have revealed that up to eight seconds after a Covid-19 patient coughs held the key, as suspended exhaled droplets permeate the air, where the level of the viral infection is likely to go up by 23 times. Also read: Top medical body ICMR issues advisory for use of Feluda Covid test“The presence of a mask drastically reduces the volume and significantly cuts down the risk of the viral infection for other persons present in a room. Similarly, actions such as coughing into the elbow and the use of a handkerchief can reduce the volume of a cough cloud and, consequently, the chances of dispersion of the virus,” the study stated.The researchers had set out to analyse the volume, temperature, and relative humidity of the cloud produced by coughing to understand their dispersion in the surrounding air. They had used a mathematical model to analyse the fluid dynamics and thermodynamics of the cough cloud. They found that the cough cloud lasted between five and 14 seconds following which it would dissipate.“An N-95 mask not only cuts down the number of droplets exhaled by a Covid-19 patient, but also reduces the amount of infected air produced by the person,” said the researchers.They exuded confidence that the findings would help understand how SARS-CoV2, which causes Covid-19, spreads in the air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surgical-n-95-masks-can-reduce-covid-19-cough-cloud-by-7-23-times-says-iit-bombay-study/story-53ypexnpINgLBezVaemynN.html
23-10-2020||India||Goa anticipates huge losses this year as govt keeps foreign tourists at bay||As Covid-19 cases begin to rise again across Europe and Russia dimming hopes that India may reopen its borders for foreign tourists this season, Goa is staring at the first ever season without the arrival of European tourists since the 1960s when the first hippies arrived here. The Indian government on Thursday announced that most visas including for all OCI (Overseas Citizenship of India), PIO (Person of Indian Origin) card holders and foreign nationals were being restored except for tourist visas. Goa Tourism says the restriction on tourism visas will deal a huge blow to the industry. Goa’s tourism season usually begins with the receding monsoon and as winter sets in across the northern hemisphere, those seeking to escape the often biting cold climes choose to spend time in warmer parts of the world and Goa is among the preferred destinations for those seeking to travel. “I have been coming to Goa for about 15 years, I guess, [and] I know there are plenty out there who have been visiting for much longer than I have. I have heard Goa is already opening up to tourism… [but] no sadly there is no chance of visiting India this winter. Until this pandemic is under some control, it is just too dangerous especially for an older and not so healthy folk!” Polly Hoad, a British tourist, who said she will have to sit out the harsh winter back home in the UK for the first time in 15 years. She is not alone. For many Britishers for whom travelling out of the UK for the winter had become a habit and Goa was a destination of choice, an inability to travel even if they are willing to take the risk, will force them to sit back. “It will be our first Xmas in England for over twenty years but I will make the best of it,” Lili Angel, another regular tourist, said. Also Read: Vistara to operate more flights to Goa and London to cater to rising demandWhile tourism has reopened in the state and people from within other states of India have begun to come in, India is not issuing tourists visas as of now and is unlikely to lift the restrictions any time soon, especially, given the return of a second wave in much of Europe including the UK, Germany, Poland Russia and Ukraine, the primary sources of foreign tourists to Goa. The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) believes that the arrival of foreign tourists is vital for the state’s tourism industry. “Foreign tourists travel in larger groups and stay for a longer time, often the average duration of stay is between 14-21 days. To compensate for the loss of a single foreign booking, a hotel will have to secure four to five different bookings of domestic tourists to maintain the same level of occupancy,” Nilesh Shah the president of the TTAG, told HT. Also Read: ‘Unwarranted’: Navy responds to obstacle charge in Goa’s ‘development’A domestic tourist on average stays between 3-7 days. Many mid to large hotels depend entirely on foreign arrivals through deals with charter companies and now find themselves all at sea.“We have been working with the government to try and get some arrangement in place wherein tourists can be chartered in via an air bubble agreement of some kind,” Shah said. “It (the continued suspension of tourist visas) is obviously a disappointment. At the same time, we also have to be realistic keeping in view that cases are rising once again in Europe, so the future remains uncertain,” he added. “The government needs to announce that tourist visas will be allowed once again, if not immediately then two months down the line because people can then begin to plan their holidays. Tourists especially foreign tourists like to plan their holidays well in advance and do not suddenly get up and decide to travel the next day,” he added. Across the last three calendar years, Goa received around eight million tourists, around one million of which were from abroad. The number is expected to fall sharply this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-anticipates-huge-losses-this-year-as-govt-keeps-foreign-tourists-at-bay/story-ZqiaOBQqT3XlB5Mw9DZvjO.html
23-10-2020||India||Opposition insulting Bihar martyrs by promising Article 370 will be brought back, says PM Modi||Addressing his first election rally at Sasaram in poll-bound Bihar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi slammed the opposition for “insulting” Bihar by promising Article 370 will be restored if they come to power. “These people say they will bring it back if they come to power. And after saying this, they dare to ask for votes from Bihar. Is this not an insult?” PM Modi said.“You tell me whether the country was not waiting for years for the abrogation of Article 370 from Jammu and Kashmir. The NDA government decided to withdraw it but now the UPA government is talking about bringing it back,” PM Modi said. “Bihar sends its sons and daughters to the border. After saying that they would bring back Article 370, they dare to seek votes from Bihar,” the Prime Minister added. Bihar polls updates: NDA’s win will make Bihar ‘Aatmanirbhar,’ says PM ModiTaking a swipe at the UPA government for targetting Bihar as the state slipped out of its hand, PM Modi said, “They were angry as they were defeated in Bihar. So they didn’t let Nitish Kumar work for the development of the state. I used to attend central meetings as Gujarat chief minister. Nitishji used to tell them to not stall Bihar’s development. But they ensured Nitish ji can’t work. They wasted Bihar’s 10 years”Also Read: Those who have history of making Bihar ‘Bimaru’ will not be allowed to return: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s address in Sasaram underscored the NDA alliance’s faith in Chief Minister Nitish Kumar as he began his address praising his work in combatting Covid-19. “Had Nitish Kumar not acted fast, the pandemic could have killed many more people in Bihar,” PM Modi said.In a veiled attack to Tejashwi Yadav-led Mahagathbandhan, the PM said,”All surveys are saying that NDA will be coming to power in Bihar ‘fir ek baar’. There are misconceptions that some new power is emerging. But I know Bihar people will not pay heed to these claims. Bihar people have already decided to defeat those who made the state bimaru.”“The people who once ruled Bihar are again looking at the developing state with their greedy eyes. But, Bihar must not forget who pushed them backward, that was the time when there was worsening law and order situation and corruption in the state,” the PM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-insulting-bihar-martyrs-by-promising-article-370-will-be-brought-back-says-pm-modi/story-zdvxNCh1Y57RY7ug4Mm1DI.html
23-10-2020||India||Muslim League’s women wing urges PM Modi not to raise marriageable age for women||The Muslim League’s women wing has opposed the proposed move to hike the legal marriageable age of women from 18 to 21 years in a letter written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him against taking a ‘hasty’ decision on the important social issue. The letter, written by the secretary of Indian Union Women League, P K Noorbana Rasheed, says delaying the age of marriage will give way to “live-in relationships” and “illegitimate relations”.She said when many developing countries had brought down the legal age of marriage from 21 to 18 years considering the biological and social needs, it is not proper for India to take a hasty decision in favour of raising women’s legal age for marriage. She said instead of implementing the Prohibition of Child Marriages Act 2006 in letter and spirit, attempts to raise the marriageable age of women was unfair.Also Read: UP cops gather evidence of Kerala scribe’s role in Hathras violence incitement plot“There was a report recently, that in rural areas, 30% of women are getting married before they attain the age of 18 years. What is the point of taking such a decision when existing laws are not implemented effectively?” she asked. Last year Kerala had reported 300-odd cases of under-age marriages. Also Read: BJP MP Zafar Islam targets Rahul Gandhi for meeting kin of PFI-linked Kerala scribeShe said proper discussion was needed before arriving at a decision. The Muslim League, however, said the party was yet to take a formal stand on this issue and its women’s wing’s position was independent. The central government had constituted a 10-member team under Jaya Jaitley to consider increasing the age of women for marriage. It has recently submitted its report recommending increasing the marriageable age of women from 18 to 21 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslim-league-s-women-wing-urges-pm-modi-not-to-raise-marriageable-age-for-women/story-N6ff2oBNF1BAVDBJ9cuQ3H.html
23-10-2020||India||Those who have history of making Bihar ‘Bimaru’ will not be allowed to return: PM Modi||Taking a swipe at the opposition alliance in Bihar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday invoked the alleged poor law and order in the state under RJD rule, and said people have decided that those who have a history of making Bihar ‘Bimaru’ will not be allowed to return.Modi began his first Bihar poll rally here by paying tributes to LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan and former RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh who passed away recently.Even before the polls, people of Bihar have given their message and all surveys show that the NDA government will retain power in the state, he said.People in the state have decided that those who have a history of making Bihar ‘Bimaru’ will not be allowed to return, Modi said in a swipe at the RJD-led opposition. ‘BIMARU’ is an acronym for Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. It was used to refer to the ‘poor economic conditions’ of these states. Referring to the Galwan Valley clash with Chinese troops, the prime minister said the sons of Bihar laid down their lives for the tricolour, but did not let ‘Mother’ India’s head bow.The soldiers of Bihar were also martyred in the Pulwama attack, he said.In his address, Modi also slammed the opposition for its demand of restoring Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, accusing them of siding with those conspiring to weaken India.He asserted that India will not back off from the decisions it has taken.Modi also hit out at the Opposition for protesting farm laws and accused them of siding with middlemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-who-have-history-of-making-bihar-bimaru-will-not-be-allowed-to-return-pm-modi/story-vVcWSbR2UfwSMhxuCuY6vJ.html
23-10-2020||India||Donald Trump’s ‘filthy air’ remark result of ‘Howdy Modi’: Congress leaders||Congress leaders Kapil Sibal and Jaiveer Shergill took a dig at the Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government on Friday for US President Donald Trump’s remark that “India’s air is filthy” and linked the outburst to the “Howdy Modi” event that was held in Houston, Texas, on September 22, 2019. The “Howdy Modi” event was attended by about 50,000 people of Indian origin from across the US. Besides Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Trump had also addressed the gathering. “Fruits of Friendship. 1) Questions India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) death toll. 2) Says India sends dirt up into the air. India’s ‘air is filthy’. 3) Called India ‘tariff king’. The result of ‘Howdy Modi’ !” Sibal tweeted. Trump : Fruits of Friendship 1) Questions India’s COVID death toll2) Says India sends dirt up into the air  India " air is filthy "3) Called India " tariff king "The result of "Howdy Modi " !Earlier during the final presidential debate with his Democratic challenger Joe Biden in Nashville, Tennessee, on Thursday night, Trump accused China, India and Russia of not taking care of their “filthy air”, while justifying America’s withdrawal from the “unfair” Paris climate agreement, which was signed in 2016.“Look at China, how filthy it is. Look at Russia. Look at India, it’s filthy. The air is filthy,” Trump said during the presidential debate. Shergill, too, hit out at the government for not responding to Trump’s accusation. BJP’s foreign policy trump card is boasting about "Modi-Trump" friendship & President Trump’s election card seems to be berating India - Not naming China when they trespass & not responding to Trump when he labels India "filthy" is BJP version of Nationalism!! Howdy punctures 56"“BJP’s (Bharatiya Janata Party) foreign policy trump card is boasting about Modi-Trump friendship and President Trump’s election card seems to be berating India. Not naming China when they trespass and not responding to Trump when he labels India’s air ‘filthy’ is the BJP’s version of nationalism!! Howdy punctures 56 inches (of Modi’s chest),” the Congress spokesperson tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/donald-trump-s-filthy-air-remark-result-of-howdy-modi-congress-leaders/story-FBSASNQmieAnX6ytV4wKpI.html
23-10-2020||India||Russia’s Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine to be tested on 100 Indian volunteers||The Russian Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19 will be tested in India on 100 volunteers, the Indian Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation’s Drug Controller General (DCGI) told Sputnik on Thursday.DCGI has granted permission to pharmaceutical giant Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for conducting tests. However, the date and time of the test will be determined by the company.Sputnik quoted the organisation as saying that the vaccine will be tested in the second phase of its clinical trials before moving on to phase 3.Last week, the expert committee of DCGI had recommended granting permission to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for conducting phase 2 clinical trials of Russian Covid-19 vaccine candidate, Sputnik V, in India.According to a government official, Dr Reddy’s Lab has stated that in phase 2 clinical trial--”would include 100 subjects and for phase 3, it would take 1400 subjects.”“Once the pharma company would submit the safety and immunogenicity data of phase 2, it would be analysed by the expert panel and then they can proceed for the phase 3 trial,” the official added.On October 13, ANI had reported that Dr Reddy’s Laboratories re-applied fresh protocol to DCGI in order to seek its approval for conducting phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine.It may be noted that on October 5, the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) had done a thorough evaluation of the previous application submitted by Dr Reddy’s lab. Thereafter, the SEC had directed the pharma company to apply with a revised protocol along with more information. The Indian drugmaker has joined hands with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine as well as its distribution.As per the RDIF, it will supply 100 million doses of its potential Covid-19 vaccine to India drug company Dr Reddy’s Lab.Last month, Kirill Dmitriev, CEO, RDIF informed that Russia is in close dialogue with the Indian government and drug manufacturers of India regarding localisation of production of its Sputnik V vaccine in India.Also, a prestigious medical journal The Lancet had published the results of clinical trials of Phase I-II of the Russian vaccine demonstrating its safety and efficacy.On August 11, the Sputnik V vaccine candidate developed jointly by RDIF and the Gamaleya National Research Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology was registered by the Ministry of Health of Russia and became the world’s first registered vaccine against Covid-19.According to Russian researchers, Sputnik V is a human adenoviral vector vaccine that fights against coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-s-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-to-be-tested-on-100-indian-volunteers/story-LrSXo2Z4DF08aKF4BiK1PI.html
23-10-2020||India||India crosses 10 cr-mark in conducting Covid-19 tests: ICMR||India has crossed the 10 crore-mark in conducting tests for the detection of Covid-19 as on Thursday with an average testing of more than 10 lakh samples per day in the last 17 days, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said.Till now, 74,000 tests per million population have been conducted.India has conducted last 5 crore sample testing in only 45 days, Lokesh Sharma, scientist and media coordinator at ICMR said. According to him, India had tested 5 crore Covid-19 samples by September 8, and in less than 50 days on October 22, it reached the 10 crore-mark.“This has been enabled by rapidly increasing testing infrastructure and capacity across the country. The ICMR has been enhancing Covid-19 testing capability across the country by expanding and diversifying testing capacity by leveraging technology and facilitating innovation in affordable diagnostic kits,” the ICMR said in a statement.Balram Bhargava, Director General, ICMR said, “We have effectively responded to the evolving epidemic through focused and collaborative efforts of the Centre, state and UT governments.” “Exponential increase in testing has led to early identification, prompt isolation and effective treatment of Covid-19 cases along with effective contact tracing. These have eventually resulted in a sustained low fatality rate,” he said.“This testing milestone is testimony to the fact that India has been successful in implementing strategy of the 5T approach ‘Test, Track, Trace, Treat and use of Technology efficiently, which will enable us to contain the spread of the pandemic,” he addedRamping up of testing facility across India was at the core of increased testing per day, he said. Through our ardent efforts, it was ensured that a specific testing platform is made available addressing general testing (RT-PCR), High-throughput testing (COBAS), testing at remotest places and PHCs (TrueNAT, CBNAAT),in containment areas (rapid antigen testing) and for a large number and migrant population testing (pooled sample testing), Bhargava said.The total number of diagnostic laboratory has reached 1,989. Of which dedicated government laboratories are 1,122 and private laboratories number stands at 867.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-10-cr-mark-in-conducting-covid-19-tests-icmr/story-bvGVtki4UQ0BoDy25uCi5J.html
23-10-2020||India||‘Give me vote, I will give you vaccine’: Sanjay Raut mocks BJP’s vaccine promise to Bihar||Taking a swipe at the BJP’s election manifesto for poll-bound Bihar that includes free Covid-19 vaccine to all of Bihar, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that earlier it used to be ‘give me blood and I will give you freedom’. “But now it has become ‘give me vote and I will give you vaccine’. Only those who vote for BJP will get vaccine. It shows BJP’s discriminatory nature,” the leader said on Friday, alluding to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose’s iconic speech that he made in Burma in 1944.Shiv Sen is contesting in around 50 seats in Bihar, as announced by the party earlier.The promise of a vaccine — that is undergoing trial — at free of cost during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic drew sharp reactions from all political corners. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi slammed the party and tweeted, “GOI just announced India’s Covid access strategy. Kindly refer to the state-wise election schedule to know when will you get it, along with a hoard of false promises.”Soon after the BJP announced free vaccine for Bihar, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh too walked the same path and promised free vaccines.While questions are being raised whether the vaccine promise violates Model Code of Conduct, people familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times that the promise may not be seen as a violation. “Under section 123 (2) of the Representation of People’s Act, 1951, a declaration of public policy, or a promise of publication, or the mere exercise of a legal right without intent to interfere with an electoral right, shall not be deemed to be interference within the meaning of this clause,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-me-vote-i-will-give-you-vaccine-sanjay-raut-mocks-bjp-s-vaccine-promise-to-bihar/story-1CbQ2cznU86wXn97q5uHSJ.html
23-10-2020||India||Bihar assembly election: Not under district jurisdiction, Purnia DM on ‘denying’ permission to Rahul Gandhi’s helicopter||A day after the Congress accused the Bihar government of not giving permission for Rahul Gandhi’s helicopter to land in Purnia, the Purnia district magistrate (DM) on Friday issued a clarification, saying that since Purnia Air Force station is not under the district administration’s jurisdiction, neither was any permission required from the administration, nor was any application submitted to it.(Click here for full Bihar assembly election 2020 coverage)“Transit program for Rahul Gandhi’s rally in Purnia was scheduled on October 23 at Purnia Air Force station. Preparations started as per security protocol and ASL meeting was done. On 22nd, we were informed about a revised program which didn’t include Purnia as transit,” Purnia DM Rahul Kumar said.(Read: Rahul Gandhi to kick-start campaign from Nawada, Bhagalpur today)“Purnia Air Force doesn’t come under the jurisdiction of district administration. Permission for landing was neither required from administration nor any application was submitted for the same, hence no question of denying,” said Kumar. Purnea Airforce Statio doesn’t come under jurisdiction of district administration. Permission for landing was neither required from administration nor any application was submitted for the same, hence no question of denying: Rahul Kumar, District Magistrate, Purnea. (2/2) #BiharRahul Gandhi is scheduled to begin campaigning for the upcoming Bihar assembly polls on Friday with rallies in Nawada and Bhagalpur. Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav, the chief ministerial candidate of the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan, of which the Congress is a part, is expected to be with Gandhi.After addressing his second rally, in Bhagalpur, the former Congress president was scheduled to return to Delhi via Purnia.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also begin campaigning for the polls today with three back-to-back rallies in Sasaram, Gaya and, like Gandhi, in Bhagalpur.(Read: PM Modi to begin election campaign from Sasaram; to present NDA’s development agenda)Bihar will vote in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7. Counting of votes will be done on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-not-under-district-jurisdiction-purnia-dm-on-denying-permission-to-rahul-gandhi-s-helicopter/story-BDmlCgDSmjRkLksSC5r4PJ.html
23-10-2020||India||UP cops gather evidence of Kerala scribe’s role in Hathras violence incitement plot||After taking over investigation into the alleged conspiracy to incite caste violence in the backdrop of the gang rape and murder of a 20-year old Dalit woman in Hathras, UP special task force (STF) on Thursday visited Mathura, where four alleged members of the Popular Front of India (PFI) and its associate body, the Campus Front of India (CFI), were arrested on October 5, said senior police officials.A senior police official privy to the investigation stated that the STF visited Hathras as a hearing in the matter related to the judicial custody of the four accused was scheduled there in a local court on Thursday. He said the court adjourned the matter till October 29 and directed the STF to appoint an investigating officer and submit documents related to the case.He said a team of six STF members were preparing to present the evidence in the court and they would seek police custody of the accused to interrogate them further in connection with people and groups behind a website — justiceforhathrasvictim.carrd.co — that hosted information about the date, time and location of protests over the incident, and also listed ways to avoid detention, mobilise demonstrations and tap into trending hashtags.Also Read: BJP MP Zafar Islam targets Rahul Gandhi for meeting kin of PFI-linked Kerala scribeThe official said the four accused were identified as Masood Ahmed from Bahraich, Atiq-ur- Rehman from Muzaffarnagar, Alam from Rampur and Siddique Kappan from Malappuram (Kerala). The officer claimed that all the four accused have links with the CFI, while one of them, Masood Ahmed, also has links with active members of PFI arrested earlier from Bahraich on September 7.Also Read: Hathras case: Two AMU doctors, sacked for speaking to media, reinstatedThe STF team will visit Aligarh and Hathras on Friday to collect other FIRs related to the matter and will visit Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad later in the week, the official added.Meanwhile, a team of cyber experts at the STF headquarters in Lucknow, is following the online trail of the website formed to raise funds to foment caste violence in the backdrop of the Hathras incident, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cops-gather-evidence-of-kerala-scribe-s-role-in-hathras-violence-incitement-plot/story-HpC6lsbEBqeaBjA2M7ooKL.html
23-10-2020||India||India’s active Covid-19 cases drop below 7 lakh, total tally mounts to 7.76 million||Continuing the trend of active Covid-19 cases dropping, India on Friday reported 6,95,509 active cases — the number of people infected with the virus at present. In the last 24 hours, 54,366 new cases and 690 deaths have been registered. The number of active cases has been witnessing a steady decline in the current week. On Tuesday, the number was 7,48,538, on Wednesday 7,40,090, and on Thursday it was 7,15,812.The health ministry on Friday said India’s cumulative positivity rate is 7.81 per cent while the daily positivity rate is 3.8 per cent. 14 states and Union territories, including Delhi, West Bengal, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Ladakh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Goa, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Kerala, Puducherry and Maharashtra, are reporting positivity rate higher than India average. “This indicates a need for aggressive and widespread testing,” the ministry said. The maximum number of new cases are being reported from Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka. These three states are also reporting the maximum number of daily recoveries. However, Kerala is not reporting as many deaths as the other two top states are. Instead, West Bengal is third state reporting highest number of deaths, following Maharashtra and Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-active-covid-19-cases-drop-below-7-lakh-total-tally-mounts-to-7-76-million/story-rBrVlo2HZh6y35eFzifceI.html
23-10-2020||India||India’s cumulative Covid-19 positivity rate at 7.81%, says health ministry||The ministry credited the low positivity rate to higher testing which, it said, leads to timely identification, prompt isolation and effective treatment. It, however, cautioned some of the states and Union territories that have a positivity rate higher than the national average. The states have been advised to scale up testing. “India’s cumulative Positivity Rate is 7.81% and the daily figure is 3.8%. Several States/UTs are exhibiting Positivity Rate higher than the national average indicating a need for aggressive and widespread testing,” the health ministry wrote on Twitter. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage As many as 14 states reported a positivity rate higher than the national figure. According to a chart alongside the tweet, Maharashtra’s testing rate was the highest at 20.4% followed by Puducherry and Kerala at 18.2% and 17.8%, respectively. While Maharashtra is conducting 64,473 tests per million population, the other two are conducting 1,30,513 and 57,009 tests, according to data cited by the government. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The other states with a higher positivity rate than 7.81% are Delhi (8.1%), West Bengal (8.3%), Sikkim (8.5%), Arunachal Pradesh (10.2%), Chhattisgarh (10.2%), Ladakh (10.7%), Andhra Pradesh (11.1%), Karnataka (11.1%), Goa (13%), Chandigarh (14.2%), and Nagaland (15.3%).As on Thursday, the country’s Covid-19 tally stood at 7,706,946 with 715812 active cases and 116616 fatalities. Recoveries from the disease have gone up to 6,874,518.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-cumulative-covid-19-positivity-rate-at-7-81-says-health-ministry/story-RAT21oDYAD2jCbmAbN64yH.html
23-10-2020||India||BJP MP Zafar Islam targets Rahul Gandhi for meeting kin of PFI-linked Kerala scribe||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s newest Rajya Sabha MP from Uttar Pradesh, Syed Zafar Islam, has questioned Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s meeting with the family of Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan-- arrested by UP police for suspected links to controversial outfit the Popular Front of India and for alleged conspiracy to incite caste violence over Hathras gang rape case-- and demanded that the former Congress party president makes public what was discussed. “It is clear that the Congress, desperate to win back lost ground, is resorting to lies, conspiracy and deceit. Why did Rahul Gandhi meet the kin of those in Kerala, accused of inciting Hathras violence? He must make his talks public with the kin of those accused of fanning trouble in Hathras,” Zafar Islam said.Rahul met Kappan’s family on Wednesday during his three-day Kerala tour and promised them all help. Kappan was arrested with three others at a toll plaza near Mathura in Uttar Pradesh while heading to Hathras to meet the family of the gang rape victim.Syed Zafar Islam, former managing director with Deutsche Bank, who was elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha from UP on September 4, also accused Rahul of selective outrage over rape incidents.“Why is it that Congress only sees crime in UP but remains silent on the issue of rape in Rajasthan?” Islam asked, referring to the rape of two minor girls in Baran over which the BJP had staged protests against the Ashok Gehlot government.Also Read: Wife of arrested Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan meets Rahul GandhiThe BJP leader also hit out at the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party for “parroting lies” and “spreading confusion” on the issue of new farm laws. “Deliberately, an atmosphere is being created by opposition parties like the SP and the BSP, whose leaders are saying that the government was planning to end the minimum support price (MSP) for various agricultural crops. They are also claiming that the ‘mandis’ would be shut down but these are lies. BJP is committed to the welfare of farmers and we will expose the opposition,” he said. Also Read: PM Modi to address 3 rallies in Bihar today; Mahagathbandhan’s show of strength with Rahul Gandhi in Nawada, BhagalpurProtests have been held in Uttar Pradesh against the three farm laws recently passed by the Parliament. The protestors have accused the Centre of killing the MSP regime to help big private firms gain control over the pricing of farm produce. “Let me be clear. Under BJP, farmers and their lands are most secure. None can even think of taking an inch of land belonging to farmers,” Islam added. Islam said that the BJP government was working for the welfare of all the sections of society. Along with praising the good governance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Islam also praised UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-zafar-islam-targets-rahul-gandhi-for-meeting-kin-of-pfi-linked-kerala-scribe/story-Xjzk6Nch1Qyvk5D914xJvJ.html
23-10-2020||India||IAVI, Serum Institute sign pact with Merck to develop coronavirus neutralising antibodies||International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI), a non-profit organisation, and Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine producer by volume, on Thursday announced an agreement with Merck, a leading American multinational pharmaceutical company, to develop SARS-CoV-2 neutralising monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). SARS-CoV-2 is the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The antibodies have been co-invented by IAVI and Scripps Research, a non-profit American biomedical research facility, as innovative interventions to rein in the global spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.“The agreement builds on the advanced antibody discovery and optimisation expertise of IAVI and Scripps Research gained from years of experience in HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) neutralising antibody research and development and on Merck’s and SII’s significant capabilities in design and scaling up of accelerated manufacturing processes for mAbs production…” stated a press release.The three organisations are working in tandem for the global development plan.If the highly potent and broadly cross-reactive SARS-CoV-2 neutralising antibody candidates make progress and are shown to be efficacious in clinical trials, either as a single antibody or a potential combination of both candidates, then Merck will take the lead in commercialisation of the breakthrough research in developed countries.SII will take the lead in global manufacturing and also commercialisation in low-and middle-low-income countries, including India.““We’re acutely aware of the tremendous potential for monoclonal antibodies to be used in Covid-19 response. By combining the scientific achievements of IAVI and Scripps Research with our partners’ development, manufacturing, and distribution expertise, we are hopeful that this partnership will result in globally accessible antibodies that are available to all, who can benefit from them,” said Mark Feinberg, president and chief executive officer (CEO), IAVI, in a statement.Belén Garijo, vice-chairman, executive board and deputy CEO, Merck, said, “Together with IAVI and SII, we look forward to demonstrating the potential application of these monoclonal antibodies in the management of Covid-19. We share a common purpose to accelerate this promising science and deliver effective solutions that address global challenges presented by this pandemic.”Neutralising mAbs against SARS-CoV-2 are widely considered to be promising candidates for Covid-19 treatment and prevention.“…Given the breadth and scale of our technology and our long-standing devotion to improving health especially in low-income countries, I am confident that we and our partners are on a productive path that will lead to a much-needed, globally available tool for Covid-19 treatment and possibly prevention,” said Adar Poonawalla, CEO, SII.Encouraging results for Covid-19 antibody treatment have emerged from preclinical research and also initial clinical trials.“mAbs have the potential to play an important complementary role to Covid-19 vaccines both for treatment and potentially for prevention, especially for those individuals who, due to age or medical conditions, may not benefit from vaccination,” the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iavi-serum-institute-sign-deal-with-merck-to-develop-coronavirus-neutralising-antibodies/story-xs1WK3KbwACbnKGORpTKkK.html
23-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to begin Bihar election campaign with 3 rallies today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to address 3 rallies in Bihar today; Mahagathbandhan’s show of strength with Rahul Gandhi in Nawada, Bhagalpurrime Minister Narendra Modi will address three election rallies in Sasaram, Gaya and Bhagalpur on Friday, starting his campaign for Bihar Assembly Election 2020, the first phase of which is scheduled to be held on October 28. Read moreGrenade hurled at police vehicle in Jammu and Kashmir’s PoonchSuspected terrorists hurled a grenade at a police vehicle at Kalia in Poonch district late Thursday. Poonch district SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral said, “A grenade was hurled at a police vehicle in the Kalai bridge area in Poonch district on Thursday night. However, it did not explode and there was no harm done.” Read moreUS case Covid-19 trajectory surpasses India’sThe trajectory of new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the United States, which has been climbing with the start of a third wave of infections, has surpassed that of India’s, which has been dropping steadily in the past five weeks. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘It pinched him,’ Sourav Ganguly says star batsman was hurt after being made to sit outBCCI president Sourav Ganguly weighed in on how it must have felt for Chris Gayle to sit out those many games of IPL 2020 first up. Kings XI Punjab’s Gayle, who hadn’t played a match since January this year, finally played his first match of IPL 2020 against Royal Challengers Bangalore. Read moreFerrari issues recall orders for its most powerful supercar. Here’s whyFerrari has reportedly issued a recall order for around 1,063 units of its 812 Superfast in the United States. These models were made between 2018 and 2020 and are suspected to have a rear window which could come off at relatively high speeds due to the chances these weren’t fixed properly. Read moreNavratri 2020: When Is Ashtami, Navami 2020? Date, Time, Puja, Prasad For Durga Ashtami, Durga Navami 2020Navratri is a nine-day long Hindu festival during which devotees worship the different avatars of Goddess Durga. It is a celebrations of good over evil, specifically when Goddess Durga defeated the demon king Mahishasura. Read moreUS Presidential Debate: Trump’s vaccine claim Vs Biden’s ‘no plan’ counterUS President Donald Trump and Democratic rival Joe Biden clashed over the coronavirus crisis in the third and final Presidential debate. Donald Trump said that his administration has worked on war footing and a vaccine will be announced within a week. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-to-begin-bihar-election-campaign-with-3-rallies-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-VhM5J4oSDXxsI4sAwxG1YI.html
23-10-2020||India||PM Modi to address 3 rallies in Bihar today; Mahagathbandhan’s show of strength with Rahul Gandhi in Nawada, Bhagalpur||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address three election rallies in Sasaram, Gaya and Bhagalpur on Friday, starting his campaign for Bihar Assembly Election 2020, the first phase of which is scheduled to be held on October 28. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar will join PM Modi at the rallies in Dehri and Bhagalpur.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will address two rallies on Friday — at Hisua in Nawada and Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur. Tejashwi Yadav, the chief ministerial face of the Mahagathbandhan, will join Rahul Gandhi at Hisua, and in Kahalgaon, he will be accompanied by Shaktisinh Gohil and other senior party leaders.The prime minister will address overall 12 rallies in the state. On October 28, he will be in Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Patna. On November 3, PM Modi will hold rallies in Chhapra, East Champaran and Samastipur along with West Champaran, Saharsa and Araria. Click here for Bihar Assembly Election 2020 Live Updates“Tomorrow I will get an opportunity to be with my brothers and sisters from Bihar. I will address rallies in Sasaram, Gaya and Bhagalpur. During this time, I will put the development agenda of the NDA in front of the people and ask for blessings for their alliance,” PM Modi tweeted.Strict safety measures are being taken at the rally venues as the upcoming election has come under the cloud of Covid-19 with four politicians testing positive. Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, former Union ministers Shahnawaz Hussain and Rajiv Pratap Rudy, and senior Congress leader and four-time Muzaffarpur MLA Vijendra Chaudhary announced they tested positive for Covid-19.On Thursday, the Bharatiya Janata Party released its election manifesto for Bihar people promising free Covid-19 vaccine for all people, once approved, and 19 lakh jobs among others. The manifesto has triggered a ‘vaccine for vote’ debate. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi slammed the party and tweeted, “GOI just announced India’s Covid access strategy. Kindly refer to the state-wise election schedule to know when will you get it, along with a hoard of false promises.”Soon after the BJP announced free vaccine for Bihar, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh too walked the same path and promised free vaccine. The BJP and the Janata Dal (United) have agreed to 121-122 seat-sharing formula for the 243-member assembly in Bihar which will be held in three phases - October 28, November 3, and 7 and the counting of votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-3-rallies-in-bihar-today-mahagathbandhan-s-show-of-strength-with-rahul-gandhi-in-nawada-bhagalpur/story-j7KvKmNLDZ08Uaig1clk1I.html
23-10-2020||India||Council for Centre-state collaboration on science to come up under new policy: Govt||The Union science minister, Dr Harsh Vardhan, has said that a Centre-state council will be created for collaboration of the governments on policies related to science and innovation. This is in line with the collaborative approach that the government has adopted for the formulation of the new Science, Technology, and Innovation Policy – 2020. “The new policy proposes the institutionalisation of Centre-State science, technology and innovation engagements. This will a permanent pathway for percolation of science to the grassroot levels. There is a need to identify national priorities that will be driven by the needs of the states. Through formal linkages like this, we hope to carry out continuous highest level of engagements, extensive capacity-building exercises, technology development support programmes, and other related activities,” the minister said on Thursday at the Centre-state consultation on the policy. Also read: Minister invites suggestions for ‘people-centric’ science and tech policyHe added that such a mechanism will also increase communication and avoid duplication of efforts. “So far, there have been four science and technology policies in the country, but what we are formulating right now is unique. It is completely decentralised. This is the first time the state governments are directly involved in the formulation of the policy,” said Dr Akhilesh Gupta, who heads the secretariat formulating the new policy. The consultation meeting was attended by representatives of 26 out of 28 states and four out of nine Union Territories. Among those who attented were the chief minister of Meghalaya, Conrad Sangma, deputy chief minister of Manipur, Yumnam Joykumar Singh, deputy chief minister of Tripura, Jishnu Dev Varma, and deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Dinesh Sharma.Sangma suggested that a deep interest in science needs to be cultivated from a young age and organising competitions can motivate children. “We focus a lot on dance, singing, cricket, but there is no competition for innovation and science. Young minds should be trained to innovate and such competitions could incentivise them. We are going to start these competitions in our state,” he said. “Some of the states suggested setting up a co-funding mechanism with the Centre. Strengthening of the existing state level councils under the department of science and technology was also recommended. When it came to the quality of education in state institutes, some suggested that central institutes like IITs and Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research could collaborate with state universities in the respective states where they are. Another suggestion was to encourage innovation as a national policy and even at school level,” said Dr Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/council-for-centre-state-collaboration-on-science-to-come-up-under-new-policy-govt/story-puSdtaSwHQI450iwrvsmYJ.html
23-10-2020||India||Covaxin: Bharat Biotech gets nod from DCGI panel for Phase III trials||Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI’s) Expert Committee recommended granting permission to conduct Phase III clinical trial for Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin.The panel added that the recommendation is after assessing data from Phase I & II as well as animal challenge study.The nod is subject to amendment in how primary efficacy endpoint for symptomatic cases be studied in Phase 3 trials, the panel further stated.“In continuation of the SEC meeting dated 05.10.2020, firm presented their data from Phase I and II along with animal challenge data in two species including NHP on the Inactivated Corona Virus Vaccine (BBV152) along with the proposal to conduct event driven Phase III clinical trial to assess the efficacy of the vaccine,” the expert panel said in a statement on Tuesday.Click here for full Covid-9 coverageThe committee recommended for grant of permission to conduct Phase III clinical trial subject to the condition that the primary efficacy endpoint for symptomatic cases should be amended as below:-Once a suspect case is confirmed the PI will evaluate the clinical information to classify it as a symptomatic case.-Two Criteria must be met for a participant to be a confirmed symptomatic case. Either criteria A or B with positive RT-PCR confirmation.Criteria A: One or more - Shortness of Breath/Difficulty in breathing, New onset Anosmia/Aguesia, Oxygen saturation of <94% or escalation in supplemental O2, Pneumonia diagnosed by chest X ray or CT scan, Evidence of Shock, ICU Admission/Death ORCriteria B: Two or more - Fever, Chills, New cough, Myalgia/Fatigue, Headache, Sore throat, Nausea/Vomiting, Diarrhea, Congestion/ Runny Nose||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-bharat-biotech-gets-nod-from-dcgi-panel-for-phase-iii-trials/story-FtYixQLYpGdPcdYkpclnMP.html
23-10-2020||India||Heavy rain warning for West Bengal, N-E; air pollution spikes over NW India||The depression over the north-west Bay of Bengal off coastal Odisha is likely to cross West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts over the Sundarbans on Friday afternoon.Light to moderate rainfall is likely at most places with heavy to very heavy precipitation, measuring between 115.6-204.4 millimetres (mm) a day, and extremely intense showers of over 204.4 mm is likely to occur at isolated places over Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Assam and Meghalaya due to the unfavourable weather condition.Light to moderate rainfall is likely at many places and heavy showers in some places over Gangetic West Bengal, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities.The depression has moved north-north-eastwards with a wind speed of upto 10 kilometres (km) per hour (kmph) during the past six hours and is situated about 90 km east-south-east of Paradip in Odisha, 170 km south-south-west of Sagar Islands in West Bengal and 340 km west-south-west of Khepupara in Bangladesh.The depression is likely to move north-north-eastwards and cross West Bengal and adjoining Bangladesh coasts between Sagar islands and Khepupara over the Sundarbans by Friday afternoon.Meanwhile, the air quality in north-west India has further worsened. Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 355 on Friday morning. AQI between 301 and 400 is considered in the very poor category range. Baghpat, Bahadurgarh, Ballabgarh, Bhiwadi, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Lucknow, Moradabad, and Panipat also recorded AQI in the very poor category range.“The AQI has worsened mainly because of a significant reduction in wind speed on Thursday. There was no wind at night on Thursday and Friday early morning. As a result, the conditions are unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants. We are expecting similar conditions to prevail until next week,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre (RWFC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-warning-for-west-bengal-n-e-air-pollution-spikes-over-nw-india/story-JV702SCS1DzGEj5KKZg93M.html
23-10-2020||India||MEA says 2+2 meet timing not linked to US elections||The external affairs ministry on Thursday played down questions about India hosting the strategic 2+2 dialogue with the US ahead of the country’s presidential election on November 3, saying that the timing of the talks was largely in line with those of the two previous meetings. Experts have questioned the rationale behind holding the key talks between the foreign and defence ministers of the two sides at a time when the US election could lead to a change of government. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and defense secretary Mark Esper will be on a two-day visit to India for the dialogue with their counterparts S Jaishankar and Rajnath Singh on October 27. Asked about this issue at the weekly news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “As regards the timing of the meeting, you would know that diplomatic calendars have their logic. You will notice that the earlier two meetings have also been held towards the end of the year.” Also Read | On India-US agenda, a plan to share defence intel from Ladakh to South China SeaThe maiden 2+2 dialogue was held in New Delhi in September 2018 and the second one in Washington in December 2019. The third dialogue will see India and the US consolidating their diplomatic and security ties, including institutionalised intelligence-sharing and efforts to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific. The signing of the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) is also on the cards to facilitate sharing of classified satellite and sensor data. “The third 2+2 ministerial dialogue will entail a comprehensive discussion on cross-cutting bilateral issues of mutual interest. In addition, both sides will exchange views on salient regional and global issues,” Srivastava said, declining to go into details. The discussions during these dialogues have enabled both sides to take forward their relationship and strengthen the institutional framework for cooperation across all sectors, he said. Pompeo and Esper will also have bilateral meetings with their counterparts, and meet National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mea-says-2-2-meet-timing-not-linked-to-us-elections/story-drh8aOcGtw5NT5F4GXI9BK.html
23-10-2020||India||MP, Tamil Nadu CMs promise free Covid-19 vaccine||New Delhi: Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh chief ministers said on Thursday that as soon as a vaccine for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is available, they would provide it to the people of their respective states free of cost. Taking to Twitter, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan wrote, “Coronavirus vaccine preparation work is going on fast in India. As soon as the vaccine is ready, it will be made available to every citizen of Madhya Pradesh for free.” Chouhan’s announcement decision came hours after Tami Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami declared that a vaccine will be distributed free of charge in his state as well.“Once COVID-19 vaccine is ready, it will be provided to all people of the state free of cost,” announced Palaniswami a leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party ally All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). Earlier in the day, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman released the Bharatiya Janata Party’s manifesto for the Bihar assembly elections, and promised free Covid-19 vaccine for the people of the poll-bound state. The announcement kicked off a political storm with the opposition accusing the BJP of trying to politicize the pandemic, and the ruling party stating that the announcement should not be seen as a poll promise as health is an important aspect of public policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-tamil-nadu-cms-promise-free-covid-vaccine/story-BpNHieZB3GI3NmgWDqtBAJ.html
23-10-2020||India||Wind shift brings drop in air quality in Delhi||The air quality in Delhi again deteriorated on Thursday, reaching the brink of the “very poor” category as a reduction in wind speed and a change in wind direction brought in pollutants from stubble fires in Haryana and Punjab that caused a spike in pollution levels throughout the country’s northwest.The condition is expected to further deteriorate over Friday and Saturday as conditions will remain unfavourable for the dispersion of pollutants, government agencies have warned.In Delhi, the overall air quality index (AQI) on Thursday was 296, considered in the “poor” zone, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) reading. An AQI of 201 to 300 is considered “poor” while an AQI of 301 to 400 is considered “very poor”, and is associated with respiratory illness to people on prolonged exposure.Several parts of northwest India — particularly areas in the National Capital Region such as Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Panipat — recorded “very poor” air on Thursday.Wind direction was variable with easterly in the morning, and north-westerly in the afternoon. North-westerly winds tend to blow fumes from stubble fires from northern India towards the Capital. Stubble fires touched the highest of the season on Thursday as 1,428 fires were observed in Haryana and Punjab.“Winds were calm in the afternoon and blowing at a speed of only 5 kmph in the day... The air quality is expected to deteriorate further on October 23-24 on account of reduced wind speed. We are expecting wind direction to change tomorrow to north-easterly again but it will not have any significant impact on air quality because winds will remain calm. Conditions are not favourable for dispersion (of pollutants),” said Vijay Soni, scientist, India Meteorological Department (IMD).Senior Delhi government officials blamed crop stubble burning in neighbouring Haryana and Punjab as the major reason behind the plunging air quality in the Capital.“We cannot control stubble burning in the neighbouring states, because of which air pollution is increasing in Delhi. We are repeatedly requesting the Central government and state governments to cooperate and to stop the stubble fires,” said Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai.While the share of stubble burning to overall pollution in Delhi reduced to 9% on Thursday from 15% the day before, calm winds lowered the ventilation coefficient (thus not allowing dispersion of pollutants in the atmosphere), according to the forecast of the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the Union ministry’s air quality forecasting wing.The ventilation index was 5,000 sq metres per second on Thursday — a ventilation index below 6,000 sq m/s is considered not conducive for dispersal of pollutants in the air, according to CPCB. Ventilation index is a function of the mixing height and the wind speed and defines the ability of the atmosphere to disperse contaminants.“Calm wind conditions mean the wind speed was zero and hence there was no dispersion. This is a usual phenomenon for the months of October and November, which is when air quality deteriorates. Air quality is likely to touch the ‘very poor’ zone and remain in the same category over the next two days. Some improvement is likely around October 26 when wind speed may pick up,” said Soni.On Thursday, the minimum temperature settled at 17.2 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal. The maximum was 33.4 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal.A feeble western disturbance (WD) is also likely to impact northern India around October 25. “There can be some rain in the hills in Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh but it is a weak system,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre adding that “intense weather and heavy rains are expected in northeast India and West Bengal this week.”The rain may marginally bring down the minimum temperature across northern India over the next week, officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wind-shift-brings-drop-in-air-quality-in-delhi/story-JTK0UBR9V4r6K0DzZCwsGK.html
23-10-2020||India||Govt to sell onion buffer stock, relax import rules||The government will sell more onion from its buffer stock and has allowed quicker imports by relaxing conditions for overseas purchases, the consumer affairs ministry said on Thursday, as retail prices crossed ₹100 per kg in Mumbai and Pune in a festive-season spiral. The central government has relaxed the Plant Quarantine Order, 2003, allowing traders to import non-fumigated onion and without phytosanitary certification, a formal declaration by an exporting country or an importer guaranteeing that shipments are free of pests and plant diseases.“To facilitate the import of onion, the government has, on 21.10.2020, relaxed the conditions for fumigation and additional declaration on Phytosanitary Certificate under the Plant Quarantine Order, 2003 for import up to December 15, 2020,” an official statement said.  The government has already started moving onion from its buffer stock for sale beginning in the second half of September, a senior official in the consumer affairs ministry said. “Higher quantities of stocks will be offloaded throughout the festive season,” the official said , requesting anonymity.Widespread rains have damaged onion crops and held back harvests, trimming supplies to Lasalgaon, Asia’s largest onion wholesale market in Maharashtra’s Nashik. “The retail price of onion has shown a marked increased from end of August 2020, though the price level was below that of last year till October 18. A sharp spike in prices of onion in past the 10 days by ₹11.56 per kilo has taken the all-India retail price of onion to ₹51.95 per kilo which was 12.13% higher than the last year’s price of ₹46.33 per kg,” the consumer affairs ministry said in its statement. Prices are likely to cool after fresh harvests from rain-hit Maharashtra replenish the markets by mid-November. According to consumer affairs ministry’s market intelligence, 3.7 million tonnes will start arriving in markets, which will help cool prices. “On Wednesday, wholesale rates in Lasalgaon shot up to ₹6,100 a quintal (100kg) for some varieties, from ₹4,700 on Thursday, the last trading day of last week,” said Prakash Kumawat, an official of the Lasalgaon agriculture produce market committee. In Pune, the price of onion rose to around ₹120/kg on Thursday, reported news agency ANI. The consumer affairs ministry official said Indian high commissions in onion-supplying countries had been asked to “contact the traders for pushing for greater imports of onions to the country”. Non-fumigated onions would be fumigated after arrival in India by the importing trader through an accredited fumigator agency. If pests are detected, they would be eliminated through fumigation and the consignments will be released with no additional inspection fee. “Such consignments of onions for consumption will not be subjected to four times additional inspection fee on account of non-compliance of conditions of import under the Plant Quarantine Order, 2003,” the consumer affairs ministry statement said. A bout of bad weather and heavy rainfall in the major onion growing districts of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka have caused damage to standing kharif crop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-sell-onion-buffer-stock-relax-import-rules/story-NhSxubRbrYtZOTawKQzN2N.html
23-10-2020||India||Drugs smuggled in over boundary wall, sold in Tihar jail||An inquiry into the death of a prisoner inside Tihar jail last month has revealed that drugs and other contraband are regularly thrown into the premises from across the compound wall and sold to the inmates. The racket was exposed after a probe was ordered into the death of Sikander Dogra who, according to a prison officer aware of the inquiry report, complained about drug smuggling inside jail No 1. Two days later, on September 24, he was stabbed to death by four prisoners. “We have found that the drugs inside jail 1 were being brought inside the jail with the help of outsiders who throw the banned items into the prison. The prison wall shares its boundary with different roads, such as the main Jail Road in Hari Nagar. Once the drugs were thrown inside the prison, they would be picked up by the prisoners and then sold to other inmates. Getting banned items inside through the main gate is difficult because of the multilayer security,” said the prison officer, requesting anonymity. Also Read | Delhi: Tihar director-general tests positive for Covid-19After Dogra blew the whistle on the racket, a group of prisoners also managed to record videos on phones smuggled into the prison that were later posted on social media. In the videos, the prisoners alleged that some jail officers were also involved in Dogra’s murder. The officer cited above said that although there have been instances of jail warders finding mobile phones being used by inmates, smuggled in using the same modus operandi, this is the first time that they have found an organised network throwing drugs into the prison compounds. Many former prisoners that HT spoke to said on condition of anonymity that the price of a banned item inside jail increases multiple times compared to what it costs outside. “A bundle of bidi could cost less than ₹50 outside, but inside the jail, its price could be around ₹500. There are gangs inside each jail who trade in such banned items and set a price on the item,” a former prisoner said. “Some places were identified as the drop zones. During the inquiry, some inmates came forward with anecdotal claims of prisoners receiving packets of marijuana and hashish from across the road. We have marked the drop zones and recommended large fishing nets to be placed between the walls of the prison and the road’s boundary wall (outside) to ensure that banned items do not land at these drop zones and are caught in the net,” said a second prison officer. The report will be submitted to the prison’s director general. The inquiry will also look into how the four men who stabbed Dogra smuggled a knife inside the prison. A warder, who filed the report on Dogra’s death, has mentioned that a knife was used in the murder. “It is always the endeavour of the prison department that no contraband item enters the jails,” Sandeep Goel, director general of Delhi prisons, told HT. “The prison officers are briefed to always be on alert and prevent any entry of any banned items inside the jails. Further if any violation is noticed, action is taken against the inmates and even the staff found engaged in any manner in such illegal activity.” Dogra was arrested by the police in February 2019 for illegal possession of arms. Police records show Dogra was named in at least 20 criminal cases such as robbery, snatching, murder, vehicle theft and under the Arms Act. In the past, there have been cases of prisoners who tried to successfully smuggle drugs or cell phones by taking it orally or hiding it in the body cavities. Prisoners have also been admitted to hospital when they were unable to get the smuggled items out of their body. Before taking the banned items inside prison, such items are wrapped in polythene sheets and hidden in body cavities. Jail officials suspect that this case could be an organised racket of getting drugs and selling them inside prison. The government is yet to allow the use of body scanners inside the prison -- a longstanding demand by Tihar prisons. Prison expert Sunil Gupta, who was Tihar prison’s law officer for over three decades until his retirement in 2015, said the prison officers must look into the role of the jail staff too. “It is difficult to smuggle a single items inside the prison without the involvement of an insider. By saying that the drugs were thrown into the prison negates the role of jail personnel in the inquiry. When banned items are thrown into the prison, it is often picked up by the jail personnel. Prisoners do not have access to all corners of the prison. The trade of smuggled items depend on how strict the superintendent is,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-smuggled-in-over-boundary-wall-sold-in-tihar-jail/story-By9daHsCMg3TnwfWCMNX5O.html
23-10-2020||India||Why is everyone promising jobs in Bihar elections?||After the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) promised a million government jobs if the mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) it leads is voted to power in Bihar, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has tried to outdo it by promising 1.9 million jobs in its election manifesto, released on Thursday. The BJP’s promise will be an embarrassment of sorts to its alliance partner Janata Dal (United), or JD (U), whose leader and chief minister  Nitish Kumar has described the RJD’s promise as impractical. The political polemics notwithstanding, what explains the mad rush for promising jobs in the Bihar elections? An HT analysis shows that unemployment may be a bigger problem in Bihar than in the rest of India. Bihar’s unemployment rate is higher than the all-India average According to the 2018-19 Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), the official source of employment statistics in India, the unemployment rate in Bihar was 10.2% in India, way above the all-India average of 5.8%. A comparison with previous Employment Unemployment Surveys (EUS), the predecessor of the PLFS, and the 2017-18 PLFS shows that joblessness in Bihar has been worsening vis-a-vis the rest of India. In 2004-05, Bihar’s unemployment rate was 0.8 times the all-India unemployment rate. This ratio has increased over the years. It was 1.6 in 2011-12, 1.2 in 2017-18, and 1.8 in 2018-19.   !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Only 10% of jobs in Bihar are salaried jobs Granted, unemployment rates do not capture the true labour market pain in a country like India. If all managers lost their jobs and started working as farmers or construction workers, the unemployment rate would remain unchanged. Therefore, it is important to look at the quality of jobs in addition to the absolute numbers. Bihar fares worse than the all-India average when it comes to the share of workers who have a regular job. According to the 2018-19, PLFS, 23.8% of India’s workers had a salaried job. This number was just 10.4% for Bihar. The share of workers with a salaried job has increased from 4.2% in 2004-05 EUS, which corresponds with the period when Nitish Kumar took over the chief minister of the state. However, the points remains that it is still significantly worse than the all-India situation.   !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Also Read | ‘Deriding people of Bihar’: Congress targets BJP over its free Covid-19 vaccine promise in manifestoBihar sees the biggest outmigration for work among major states Lack of quality jobs in the state has forced Bihari workers to out-migrate for employment. According to data from the 2011 census, Bihar had the highest share of migrants who moved out for work, employment or business reasons. A 2018 World Bank paper by Gaurav Nayyar and Kyoung Yang Kim found that migrant remittances had a share of 35% in Bihar’s gross state domestic product (GSDP) and positively affected consumption at the household level. A disproportionate dependence on remittance incomes must have hurt Bihar more than other states after the nationwide lockdown imposed in March this year, in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease outbreak. It is natural that discontent with a poor job scenario in the state has become a big issue in the polls which are taking place just a few months after the lockdown.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Employment is an issue which cuts across class and caste lines Politics in Bihar has been dominated by caste-based fissures for a long time. While the RJD-led alliance can bank on the support of Muslims and Yadavs, it is not enough to ensure victory in the state. By championing the cause of employment, the opposition is trying to take up an issue which resonates across caste and class boundaries, especially sections which have been pro-National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the past. Unemployment rates had risen sharply among all major social groups in the state between 2011-12 and 2018-19. The increase was the highest among people who belong neither to the scheduled castes (SCs) nor from the Other Backward Classes (OBCs). Every fifth person who at least had a graduate degree and was a part of the labour force – either working or looking for a job – was unemployed in Bihar in 2018-19. Unemployment rates even for those with very little education were significantly higher in Bihar than the all-India numbers.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-is-everyone-promising-jobs-in-bihar-elections/story-PakeHDedmBrT36EG7xRkKP.html
23-10-2020||India||3,882 new cases in Delhi, highest since sept 19; positivity rate jumps to 6.61%||The number of daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) recorded in Delhi continued on an upward trend, inching closer to the 4,000-mark as the Capital added 3,882 infections on Thursday — the highest since September 19. So far, 344,318 people in Delhi have been infected and 6,163 fatalities recorded in the seven months since the first case was reported in the city on March 2.The positivity rate — the proportion of tests that come out positive for Covid-19 — was at 6.61% on Thursday, the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin showed. The seven-day average of positivity rose from 5.4% to 6.4% in the last two weeks.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageExperts say the recent increase in the number of samples testing positive for Covid-19 could be attributed to the rise in molecular tests such as the RT-PCR that are more accurate in diagnosis than the antigen tests.Over 16,000 RT-PCR tests daily have been conducted for the last two days. On average 14,877 daily RT-PCR tests were carried out in the last seven days, accounting for 27.9% of the total tests conducted in the time period. This is an increase from the average of 11,528 tests per day carried out the week before (making up 23.2% of the total tests) and the 9,254 two weeks ago (19.2% of total tests). The molecular RT-PCR test amplifies the genetic material of the virus collected using a throat or nasal swab and is very sensitive. The alternate Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) are cheap, can be deployed in dispensaries and clinics, and give results within 15 minutes. But they are not as sensitive as RT-PCR and are prone to throwing up false negatives i.e. diagnosing people who are infected with Covid-19 as uninfected. “The sensitivity of the rapid antigen test is about 60 to 65% at best; if we use more RT-PCR tests, of course we will detect more cases. But I think the current increase in the cases is not just because of the RT PCR tests; there might be some increase happening for real. It is the festive season, people are stepping out, going shopping and all this leads to increase in the transmission of the infection and higher number of cases,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). The Delhi government had scaled up testing three-fold to about 60,000 tests a day in September after the city saw a surge in the number of cases of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-882-new-cases-in-delhi-highest-since-sept-19-positivity-rate-jumps-to-6-61/story-NN4n11opLsW9dSl4zHdMJM.html
23-10-2020||India||Congress leader’s T-20 move to aid UP Brahmins. Narrow mindset, says BJP||A team of 20 volunteers (T-20) will be set up in every district to provide legal aid and other assistance to the Brahmins, said senior Congress leader Jitin Prasada. The effort is an apparent move to win the support of the community in Uttar Pradesh. “We are setting up teams of 20 volunteers. There is a spurt in crime, and targeted attacks against Brahmins have come to our notice,” said Prasada, who is also the patron of the Brahmin Chetna Parishad. Though Prasada said he had been raising such issues in view of the ‘step-motherly’ treatment being meted out to the Brahmins in the state, his assertions are being viewed as an attempt to indulge in caste divide and woo the community. “This is an attempt to woo the community. But it is the outcome of lowly politics and a narrow mindset. Uttar Pradesh has moved away from caste politics and this is the time of sabka saath, sabkaa vikas. The BJP government in the state is working for all sections of society,” said Chandramohan, UP BJP spokesman. Prasada, however, maintains that the Brahmin Chetna Parishad was formed to resolve grievances of the community and he was not indulging in any caste politics. The Congress leader’s observations about the law and order and crime issues were endorsed by leaders of other parties as well. “BSP chief Mayawati has been saying there is jungle rule in the state. The incidents of crime have gone up against Dalits, backward classes, minorities and Brahmins as well,” said BSP legislature party leader Lalji Verma. Samajwadi Party spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary said crime against weaker sections and women had gone up and the BJP government had failed to bring about any improvement. “There is an increase in crime against economically and socially weaker sections. The SP has been raising this issue,” said Chaudhary. This is not for the first time that Prasada has raised such an issue. The former Union minister said he had visited 40 districts for the cause of the community and would cover the remaining districts soon. On August 10, 2020, Prasada had sent a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath demanding restoration of public holiday on Parshuram Jayanti. The Samajwadi Party had announced plans to install a 108-ft statue of Parshuram in the state capital. The Bahujan Samaj Party had responded by vowing to install a bigger one. The move was seen as a bid to woo Brahmins, who constitute 10% of the state’s electorate, as Parshuram, the sixth incarnation of Vishnu in the Hindu pantheon, was also a Brahmin. On August 22, CM Adityanath, while speaking on the law and order situation in the state assembly, took on the opposition for its apparent ploy of projecting Parshuram as a Brahmin icon, saying Parshuram was no different from Lord Ram. Ram and Parshuram, the CM said, were both incarnations of Lord Vishnu and therefore attempts to drive a wedge in the society in their name would prove futile. UP BJP general secretary Vijay Pathak said dividing people on caste lines was not justified. He said the state government was working for people of all sections of society. Pathak said Prasada should also look at the situation in Rajasthan before making any comments about Uttar Pradesh. Will the attempts to woo the people on caste lines help political parties? “The era of caste division is over. We do not see a caste divide now as it was earlier. It may be because of inter-caste marriages. While the caste divide is declining, the political parties are making efforts to cement the division,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-s-t-20-move-to-aid-up-brahmins-narrow-mindset-says-bjp/story-jpnQBEePWz0tKPhSU7hKrJ.html
23-10-2020||India||Karnataka received highest investment among states this year: BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday said that the state had attracted investment worth Rs 1.38 lakh crore this year, adding it was “the highest in the country which would create 70,000 direct employment”.The state is currently ranked second in terms of FDI investments for the period ending June 2020, the CM added.In an effort to draw domestic investors to invest in the state, CM Yediyurappa said that the state was a favoured choice for them and is home to 400 of the Fortune 500 companies in the world. He urged Indian companies to step up their investments in the state.Yediyurappa made these remarks while virtually addressing various industry captains at an event organised by the Public Affairs Forum of India (PAFI), National Forum 2020. The Karnataka CM highlighted numerous business opportunities and investments that were available for domestic investors in the state in IT, ITES services, machine tooling, manufacturing, aerospace, biotechnology, and engineering design.Stating that Karnataka is a nearly US$ 250 billion economy with strengths in a wide range of industries - machine tools, heavy machinery, automobiles, electronics, aerospace, defense, biotechnology - the CM emphasised the benefits of the New Industrial Policy 2020-2025, launched by the BJP government, which he said would help “to build a prosperous Karnataka and create large-scale employment opportunities”.Stressing that the state is committed to bringing ease to regulatory compliance for businesses, he said they were working in partnership with departments and various stakeholders to make it easier, simpler and quicker for businesses to start and operate in the state.Large, small and medium scale industries minister Jagadish Shettar, who also spoke at the event, said that the state is taking cautious steps to reboot the economy and support economic activities. “The recent NITI Aayog 2019 Innovation Index has Karnataka at the top. This has been possible due to the availability of quality human resources, reputed higher educational institutions, and a significant thrust on research and development aided by a proactive administration and conducive investment climate,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-received-highest-investment-among-states-this-year-bs-yediyurappa/story-VIAJmd7Xi9gVgwYZ9JdiZI.html
23-10-2020||India||EC moves top court against MP HC order restricting physical rallies||The Election Commission of India (ECI) approached the Supreme Court on Thursday against an order of the Madhya Pradesh high court’s Gwalior bench, which put stringent restrictions on physical campaigning by candidates for the assembly by-elections in the state next month in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The conduct and management of elections is overseen by ECI under the Constitution, the poll watchdog said in its petition submitted through advocate Amit Sharma. It added that the high court order was passed in total disregard of ECI’s guidelines on gatherings and the state’s Covid-19 protocol that allowed such congregations with curbs. The petition also cited Article 329 of the Constitution that lays down an express bar on interference by courts in electoral matters. The ECI move came two days after the Gwalior bench of the high court directed the administrators of nine districts in its jurisdiction (Gwalior, Guna, Morena, Bhind, Ashok Nagar, Datia, Shivpuri, Sheopur and Vidisha) to grant permissions for physical public rallies, irrespective of the size of the gathering, only if virtual meetings are not possible ahead of the bypolls to 28 seats slated for November 3. The state has 52 districts.The right to health and life of ordinary people is more sacred and precious when set off against the right to campaign of candidates in an election, the court observed in its October 20 order that has triggered a flutter. Even if a physical congregation is permitted by the district (DM) magistrate and ECI, it can take place only after the political party/candidate deposits money with the DM that is sufficient to purchase double the number of masks and sanitisers required for those attending the event, according to the court. Additionally, the candidate will have to file an affidavit that “he shall be personally liable to distribute masks and sanitiser to all the members of the congregation before the meeting/congregation starts”, the court said. In its appeal, ECI said its Covid-19 guidelines on poll meetings were formulated on September 25 in exercise of its powers under Article 324, which gives the watchdog authority to conduct and oversee the electoral process. The guidelines permitted “public gatherings” and “election rallies” in adherence to standard operating procedures (SOP) of the state government that allows political gatherings of over 100 people with safety measures, the petition said. ECI requested the apex court for urgent listing of its appeal since the next hearing in the high court is expected to take place on Friday. Separately, two candidates of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — Pradyuman Singh Tomar (Gwalior) and Munnalal Goyal (Gwalior East) — too challenged the high court order before the Supreme Court and prayed for urgent listing of their pleas. The two separate pleas said the HC order should be set aside as it interfered with their right to contest elections. “The impugned interim order has violated the petitioner’s right to conduct election campaign through physical gatherings as permitted by the Election Commission, Central Government and State of Madhya Pradesh,” said the petitions presented in the court by advocate Astha Sharma. The same high court order by a two-judge division bench of justices Sheel Nagu and Rajeev Kumar Shrivastava also ordered that first information reports (FIRs) be lodged against Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and state Congress president Kamal Nath for alleged breach of Covid-19 protocols in holding rallies. On Tuesday, the state filed status reports indicating 10 FIRs have been registered against organisers of election rallies conducted in alleged breach of Covid-19 protocol. This list, however, did not include the names of Tomar and Nath. During Tuesday’s hearing, the state assured the high court that the names will be included. The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) by lawyer Ashish Pratap Singh, who sought a total restraint on physical gatherings in the backdrop of the Covid crisis. In state capital Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, too, said on Thursday his party will move the Supreme Court even as he cancelled two of his election meetings in Gwalior-Chambal region in view of the Gwalior bench’s order. “We can’t hold meetings in parts of Madhya Pradesh but can do that in other parts of the state. Public meetings and rallies are being organised in Bihar (for the upcoming assembly elections there). We are going to Supreme Court for justice and hope, we will get justice,” he said. District election offices in the state, meanwhile, started seeking affidavits — made mandatory by the court — from candidates on distributing masks and providing sanitizer at face-to-face election meetings, provided they get all the clearances to hold such an event and follow social-distancing norms. “We are going to hold physical meetings and rallies...for that, we will submit an affidavit to the district administration,” a senior BJP leader who did not want to be named said. State Congress media coordinator Narendra Saluja said the party was not planning to challenge the order at this moment. “Of course, whatever judgment comes from the Supreme Court will be applicable to all in the state and elsewhere...However, our stand is there should be uniformity in the process of election campaign across the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-moves-top-court-against-mp-hc-order-restricting-physical-rallies/story-LBt06MXbUvR2Delwl78QBL.html
23-10-2020||India||IS operative caught in Delhi used Bitcoins to fund terror. It’s India’s first: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has claimed in a charge sheet filed last month that Islamic State operative Jahanzaib Sami had arranged a Bitcoin wallet address, through a British contact, on which he asked associates to deposit funds -- the first documented allegation of the use of cryptocurrency in terror activity in India. Sami, 36, and his wife Hina Bashir were arrested in Delhi on March 8 for allegedly planning to carry out attacks in India. According to the charge sheet, they received the Bitcoin address on Threema, an instant messaging app, from an account called Caged Pearls, which belongs to a British woman based in Syria. “She had given her Bitcoin wallet address to Sami and requested him to deposit money in that account. He had asked his associates to deposit funds in this wallet address,” reads the NIA charge sheet, which HT has reviewed. He also got in touch with a Libya-based IS operative who possessed an ID ‘Sech Tech’, to discuss arranging funds through “blockchain technology”. Cryptocurencies such as Bitcoins leverage a technology known as blockchain, a decentralised, distributed ledger that tracks transactions. These are anonymous and nearly impossible to track, and are commonly used in dark web transactions. The charge sheet said Sami discussed the possibility of using this to source weapons and explosives raw material. According to the charge sheet, Sami planned to carry out 100 bombing in a single day. Also Read | 14-member IS module that returned ‘disillusioned’ from Iraq, Syria busted: NIASech Tech, a member of IS’s intelligence and media unit, told Sami that he works in dark web and provides Bitcoins for funding of the outfit, the NIA said. “They also discussed arranging funds through stolen credit cards for procuring weapons,” the charge sheet said. The increasing use of cryptocurrency by terror organisations like IS and Al-Qaeda to fund their activities has worried security and intelligence communities across the world. The US Department of Justice, on August 13 said it seized millions of dollars’ worth of cryptocurrency this year, and 300 of the accounts belonged to IS, Al-Qaeda, and the military wing of Hamas. People familiar with the NIA probe said this may be the first time any terror activity in India has been linked to Bitcoins. “We are trying to unearth more details,” said an officer who asked not to be named.The NIA charge sheet also alleges that Abdullah Basith, a key IS member lodged in Tihar jail since August 2018, was using smartphones inside the prison for almost 10 months between June 2019 and February this year to interact with Sami and several ISIS commanders abroad – including Maulvi Abdullah, head of Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), handler Huzaifa-al-Bakistani, Abu Usman-Al-Kashmiri (Head of Indian affairs of ISKP), Abu Umar, Munasib Bhai and Abu Algama from inside Tihar jail. Huzaifa and Umar were killed in Afghanistan while Kashmiri was arrested by Afghan security forces earlier this year after an attack on a gurdwara in Kabul in March. NIA is investigating the Kabul attack as well and is likely to visit Afghanistan soon. The charge sheet states that Basith, from Hyderabad, had strong connections in IS since 2016, and first procured a phone with a SIM belonging to an Indian service provider in June 2019. He used it to contact Abu Umar, the in-charge of Nida-e-Haq (the official Urdu media of IS) on Telegram app. This phone was detected by jail authorities in September and seized. Then, in November 2019, he was transferred from Jail number 8 to 3 where he obtained another phone with a SIM card. This phone was traced in February this year by jail authorities, according to charge sheet. From jail, he radicalised some young Muslims selected by Sami, and motivated them to make graffiti at public places against CAA/NRC (Citizenship Amendment Act/National Register of Citizens), according to the charge sheet. “Investigation also revealed that Basith’s wife received funds sent by Huzaifa Al Bakistani while he was in jail,” chargesheet said. While in jail, Basith had also told Sami that he had plans to radicalise Muslim persons in prison to join the ISIS, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-charge-sheet-alleges-bitcoins-used-by-is-operatives-to-fund-terror-activity/story-1qVgzJ5Ipj3t2DCrPmWpvO.html
23-10-2020||India||16-yr-old girl kills father with iron rod, says he thrashed her mother: Cop||Upset over the repeated torture of her mother, a 16-year-old allegedly attacked her father with an iron rod and beat him to death in Bairasia area of Bhopal on Wednesday night, said police. The man was 43 years old.The minor girl then surrendered before the police, the officials said “During interrogation on Thursday, the girl said her father used to work as a labourer. He was a habitual drinker and used to beat her mother in an intoxicated state almost daily. The girl said neighbours used to mock them about the family feud. She was upset over the physical torture her mother was subjected to by her father as she told us, “ said KK Verma, sub-divisional officer of police (SDOP), Bairasia.“On Wednesday evening, the man returned to the house and started abusing his wife. The girl couldn’t control her anger and attacked him with an iron rod. He fell down. The girl then picked up a stick and continued to hit her father on his head. The man died on the spot. Later, neighbours informed the police but the girl herself surrendered before the police,” said Verma.The girl’s mother registered her statement with police and shared the same story, said the police officer.The girl was produced before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) on Thursday afternoon and is currently undergoing counselling as she is in a state of trauma. She would be produced before the juvenile board after counselling, said the police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upset-over-father-s-violent-behaviour-daughter-beats-him-to-death-police/story-1i1BalK44wR5Ud9xAXtZ8H.html
23-10-2020||India||‘Cannot shy away from liability’: Tahir Hussain’s bail plea junked||A Delhi court on Thursday dismissed an application for bail by suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain in three cases of rioting, arson, murder and conspiracy connected with the communal riots that rocked north-east Delhi in February.In denying him bail, additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav observed that Hussain’s house had become a hub of rioters and rabble-rousers to unleash what he described as the “worst communal riots since partition in Delhi.” He also said the riots were “a gaping wound in the conscience of a nation aspiring to be a major global power”.The riots started as clashes between protestors against and in favour of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, and went on to acquire a communal colour. The violence between February 23 and 27 left 53 people dead and 607 injured.Yadav observed that during the communal riots, Hussain had held the powerful post of councillor. “It is prima facie apparent that Hussain abused his muscle power and political clout to act as a kingpin in planning, instigating and fanning the flames of communal conflagration,” he said.Enough material existed on record to presume that Hussain “was present at the spot of crime and was exhorting the rioters of a particular community and as such, he did not use his hands and fists, but rioters as human weapons, who at his instigation could have killed anybody”.Hussain’s lawyers have in the past denied the allegations against him and said he was a victim of political rivalry. Hussain had in interviews before his arrest said that he was a riot victim and not an accused. He also claimed that his family members had to flee the neighbourhood during the riots because they were feeling unsafe.In his 18-page order, the judge said that the allegations against Hussain are “extremely grave in nature”. “Even if there were no direct acts of violence attributable to the accused, he cannot shy away from his liability under the provisions of the sections invoked against him, particularly on account of the fact that his house became the hub for the rioters and rabble-rousers to unleash the worst communal riots since the partition in Delhi.”He added: “The spread of riots on such a big scale in such a short time is not possible without a premeditated conspiracy. At this stage, I am reminded of a famous English saying that goes ‘when you choose to play with embers, you cannot blame the wind to have carried the spark a bit too far and spread the fire’ ”.The judge said: “When the applicant (Hussain) is at the receiving end, he cannot pass the buck. He cannot plead that he had no role to play since he did not participate physically in the riots. It is prima facie apparent that the applicant abused his muscle power and political clout to foment communal violence in the area.”He noted that besides the three cases in which he has sought bail, Hussain is also an accused in eight other cases related to the riots.“I do not find any force in the arguments of learned counsel for the applicant that applicant has been falsely implicated in the present matter or that there is no legally sustainable evidence available against him. On the contrary, I find the ocular evidence of independent witnesses aforesaid to be categorical, which gives the clear details qua the active role played by him in the incidents in question,” the court said.Delhi Police’s special cell has charged Hussain with rioting, murder and inciting rioters. He has also been charged with hatching a conspiracy to orchestrate the riots and funding the communal riots. Several civil society members and student activists have criticised Delhi Police for its allegedly lopsided investigation of the riots and for arresting those who led the anti-CAA protests across the city in the months leading to the riots. Police have denied the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-shy-away-from-liability-tahir-hussain-s-bail-plea-junked/story-dcqB0GUEs55jthZ5bk742N.html
23-10-2020||India||Delhi High Court tells Facebook, Google to remove woman’s personal pics||The Delhi high court has directed Facebook, Google and agencies, including the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), to take measures to remove the intimate pictures of a woman who said she shared them with a male friend in 2012 when she was a teenager. He put them up on social media sites after their relationship soured.Justice Vibhu Bakhru on Tuesday directed the police to forward the offending material to the NCRB, stating that the content undeniably falls within the scope of sexually explicit material relating to a child. The court also directed the police to use the resources available with NCRB and/or other agencies to identify the people who were re-uploading the offensive content in India and take action. “...Respondent nos.2 (Facebook) and R3 (Google) are also directed to use such measures as available with them to remove the contents which are similar to the contents of the URLs earlier removed...,” the court said in its ruling.The woman, now aged 24, had petitioned the court to issue directions to various social media companies to remove all the offending URLS and content that had her images on them. The woman told the court that she shared the photographs when she was 16 years old with a friend, who had threatened to take his life otherwise.According to her plea, when she was studying in Delhi, she came to be acquainted with a boy who was in the same class. She alleged that he started blackmailing her emotionally and compelled her to send intimate photographs of hers to him, and she complied. After completing her schooling, she secured admission in an institution abroad in August 2014 and moved out of India. She said the man attacked her when she was abroad and was also held guilty by a foreign court, which issued restraining orders against him. She told the court that in October – November 2019, she became aware that he had posted her intimate pictures on various platforms such as Twitter, Instagram and YouTube. The court, in July, had asked the various social media platforms to remove the URLs and objectionable content. But the photographs had been widely circulated and were being uploaded by people other than the man. Facebook, in an affidavit, told the court that it had implemented a number of measures to combat the spread of child pornography including working with National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC) which is a non-profit organization involved in helping find missing children, reduce child sexual exploitation and prevent child victimization. The social media company said NCMEC had created Cyber Tipline, providing an online forum to receive reports of suspected child porn content on the internet. When Facebook identifies child pornography on its platforms, it immediately removes the content, the company claimed. Google also filed an affidavit claiming that it had adopted various protocols to deal with child pornography or Child Sexual Abuse Material on its YouTube platform. Google said the measures included removal of objectionable content on individual reporting and the Trusted Flagger Program to provide robust tools to individuals, government agencies and non-government organizations for effectively notifying objectionable content on YouTube. Appearing for the ministry of electronics and Information technology, advocate Anurag Ahluwalia, the central government’s standing counsel, told the court that NCRB acts as a nodal agency for technical and operational functions of the On-Line Cyber Reporting Portal: “www.cybercrime.gov.in.” Following the affidavits, the court directed the social media platforms and agencies to remove the content, subject to technological limitations, and disposed of the plea by the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-tells-facebook-google-to-remove-woman-s-personal-pics/story-J0nb4ZpqCbCwg49x2fsS9L.html
