24-10-2020||India||Samajwadi Party announces support for JD(S) ahead of Karnataka bypolls||The Samajwadi Party has said that it will extend its ‘unconditional support’ to the Janata Dal (Secular) candidates in the upcoming Sira and RR Nagar assembly by-polls in Karnataka. While SP is not a substantial force in Karnataka, especially in Sira constituency, the Yadav community called Gollas (traditional cow-herders) is the second largest after the dominant Vokkaligas. SP is traditionally seen as representing the interests of the Yadav community.Gollas are about 15% of the 2.15 lakh electorate in the Sira constituency. All the three major parties including BJP, Congress and JDS have fielded Vokkaliga candidates as the community constitutes about 20% of the total voters. Since a three way division in the dominant Vokkaliga community is expected, all parties are wooing the Golla/Yadav vote.The Sira seat fell vacant after sitting JDS legislator B Satyanarayana succumbed to Covid-19. JDS has fielded his wife Ammajamma to cash in on sympathy while Congress has fielded former minister T B Jayachandra who had lost to Satyanarayana in a close contest in the 2018 assembly elections. BJP has fielded Rajesh Gowda a new entrant to the party whose father CP Mudalagiryappa was a three time MP representing Congress.The BJP in its effort to woo the Gollas/Yadavs had announced the setting up of a dedicated Kadu Golla (forest cow-herd) Development Corporation ahead of the announcement of polls. But this had not gone down well with a section of the Gollas as some of the Yadav sub sects had been left out of its purview.Announcing SP’s support to JDS its state president Robin Mathews said that SP would work towards ensuring the victory of JDS candidates in both Sira and RR Nagar constituencies. Mathews in the letter to state JDS president and former CM HD Kumaraswamy also conveyed “the best regards of Akhilesh (Yadav) ji to you...sure we can open a new chapter as the people of Karnataka are looking for change”.The ruling BJP is going all out to win Sira, a seat it has never won before with CM Yediyurappa son B Y Vijayendra who is also a vice president of the state unit camping there to ensure the party’s victory. Meanwhile, the JDS thanked and welcomed SP’s expression of support to its candidates in a seat which is likely to witness a close triangular fight. Voting will be held on November 3 and results would be declared on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samajwadi-party-announces-support-for-jd-s-ahead-of-karnataka-bypolls/story-1pm2un2XI2PJbwY5dXBzMO.html
24-10-2020||India||Pollution tracks rising fire graph||Air pollution relented slightly in the national capital region, helped by stronger winds and marginally warmer day temperature on Saturday, although a sustained number of farm fires in neighbouring states meant the situation could take a turn for the worse at any point and the region’s 30 million people were largely at the mercy of weather conditions.The 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) recorded till 4pm on Saturday was 345, down from Friday’s 366. The air quality continued to be in the ‘very poor’ category, a notch below what is considered ‘severe’ – a threshold beyond which exposure could be hazardous for those with vulnerabilities.The situation comes at a time when farm fires in Punjab and Haryana recorded their highest numbers yet – it was 1,676 on Thursday and 1,257 on Friday – according to satellite thermal imaging data from United States’s National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa). Farmers and environmental experts expect more of such fires, which send plumes of micro fine PM2.5 into the atmosphere before it descends and settles over cities, making their way into people’s lungs and leading to breathing difficulties and chronic illnesses.“About 50% of harvesting is done but another half is left. Though fires have been fewer compared to previous years, I think still they haven’t stopped completely because a large number of farmers do not have straw management machinery. We are expecting that harvest will be complete by November 15,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, Bharatiya Kisan Union general secretary, Punjab. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) model used by Central Pollution Control Board estimated that farm fires contributed roughly 9% to Delhi’s pollution on Saturday, although this estimated is difficult to make. “It’s very difficult to say if farm fires have peaked. If you compare last year’s data, peak is yet to come,” said Vijay Soni, scientist, IMD (air pollution).This now leaves the Capital at the mercy of how the weather – the wind speed and the wind direction – changes. “Air quality has improved in Delhi for two reasons — good mixing height and better wind speed. Wind speed was around 8-12kmph on Saturday, even though wind direction was northwesterly. Our models are showing slight improvement in air quality in the next couple of days owing to better mixing height,” Soni added.Union Ministry of Earth Sciences’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), also credited Saturday’s improvement to weather conditions. “The boundary layer wind direction (the layer where surface friction plays a role in slowing the wind and changing the wind direction) is westerly and wind speed is low. Hence, pollutant transport towards the Delhi region was low,” Safar analysis showed. Environmental experts said the recurring problem underscores the flaw in focussing on pollution control measures only when the situation has already worsened. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, said for results to show, agencies will have to work around the year, instead of focussing only on the winter phase of Grap. “The result of your work will be seen now. Last moment measures will not work. Winter action is only fire fighting,” Roychowdhury said, referring to Grap (graded response action plan – a set of curbs on activities such as construction and personal cars that become stricter as the air quality worsens). Northwesterly winds are what sweep the PM2.5 particles in from Punjab and Haryana. And since air moves in different ways in different layers, there are also complicated local wind patterns that determine what happens to construction dust, tailpipe emissions and gases from any other kind of fires generated in the city. This has two components: the wind speed and what is known as the mixing height of air and suspended particles above the ground. This height is primarily determined by temperature. When temperature increases, the air expands and pushes the mixing height further, giving pollutants closer to the ground more space to mix with the atmosphere. When the opposite happens, the pollutants get trapped closer to settlements, becoming more concentrated and, thus, raising pollution levels.Together, these local factors are used to calculate the ventilation index. Saturday’s ventilation index was 12,000 m2/s. A ventilation index below 2,350 sq metres/second is considered poor, and it effectively means local pollutants are being trapped. In Delhi’s worst bouts of air pollution recorded till now, it is these local pollutants that mix with pollutants from fires to create a deadly cocktail that is linked to drastically reduced life expectancy in the country.That situation might still play out, since temperatures are expected to only get colder. IMD data shows that on Saturday, the city’s maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official recording of Delhi, was 33.2 degree Celsius — a notch above the season’s normal. On Friday, the maximum temperature was 32 degree Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pollution-tracks-rising-fire-graph/story-LS3noiPMhLUE7PTQdy18LJ.html
24-10-2020||India||Man beheads 65-year-old mother, runs away with severed head after denied money for liquor||A man allegedly beheaded his 65-year-old mother and ran away with the severed head after she refused to give him money to buy liquor, police said on Saturday.The incident was reported from a village in Nagarkurnool district of Telangana in the wee hours of the day, the police said.The 45-year-old man was caught near a tank in the afternoon with the chopped-off head found hurled into bushes, they said. A case has been registered and a complaint lodged by the man’s older brother, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-beheads-65-year-old-mother-runs-away-with-severed-head-after-denied-money-for-liquor/story-3OuDloeQfn7gCFebc7UBhI.html
24-10-2020||India||Centre sets up high-level committee to commemorate Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur’s 400th birth anniversary||The Centre on Saturday set up a high-level committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur. The mandate of the 70-member committee includes approval of policies, plans, programmes and supervision and guiding the commemoration, besides deciding broad dates for detailed programmes of celebration. The members of the committee include former prime minister Manmohan Singh, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman, Hardeep Singh Puri, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, chief ministers of Haryana, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Rajasthan. Other members include Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, Akali Dal leaders Parkash Singh Badal, Sukhbir Singh Badal, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal, former chief of Indian Army J J Singh, former chief of Indian Air Force Birender Singh Dhanoa, and sportspersons Milkha Singh and Harbhajan Singh.  Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla will be the member secretary of the high-level committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sets-up-high-level-committee-to-commemorate-400th-birth-anniversary-of-shri-guru-tegh-bahadur/story-tN8j6kZJ6xgZTjp5HcIblM.html
24-10-2020||India||Minor girl beaten up, thrown off terrace by 3 men in UP for objecting to harassment||A 15-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Mau district was allegedly thrown off from a terrace of a building by three men after she objected to their harassment, ANI reported on Saturday citing police officials. The girl suffered serious injuries and has been admitted to a hospital in Azamgarh, ANI said.The police have arrested accused men in the matter in connection with the crime. The girl and the men are residents of the same locality, the police said, stating that the incident took place on Friday when the girl was returning home. The minor also informed the police that the accused men beat her up before throwing her off the terrace.The two accused along with another friend of theirs, took the girl to the terrace by force after she resisted to their harassment, police said. A case has been registered against the three men on the basis of a first information report (FIR) lodged by the girl’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-girl-beaten-up-thrown-off-terrace-by-3-men-in-up-for-objecting-to-harassment/story-z63g1nAx8Qf7XdgIKjUbGM.html
24-10-2020||India||Rajnath Singh reviews army’s Trishakti Corps in Sukna, says ‘India’s borders are protected due to you’||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said India has always made an effort to maintain good relations with its neighbouring countries amid an ongoing border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh. Singh was speaking in West Bengal’s Darjeeling as he started his two-day visit to the eastern state and Sikkim during which he will be visiting and interacting with troops in different forward areas.“India always wants good relations with all its neighbouring countries. We have always made an effort for the same,” Singh said. “But our jawans have had to sacrifice their lives from time to time to protect our borders, integrity and universality,“ the defence minister said at the headquarters of the Indian Army’s 33 Corps in Darjeeling’s Sukna.Mentioning the attack in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, during which 20 Indian Army soldiers were killed in June this year, the BJP leader said: “This time in Galwan, our 20 jawans of Bihar Regiment sacrificed themselves to protect our motherland.” “Due to brave soldiers like you, the borders of this country are protected. The entire country is proud of you,” he added.The defence minister also reviewed the preparedness of the Indian Army at Sukna. Singh arrived at the military base of 33 Corps, also known as the ‘Trishakti’ Corps, late on Saturday afternoon and was accompanied by Chief of the Army Staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane.Singh’s two-day visit comes as India and China are engaged in a standoff in Ladakh since early this year. On his visit to Sikkim, the defence minister will review troops deployed at the borders and assessing their preparedness against China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA).India and China have so far held several diplomatic and military level talks over the border tension, with no breakthrough so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-reviews-army-s-trishakti-corps-in-sukna-says-india-s-borders-are-protected-due-to-you/story-l3n5mPRqVyvhBa2ZZe02vO.html
24-10-2020||India||Kerala’s test positivity rate is now 12.21% with 8,253 new Covid-19 cases||Kerala’s coronavirus graph continued to rise steadily with a test positivity rate of 12.21 per cent on Saturday even as the government tweaked the strict protocol allowing close relatives to have a last glimpse of Covid-19 victims before their final journey. State Health Minister K K Shailaja said the government was forced to relax norms following a request from many religious bodies. She said only close relatives will be allowed to see the face and they will have to undergo a two-week quarantine after that.“We understand the plight of bereaved families. Situation warrants such restrictions. We are going through a critical phase and restrictions are necessary. We want people not to lower their guard during festivities,” she said. Earlier many religious bodies had asked the government to allow bath and religious ceremonies but the government said bathing or touching of the body cannot be permitted in the prevailing situation. The zip of the body bag would be opened a bit to show the face after maintaining six-feet distance. Other religious rituals can be performed without touching the body and it should be completed in a few minutes. Children below 10 and people who had crossed 60 won’t be allowed, said the new circular issued by the health ministry.For many relatives a “final goodbye” is important and they have been pleading with the government for it for some time. They said their grief and sorrow increased manifold due to missing the last journey of their kin. To help grieving relatives some of the crematoriums in the state have started live streaming the burial or cremation of the dead. Last week, the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation had started live casting of cremations in view of relatives unable to take part in the last journey. Some of the crematorium employees have also been trained to conduct religious ceremonies suiting their beliefs. On Saturday, the state reported 8,253 Covid-19 cases taking the total to 3,78,605. Out of these cases, 2,87,261 people have recovered 97,417 are active cases. In active caseload, the state is on third spot but its mortality rate is the lowest in the country at 0.4 per cent. With 25 fresh fatalities, the death toll has gone up to 1,280 in the state. After conducting 67, 593 tests, 8,253 people tested positive clocking a TPR of 12.21 per cent, statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-test-positivity-rate-is-now-12-21-with-8-253-new-covid-19-cases/story-LcIpEDcVKZ0rWvZPGVIvnO.html
24-10-2020||India||Smriti Irani enters electoral battleground in Bihar; invokes Durga, Laxmi||In a stinging attack on the opposition RJD in poll-bound Bihar, Union minister Smriti Irani on Saturday asserted that “riches acquired through the fodder scam” will find no takers among the self-respecting people of the state. The firebrand BJP leader, who addressed her first couple of rallies in the state, also invoked the imagery of Laxmi, the goddess of wealth, and remarked that people knew “she comes carrying the lotus and not the lantern”, an obvious allusion to the poll symbols of BJP and the RJD respectively. “When the self-respecting people of Bihar pray to Goddess Bhagwati, they seek the strength to earn their bread through hard work. They do not seek a share in wealth earned through chaara ghotala”, said Irani, in an apparent reference to RJD supremo Lalu Prasad who is in Ranchi, serving sentences in fodder scam cases. Prasads younger son and heir apparent Tejashwi Yadav, who has been named by the opposition Grand Alliance as its Chief Ministerial candidate, has been trying to woo the voters with his promise of 10 lakh permanent government jobs if the party came to power. The ruling NDA in the state, which is battling anti- incumbency as well as rebellion from the LJP headed by Chirag Paswan who has vowed to dislodge JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar from power, has been going all out to thwart the oppositions attempts to cash in on the situation. “The people of Bihar know well enough the Laxmi, the goddess of wealth, does not come holding the hand of the Congress”, Irani said referring the poll symbol of the national party which is a junior partner of the RJD in Bihar. “They are also wise enough to understand that Laxmi does not carry a lantern either. She always carries a lotus. So they are going to press the lotus button”, said Irani. She also charged the RJD with having presided over an “abduction raj”, an indirect reference to allegations of the party maintaining close links with gangs involved in kidnapping for ransom while it was in power from 1990 to 2005. The Union minister asserted that economic growth and peoples well being was ensured in Bihar only after the RJD- Congress combine was ousted from power. “They ruled Bihar for 15 years. The states annual budget stood at a meagre Rs. 23,000 crore and the per capita income was a measly Rs 8,000. The NDA has spent just as much time in power and the budget as grown by nearly ten times and the per capita income has shot up to Rs 40,000”, the Union minister said. She also underscored that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, billions of rupees were disbursed among the countrys poor without any leakage, “in contrast with the times when only 15 paise out of every rupee sent by the government could reach the people”. Iranis comment was in reference to a statement made by the late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. The Union minister, who holds textiles and women and child development portfolios, also spoke about the Modi governments other pro-poor measures like free health insurance cover under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana and financial assistance to farmers under the Kisan Samman Yojana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smriti-irani-enters-electoral-battleground-in-bihar-invokes-durga-laxmi/story-JCqXdIFxDYLHHMra2AixUL.html
24-10-2020||India||Unlike in UP, govts in Punjab...: Rahul Gandhi’s counter-attack on BJP ‘selective outrage’ jibe||In a counter-attack, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday slammed the BJP as he reminded the party of the gang rape of a woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras in a subtle taunt. Taking to Twitter, the leader accused the Uttar Pradesh government of blocking justice by denying that the victim was raped.“Unlike in UP, the governments of Punjab and Rajasthan are NOT denying that the girl was raped, threatening her family and blocking the course of justice,” Gandhi wrote on Twitter. “If they do, I will go there to fight for justice,” he said about the Congress-led governments in the two states. Unlike in UP, the governments of Punjab and Rajasthan are NOT denying that the girl was raped, threatening her family and blocking the course of justice. If they do, I will go there to fight for justice. #HathrasHe was referring to the alleged gang rape of the 19-year-old Dalit girl in Hathras last month. The crime took place on September 14 and the woman succumbed to her injuries at Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi on September 29. After the victim’s body reached her village, the UP police and administration officials allegedly cremated the victim in the middle of the night in the absence of her family or without taking their consent, triggering outrage across the country.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had earlier in the day questioned the silence of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on alleged rape and killing of a six-year-old girl in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur, calling them out for their “selective outrage”.“A six-year-old child of a Dalit migrant labourer from Bihar is raped, killed and body half-burnt in Hoshiarpur, and it does not shake the conscience of the brother and sister, who rush to every other place which can help them politically,” Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said while addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters in Delhi.Watch: Punjab horror: BJP slams Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi over 6-yr-old’s rape-murder case “Why is the brother-sister pair not going and voicing horror in Hoshiarpur? Why not in Rajasthan? The selective cry of outrage that the Congress wants to show when it is elsewhere but not in their governed states is completely exposed,” she said.“Not a word from the tweet-friendly leader Rahul Gandhi. No tweets on this (Hoshiarpur rape case), no outrage on this, and no picnic on this. A woman heads the party. Does this kind of selective outrage suits the stature of their party,” Sitharaman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlike-in-up-govts-in-punjab-rahul-gandhi-s-counter-attack-on-bjp-selective-outrage-jibe/story-NzbdQFPGIKaJRi7PjvUVvK.html
24-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Lawlessness is nature of RJD, says JP Nadda at Biharsharif rally||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda on Saturday lashed out at the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) over the promises of providing employment made by it.Addressing the public in Biharsharif, he said that under whom lawlessness existed in the state are now talking about jobs.“Lawlessness is the nature of RJD. They never sought forgiveness for what they did to the people of Bihar. This implies that they still have the same intentions. Nitish Kumar knew that good governance can not be achieved while in power with the RJD alliance. This is why he broke ties with them and came with BJP,” Nadda said.He further said that the results of this election would decide the future of the state urging voters to be more vigilant before casting their votes. “This election isn’t about any candidate but Bihar’s future. We must keep that in mind while voting. Since 2014 there’s been a shift in Indian election ethics. Now politics is based on the merit of work done not casteism, regionalism & other divisive bases of votes,” he said.The BJP chief also accused the Congress of prolonging the Ram Janmabhoomi temple issue and further went ahead to enlist the work done by the Centre during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Congress party through Kapil Sibal filed a plea to Supreme Court to not pass a judgment on Ram Janmbhoomi. Such diversionary tactics are Congress’ modus operandi. Only after Modiji came to power the SC began a daily hearing of the case & passed a unanimous verdict,” Nadda said. “During the corona pandemic Modiji did the job of providing 80 crore people, from March till Diwali and Chatth puja, five kilograms wheat/rice and per family one-kilogram pulses,” he added. Nadda was campaigning in Biharsharif for seven National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidates in the Nalanda Lok Sabha constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-lawlessness-is-nature-of-rjd-says-jp-nadda-at-biharsharif-rally/story-pcJgt5RmUBxDy8xB3JlxpO.html
24-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Ask your father’, says Nitish Kumar in indirect attack at Tejashwi Yadav and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Ask your father’, says Bihar CM Nitish Kumar in indirect attack at RJD’s Tejashwi YadavIn a fresh attack, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday took a subtle dig at the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD) Tejashwi Yadav during a poll rally in the state. While speaking on the education system in the state, the Janata Dal(United) chief, without landing a direct hit, said: “Ask your father if there were any schools or colleges built during the RJD’s reign in Bihar”. Read moreNDA to form govt again in Bihar, BJP may get maximum seats: ABP-CVoter opinion pollThe National Democratic Alliance (NDA) will come back to power in Bihar, where it is up against the mahagathbandhan or Grand Alliance of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and several other parties, according to an opinion poll conducted by ABP-CVoter ahead of the assembly elections in the eastern state. Read moreDelhi schools not opening for now, says CM Arvind KejriwalThe political slugfest over Covid-19 vaccine distribution has become more visible as India has been fighting against the viral contagion, which has wreaked havoc on the Indian economy, infected more than 7.8 million and claimed 1,17,956 lives nationwide, for almost nine months now. Read moreIPL 2020: Will MS Dhoni play Chennai Super Kings’ remaining matches this season? CSK captain gives clear answerAfter suffering a 10-wicket win over Mumbai Indians, Chennai Super Kings find themselves in front of insurmountable mountain to make it through to the playoffs. Read moreRadhika Apte says she doesn’t believe in the institution of marriage, reveals why she got marriedRadhika Apte, who tied the knot with British musician Benedict Taylor in 2012, said that she is not a big believer in the institution of marriage. She only got married because it was ‘easier to get a visa’. Read moreAsus ROG Strix G15 review: The best-looking gaming laptop for its price, and moreAsus ROG Strix G15 has a lot going on especially with its flashy light strip. It comes with the 10th gen Intel Core i7 chipset, up to 2TB HDD and a 15.6-inch Full HD display. Read moreWatch: Woman thrashes policeman in Mumbai, video goes viral||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ask-your-father-says-nitish-kumar-in-indirect-attack-at-tejashwi-yadav-and-all-the-latest-news/story-XEjY9P3nhP2GfM3IfTFFwM.html
24-10-2020||India||Delhi airport starts Covid-19 testing for international departures||International passengers taking their flights from the Delhi airport can now get themselves tested for Covid-19 right before their departure, said Genestrings Diagnostic Center which operates the testing lab at the airport, on Saturday. The Covid-19 testing facility, which started operating on September 12 at the Delhi airport, was available only for arrival passengers till date. “The facility has now been extended to air travellers leaving India for other countries. Notably, international travel rules require passengers travelling from one country to another to produce COVID negative reports,” said a press release by Genestrings. The lab uses RT-PCR tests and provides reports within 4-6 hours. It means that the travellers should arrive at the airport 7-8 hours before their scheduled flight to take the test, the press release noted. “The test is available 24/7 and is priced at Rs 2400 as mandated by the Delhi government,” the release said. “As more people are now taking up international travel, Delhi Airport authorities felt the need to provide the testing facility to outbound passengers as well,” said Rajat Arora, Director, Genestrings Diagnostic Center. Genestrings Diagnostics has increased its manpower of lab technicians at the facility as the lab is expecting an increasing number of samples in the coming days, the press release noted. The Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) started the Covid-19 testing facility on September 12 at the multi-level car parking area of Terminal 3 in collaboration with Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, which is a group company of Yashoda Hospitals. Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. However, special international passenger flights have been operating in India under Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements formed between India and other countries since July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-starts-covid-19-testing-for-international-departures/story-xy6aklS5yaL05XD1xuZHKO.html
24-10-2020||India||Congress hits back, says BJP politicising Hoshiarpur incident in view of Bihar assembly polls||The Congress on Saturday hit back at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the Hoshiarpur incident, saying the ruling party was “politicising” the issue in the view of the assembly elections in Bihar. Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev attacked finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and her colleagues Prakash Javadekar and Harsh Vardhan for questioning the visit of the opposition leaders, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to Hathras. “I hope that Nirmala Sitharaman ji will stop displaying her total insensitiveness to such a sensitive issue. Don’t politicise it,” she said, addressing a press conference at the Congress headquarters in Delhi. “The nation understands that you have suddenly woken up from your deep sleep because Bihar is in election mode. There is no second reason. Your party, your leaders and even Prime Minister Narendra Modi do not see beyond elections and that is why all of a sudden you have decided to make Hoshiarpur an issue,” Dev alleged. Earlier in the day, Sitharaman attacked Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for their “selective outrage” in cases of atrocities against women and questioned their “silence” over the alleged rape and killing of a six-year-old girl in Hoshiarpur in Punjab. “I am appalled, disgusted and disheartened to see that the finance minister, Javadekar and Harsh Vardhan having spent a lot of time and energy to raise the unfortunate death of a young girl in Hoshiarpur and question Congress leaders for visiting Hathras,” Dev said. “I would like to tell Nirmala Sitharaman Ji, you have repeatedly proved your incompetence in your own ministry and now as an insensitive woman minister too. There is a reason why many opposition leaders felt it was their prime duty to go to Hathras,” she added. In Hathras, the Congress leader claimed that police refused to file an FIR with the section of rape while in Punjab; the police not only immediately filed an FIR with POCSO and IPC sections within 36 hours but also arrested the accused. She said Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and the director general of Police (DGP) are personally looking into the case. “The chief minister has insisted on exemplary punishment. The Punjab Women’s Commission and the Scheduled Caste Commission have taken cognisance and asked for a report from the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Hoshiarpur.” “Second reason, why people felt, it was necessary to stand by the family members of the Hathras rape victim, which may not be necessary in Punjab, is that the UP government left the Hathras victim over 10 days in a hospital and did not seek forensic report for 11 days, which is absolutely essential to be taken within 24 hours,” Dev said. “You left out the forensic evidence because it suited you, because you wanted to take the case to say that there was no rape. That has been proved again and again, but, Punjab government and Punjab police have sent the Hoshiarpur case to fast track with the strictest sections of POCSO, which has capital punishment,” she added. The Congress leader said the third reason why the leaders felt the need to go to Hathras is because the entire district administration of Hathras geared up, not to protect the victim and the family members, but to threaten them. “That’s why the opposition leaders felt it was their duty to go to Hathras. In Punjab, the chairperson of the Punjab Women’s Commission has already met the family, assured their full support,” she added. “Your own district magistrate in Hathras case threatened the family. Can anybody say that any person or any member of the Punjab administration had threatened this family? Another reason the Additional Director General of Uttar Pradesh claimed there was no rape in the Hathras case. Can anybody say that the Punjab Police or any officer in Punjab is denying rape? In fact, POCSO has been invoked. Uttar Pradesh had beaten up the media people. Punjab has not tried to hush up this case,” Dev said. “Apart from that it is disgusting, where were you Nirmala Sitharaman Ji, when BJP leaders in Hathras were rallying with the accused and victim shaming the Hathras’ daughter, who was killed so brutally, where were you, why were you silent?” “Most importantly and I want the nation to know this that Captain Amarinder Singh and the Punjab government ensured that the young girl, who unfortunately lost her life, was cremated with full respect, complete rituals in the presence of her family and not just her family, but, the entire village and the UP government cremated the Hathras victim in the dark of the night without a single member, even in her last moment, it deprived the victim of basic human rights.” Dev claimed that the Allahabad court had “given a tight slap on the face” of the UP government, the chief minister and the administration in condemning the manner in which the Hathras case was dealt with. “Can anybody say that in the Hoshiarpur case that the court feels a need to intervene? I don’t think so. That is the reason why Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi felt it was their duty to stand by the family which was being harassed by the chief minister and his government,” she alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-hits-back-says-bjp-politicising-hoshiarpur-incident-in-view-of-bihar-assembly-polls/story-RT6TfX6LlM3VAXnzDHahaL.html
24-10-2020||India||Delhi schools not opening for now, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday that schools in the national capital, which have been shut due to the coronavirus pandemic, will not be opening for now. The message from the chief minister comes amid a rise in the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi, where more than 348,000 people have contracted it and 6,189 have died so far.Kejriwal, earlier in the day, had pitched for free availability for Covid-19 vaccine for all Indian citizens, reasoning that everyone in the country has been troubled by the coronavirus disease. “The whole country should get a free Covid-19 vaccine. It is the right of the entire country. All the people are troubled by the coronavirus, so the vaccine should be free for the country,” Kejriwal said soon after inaugurating two flyovers in northeast Delhi.Also read | All citizens should get free Covid-19 vaccine: Delhi chief minister Arvind KejriwalAlready witnessing a rise in the number of active cases and fresh cases, the national capital is anticipating a spike in Covid-19 cases during the winter and ongoing festive season. Recording a surge in Covid-19 cases after 34 days, Delhi on Friday recorded 4,086 new infections and 26 deaths, taking the total number of confirmed infections in the city to 348,404. The toll from the disease rose to 6,189.The political slugfest over Covid-19 vaccine distribution has become more visible as India has been fighting against the viral contagion, which has wreaked havoc on the Indian economy, infected more than 7.8 million and claimed 1,17,956 lives nationwide, for almost nine months now. Also read | Covid-19: Countries battle rising cases as WHO sees ‘exponential’ riseEarlier this week, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) promised the distribution of free Covid-19 vaccine as part of its Bihar poll manifesto, which triggered an immediate action by the Election Commission amid criticism by opposition parties. Congress dubbed the move as political immorality on part of the BJP for using Covid-19 vaccine as election sop||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-schools-not-opening-for-now-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-nF2UjETaVZwJZFnvC9a2fJ.html
24-10-2020||India||India logs dip in day-on-day active Covid-19 cases, count below 7 lakh for 2 days||India’s active caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continued to remain below 700,000 for the second consecutive day, with 80% of the total new cases being reported from 10 states.The active cases now comprise only 8.71% of the total positive cases of the country, suggesting that the disease has registered a downward trend.There has been a progressive dip in the day-on-day active cases during the past few weeks, with the country’s active Covid-19 caseload standing at 6,80,630 till noon on Saturday. “The declining trend of the active cases is complemented by the unbroken rising number of recovered cases. The total recovered cases have crossed the 70 lakh mark and stand at 70,16,046. The national recovery rate has further improved to 89.78%,” the Union health ministry said in a statement.Professor M Vidyasagar, from the Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad, who headed the 10-member government committee that recently made projections about Covid-19 cases and deaths in India, says in his report that the cumulative number of active cases could fall below 40,000 cases by end of February next year.“From about 10 lakh active cases that were reported around mid September, the current active case load has dropped to about 7 lakh, which is a drop of 30% in about a month. So, the numbers are declining.” “There is a caveat though that all Covid-19 appropriate precautions such as wearing a mask, maintaining hand hygiene and observing physical distancing must be observed without fail. Any form of laxity can result in resurgence of cases,” added professor Vidyasagar. The total number of Covid-19 cases in India are 78,13,542 as on date. “The continuous decline in active cases is a result of the successful test, treat and track strategy of the Union government that is being implemented in states. The change in the active cases across the states and Union Territories has been varied, indicating different stages in their fight against the global pandemic,” said a health ministry statement o Saturday. The number of new deaths reported in a day has also seen a sharp decline, from about 1,000 new deaths in a day about a month ago to 605 reported on Saturday. With that the total number of people having succumbed to Covid-19 in India so far stand at 1,17,946. “The current numbers seem to suggest there is a decline in the disease graph but as we have seen globally this disease have seen multiple peaks. Many countries are seeing the second wave of the disease, and with temperatures dropping and probability of intermingling of people high because of the festive season, it remains to be seen how the virus behaves,” said Dr Vivekanand Jha, executive director, George Institute for Global Health India. “This is a new virus and there is a fair amount of uncertainty involved,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-dip-in-day-on-day-active-covid-19-cases-count-below-7-lakh-for-2-days/story-jEIeQ4rUIuspa9tNsi29HM.html
24-10-2020||India||Why is the Congress silent on Punjab rape: Nirmala Sitharaman||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday questioned the Congress’s silence over the alleged rape and murder of a six-year old Dalit girl in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur this week while hitting out at the party’s “selective outrage” over crimes against women. The girl’s family is from Bihar.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said rape and crimes against women cannot be linked to politics. She questioned whether Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who visited the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman allegedly raped and murdered in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras to seek justice for her, will do so for the girl in Punjab, where the Congress is in power.Also Read: A day after 6-yr-old girl’s rape-murder in Hoshiarpur, 2 held“No rape should be politicised; it is despicable that rapes happen and justice is delayed in some cases. And all political parties together will have to make sure that the system responds and justice is served in time. But because we want our political games to be played, we are selective about voicing horror when it is in some states and remain in complete silence when it is in state’s governed by Congress,” she said.She said it is unfortunate that the demand for justice that was raised in the BJP-ruled state is missing when it comes to cases from Congress-ruled Rajasthan and Punjab.“The pretentious Congress has not said a word. The tweet-friendly Rahul Gandhi has not tweeted on the Hoshiarpur incident. There is been no outrage; no picnic either.”The BJP leader also questioned the silence of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) over the incident. “Did [RJD leader] Tejwasvi Yadav, who campaigned [for the Bihar election] with Gandhi not ask why he is silent. That child was from Bihar. Is RJD not answerable to that family,” she said.Also Read: Mission Shakti: Yogi Adityanath orders glass room in all UP police stations for women complainantsCriticising the RJD for not speaking up for women’s safety, she said, the party’s leaders have a poor track record. Citing a media report from January 2, 2008, she said, “In 2008, there were allegations against the RJD brothers for eve-teasing in Delhi so it does not affect them. During the jungle raj in Bihar, we know what the situation of law and order was; senior officials’ wives were not spared.”Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh hit out at BJP leaders Nirmala Sitharaman and Prakash Javadekar for their comments over the Hoshiarpur rape-murder case, dubbing their remarks as “political puffery” with no substance or basis to support their criticism.Singh rejected the BJP’s attack on his government as well as the Gandhis. Amarinder Singh said contrary to what these leaders were claiming, there was no comparison between the Hoshiarpur and the Hathras case. He pointed out that in the Hathras case, the Uttar Pradesh government and police “did not only fail” to initiate stern action but in fact was seemingly “trying to cover up” the matter to benefit the upper-caste accused.This, he said, was in sharp contrast to the prompt action taken by the Punjab Police, who immediately arrested the accused and is now preparing to file the challan within a week.The BJP government in Uttar Pradesh faced much criticism after the Hathras woman was cremated in the dead of the night without her family’s approval.Members of Parliament (MPs) from several parties, including the Congress and the Trinamool Congress were manhandled by the police when they tried to visit the woman’s family in Hathras.Referring to the MPs’ statements about the Hathras incident, the minister said, “The BJP stands with all those who want to give justice to the family in Hoshiarpur. When there was something in Hathras, 35 senior MPs of the party [Congress] from all over the country made statements on Twitter and wanted to go marching to Hathras asking for justice. Where are those 35 today?”The minister said while the BJP government is accused of clamping down on freedom of expression, incidents of police action against journalists are being reported from the Congress-ruled states of Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh.“Many derogatory remarks were made about the PM [Prime Minister Narendra Modi] and the [Union] home minister [Amit Shah], has there been any action... There is so much being said about freedom of expression being under threat but it is only in Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh. The Congress DNA is to suppress freedom of expression.”Reacting to Sitharaman’s remarks, RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said, “The RJD is sensitive to women issues. After all whose rule is there? Is Tejashwi Yadav responsible for everything? It seems BJP do not have any issue to highlight and they are trying to drag his name in anything. People of Bihar will teach them a lesson.”(With inputs from agency)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-is-the-congress-silent-on-punjab-rape-nirmala-sitharaman/story-heWHGR9OHSo4RU17UtQO9I.html
24-10-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah president, Mehbooba Mufti vice president of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration||National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah will be the president of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration and Peoples Democratic Party’s Mehbooba Mufti the vice president of the six-party grouping, a senior leader said on Saturday.The announcement was made after a meeting of the members of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration at Mufti’s residence in Srinagar. NC vice president Omar Abdullah was also present at the meeting.“A document will be prepared within a month via which we’ll present facts behind the lies that are being propagated. It’ll be a tribute to people of J&K who are being slandered,” Sajjad Lone of the Peoples Conference was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The six parties --the National Conference (NC), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Peoples Conference (PC), Communist Party of India Marxist (CPI-M), Peoples Movement (PM) and Awami National Conference (ANC) -- had come together earlier this month to form the alliance to peacefully seek the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status and fight for the rights of the people in the restive region.Also read | Centre must not see J&K parties as anti-national, says Chidambaram, welcomes People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration“We are anti-BJP, we are not anti-national,” Farooq Abdullah said after the meeting of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration on Saturday. “It’s not an anti-national Jamat, our aim is to ensure that the rights of people of J&K and Ladakh are restored. Attempts to dividing us in the name of religion will fail. It’s not a religious fight,” he added.CPI(M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami will the convenor of the alliance and Sajjad Lone has been named as the spokesperson. The leaders also adopted the flag of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir as its symbol. The alliance will come out with a white paper within a month on governance in Jammu and Kashmir over the past one year since the abrogation of Article 370, Lone told reporters after the meeting.Also read | People’s Alliance is dancing to Pak, China’s tune: J&K BJP chiefThe leaders of the six parties had held their first meeting on October 15 following the release of Mufti from detention. This meeting was held at Farooq Abdullah’s residence in Srinagar. Abdullah had said that the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration will push for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s constitutional position before August 5, 2019, when the region’s special status was revoked and it was split into two union territories.“We shall struggle for the restoration of what was snatched from Jammu Kashmir and Ladakh. Ours is a constitutional battle, we want the government of India to return to the people of the state the rights they held before August 5, 2019,” said Abdullah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-president-mehbooba-mufti-vice-president-of-people-s-alliance-for-gupkar-declaration/story-f5gBe89yiG7C5Uw2tWgnzM.html
24-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Districts in UP with most number of Covid cases showing high recovery rate and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttar Pradesh coming off Covid-19 peak, claim officials, set a new targetUttar Pradesh districts with the maximum Covid-19 caseload are now showing a high recovery rate and a low infection rate. At least 11 such districts have a recovery rate close to or above 90%, and experts say this will give time for a revamp of the health infrastructure if a second wave hits. Read moreBihar Election 2020: Katoria will see a contest between RJD and BJP againOne of the 243 constituencies in the legislative assembly of Bihar, Katoria is a part of the Banka Lok Sabha constituency and is reserved for candidates of Scheduled Tribes. Located in the eastern state’s Banka district, Katoria Vidhan Sabha constituency is hit by Maoist violence. Read morePune consumer forum directs logistics company to pay Rs 33,000 in compensationThe Pune district consumer forum has directed Messr Agarwal Packers and Movers company to pay Rs 33,000 as compensation to a consumer for deficiency of service. The applicant identified as Manish Thakur availed the services of the company to bring his household goods which comprised a television and a washing machine from Mumbai to Pune. Read moreCovid-19: Countries battle rising cases as WHO sees ‘exponential’ riseGrim data highlighted the struggle for authorities around the world to bring the coronavirus pandemic under control Saturday, as the US reported 80,000 infections in a single day, France extended a curfew to two-thirds of citizens and Germany’s death toll passed 10,000. Read moreAnt Group IPO pricing ‘history’s largest’, says Alibaba’s Jack MaThe mammoth dual listing for Chinese fintech giant Ant Group will be the world’s biggest, according to a pricing determined on Friday night, Alibaba founder Jack Ma said on Saturday. “It’s the first time that the pricing of such a big listing, the largest in human history, has been determined outside New York City” he told the Bund Summit in the eastern financial hub of Shanghai. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Virat Kohli has now belief they can do the job’ - Scott Styris explains what has changed for RCB this seasonRoyal Challengers Bangalore are enjoying a good season of Indian Premier League in 2020 in the UAE. The Virat Kohli-led unit had finished with the wooden spoon last season. RCB’s biggest problem had been their death bowling which had often left the team disappointed. Read moreDU NCWEB BA, BCom first cutoff list 2020 released at du.ac.inThe Delhi University on Saturday released the first cut- off list for Non- Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB) for BA and B. Com courses. The first cut-off for all the NCWEB colleges is accessible on the official website at du.ac.in. Read moreNeha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh’s wedding videos from gurduwara leaked online, watchNew videos from the wedding of singers Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh have been leaked on the internet. In the clips, the two are seen twinning in shades of peach and pink, as they get married at a gurudwara in Delhi. Videos from the ring ceremony were also shared online. Read moreMan shows compact setup inside SUV complete with bed and fridge, video wows peopleIf you are someone who gets excited thinking about long road trips, then this clip may speak to your soul. Shared on Instagram, the clip gives a detailed look of a travel setup inside a car. The video makes for a pretty interesting watch. Read moreTMC’s Nusrat Jahan dances & plays Dhak during Durga Puja celebrationsTrinamool Congress MP Nusrat Jahan was seen dancing during Durga Puja celebrations in West Bengal’s New Alipore. Nusrat was spotted in a red & white sari dancing with women. She was also seen playing the traditional drum or Dhak on Durga Ashtami. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-districts-in-up-with-most-number-of-covid-cases-showing-high-recovery-rate-and-all-the-latest-news/story-V44GbkK2L2eBENRPkKcqqI.html
24-10-2020||India||Pakistan quadcopter shot down by Indian Army in Jammu and Kashmir’s Keran sector||Indian Army troops shot down a Pakistan Army quadcopter along Line of Control (LoC) in Keran sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Saturday.According to the Indian Army officials, the Pakistan Army quadcopter was shot down at around 8 am today.“Indian Army troops shot down a Pakistan Army quadcopter around 8 am today along Line of Control in Keran sector of Jammu and Kashmir. The Pakistani quadcopter made by Chinese company DJI Mavic 2 Pro model was shot down while it was flying over own position there,” an official told ANI.Indian Army has been on a high alert against Pakistani attempts to infiltrate terrorists or carry out Border Action Team (BAT) attacks by its special forces against Indian positions on the Line of Control.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane had recently said that Pakistan has been trying to continue with its nefarious designs of pushing terrorists into the Indian territory but such attempts are being foiled by the Indian troops deployed in the front.Pakistan has been trying to push across terrorists before the snowfall closes all possible routes of infiltration on the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-quadcopter-shot-down-by-indian-army-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-keran-sector/story-LTwYS2WrpycQq8mov7SOnM.html
24-10-2020||India||PM Modi teaches India how to run from truth, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday took a fresh jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and accused him of running away from the truth, which he said has resulted in the loss of dignity and livelihoods of millions.“Our PM teaches India how to run from the truth. Millions of people have lost their dignity and livelihoods as a result,” Gandhi wrote in a tweet. Gandhi tweeted the jibe with a newspaper report which cited the indication of the Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee that it may take years to regain India’s ‘lost GDP output’.Our PM teaches India how to run from the truth. Millions of people have lost their dignity and livelihoods as a result. pic.twitter.com/obssMjsi9LThe Congress leader has kept up with his attacks on the government in the run-up to the Bihar assembly elections. In a recent dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) election promise of 1.9 million jobs in Bihar, Gandhi on Friday said that it was similar to that of depositing Rs 15 lakh in the bank accounts of the people.Gandhi, in his election address, alleged that Prime Minister Modi and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar broke the backbone of the farmers and medium and small businesses in the state. He said that Modi calls himself a nationalist but he has weakened the country over the last six years. “Hindustan is weak today. Its economy is suppressed, farmers oppressed and small shopkeepers restless. That is why China has intruded into Indian territory,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-teaches-india-how-to-run-from-truth-says-rahul-gandhi/story-lgEqScr8jH7pOVxxZNLilJ.html
24-10-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh coming off Covid-19 peak, claim officials, set a new target||Uttar Pradesh districts with the maximum Covid-19 caseload are now showing a high recovery rate and a low infection rate. At least 11 such districts have a recovery rate close to or above 90%, and experts say this will give time for a revamp of the health infrastructure if a second wave hits.“A fall in fresh cases cannot be a time to relax but it is certainly an opportunity to upgrade the health infrastructure and also improve the medical manpower,” said IMA (Lucknow) former president PK Gupta.Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said the strategy adopted by the department – preventive measures combined with awareness campaign – checked the infection surge across the state.While the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the state increased to 92.47%, the case fatality rate has come down to 1.46%. There has been a fall of 40,000 in active cases in comparison to September 17, when the active Covid cases’ graph peaked to 68,235.Prasad said all the 75 districts witnessed a major surge in coronavirus infection but at different times, thereby helping in not spreading the health machinery thin. He added that quality health services were provided to patients in each district. After attaining the peak in all 75 districts, the Covid-19 infection is on a decline in the state, he said.Even as Covid-19 cases are on a decline, the state health machinery is working continuously to improve the recovery rate further and also bring down the fatality rate by increasing sample testing, surveillance, contact tracing and by providing quality service to patients in hospitals, he said.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh: Ensure death audit of Covid-19 fatalities, chief secretary tells officials“The world is talking about a second wave. And if it happens, we need to be prepared. This can be done by adding health infrastructure and training more staff in Covid management,” said Gupta.“The best time to train more medical staff is now, when cases are going down and load upon hospitals is reduced. In the next few weeks, if we can add more to the infrastructure and train more people across the state it will really help,” said association of international doctors’ secretary-general Abhishek Shukla.Also Read: Mission Shakti: Yogi Adityanath orders glass room in all UP police stations for women complainantsJhansi, considered the gateway to Uttar Pradesh, witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases in September. District magistrate (DM) Andra Vamsi said that following the multi-pronged strategy, the district was able to check the spread of infection and improve the recovery rate to 93.80%. Early detection and early admission helped in quick recovery, he said.Private hospitals were activated to provide treatment to patients and the district administration increased vigilance in areas that witnessed large gatherings of people including markets and public places, Vamsi said.Meerut DM K Balaji said to check the fatality rate, the district administration analysed the death of patients. Focus was on the reasons for deaths and on adopting the right strategy to check mortality. Hospitals adopted fresh strategies and treatment techniques to check deaths. The new treatment plan paid dividends in checking fatalities and improving the recovery rate, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-coming-off-covid-19-peak-claim-officials-set-a-new-target/story-TZXRxi9OpFDUoJOMZNUUBO.html
24-10-2020||India||India-US 2+2 dialogue to focus on regional security cooperation and defence information-sharing||The India-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue next week will focus on regional security cooperation and defence information-sharing so that the two sides can operate more cohesively and seamlessly while dealing with regional challenges, senior American officials said on Saturday. The meeting will also focus on global cooperation, including public health collaboration to cope with Covid-19, economic cooperation, working together in the Indo-Pacific, and people-to-people ties, two senior US administration officials said during a background briefing. External affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh will meet their US counterparts Mike Pompeo and Mark Esper in New Delhi on October 27 for the third edition of the 2+2 dialogue. American officials have noted the decision by the US leaders to visit India in-person, amid the pandemic and just a week ahead of the presidential election, reflects the importance attached to ties with India. Also Read: Working with like-minded partners essential to contain China, says USOne of the officials said there is no reason to believe the US’s policy for India will change if there is a new administration after the November 3 election. “I think both parties are largely aligned on their interest in supporting and deepening the partnership,” the official said. India and the US are widely expected to sign the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA), one of four so-called foundational pacts to facilitate sharing of classified satellite and sensor data, during the 2+2 meeting. “We’ve made significant progress towards concluding the last foundational defence enabling agreement...the BECA. This agreement will allow for expanded geospatial information sharing between our armed forces. We are also seeking to expand secure communication capabilities between our respective militaries as well as between our foreign and defence ministries,” the official cited above said. The US is enhancing maritime security across the Indian Ocean by coordinating and building capacity with regional countries, the official said. India’s decision to include Australia with the US and Japan in the Malabar naval exercise in November “signals not only a strategic convergence between the Quadrilateral partners but a recognition that regional security requires strengthening allies and partnerships and working multilaterally on issues of mutual concern,” the official added. Also Read: Always felt deeply connected to Indian American community, says Joe BidenThe US is also building greater military interoperability with India by increasing the sophistication of combined exercises, and it has placed a liaison officer at India’s Information Fusion Center for the Indian Ocean to enhance coordination and information-sharing between the navies. “We also hope to confirm two additional Indian liaison officer placements in the near term to expand counterterrorism cooperation,” the official said. The second administration official said it had become more important for the US to work with like-minded partners such as India in view of “China’s increasingly aggressive behaviour across the Indo-Pacific, from the Himalayas to the South China Sea”. The US side has already said the India-China border standoff in Ladakh is expected to figure in the 2+2 dialogue. The first administration official said the US administration is “covering the situation in the Himalayas closely” and it wants to “ensure that the situation doesn’t escalate”. The US is providing support, “whether through defence sales, exercises [and] information sharing”, to India, and “not just as it relates to the tensions in the Himalayas”, the official added. The first official also said the two sides have an ongoing dialogue about increased cooperation in Southeast Asia, not just in the South China Sea, and encourages India’s involvement in these regions. “And that cuts across development investments, it cuts across security cooperation, and then it also involves presence. And so we welcome greater Indian participation in Southeast Asia, across all three of those areas,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-2-2-dialogue-to-focus-on-regional-security-cooperation-and-defence-information-sharing/story-zvuNMZ6qQqKQoc56Y6u7lN.html
24-10-2020||India||‘6-yr-old Dalit girl’s rape, murder in Punjab doesn’t shake their conscience’: Sitharaman’s swipe at Rahul, Priyanka||Union minister finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday targeted Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra over the rape and murder of a six-year-old Dalit girl in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district and accused the Congress leaders of visiting “every other place which can help them politically.”“A six-year-old child of a Dalit migrant labourer from Bihar is raped, killed and the body half-burnt in Hoshiarpur and it doesn’t shake the conscience of the brother and sister who rush to every other place which can help them politically,” the BJP leader said about the crime in the Congress-ruled state.Sitharaman was referring to the Congress leaders’ visit to Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district earlier this month amid high drama following the death of a 19-year-old Dalit rape victim. Rahul and Priyanka met the family members of the victim and assured them of all support in getting justice for their daughter. They also slammed the state administration over its handling of the case.Union minister of environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javadekar also hit out at Congress leaders, including the party’s national president Sonia Gandhi, for not visiting the grieving family in Hoshiarpur. He termed the grand old party’s delegation’s visit to the village in Uttar Pradesh a “photo op.” He said, “They don’t pay heed to the injustice done to women in the states ruled by their party, but visit Hathras and other places for photo ops with the victim’s family.”Also Read: Punjab CM calls for speedy trial, exemplary punishment for rape, murder of 6-year-old girl in HoshiarpurIn an apparent reference to Gandhi’s rallies in poll-bound Bihar, Javadekar said, “Instead of going on political tours, Rahul Gandhi should visit Tanda and Rajasthan and take cognisance of incidents of crime against women. The minister demanded strict action against the culprits.A man and his grandfather have been arrested for raping and setting ablaze the six-year-old girl, a day after her half-burnt body was recovered from their house at Jalalpur village in Tanda, police said on Thursday. The arrests were made on charges of murder, rape and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.The victim’s father has alleged that Gurpreet Singh took the girl to his home where he allegedly raped her and that he and his grandfather Surjit Singh allegedly killed her and burnt her body. The half-burnt body of the girl was found from their house, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-yr-old-dalit-girl-s-rape-murder-in-punjab-doesn-t-shake-their-conscience-sitharaman-s-swipe-at-rahul-priyanka/story-7hJBD8cC555Wj1kbKcxsUJ.html
24-10-2020||India||Former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis tests positive for Covid-19||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said on Saturday he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and has gone into isolation. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader informed on Twitter that he is under medication and treatment according to the advice of doctors.Fadnavis is in-charge of the BJP’s poll campaign for the assembly elections in Bihar, which will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7. “God wants me to stop for a while and take a break,” Fadnavis said. The counting of votes will take place on November 10.“I have been working every single day since the lockdown but now it seems that God wants me to stop for a while and take a break ! I have tested Covid-19 positive and in isolation. Taking all medication & treatment as per the advice of the doctors,” he wrote on Twitter.The BJP leader requested those who have made contact with him recently to get tested for the virus as well. “Those who have come in contact with me are advised to get covid19 tests done. Take care, everyone!” he said.Deputy chief minister of Bihar Sushil Kumar Modi had tested positive for Covid-19 just a few days ago. In a tweet, the BJP leader had said he has been admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Patna and that he will be back soon for poll campaigning in the state.In its election manifesto released on Thursday for Bihar, the BJP promised to provide free vaccine for Covid-19 as soon as it was available for mass production, a promise that kicked-off a political storm in the nation with several other states following suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-devendra-fadnavis-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-5o1jI9kXMq90pxGddNLYtM.html
24-10-2020||India||ITBP broke myth that some countries have strong armies: MoS G Kishan Reddy||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), in developments that took place in the last few months, has broken the myth of some countries that they have a powerful army, Union minister G Kishan Reddy said on Saturday, in an indirect reference to the ongoing standoff between India and China in Ladakh.The minister of state for home was addressing the troops of the mountain warfare-trained border force on the occasion of its 59th raising day here.He did not take names but said while India believes in the philosophy of “vasudhaiva kutumbakam” or the world is one family, the culture of the country teaches it to worship both “shastra and astra” or sacred scriptures and weapons at the same time.“This has taught us that the enemy can raise its head anytime, anywhere and we should be fully prepared to face any possibility. The ITBP is an important pillar of that preparedness of the country,” Reddy said.“The armies of some countries had a myth that they were among the powerful armies of the world, but during the developments in the past few months, the ITBP has broken that myth,” he added.The country and its citizens are proud of the ITBP’s valour and dedication, the minister said.The ITBP is the designated force to guard the 3,488-km-long Sino-India Line of Actual Control (LAC) that runs from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh in the northeastern flank of the country.The Army and the border-guarding force are engaged in a military standoff in the Ladakh region for the past few months. The ITBP had sometime ago said it “fought the whole night” and gave a befitting reply to the Chinese PLA troops during a violent clash between the two sides on June 15-16.Reddy said the force not only mans the borders and ensures the internal security of the country, but also protects its economic interests.“India is surrounded by a hostile neighbourhood and our enemy, time and again, puts obstacles to stop our economic development. When you defeat these designs of the enemy, you ensure the country’s economic development,” he said.Reddy said the Narendra Modi government is “determined” to strengthen and “modernise” the force, and informed about certain sanctions given to it in the recent past.“I am happy to inform that the ITBP has been given the approval by the Ministry of Home Affairs to establish 47 border posts, uniform special clothing and mountaineering equipment for high-altitude locations, latest weapons are being provided and work is on to prepare priority border roads for the force,” he said.The minister said the Centre had approved a budget of Rs 7,223 crore for the force for financial year 2019-20.“I assure you that there will be no dearth of funds for the ITBP,” Reddy added.ITBP Director General (DG) Surjeet Singh Deswal also spoke at the event as he lauded the bravery displayed by the troops recently in Ladakh under “very challenging circumstances”.Deswal said he toured the Ladakh border front recently and himself honoured the gallant personnel, while adding that recommendations have been sent to the government for awarding gallantry medals to some of them who fought against the Chinese troops.The force has left no stone unturned to guard this border, faced with challenges of weather, low temperatures and oxygen levels and a difficult terrain, he said.Deswal said the force has finalised and sent to the home ministry a proposal for constructing “phase-2 of India-China border roads”.“A proposal has also been sent to the high-level empowered committee for the creation of 18 foot-tracks in Arunachal Pradesh. We hope that the work on this will begin soon,” the ITBP chief said.He added that the force is providing better vehicles, bullet-proof jackets and helmets, clothing and ration to its troops on the border.New systems for better communication have been installed, Deswal said.The ITBP was raised in the aftermath of the 1962 Chinese aggression and it has a strength of about 90,000 personnel with 60 battalions on the ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-broke-myth-that-some-countries-have-strong-armies-mos-g-kishan-reddy/story-3JeJ9P6IWNegdS44XChDTJ.html
24-10-2020||India||‘Bihar should get vaccine, but other states are not in Pakistan’: Shiv Sena on BJP’s free vaccine promise||In its Saturday editorial in mouthpiece Saamana, Shiv Sena said Bihar should get Covid-19 vaccine but other states are not in Pakistan. Criticising BJP’s election promise of free vaccine to Bihar, the editorial asked if the non-BJP-ruled states in the country should now ask Russian President Vladimir Putin for vaccine against Covid-19.The NDA in its election manifesto for Bihar has promised free vaccine to all. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut earlier criticised the decision of including vaccine in the manifesto and said, “Earlier it was give me blood and I will give you freedom. Now it has become give me vote and i will give you vaccine.”Echoing the same sentiment, the editorial said Covid-19 vaccine distribution is the national role of the government. It will cost the Centre at least Rs 70,000 crore to vaccinate 130 crore people in the country. “Bihar is part of the country. The state has consistently demanded special status. But even though Nitish Kumar was the chief minister, the state remained backward. There is no doubt that Bihar should get the vaccine but other states are not in Pakistan. The issue of Covid-19 vaccine should not be included in Bihar’s election manifesto,” the editorial said.It also noted how after Nirmala Sitharaman released the election manifesto, states like Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh “rushed” to announce free vaccines.“What exactly is the policy of Bharatiya Janata Party? Who is their guide? The Prime Minister did not bring caste, religion, province, politics anywhere as he spoke on vaccine distribution. But now the BJP leaders have taken a strange role in the Bihar Assembly campaign,” the editorial said, taking a note that Bihar Assembly election 2020 is going to be the first major election activity on the country amid the ongoing pandemic. “Public meetings are being held. A huge number of people are gathering as leaders are flying in and out in helicopters. Social distancing rules are being flouted,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-should-get-vaccine-but-other-states-are-not-in-pakistan-shiv-sena-on-bjp-s-free-vaccine-promise/story-pwzn26ZKsozTaaBeb9zC1L.html
24-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Yogi Adityanath orders glass room in all UP police stations for women complainants and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mission Shakti: Yogi Adityanath orders glass room in all UP police stations for women complainantsChief minister Yogi Adityanath said the setting up of a secret glass room in police stations across the state would help women complainants speak freely to women police personnel. Read moreSmriti Irani attacks Congress for opposing farm acts, hits out at Robert VadraBJP leader Smriti Irani launched a scathing attack on Congress and accused it of using farmers and their issues for its benefit. Watch hereSet, aim, trick or treat! Man builds ‘candypult’ for Halloween, netizens love itAlong with spookiness in the air, Halloween comes with the joy of trick or treating and lots of candy. And keeping in mind the ongoing pandemic situation, people have come up with their own creative ways to enjoy trick and treating. Read moreIPL 2020, MI vs CSK: ‘Right from the second game,’ MS Dhoni explains what went wrong with CSK this season2020 has been a forgetful year for Chennai Super Kings. There were much expectations with the franchise of the 13th season of the Indian Premier League but the UAE hasn’t proved a happy hunting ground for the three-time champions. Read moreBorat Subsequent Moviefilm review: An audacious achievement by Sacha Baron Cohen, one of the bravest storytellers of our timesWhile Sacha Baron Cohen had been up to his antics for several months, the first rumblings of a potential Borat sequel arrived just a few weeks ago, when he was spotted running around Los Angeles in full costume. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-yogi-adityanath-orders-glass-room-in-all-up-police-stations-for-women-complainants-and-all-the-latest-news/story-lV4ElC4sjNDv2ZhU95h5ZO.html
24-10-2020||India||India-US 2+2 dialogue to focus on regional security cooperation, defence trade||The upcoming India-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue will focus on four themes -- regional security cooperation, defence information sharing, military-to-military interactions, and defence trade, said the US State Department on Friday (local time).Speaking at a press conference, the department said that the 2+2 ministerial meeting will lay down next steps for the US-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership.“First, regional security cooperation; second, defence information sharing; third, military-to-military interactions; and fourth, defence trade,” one of the administration officials told reporters while informing about the themes that will be discussed in the 2+2 ministerial meeting.“Regional security cooperation is that we’re working to enhance maritime security across the Indian Ocean region by coordinating security cooperation and building partner capacity with regional countries,” one of the officials said.Speaking on the second theme, the official said: “We have made significant progress towards concluding the last foundational defence enabling agreement, the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement, or the BECA. This agreement will allow for expanded geospatial information sharing between our armed forces. We are also seeking to expand secure communication capabilities between our respective militaries as well as between our foreign and defence ministries, and that too figures prominently on what we are trying to accomplish in the information-sharing space.”As per the US State Department, with respect to military-to-military engagement, both India and the US are working to build greater interoperability by increasing the sophistication of their combined exercises.“Over the past year, we have placed a US liaison officer at the Information Fusion Centre, Indian Ocean Region. That is India’s maritime domain awareness fusion centre that they host. And an Indian liaison was placed at US Central Command, which both of these have enhanced coordination and information sharing between our navies. We also hope to confirm two additional Indian liaison officer placements in the near term to expand counterterrorism cooperation,” the official further said.“We are also looking to increase mil-to-mil cooperation in emerging technologies. We held an inaugural Defence Cyber Dialogue in September, this last September, and are looking, we are looking to have a defence space dialogue in the coming year, most likely in early 2021,” the official added.Stressing on the defence trade, it said the US is seeking to advance sales for several other defence platforms, to include fighter aircraft and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles(UAV).US Secretary of State Michael R Pompeo and Secretary of Defence Mark T Esper will have a packed schedule during their India visit.They will participate in third India-US 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue along with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on October 27 and will also have bilateral meetings with their counterparts.They will also be meeting National Security Agency(NSA) Ajit Doval and will jointly call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-2-2-dialogue-to-focus-on-regional-security-cooperation-defence-trade/story-xnqWhtAMhaG9ghFmyTAdQJ.html
24-10-2020||India||‘Symbols of Gujarat’s prosperity’: PM Modi inaugurates three development projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated three development projects in Gujarat on Saturday and congratulated the state for the “marvellous” work the state has done in the irrigation sector. All these three projects are symbols of Gujarat’s prosperity, the prime minister said in his online address.Inaugurating Kisan Sarvoday Yojana, under which farmers will be able to avail power supply from 5am to 9pm for irrigation purposes, Modi said, “Farmers will get day-time power supply. Those who know about agriculture are aware that farmers get electricity only at night. But now this will change for Gujarat farmers. But there should be more focus to save water. One drop, more crop should be our mantra. If we waste water as we will be getting water throughout the day, then the purpose will be defeated.”Dahod, Patan, Mahisagar, Panchmahal, Chhota Udepur, Kheda, Tapi, Valsad, Anand and Gir-Somnath districts have been covered under the scheme for 2020-21. The rest will be included in a phased manner by 2022-23.Inaugurating the second project, which is Paediatric Heart Hospital attached with UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology and Research Centre in Ahmedabad, the Prime Minister said, “Nowadays children are also affected by heart diease. This hospital will cater to not only Gujarat but also to the rest of India.”On Saturday, Mount Girnar got a ropeway, which is the fourth ropeway in the state. “The project was stalled for years. This will create employment opportunities for youth. Once we provide ease-of-living and ease-of-travelling to tourists, we will be able to convert several circuits in Gujarat global tourist spots,” PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/symbols-of-gujarat-s-prosperity-pm-modi-inaugurates-three-development-projects/story-LlfcWymDcV6GbpSsPa7KuI.html
24-10-2020||India||Missing businessman withdraws Rs 5000 from ATM, erases phone details: Police||Gautam Pashankar (65), a city-based businessman, was reported missing since Wednesday as told by family members to the police on Thursday. The family members submitted a “note” to the police that is suspected to be written by Pashankar.Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “His last known location is from inside the city. There was an ATM transaction. He wiped his phone clean by formatting it. He withdrew Rs 5,000.” However, his son Kapil Pashankar denied knowledge of any ATM transaction made on his father’s card.“He left the two phones in the car and the driver brought them back. I do not know of any ATM transaction. Unfortunately, whatever CCTVs we have, they do not cover the footpath. So which direction he has gone, it does not cover. The CCTV that could have helped, the one used for traffic challans, that is dysfunctional due to wiring disrepair caused by metro work, we were told. Whatever our worse times were, it was five years back, not now. We were Pune’s biggest automobile dealers; we are known for it. Today whatever we are doing. I do not understand what led to his decision. We have repaid all our loans to the tune of Rs 150 crores. Not even a single loan is active. There was one individual from whom he had borrowed money, he had repaid that as well. On that day, only Rs 10 lakh was remaining to be returned. I confronted that person and asked him. And he told me that the transaction is over,” said Kapil.The police have released a photograph of the businessman from the location where he was last seen. “These are pictures from Thursday the way he was last seen. We urge people to reach out to us if they find or have seen anyone matching this description,” said sub-inspector SP More of Shivajinagar police station who is conducting the search.The police on Thursday have called several people who had come in contact with Pashankar, including his driver who dropped him near his home. “The note claims that he intends to head outside the city to end his life. He has blamed himself for his recent decisions that he said has affected his family and children,” said PSI More. A complaint has been lodged by Pashankar’s son Kapil. A missing person’s case has been registered at Shivajinagar police station.“His phone is switched off,” said a police official.The missing man is survived by his wife, daughter, son, and grandchildren.The Pashankar family has auto showrooms and petrol pumps in the city. The man had allegedly reached near his home on Wednesday after which he went missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-bizman-withdraws-rs-5k-from-atm-erases-phone-details-police/story-RRPuPVrc8OxZxEh0bhrjdJ.html
24-10-2020||India||2+2 to review accomplishments, lay down next steps for India-US global cooperation: Official||The 2+2 India-US ministerial in New Delhi next week would review the accomplishments and lay down the next steps for the global cooperation between the two largest democracies in the world, a senior Trump administration official has said.The last major diplomatic engagement of the Trump administration days before the November 3 presidential election, the two-day meeting, involving four top cabinet ministers from India and the US, is expected to lay the foundation for the next four years of this relationship irrespective of who comes to power.Speaking on the conditions of anonymity, senior administration officials from the State Department and the Pentagon asserted that there was a bipartisan support in the US on its relationship with India.“The 2+2 ministerial will serve as a capstone to review our many accomplishments as well as lay down next steps for the US-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership,” a senior administration official told reporters during a conference call organised by the Foreign Press Center in Washington DC.Broadly, they intend to focus on four major themes at this year’s 2+2: global cooperation, which includes public health collaboration and work in the Indo-Pacific; economic cooperation, which includes partnership on energy and in space; people-to-people ties; and defense and security ties.Noting that on the US-India economic cooperation, they are working together towards economic recovery and getting bilateral trade back on track, the official said the US International Development Finance Corporation has made commitments to support more than $500 million in investment projects in India and has recently assigned a managing director in Mumbai, who will help expand their investments in India and in the region.The official said that joint efforts to develop and produce Covid-19 vaccines have taken off at a remarkable pace.More than half a dozen American companies and institutions are working on vaccine research with Indian partners like the Serum Institute of India, the official said.US Government’s health and development agencies, including the CDC, the National Institutes of Health, the Food and Drug Administration, and USAID, have provided technical assistance and training to Indian partners on a significant scale, including at the state and local levels.Global cooperation also includes high-level engagements, the official said, adding that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, along with their Japanese and Australian counterparts, met in Tokyo on October 6 for the second Quad meeting of foreign ministers.“Given China’s increasingly aggressive behaviour across the Indo-Pacific from the Himalayas to the South China Sea, it’s more important than ever that we work with like-minded partners such as India,” said the official, adding that the US is also looking forward to working with India during its upcoming term on the UN Security Council to address these challenges and the other pressing issues before them.Another senior administration official said that the defence relationship with India right now is currently at its best in recent memory.“The progress we’ve made since India became a major defence partner in 2016 is remarkable. We held the inaugural 2+2 ministerial in 2018, Prime Minister Modi visited the United States in 2019, and President Trump visited India in February this year, just to name a few symbolic highlights,” said the official.During the 2+2, the two countries are working to enhance maritime security across the Indian Ocean region by coordinating security cooperation and building partner capacity with regional countries.India announced just this week that it was inviting Australia, which along with the US and Japan, to the Malabar naval exercise in November. The last time Australia participated in Malabar was in 2007, more than a decade ago.“This invitation signals not only a strategic convergence between the Quadrilateral partners but a recognition that regional security requires strengthening allies and partnerships and working multilateral on issues of mutual concern,” said the official.Noting that information sharing, which figures prominently in defence cooperation, the official said that the two countries have made significant progress towards concluding the last foundational defence enabling agreement, the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement, or the BECA.“This agreement will allow for expanded geospatial information sharing between our armed forces. We are also seeking to expand secure communication capabilities between our respective militaries as well as between our foreign and defense ministries, and that too figures prominently on what we’re trying to accomplish in the information-sharing space,” said the official.With respect to military-to-military engagement, India and the US are working to build greater interoperability by increasing the sophistication of combined exercises.The passing exercise between the Indian Navy and the U.S.S. Nimitz Carrier Strike Group this summer is just one example. The recent refuelling of one of Navy’s P-8 aircraft in Port Blair is another example, the official said.Over the past year, the US has placed a liaison officer at the Information Fusion Center-Indian Ocean Region. And an Indian liaison was placed at US Central Command, which both of these have enhanced coordination and information sharing between the navies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-2-to-review-accomplishments-lay-down-next-steps-for-india-us-global-cooperation-official/story-JLQ7ttLsb9ExXPp4iNeW6M.html
24-10-2020||India||EC asks authorities to ensure free, fair elections in Bihar||The Election Commission (EC) has asked the authorities in poll-bound Bihar for expediting the search-and-seizure operations to ensure free-and-fair Assembly polls in the state, an official said.The directions were issued by the poll panel on Friday during a meeting with the observers of the 78 Assembly constituencies going to polls in the first round of the three-phased Bihar polls on October 28, Additional Chief Electoral Officer (ACEO) Sanjay Kumar Singh said at a press briefing here.Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora and two other election commissioners, Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar, held the meeting online.The EC reviewed the overall poll preparations, be it the issue of training or providing facilities to the elderly people, Singh said.During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, various agencies had seized cash and banned items valued at Rs 35.27 crore in Bihar.The amount is expected to rise further during the Assembly polls, officials had said.Meanwhile, Friday was the last date for withdrawal of nominations for the third phase of elections on 78 seats on November 7, Singh said.Talking about Thursday’s seizure of Rs 8.5 lakh in cash from a vehicle near the state Congress headquarters, Sadaquat Ashram, the official said it was “not a raid by the Income Tax department”, rather the poll panel’s expenditure observers had received a tip-off that cash was being taken out from a vehicle near Sadaquat Ashram.Acting on the tip-off, a flying squad intercepted and searched the vehicle and seized Rs 8.5 lakh in cash, Singh said, adding that Rs two lakh were seized from a person sitting in the vehicle while the remaining amount was kept hidden in it.The Income Tax department’s investigation wing has been informed about the seizure, which will take further action in this regard, Singh said.Reacting to the seizure from the vehicle, Congress’s Bihar in-charge Shakti Sinh Gohil said, “There was no raid at the Congress headquarters in Patna.” Somebody was caught outside on the road leading to the Congress office with Rs two lakh in cash, he said, adding that there were three other persons, each carrying Rs two lakh in cash.“We have nothing to hide,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-asks-authorities-to-ensure-free-fair-elections-in-bihar/story-rUg9pP596a1tl9tdHoofcN.html
24-10-2020||India||Phase-3 trial of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine to begin in few days||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has completed the second phase of clinical trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine. The civic body will soon start third phase trials after the first batch of volunteers complete 28 days since their first vaccination.200 healthy volunteers participated in the second phase of the trial of the vaccine candidate named COVISHIELD. Both King Edward Memorial (KEM) and BYL Nair hospitals, that are conducting the trials, will now submit their reports to the data safety monitoring board, Central Drugs Standard Control Organization to seek approval for the stage III of the trial. “With the approval, we will be able to start the third phase of the trial once the first set of volunteers complete 28 days of the first vaccination. As per ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research), the third trial can only be conducted on volunteers after a gap of 28 days,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.On September 26, the first dosage of the second phase of trial was given to three volunteers between ages 20 and 45 years at KEM hospital. On October 23, they completed 28 days of their first vaccination.The Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has partnered with British-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine formulated at the University of Oxford.Meanwhile, BMC has also written to SII if they want to include more volunteers for the second phase of the trial. “As we have achieved our target of 100 volunteers, we have asked SII if they want us to include more volunteers. So far, we haven’t received any response. However, we have kept additional volunteers on standby,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair hospital.Also Read: Bharat Biotech to submit revised Phase 3 clinical trial protocol to DCGI by next weekHowever, Kakani said that they wouldn’t wait further for a response from SII and start their third phase trial. “We can’t wait any further as we need to provide the third dosage to the first volunteers who have completed their 28 days of waiting period,” he said. In August, when ICMR selected the two Mumbai-based hospitals to run clinical trials for the vaccine, they were instructed to enrol 160 volunteers at each hospital. Later, the number of total volunteers was reduced to a total of 200 - or 100 each - for conducting the second phase of the trial. Also Read: ‘Covid-19 vaccines to be ready by June’, says Kiran Mazumdar-ShawAs per ICMR, every volunteer is covered by life insurance worth Rs 1 crore in the event of death due to any side effect of the vaccine administered in the trial. Also, they get Rs 50 lakh medical insurance to cover the cost for treatment of any possible adverse effect from the vaccination.In the second week of September, both hospitals had to halt the trial after a participant developed an adverse reaction in the United Kingdom. Later, the drug control general of India granted permission to run the second and third phases of the trial. However, both civic hospitals had to receive final approval from their ethics committees before starting with the screening of the volunteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-3-of-oxford-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-to-begin-in-the-next-few-days/story-7ns7CN0K619j8ApX2VAlaO.html
24-10-2020||India||Kisan Suryodaya Yojana a new dawn for farmers in Gujarat, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated three projects, including Kisan Suryodaya Yojana for the farmers in Gujarat on Saturday. He will also inaugurate the Paediatric Heart Hospital attached with UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology and Research Centre in Ahmedabad, a mobile application for telecardiology at the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital, and a ropeway at Mount Girnar near Junagadh in Junagadh district.Under the agri scheme, farmers will be able to avail power supply from 5am to 9pm for irrigation purposes. The project was recently announced by chief minister Vijay Rupani. The state government has allocated a budget of Rs 3,500 crores for installing transmission infrastructure under this scheme by 2023. Dahod, Patan, Mahisagar, Panchmahal, Chhota Udepur, Kheda, Tapi, Valsad, Anand and Gir-Somnath districts have been covered under the scheme for 2020-21. The rest will be included in a phased manner by 2022-23.The UN Mehta Institute that Modi inaugurated will become India’s biggest hospital for cardiology. It will also become the biggest single super-speciality cardiac teaching institute in the country and one of the biggest single super speciality cardiac hospitals in the world, the Prime Minister’s office said on Friday. The ropeway at Girnar, the third project, will initially have 25-30 cabins with a capacity of 8 people per cabin. It will cover a distance of 2.3 kms in just 7.5 minutes. The ropeway will also provide a scenic view of the Girnar mountain.“Boosting the tourism potential of Gujarat! A Ropeway at Girnar would also be among the projects launched tomorrow. Thanks to the ropeway, tourists can get a spectacular view of the area surrounding the Girnar mountain,” Modi had tweeted on Friday. Here are the highlights from PM Modi’s address >> On the Kisan Suryodaya Yojana, PM Modi termed farmers getting three phase power from 5 in the morning to 9 in the morning instead of night “a new dawn.” “I would like to congratulate the Gujarat government that this work is being done by preparing a completely new capacity of transmission, without affecting the other systems, he said. >> “Under this scheme, laying of about three and a half thousand circuit kilometers of new transmission lines will be done in the next 2-3 years,” the Prime Minister said adding that the scheme will also be implemented in more than a thousand villages in the coming days. More of these villages are in tribal dominated areas, he said. >>Modi hailed the state government’s work in the health sector. “In the last two decades, Gujarat has done unprecedented work in the field of health. Be it is a network of modern hospitals or medical colleges, a lot of work has been done in order to connect every village with better facilities,” he said. >>After inagurating the ropeway at Girnar, the Prime Minister more and more devotees and tourists will now visit the destination.”The rope-way started today is the fourth ropeway of Gujarat. To see Ambaji in Banaskantha, three more ropes in Pavagadh, Satpura - they are already working,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-virtually-inaugurates-key-development-projects-in-gujarat/story-RQ5dVerPi3nEIpp44oNJjO.html
24-10-2020||India||Mathura’s Banke Bihari temple to reopen for devotees from October 25||Banke Bihari temple in Mathura will be reopened for devotees from Sunday while adhering to Covid-19 guidelines and maintaining social distancing.“Banke Bihari Temple will be reopened for devotees from 25th October. However, online registration for entry is mandatory. We will ensure all Covid-19 guidelines and social distancing norms are followed,” said Munish Sharma, Manager, Banke Bihari temple administration.The temple was closed for devotees since March 22. On October 15, on the order of the court of Civil Judge Junior Division, the temple was re-opened for devotees. However, following large crowd at the temple, temple manager Munish Sharma ordered the temple to be closed again from October 19. During the late-night hearing on Friday, the court has ordered the re-opening of the temple from Sunday and asked the authorities to ask devotees to adhere to Covid-19 norms.Uttar Pradesh reported 2,298 new Covid-19 cases, 3025 discharges and 40 deaths in the last 24 hours, said the state’s health department on Friday. Active cases in the state stand at 28,268. A total of 4,30,962 discharged so far, death toll 6,830.According to the state health department, 34 new Covid-19 cases reported taking the total number of active cases in the district to 400.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mathura-s-banke-bihari-temple-to-reopen-for-devotees-from-october-25/story-1z7kH62q6YO6ZgAOtMOExI.html
24-10-2020||India||Arunachal CM confident of Indian army in case of Chinese intrusion||Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu has said the times now are different from 1962 and the people of the state and the Indian Army will never fall back no matter how many times China tries to claim the territory as its own.Khandu was speaking at a programme on Friday at Bum La, a pass on the Indo-Tibet border in the northeastern state, to honour a soldier who died fighting in the 1962 India-China war.“This is not 1962, but 2020, and things are different now. Right from Jammu and Kashmir to Arunachal Pradesh, we are fully prepared. If required, the people of Arunachal will not hesitate to stand behind the Indian Army,” he said.China does not recognise Arunachal Pradesh as an Indian state but as a part of southern Tibet, a claim that has been rejected outright by India.Speaking on the changes in the last six decades since 1962, the chief minister said infrastructure development along the border areas has received a major thrust under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“The development of border areas, specially roads, is important. It is being done in full speed in Arunachal Pradesh and we will soon witness several such infrastructural revamps in the state,” he said. Khandu was at Bum La to pay tribute to Subedar Joginder Singh on his 58th death anniversary. He recalled the supreme sacrifice of Singh, who laid down his life fighting the Chinese army in the 1962 Indo-China war.Singh, who was a subedar in the 1st battalion of the Sikh Regiment, was commanding a platoon at Bum La in the then North East Frontier Agency, now Arunachal Pradesh.“Fighting against all odds, Subedar Singh attained martyrdom on this day during the 1962 India-China war. The people of Arunachal salute his bravery and will always remember the supreme sacrifice he made for the nation,” Khandu said.Though heavily outnumbered, Singh had led his troops against a Chinese assault and defended his post until he was wounded and captured. He died of his injuries while in Chinese custody and is believed to have single-handedly killed several Chinese soldiers and created history in the annals of the Indian Army.He was posthumously awarded the Param Vir Chakra, the highest military gallantry award of the country, in 1962.Kulwant Kaur, Singh’s daughter, inaugurated a newly-built war memorial in her father’s name at the programme.The memorial has been built by the Arunachal Pradesh government just below the famous IB Ridge to commemorate Singh’s heroic defence against the People’s Liberation Army of China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-cm-confident-in-indian-army-in-case-of-chinese-intrusion/story-P5AZxTrH4mhO04WFlaClAO.html
24-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: ‘Not promising 1 crore jobs,’ Tejashwi Yadav releases RJD’s manifesto||Amid the ongoing slugfest over NDA’s vaccine promise ahead of Bihar Assembly elections 2020, Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav, who is the chief ministerial candidate of Mahagathbandhan, released the party’s election manifesto on Saturday and said he will not promise one crore jobs. “I am promising 10 lakh jobs. I could have also promised one crore jobs just for the sake of promise. But I am not doing that because this will become a reality in the first meeting of the Cabinet.This will be the first time in the country that 10 lakh employment opportunities will be created at one go. This figure is what we require in the state’s workforce at present,” Tejashwi said.Also Read: ‘PM is most welcome in Bihar but…’: RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav at poll rally“People used to make fun that from where we will generate employments. Now, you must understand there is a difference between earning and employment. Here we are talking about government jobs,” Tejashwi Yadav said, explaining that there are employment opportunities for teachers, professors, junior engineers, doctors, nurses lab technicians. “ We need more police for the law and order of the state. Manipur is a smaller state but it has more police per lakh population than Bihar,” Tejashwi said. “This is not a manifesto. This is our pran (resolution),” the RJD leader said releasing the 17-point manifesto which also includes promises of farm loan waiver and regularisation of all ad hoc workers. राजद का संकल्प-समग्र विकास एकमात्र विकल्प!आओ मिलकर कदम बढ़ाएँतेजस्वी संग नया बिहार बनाएँ! pic.twitter.com/OIVTfdxkVyThe BJP has promised 19 lakh jobs apart from free vaccine promise. Taking a swipe at the figure of the promise, Tejashwi said, “ Who is the CM face of the BJP? Nitish Kumar. Was he able to provide jobs? He already surrendered and said he couldn’t give more jobs. Then how will BJP offer 19 lakh jobs? Whom are they fooling?”Elections to Bihar’s 243 Assembly seats will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7. Counting is scheduled to be held on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-not-promising-1-crore-jobs-tejashwi-yadav-releases-rjd-s-manifesto/story-52wgb2T2Jkm1l8GYiJOOqN.html
24-10-2020||India||For second consecutive day, active Covid-19 cases remain below 7 lakh-mark||A day after India’s active caseload fell below 7 lakh-mark for the first time in the last two months, 53,370 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, health ministry data showed on Saturday. The total tally stands at 7,814,682 and the number of active cases stands at 6,80,680. A total of 650 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, which has pushed the total death toll to 1,17,956 The fall in the active cases is being considered as a significant milestone in India’s ongoing fight against Covid-19.Poll-bound Bihar has less than 20,000 active casesAccording to health ministry data, 24 states and UTs at present have less that 20,000 active cases. The list includes, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Sikkim, Chhattisgarh, Ladakh, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Puducherry, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Odisha and Rajasthan.New cases and new recoveriesAccording to health ministry’s data released on Friday, Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, West Bengal, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha continue to contribute the maximum number of new cases.  #IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCorona10 States and UTs are contributing 81% of the high number of daily Recoveries (nearly 74,000).The top 3 States account for half of the new discharged patients.These States also have more than 48% of the Active Caseload of the country. pic.twitter.com/RY4bP9WXsVMaharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh account for 81 per cent of the new recovered cases. On Friday, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan interacted with officials of Uttar Pradesh to review the Covid-19 situation in the state and said the next three months are going to decisive in determining the situation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-second-consecutive-day-active-covid-19-cases-fall-below-7-lakh-mark/story-xcjFYVK4WwkmRKYtLexpyN.html
24-10-2020||India||Monsoon to withdraw completely by October 28, dry weather to set in over India: IMD||The monsoon is likely to withdraw completely in the next 2-3 days as the northeast monsoon is likely to commence over peninsular India by October 28. This would mean mostly dry conditions in the rest of the country.Conditions are favourable for further withdrawal of monsoon from remaining parts of Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, north and the central Arabian Sea, Odisha and north Maharashtra during next 24-hours. Similar conditions will prevail over parts of West Bengal, Sikkim, Odisha, Telangana, north-eastern states, Andhra Pradesh and most parts of Maharashtra during the subsequent two days.Also Read: Delhi: Health threats imminent as AQI deteriorates to ‘severe’ categoryWith the likely setting in of north-easterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels over the Bay of Bengal and extreme south peninsular India, the southwest monsoon is likely to withdraw from the entire country around October 28. Simultaneously, the northeast monsoon rains are also likely to commence over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, coastal Andhra Pradesh, and adjoining areas of Karnataka and Kerala around October 28, India Meteorological Department said in its Saturday morning bulletin. The normal date for monsoon withdrawal is October 15. Its withdrawal has been delayed by almost a fortnight.The depression, which had formed over the Bay of Bengal has moved north-north-eastwards, weakened into a well-marked low-pressure area, and lays centred over central Bangladesh. Under its influence, moderate to heavy rain is likely over south Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, and Tripura.Meanwhile, air pollution levels remained high on Saturday in entire northwest India. Baghpat, Panipat, Ghaziabad, Ballabgarh, Faridabad, etc remained in the “very poor” category. This is mainly due to a reduction in wind speed across the northwest region. “Wind speed has reduced in the entire north-western region and stubble burning has also increased. Moisture levels are rising in the morning hours leading to further accumulation of pollutants and a shallow fog like situation. At Palam the visibility had reduced to 700 metres on Friday,” Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, Delhi, said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-withdraw-completely-by-october-28-dry-weather-to-set-in-over-india-imd/story-DhpCfoaWIh6olx1UYhUD3I.html
24-10-2020||India||Election commission pulled up by HC, told to hold Suar assembly by-polls||The Allahabad high court has directed the Election Commission of India (ECI) to conduct by-polls on the Suar assembly seat in Rampur district of Uttar Pradesh and begin the poll process forthwith. By-polls for seven other constituencies in UP are scheduled on November 3. The Suar seat had fallen vacant after the Allahabad high court on December 16, 2019 annulled the election of Samajwadi Party (SP) candidate Abdullah Azam Khan, the son of senior SP leader Azam Khan, on the ground that he was underage and not qualified to fight the poll in 2017.Subsequently, the state assembly had on February 27, 2020, notified the seat as vacant.Allowing a writ petition filed by one Shafeeq Ahmad of Rampur, a division bench of justice Shashi Kant Gupta and justice Pankaj Bhatia said, “The Election Commission of India has not been able to justify as to why and under what circumstances, by-election has not been held on the aforementioned constituency despite the vacancy having occurred in December 2019 and duly notified long back by the state assembly on February 27, 2020. Thus, the election commission has failed to perform its constitutional and statutory duty to hold the by-election for the aforementioned constituency within the time prescribed under Section 151A of the Representation of People’s Act”.Also Read: ‘Thakur village’ signboard sparks tension in UP’s Meerut areaThe court further observed that the will of the people is supreme in a democracy and it cannot be lightly interfered with.“The will of the people is supreme. It cannot be lightly interfered with. The election commission, under no circumstance, can frustrate the will of the people. This court, which is a custodian of the Constitution, cannot be a silent spectator in a case of this nature where the election commission has failed to exercise its powers in a manner which has the effect of destroying or making erosion into the democratic set up, which is a part of the basic structure of the Constitution,” the court said.Also Read: UP cops gather evidence of Kerala scribe’s role in Hathras violence incitement plotThe petitioner had requested the court to direct the ECI to conduct by-polls on Suar seat. The petitioner contended that while the election was set aside by the high court in an election petition, no interim order was passed by the apex court in the appeal pending before it.Besides, a vacancy was also duly notified by the state assembly. Hence in this backdrop, there cannot be any justification for the election commission to not hold the by-election.“By not holding the elections, the election commission has failed to perform its constitutional duty and suppressed the voice of the people who deserve to be represented through an elected representative,” the counsel for the petitioner argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-pulled-up-by-hc-told-to-hold-suar-assembly-by-polls/story-hSoP2mVD40Ao5YkTHqLyYI.html
24-10-2020||India||Puri Jagannath temple doors to be plated with 2500 kg silver donated by Mumbai devotee||For the first time in the last several decades, the wooden doors of 12th century Jagannath temple, including the ones guarding the sanctum sanctorum, would be silver-plated with 2,500 kg of the precious metal donated by a Mumbai-based devotee of the Lord.Temple administrators and members of the temple managing committee said a 17-member committee formed to approve the design and other modalities of the silver-cladding work would meet on October 27 for further action.“The gates of Kaalahaat dwar, Jaya-Vijay dwar, Beharana dwar, Satpahach dwar, West Bhog Mandap dwar, Narasingh Temple dwar, Bimala Temple dwar and Mahalakshmi Temple dwar will be clad with silver sheets made out of over 2,500 kg silver donated by a Mumbai-based devotee. The existing doors were worn out and will be replaced with the ones made from Burma Teakwood imported from Malaysia. The devotee is also donating the wood needed for the doors,” said temple administrator (development) Ajay Jena. The silver valued at Rs 15.32 crore would be kept in a strong room till the carving of the 8 doors is complete. In the initial stage, three main doors- Jay Bijay dwar, Kaalahaat dwar and Beherana dwar will be clad with silver.The wood of these doors has been damaged due to wear and tear and the servitors were having a difficult time in locking them. While the Jay Bijay dwara is the main entrance leading to the sanctum sanctorum, the Kaalahaata dwara is the door of the sanctum sanctorum. The Beharana dwara is the door through which devotees exit after having a darshan of the three deities.Also Read: Odisha to bring special law for managing 11th century Lingaraj templeMeanwhile, the temple management is yet to take a decision on whether the Nagarjuna Vesha of the three deities, scheduled to be held on November 27, can be thrown open to the public. During ‘Nagarjuna Vesha’ the deities are depicted as warriors with the war weapons and Sudarshana Chakra. As per mythology, the Nagarjuna Vesha is celebrated to commemorate the killing of Sahastrarjun by Lord Parsuram. This would be the first Nagarjuna Vesha in the 21st century. The last one was held in 1994.Also Read: Odisha engineer worked as MGNREGS worker after losing job, rescuedThe temple has been shut since March after Covid lockdown was announced. Over 400 temple servitors were found infected by Covid further delaying its reopening. Early this month, the proposal of a Sri Jagannath temple managing committee to arrange online darshan of the deities was met with stiff opposition from the servitors. The servitors had argued that many secret services are being performed daily in the sanctum sanctorum which outsiders should not witness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puri-jagannath-temple-doors-to-be-plated-with-2500-kg-silver-donated-by-mumbai-devotee/story-zUaB66F4nJrlcKPo57uwnO.html
24-10-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: ‘We didn’t leak information,’ CBI, NCB, ED tell Bombay high court||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Enforcement Directorate (ED) which are probing different angles in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case did not ever leak any information “at any point of times”, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh informed the Bombay High Court as it was hearing a public interest litigations filed against media trial in reporting Bollywood actor Sushant Singh’s death. He was found dead in his Mumbai residence on June 14.The petition over the television channel coverage of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death was filed by a group of retired police officers who had claimed that the sensitive information was being broadcast. Also Read: Bombay high court says journalists have lost their neutralityThe petitioners questioned the source of these information asking whether the investigating agencies were leaking out these sensitive details. The agencies, in their affidavits, said they are aware of their responsibilities. “We know our responsibilities and there is no question of leaking information by any of the agencies,” the ASG added.While the CBI is investigating the circumstances that led to the death of the Bollywood actor, the NCB is probing a drug angle and the ED is investigating the money-laundering charges against Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty. The investigations are going on.A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni was hearing final arguments on public interest litigations seeking that the media be asked to be restrained in its coverage of the probe into the actor’s death.“The media was neutral then (in the past). It is now highly polarised….This is not a question of regulation, this is a question of checks and balances. People forget where to draw lines. Do it within lines,” the judges hearing the case said. The hearing will continue next week.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-we-didn-t-leak-information-cbi-ncb-ed-tell-bombay-high-court/story-P5mF5DDDhaWqvWRYw6TL5M.html
24-10-2020||India||India - US relations is independent of political parties in power: Tharoor||India and the United States will give extraordinary importance to their relations despite the fact that which political party is in power in both the nations, said Congress MP Shashi Tharoor. Speaking at the Public Affair Forum of India’s (PAFI) national forum of India 2020, Tharoor said: “India-US relationship has reached a level where whether it’s Republican or Democratic administration in the US, or whether it’s BJP or Congress government in India, both countries will give extraordinary importance to the relations for two obvious reasons which include we have absolute geopolitical compatibility there are no major issues in which our interests are opposite and of course the secondary is a fact that as long as we both are functional democracies we have an interest in ensuring up each other in our respective roles.”Tharoor’s remark comes ahead of the US Presidential elections, which will take place on November 3.Stressing that India has been more of a “rule taker” than a “rule maker” at the United Nations, he said the country needs to fix its domestic issues, including that of the economy, and have “moral authority” if it wants to be a rules contributor to the world.“Now we have unfortunately been going through a few very bad years domestically in terms of crumbling social cohesion, the eruption and uncontrollable spread of the coronavirus pandemic, the border troubles with China, the economic collapse after demonetisation, unemployment figures worst recorded in the history in these years, everything is wrong,” he said.He asserted that India must use its capacity to demand constructive changes in global governance.On being asked that Indian-American people do not send money back home for charities, Tharoor said, “I have seen members of American-born generation sending out in large numbers to support and even contribute to a number of originations and charities that are working in India, for example, Pratham and ASHA and they raise money without any difficulty and they do so in significant numbers from Americans.”“My own children grew up in America from the age of five and still live there. They both contribute very generously to Indian causes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-relations-is-independent-of-political-parties-in-power-tharoor/story-ZzAtMstx540PopV8auy55K.html
24-10-2020||India||Prez, PM’s 2nd special plane takes off for Delhi, will land today||The second of the two Boeing 777 aircraft extensively modified for President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi travel will arrive in national capital Delhi on Saturday, people familiar with the matter said.The first aircraft, also configured to give the dignitaries some generous office space and meeting rooms landed in Delhi on 1 October. The two aircraft - Boeing 777-300 ERs - had joined Air India’s fleet in 2018 and had been sent to a Boeing facility in Dallas for customisation.The two planes have missile defence systems that are touted to be on a par with the US President’s Air Force One, two identical Boeing 747-200B series aircraft that are scheduled to be replaced in 2024. The two upgraded Boeing 747s are expected to cost the Pentagon a whopping $4.6 billion (Rs 34,044.6 crore) by the time they are ready to fly the next President.The new long-haul aircraft, which can fly non-stop to the United States, is India’s first set of dedicated aircraft for the three dignitaries. So long, the government would requisition the Air India’s planes every time any of the three dignitaries had to travel abroad. The state-run airline ended up configuring the plane for VVIP travel, creating space for a make-shift office and sleeping area for the prime minister after removing the seats from one portion of the aircraft.The two aircraft were earlier scheduled to be delivered in August but the date had to be pushed due to what were described as “certain operational issues”. They will be flown by pilots drawn from Air India as well as the Indian Air Force.The planes come equipped with self-protection suites (SPS) consisting of aircraft infrared countermeasures, advanced integrated defensive electronic warfare suite and counter-measures dispensing system to protect them from inbound missiles.The US Defense Security Cooperation Agency, which had notified Congress about its decision to sell the defence system earlier this year, had put its cost at about $ 190 million. It had explained its decision, underlining that the sale would improve India’s capability to deter regional threats and facilitate “a more robust capability into areas of increased missile threats.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prez-pm-s-2nd-special-plane-takes-off-for-delhi-will-land-today/story-NiHlm9XYhRXKdCO6aV0OaM.html
24-10-2020||India||Decisive three months ahead in determining India’s Covid-19 situation: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday said that the next three months are going to be decisive in determining the situation of Covid in the country and urged people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour during the coming festival and winter season.Addressing a review meeting with officials of the Uttar Pradesh government, Vardhan said, “Appropriate measures are being taken to combat Covid-19. But the next three months are going to be decisive in determining the situation of Covid in the country. If we take adequate precaution and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour in the coming festival and winter season, we will be in a better position to fight corona.” He asserted that the state needs to focus on increasing testing, surveillance, contact tracing, and early diagnosis to keep fatality rate low.“For a big state like Uttar Pradesh, it becomes important that maximum thrust is given to simple precautionary measures which are effective in preventing the Coronavirus to a large extent like wearing mask/face cover especially in public spaces, and following hand and respiratory etiquettes,” Vardhan said.The Union Minister further appreciated the efforts of Uttar Pradesh in vaccinating those children who were left out of immunisation due to Covid-19.He also informed that as of date Uttar Pradesh has Covid-19 fatality rate of 1.46 which is less than the national average, while the recovery rate of the state (92.2 per cent) is also more than the national recovery rate. The positivity rate is 3.44 per cent.Vardhan informed that in the last three months, the country has seen significant improvement in the Covid parameters.“The number of active cases are less than 7 lakh and the doubling rate has increased to 97.2 days, as of now. The journey which started from having just one lab, we have come a long way in now having nearly 2000 labs in the country. The number of total tests conducted across the country have surpassed 10 crore. This is a positive indication that we are moving in the right direction,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decisive-three-months-ahead-in-determining-india-s-covid-19-situation-harsh-vardhan/story-zA6iwcKWWY4vBhR1Gv5LlI.html
24-10-2020||India||Delhi: Health threats imminent as AQI deteriorates to ‘severe’ category||Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) on Saturday deteriorated to the ‘severe’ category, which is likely to affect people’s health, according to the Delhi Pollution Control Committee data (DPCC).The AQI in Alipur was at 432 while it stood at 427 and 409 in Mundka and Wazirpur, respectively.According to experts, the severe category affects the health of people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases. An AQI between 0-50 is marked good, 51-100 is satisfactory, 101-200 is moderate, 201-300 is poor, 301-400 is very poor and 401-500 is considered severe.Amid the rise in pollution levels, people are having problems with breathing and some children have started facing throat problems due to contaminated air.Recently, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) submitted before the Delhi High Court that it has issued directions to implementing agencies including State Pollution Control Boards, construction agencies, municipal bodies, traffic police and transport department of Delhi and NCR for strict action against air polluting activities.On Friday, a plea sought filed in Delhi High Court sought directions to the Delhi government and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to issue fresh orders and instructions at the earliest putting a strict ban on bursting firecrackers and burning of effigies to prevent further air pollution.It also sought directions to the Department of Environment, Delhi Government, and the Union Ministry of Environment to come up with eco-friendly ways of celebrating Dusshera.The petitioners urged the court to direct appropriate departments to take immediate and appropriate steps to ban burning of effigies and fire-crackers in Delhi on the festival of Dussehra in light of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-health-threats-imminent-as-aqi-deteriorates-to-severe-category/story-vUvnk0ZXwswLNYqmUfpcaL.html
24-10-2020||India||Amazon says won’t appear before JPC||US-headquartered online retailer Amazon has refused to appear before Parliament’s joint committee on the data protection bill next week, which could amount to a breach of parliamentary privilege, panel chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi said on Friday, indicating that action may be taken against the company.Facebook’s policy head for India Ankhi Das, meanwhile, appeared before the panel on the issue of data security on Friday, and was questioned by members on revenue and advertising models, the hiring process as well as “neutrality” within the organisation. It was given two weeks’ time to submit written replies to the questions. The panel has summoned officials of Twitter on October 28, and Google and Paytm on October 29 as part of its investigation into issues of data protection, artificial intelligence and privacy.“The panel is unanimous in its opinion that coercive action can be suggested to the government against the e-commerce company. Amazon has refused to appear before the panel on October 28 and if no one on behalf of the e-commerce company appears before the panel it amounts to breach of privilege,” Lekhi said.After Amazon was asked to attend the meeting on October 28, it replied on October 8 to the panel’s letter expressing inability to attend as there is no regular transportation from the US to India, because of which the company’s representatives can’t come from California, said two members of the panel who did not wish to be named.According to another functionary aware of the matter, Amazon wrote to the committee that it would be unable to attend due to risks associated with travel during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Owing to the current circumstances and the risks associated with travelling, our subject matter experts who are based overseas will not be able to appear for the deposition. We will therefore have to decline the request for the deposition,” the company’s letter to the committee said.“Unlike many other entities who seek time or request an alternative schedule for deposition, Amazon did not ask for any such relaxation. They simply conveyed that they can’t come,” said one of the members cited above.In response to a query from HT, Amazon said: “We have the utmost respect and regard for the important work being done by the JPC on the PDP Bill and have already offered our written submissions for consideration of this august Committee. We will continue to engage in any way the JPC considers fit. The inability of our experts to travel from overseas due to travel restriction and depose before the JPC during the ongoing pandemic may have been misconstrued and led to a misunderstanding and we will work with the JPC to set the record straight.”Several MPs in the meeting suggested to Lekhi to write back to Amazon and explain the importance of the committee and the consequences it could face if it did not appear before the panel.“Amazon should know that it is not an option. Parliament rules are absolutely clear that if an entity is asked to appear before the panel, it is mandatory. This is a committee formed by members from both houses of Parliament,” said an MP.“It was also suggested that the panel should inform the ministries of commerce and information technology about Amazon’s stand over the issue of deposition because if any action is to be taken against the company, the government has to decide it,” said the MP.Facebook said in a statement that it backed the efforts towards data protection.“We deeply appreciate the opportunity to discuss data regulation issues with the Hon’ble Members of Joint Committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill. We believe that India’s data protection law has the potential to propel the country’s digital economy and global digital trade, and we wholeheartedly support this effort. That is why we deeply appreciate to be a part of this discussion and will continue to work alongside governments and regulators to find the right solutions which not only protect users’ privacy but are also interoperable with other major global privacy regulations,” the Facebook statement said.According to people aware of the details, the panel sought a detailed written submission to a set of 20-25 questions on the specifics of the company’s policy on taking down pages; on the advertising model that they follow across the globe; and in which country the social media platform pays the highest tax. The company, represented by Ankhi Das and Bhairav Acharya, who are part of Facebook’s policy team in India, was asked questions on whether the company has a “hiring bias”.“They were asked if it is true that about 90% of their employees have contributed to the Democrats. If that is so, is that the reason why handles that posted New York Post’s news report on Hunter Biden were blocked. They were also probed on the hiring policy and if there is a bias that is reflected in the appointments being made in India and other countries as well,” said a person aware of the details.There was an uproar last week after the New York Post’s stories based on alleged emails from Hunter Biden detailing his financial relationships with the Ukrainian natural-gas company Burisma and a Chinese energy firm were prevented from being shared online. Biden’s father Joe Biden is in the race for president.The social media company was summoned to discuss the issue of the alleged misuse of its platform in the wake of claims that it did not apply hate speech rules to certain BJP politicians, and about the company’s policy on privacy and data protection.The company defended its position and maintained that it would not be in India’s best interests to insist against cross-border transfer of data, according to people in the know, who added that Facebook said in recent times a large number of start-ups had come to India and if there was no international data transfer these firms would have to leave the country.Facebook told the panel that in most European countries, parental consent is needed to open an account for children below the age of 13 but in India that figure is 18, which needs to be brought down, said the people cited above, adding that on questions over Facebook’s alleged attempt to manipulate elections in the US, the social media giant denied every allegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amazon-says-won-t-appear-before-jpc/story-7XMVHQbDWLOFU4pWBWJA7H.html
24-10-2020||India||BJP demands arrest of Mehbooba Mufti for ‘seditious’ remarks||The Jammu and Kashmir BJP on Friday demanded the arrest of PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti for her “seditious remarks” wherein she said she would only hold the national tricolour when the flag of the erstwhile state is restored.The BJP said “no power on earth” can either hoist the state flag again or restore Article 370, which granted special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir.Addressing reporters for the first time since her release from 14-month detention following the abrogation of Article 370 in August last year, Mehbooba said she will only hold the national tricolour after the flag of Jammu and Kashmir is restored.In an act seen as defiance, the flag of the erstwhile state was prominently placed on a table in front of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president along with that of her party during the presser. Also watch | ‘Will raise tricolour when...’: Ex-J&K CM Mufti’s fresh attack on Centre“I request Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha to take cognisance of seditious remarks of Mehbooba Mufti, book her for the seditious act and put her behind bars,” Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina told reporters.“We will sacrifice every drop of our blood for our flag, country and motherland. J-K is an integral part of our country, so only one flag can be hoisted in J-K and that is the national flag,” he said.Raina said the party will not tolerate such “nefarious designs” aimed at instigating the people of Kashmir.“I warn leaders like Mehbooba Mufti not to instigate the people of Kashmir. We will not allow anyone to disturb peace, normalcy and brotherhood. In case anything wrong happens, she will have to face the consequences,” he said.If Kashmiri leaders are feeling insecure in India, they can go to Pakistan and China, he added.During her presser, Mehbooba accused the BJP of “looting” the dignity of the people of Jammu and Kashmir.“We had acceded to a liberal, democratic, secular India. Let me tell them we are not comfortable, we are incompatible with today’s India where minorities and Dalits are not safe and where they tried to disrespect us by looting our dignity,” she said.Referring to the Centre’s move to abrogate Article 370 on August 5 last year, Raina said no decision taken by the government can be reversed.He said Article 370 gave rise to separatism, terrorism and was instrumental in killings of thousands of people.“As the government has permanently scrapped Article 370, no power on earth can restore it. No power on earth can hoist any flag other than the national flag in J-K,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-demands-arrest-of-mehbooba-mufti-for-seditious-remarks/story-xKQm7bLAGtPCOOyZpAeJ4L.html
24-10-2020||India||Scare on Delhi-Goa flight over ‘terrorists’ on board||Panic broke out on board a Delhi-Goa flight when a passenger got up from his seat and screamed that there terrorists were on board the plane. The man, who was later identified as a resident of Delhi’s Jamia Nagar, also claimed to be from the Special Cell, Delhi Police’s anti-terror unit.The man was detained soon as the flight made a priority landing at Goa airport on Thursday. Senior police officers said the man was diagnosed to be mentally unstable and sent to hospital for treatment. HT is not naming the passenger due to his mental health issues.The incident took place at 3.15pm on Air India flight AI-883. According to the officers of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), that secures the airports, when the flight was about to land in Goa airport, the man got up and shouted: “There are terrorists in this flight”.As other passengers panicked, flight crew tried to intervene. When they asked the man to sit down calmly, he told them he was from the Special Cell of Delhi Police. An official aware of the incident said the man did not turn violent on the plane and was calmed down by the crew.The matter was reported to the chief pilot, who alerted Goa Air Traffic Control (ATC) and requested priority landing, citing an emergency. The flight was given a priority landing slot by the ATC, which informed the Airport Operation Control Centre (AOCC) that in turn alerted the CISF and Goa police.“Soon, as the flight landed safely at Goa airport, the CISF commandos detained the man at the aero-bridge itself. He was escorted to the Dabolim police station by the CISF staff and the members of Air India’s security staff,” said a senior CISF officer, who did not wish to be named.Air India declined to comment on the matter.Pankaj Kumar Singh, superintendent of police, (south Goa), said the man did not seem to be mentally fit.“He was travelling alone. When we tried to question him on his act, he did not seem to be fine. We got him medically examined and he was sent to the Institute of Psychiatry and Human Behaviour (IPHB) in Bambolim, Goa on doctor’s advice. No case has been registered against him so far,” Singh said.During the initial investigation, the police found that the man had been under treatment for schizophrenia for the past three years.“We contacted his family members, who told us that he had been staying alone for past few months. They said he had studied business administration after which he slipped into depression and is being treated for schizophrenia. They also said that he had stopped taking his medicines recently..,” said a south Goa police officer who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scare-on-delhi-goa-flight-over-terrorists-on-board/story-fDnQLNSJxtO8Budqer3SYL.html
24-10-2020||India||Parliamentary panel quizzes Facebook on its revenue, profit, tax payouts in India||A parliamentary panel on Friday quizzed social media giant Facebook about the quantum of their revenue, profit and tax payouts in India and asked what portion of their earnings were being used for data security in the country, sources said. Facebook India’s policy head Ankhi Das appeared before the Joint Committee of Parliament on Data Protection Bill, 2019 chaired by BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi. She was questioned for two hours and asked some tough and searching questions by the panel members from across the political spectrum, sources said. During the meeting, a member suggested that the social media platform should not draw inferences from the data of its users for commercial benefit of its advertisers or for electoral purposes, they said. The MPs also sought to know the revenue Facebook generates from India and what percentage of the revenue is spent on safeguards for data protection, sources told PTI. India is the biggest market for Facebook in terms of its users. The panel also asked how much tax the social media giant pays in India, they said. During the meeting, concerns were also raised about the allegations that majority of the employees of the social media giant in the United States were inclined towards one specific political party of the country. Meawhile, Facebook said that the data protection law has potential to propel the country’s digital economy and global digital trade. “We deeply appreciate the opportunity to discuss data regulation issues with the Hon’ble Members of Joint Committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill. We believe that India’s data protection law has the potential to propel the country’s digital economy and global digital trade, and we wholeheartedly support this effort,” a company spokesperson said. Last month, Facebook India head Ajit Mohan had appeared before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology headed by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, on the alleged misuse of social media platforms. The panel had called Facebook to hear about a report published in the Wall Street Journal claiming that the social media platform ignored applying its hate-speech rules in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-quizzes-facebook-on-its-revenue-profit-tax-payouts-in-india/story-9eJpAnlEapLPdwoA1SuudM.html
24-10-2020||India||Punjab bills offer little on ground||Three out of four bills passed by the Congress-led Punjab government on October 20 to negate contentious central legislations on how farmers do business are unlikely to invalidate the laws already passed by Parliament, and amount to not much more than a political message at this stage, analysts say. Last month, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government signed into law three bills amid protests by farmers groups -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020. The laws allow agribusiness to freely trade farm produce, permit private traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales, and lay down new rules for contract farming. A crucial change is that traders, agribusinesses and supermarkets can buy produce from any market, rather than buy only in notified markets where they are licenced to operate. These rules have frightened some farmers, who fear that the reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers growers an assured price, and leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before. The Punjab government has brought three parallel laws, which say that none of the central legislations will apply to Punjab. A fourth bill, The Code of Civil Procedure (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020, is unrelated to the Centre’s reforms. It seeks to exempt agricultural land of small farmers, not exceeding 2.5 acre, from Section 60 of The Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. With this, banks won’t be able to auction land of small farmers who default on farm loans to recover dues. The three Punjab bills are not laws yet, and require the assent of the Governor, which he is unlikely to give. The Governor has three options, according to Subhash Kashyap, former secretary general of the Lok Sabha. If the Governor doesn’t give his assent, he can withhold the bills indefinitely. “There is no time frame by which the Governor must take any action [on the bills],” Kashyap said. The Governor can also send the bill for the President’s “consideration”, which means these bills will be vetted by the law ministry to see if they violate any central laws or constitutional provisions. “More Congress-ruled states may follow suit [in passing counter-bills], but given the politics around the issue, it is extremely unlikely that any governor will give assent to these bills. This reminds one of former President Giani Zail Singh, who withheld bills, such as the Postal Bill, indefinitely,” Kashyap saidFarmers organisations say the bills offer nothing substantial. “The Punjab bills fail to conceptually counter the imposition and facilitation of corporatisation of our farming systems; in fact they validate the concept,” said Avik Saha, the convener of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, spearheading the farmers’ protests. Let’s look at the specific provisions of the three bills. The Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020 seeks to amend to Sections 1(2), 19 and 20 of the Centre’s Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, apart from adding three new Sections, namely 4, 6 to 11. The bill’s preface lays down the context. It says “the direct consequence of this central Act would be to introduce several other infirmities and distortions operating to the grave detriment and prejudice of agriculture and communities associated with it…”The bill has 11 provisions. Notably, Section 2(1)(b) gives legal protection to MSPs but only to wheat and paddy. It also prescribes punishment of three years in prison in case any trader “compels or exerts” pressure on farmers to sell below MSP. “This is not a full victory because farmers still haven’t got anything in hand. It is a victory of principles,” said Yogendra Yadav, national president of Swaraj India. Farmers, anyway, are offered MSPs for rice and wheat under the present system and it will be difficult to prove that a farmer has been compelled to sell below MSP. “What the Amarinder Singh government could have done, had it wanted, is to give a legal backing for all 23 commodities to say that if these commodities are sold below MSP, the government would start procuring these commodities at MSP,” Yadav said. Therefore, by limiting the legal right to MSP to rice and wheat, the bill offers nothing new. If the Centre withdraws MSP for rice and wheat, the bill has nothing to state that the MSP will be borne by the Punjab government. The second bill, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020, seeks to amend Sections 1(2), 14 and 15 of the Centre’s Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020. It brings the whole of Punjab under the ambit of the Punjab Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act and states that Punjab government reserves the right to levy fees in any market, including those set up outside the APMC. The Centre had passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 to take out a host of items, such as pulses, potato, onion, etc, from the purview of the Act to allow traders to build up stocks for future sales. To counter this, the Punjab government passed the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020 and amended section 1(2) and section 3(1A) of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 to maintain “status quo ante as on June 4, 2020”. It further states that the Punjab government reserves the right to impose stock limits and decide which commodities will qualify to be categorised as essential. “We have passed the bills to check the shortcomings in the farm laws enacted by Parliament last month. We have done our best to address the concerns of farmers and other stakeholders. However, we understand these bills require assent from the President to take shape of laws, and we are not very sure about that. We may have to approach the Supreme Court to implement the bills passed by the state assembly,” Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Punjab’s food and civil supplies minister, said.Other states are likely to follow the Punjab model, but experts say it may not lead to much.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-bills-offer-little-on-ground/story-v9q9diTe0BZES4HL0wpTrI.html
24-10-2020||India||HC grants Sivasankar protection from arrest||The Kerala high court on Friday refrained the Enforcement Directorate and Customs from arresting chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former secretary M Sivasankar till it takes a final decision on his anticipatory bail petition on October 28 in the gold smuggling case, even as the two central agencies opposed his bail plea.The ED alleged the senior IAS officer was aware of the smuggling activities of the main accused in the case, Swapna Suresh, a former United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate employee. There were also attempts to bail her out after the gold — hidden in a bag camouflaged as a diplomatic baggage of the UAE consulate in the state capital — was seized. He also helped the main accused in money laundering, the probe agency said. The Customs argued that a person served notice under section 108 of the Customs Act — which gives the agency power to summon a person to give evidence and produce documents — cannot move an application for anticipatory bail. It also alleged that Sivasankar pretended to be ill last week and got himself admitted to two hospitals to avoid being grilled by the probe team. This is the first time that both the agencies pointed to Sivasankar’s direct role in the alleged smuggling case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-grants-sivasankar-protection-from-arrest/story-jlXExZ7wlXrc7cNXBBD0dI.html
24-10-2020||India||Navy tests anti-ship missile from corvette||Amid the ongoing border tension with China, the Indian Navy on Friday released two short videos to demonstrate its combat readiness on the high seas, with the images showing a frontline corvette launching an anti-ship missile and sinking the target vessel with precision. The anti-ship missile, an Uran, was launched from INS Prabal to knock off the target warship in the Arabian Sea, officials familiar with the developments said. “AShM (anti-ship missile) launched by #IndianNavy Missile Corvette #INSPrabal, homes on with deadly accuracy at max range, sinking target ship. #StrikeFirst #StrikeHard #StrikeSure,” the Indian Navy tweeted along with the 15-second video clip showing the missile being launched. The second clip showed the target sinking after being hit.The navy did not reveal when the missile firing took place but officials said the images were from earlier this week. INS Prabal is deployed in the Arabian Sea along with a raft of warships, including aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, and other assets of the navy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-tests-anti-ship-missile-from-corvette/story-tEi3blcEt90695greI4WJJ.html
24-10-2020||India||‘Extremely sorry state’: Court after Goa says no lab to test seized narcotics||Peeved by his continued incarceration and denial of bail despite the drugs he was accused of possessing not even being tested by the laboratories that the Goa Police relies on, Nigerian national Michael Okafor has approached the Bombay High Court’s Goa bench, seeking to direct the state to operationalise the state’s forensic laboratory. It was set up back in 2013.Agreeing with the petition, the Bombay High Court’s Goa bench has pulled up the Goa government for the “sorry state of affairs”, which it said affected “the rights of the accused persons to speedy trial, which is one of the facets of Article 21 of the Constitution of India”.“The laboratory was to be operational in Goa in 2013. At present the laboratory can only test for ganja and charas. A majority of substances that are usually seized by the Goa police in narcotics raids include Ecstasy, LSD, MDMA and cocaine. They cannot be tested in the state and samples are sent to the CFSL Laboratory in Hyderabad and it takes more than a year to receive the report,” advocate K Poulekar, who argued the case for the Nigerian, said.“Given these delays the trial takes four to five years to complete which is around half the sentence. And if they are acquitted after the trial, who will give them their life back?” Poulekar said.Okafor was arrested on October 19 last year with substances suspected to be LSD of a quantity little less than one gram. The high court took serious cognisance of the repeated delays in setting up the laboratory.“It is quite unfortunate that though the NDPS Act came into force in 1985 and there are several prosecutions launched under this Act in the state of Goa, till date there are no proper facilities for testing the seized materials. As a result, the prosecutions are delayed, the suspects by default are released on bail, and then flee from justice.“Thus the very operation of the NDPS Act is frustrated on account of non availability of proper facilities in the state of Goa itself. This is an extremely sorry state which should have been redressed by the authorities with greater sense of urgency and responsibility,” the High Court bench of Justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar said.It is high time that some effective steps are taken by the state government to set up a full fledged laboratory in Goa itself, where such drugs and psychotropic substances can be tested within a reasonable period, the court said.The High Court has also hinted that they delay in operationalising the lab could be deliberate in order to enable the accused persons to avail of ‘default bail’, citing the long delays in receiving lab reports.“There is absolutely no explanation as to why since the establishment of the GFSL in 2013, no efforts were made to procure the standard samples all this time. There is no explanation as to why procurement of such standard samples which, we were informed would cost the state government an amount hardly Rs 25 lakh or thereabouts took so long and still taking so long. For the present at least, we would not like to accept that this delay is deliberate and for extraneous considerations. However, if such a position continues, further probes will become necessary,” the high court said.The court directed the government to make the lab operational within a period of three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extremely-sorry-state-court-after-goa-says-no-lab-to-test-seized-narcotics/story-5qg08mB5wAD5QKfjub0cxK.html
24-10-2020||India||DU V-C role in focus as DU staffing row simmers||A day after the Union education ministry disregarded Delhi University (DU) vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi’s appointments to the posts of pro-vice chancellor, registrar, and director of South Campus, PC Jha, the removed registrar who was backed by Tyagi, claimed the V-C’s decisions were in compliance with the DU Act. In a letter addressed to Birendra Kumar Singh, deputy secretary in the ministry of education on Thursday, Jha wrote, “It is informed that PC Jha, in addition to his responsibilities as director of South Campus, is acting as registrar as an interim arrangement and Geeta Bhatt has been appointed as pro vice-chancellor in place of PC Joshi. The honourable vice-chancellor, professor Yogesh K Tyagi, has taken [the] decision in due compliance with the Act, Statutes, and Ordinances of Delhi University,” The ministry had on Thursday said Tyagi’s orders during his leave of absence on medical grounds were not valid. The ministry also acknowledged Vikas Gupta, who appointed by acting V-C Joshi as the registrar, and said that if Tyagi wanted to join office, he must submit a proper medical fitness certificate High-voltage drama has been unfolding at the university since Tuesday with two factions of the university supporting two registrars, two pro-vice chancellors, and two directors of South Campus, resulting in an executive council meeting that cleared Gupta’s appointment as the new registrar being questioned. On Friday, Gupta visited the Viceregal Lodge at DU and met Jha, who is “working” from the V-C’s office. “We wanted the rooms of the pro-VC and registrar to be unlocked. The ministry has already issued the orders, we only wanted these directions to be implemented. But they were reluctant and maintained they are appointed by the vice-chancellor,” Gupta said. Referring to Friday’s meeting, Jha said, “Gupta and I spoke cordially. He asked how we could resolve the ongoing deadlock and we conveyed that he should speak to the vice-chancellor, who has the only authority on the matter. The offices have been sealed as per V-C ‘s orders, who has asked us to work from his office. Whenever the vice-chancellor asks us to hand over the office, we will.” The Viceregal Lodge houses the office of the DU vice-chancellor along with other executive officials of the varsity, including the registrar and pro-vice chancellor. The offices of the registrar and pro-VC have been locked for two days as per directions of the VC, Jha said.Despite repeated attempts, pro-V-C Joshi and removed pro-V-C Bhatt, did not comment on the matter. Meanwhile, Suneet Kashyap, joint officer on special duty (OSD) at the V-C office, wrote to Sanjeev Singh, director at DU computer centre, alleging that password of the official email of the pro-VC had been changed.“The password of the official email of the pro vice-chancellor of university of Delhi was changed on the night of October 22, 2020 and had become inaccessible to the present pro vice-chancellor Geeta Bhatt. You are directed to immediately convey the password of official email ID to present pro vice-chancellor,” Kashyap wrote. Some senior officials claimed Tyagi had already joined work when Jha was appointed as interim registrar and Bhatt as pro-VC. “The vice-chancellor had sent an e-mail to secretary, higher education and other officials on October 19, saying he would like to attend the meeting on Evidence of the Parliamentary Committee on the Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes scheduled on October 20 via video link. Why would he do so if he wasn’t working?” a senior DU official said.But former executive council member AK Bhagi, said, “In August, the ministry had sent a letter, saying Joshi would be in charge of all duties and appointments till the vice-chancellor joined office. It was mentioned in the letter that the VC would have to inform the ministry when he joined his office. This is not possible that a person can be on leave and discharge his duties simultaneously.” According to government official in the know of the developments, there were serious concerns about the leadership of the vice-chancellor as recruitments had been slow during his tenure and issues such as the recent spat raised questions. The slow pace of recruitment had come up before a parliamentary panel, the official said.“There has been concern about his health and whether he can perform the key role if he is not fully well. It is learnt that the vice-chancellor has not attended his office for a long time. These issues were discussed and there is a serious concern and in the ministry on these aspects. A suitable course of effective action will be taken,” the official quoted above said. Attempts were made to contact the vice-chancellor to get a response but he did not respond to calls or messages.The ministry can possibly approach President Ram Nath Kovind, who as visitor can appoint or remove the heads of central universities, with the concerns. The ministry is considering all aspects, said another official when contacted, without elaborating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/du-v-c-role-in-focus-as-du-staffing-row-simmers/story-REJK4dqhhhmpPI32JHXKDL.html
24-10-2020||India||Won’t hoist tricolour until J&K flag is allowed: Mehbooba Mufti||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Friday said members of her party would not raise the Indian tricolour unless they are allowed to raise the flag of Jammu & Kashmir , the right to which had been conferred on the erstwhile state by the now-defunct Article 370 of the Constitution.In her first interaction with the media after her release from 14 months in detention, Mufti said she had no interest in fighting elections unless the special status of Jammu & Kashmir is restored. Flanked by three senior party leaders, the PDP president placed the party flag and the flag of the former state on a table in front of her.Mufti said the relationship of J&K with the national tricolour was not independent of the erstwhile state flag. Pointing towards the flag in front of her, she said: “When this flag comes in our hand, we will also raise that (Indian) flag as well.”Mufti said J&K’s flag had been taken away by “dacoits.”Also watch| ‘Will raise tricolour when...’: Ex-J&K CM Mufti’s fresh attack on Centre “They themselves desecrated the Constitution...What do they expect from us? Our flag is this {pointing towards the erstwhile J&K flag} and our relations with the country’s flag have been established by this flag,” she said.On August 5, 2019, the state was divested of its special status and limited autonomy with the nullification of Article 370 by Parliament, which approved constitutional changes proposed by the government. The state was bifurcated into two Union Territories -- Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh -- with effect from October 31. In the early hours of August 5, hundreds of political leaders and workers -- including three former chief ministers Mufti, Omar Abdullah and his father Farooq Abdullah -- were detained. The Abdullahs were released in March this year, and Mufti was freed in the second week of October.Since then, the leaders have come together -- along with four other parties in Kashmir -- to forge an informal alliance that aims to work for the restoration of the region’s special status.Roughly two weeks ago, Farooq Abdullah stoked a controversy in a television interview when he wished for the restoration of Article 370 with the help of China, which opposed the reorganisation of the region.The government has promised that the Union Territory of J&K will have its own elected legislature, but the PDP president said that she was not interested in contesting elections.“Let me tell you, I have no interest in elections unless what has been taken from us is returned. Unless the Constitution under which we used to contest elections is returned, I won’t take part in elections,” Mufti said.She added that the central government had desecrated the Constitution of India to push the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) manifesto promise of doing away with Article 370. “It was the Indian Constitution that had safeguarded our special status and gave the powers to the constituent assembly of J&K whether to keep the special status or do away with it. It was J&K’s constituent assembly which had decided to keep this special provision,” she said.“After revocation of Article 370, they brought many laws into J&K only to provoke people. The people of J&K are expendable for them.”Addressing the national leadership, she said: “I want to tell people in Delhi you can’t forget Kashmir problem. It’s there and you can’t close your eyes.”Reacting sharply to Mehbooba’s statement over “not raising tricolour”, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said that “the so-called politicians of Kashmir sometimes tend to be more dangerous than apparently identified separatists.”“Mehbooba Mufti claims to be a mainstream politician but she has reservations in carrying the tricolour. We have maintained for last several years that Kashmir’s so-called politicians sometimes tend to be more dangerous than apparently identified separatists,” the Union Minister told news agency ANI.Mufti went on to say that her role will not be restricted to the restoration of Article 370, it will go beyond it. “About the final resolution of the Kashmir dispute, we will perform whatever is our role,” she said, adding that young Kashmiris had paid with their lives for the cause of the erstwhile state.“It’s time for political leaders to give their blood. The fight is not just mine or any particular party’s or of the alliance [of local political parties] alone. We request people to unite with us” .Mufti called it a political fight that will be fought peacefully. “They say you can buy land in J&K; we’ve abrogated Article 370. Then they said they will give free vaccines. Today, PM Modi had to speak of Article 370 for votes. This government has failed to solve the issues of this nation,” she said. Political expert and retired professor of law who formerly taught at Central University of Kashmir, Sheikh Showkat Hussain said, “ Now whatever be her [Mehbooba] posture, ordinary Kashmiris remain sckeptical unless those who talk of Gupkar Declaration prove their credibility and seriousness relating to the restoration of the pre August 2019 amendments, “ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-hoist-tricolour-until-j-k-flag-is-allowed-mufti/story-z86NFMMw1ZGjOrmtCqVLAO.html
24-10-2020||India||India, US may discuss LAC row at 2+2 meet||The military standoff in the Ladakh sector between India and China is set to be on the agenda of the India-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue to be held in New Delhi next week, a top American diplomat said. The two sides are also finalising their discussions on several agreements, including the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA), ahead of the meeting between the defence and foreign ministers of the two sides, principal deputy assistant secretary for South Asian affairs Dean Thompson said at a briefing early on Friday. “Certainly, I think the situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) will... probably be discussed at some point, and we’re watching the situation closely. I think both sides have expressed a desire to de-escalate violence,” Thompson said during the briefing that he addressed along with assistant secretary for East Asian and Pacific affairs David Stilwell. Asked whether BECA, which will facilitate sharing of classified satellite and sensor data, and other agreements will be signed during the 2+2 meeting on October 27, Thompson replied: “We’re in the process of finalising a lot of the discussions right now, and so I know that BECA and other agreements are in the works. “I’m not going to, I think, commit to anything right this minute, but we do expect to have several items highlighted as we go through the trip.” It is widely expected that BECA, described as one of four foundational agreements for sharing of sensitive information and logistics and sales of advanced military hardware, will be signed during the 2+2 meeting. External affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh will meet their American counterparts Mike Pompeo and Mark Esper for the third edition of the dialogue that will consolidate diplomatic and security ties, including institutionalised intelligence-sharing and efforts to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific.Thompson said: “The 2+2 format is reserved for our closest friends and partners and reflects our belief that the US and India are stronger, more secure and more prosperous when we work together. The 2+2 discussions will focus on global cooperation, on pandemic response, and challenges in the Indo-Pacific, economic, space and energy collaboration, people-to-people ties, and defence and security cooperation.” In all his meetings in New Delhi, Pompeo will look for “opportunities to expand the US-India partnership in support of our mutual interests during these challenging times”, Thompson added. Pompeo and Esper will also meet national security adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The India-China standoff in Ladakh sector has entered its sixth month and tens of thousands of troops mobilised by both sides are now set to remain deployed along the LAC through the harsh winter. Military commanders of the two sides are expected to hold another round of talks by next week to try and take forward the stalled disengagement and de-escalation process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-may-discuss-lac-row-at-2-2-meet/story-l2b6nUPRIVJiKdg2eI0YsK.html
24-10-2020||India||China builds new structures near LAC, relocates troops. India reads a message||Even as India and China discuss disengagement from friction points in Ladakh at the military-diplomatic talks, the People’s Liberation Army is constructing new structures and relocating troops and equipment to occupied Aksai Chin in Tibet as well as Xinjiang with no intention of backing off from the 1,597 km of Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh at least this winter.Senior military officials said they had noticed construction of a huge structure spread across 3 lakh square feet - almost the size of four football fields - has been noticed around 10 kilometres from the LAC in occupied Aksai Chin across Gogra-Hot Springs area.According to a retired army chief, the humongous facility could be used for housing troops, artillery, rocket regiments and tanks as the barrels of tanks and guns are known to freeze and go brittle in sub-polar conditions. Given that the structure is very close to the LAC, it could also be used for setting up hospital facilities to treat PLA troops suffering from acute mountain sickness and high-altitude pulmonary edema. Both can prove fatal if not treated properly.New deployment of vehicles and equipment under camouflage has also been picked up in Xinjiang, 82 kilometres from the LAC.The Indian side has also spotted relocation of troops and equipment around a PLA camp 92 kilometres inside Aksai Chin and movement of a large number of PLA vehicles in the Tibet region across Ladakh’s Demchok. It is also very clear that PLA intelligence is watching the Galwan region and the Kongka La area from positions 8 to 20 km from the LAC in Aksai Chin.The PLA is building a new road between Hotan and Kanxiwar in Xinjiang, some 166 km from the India-China border to provide an alternative route to Aksai Chin for the troops and equipment. The Chinese air supplies for the LAC stand-off are getting dropped off at the Hotan air base, 320 km from LAC as the crow flies, through Y-20 planes, widely acknowledged to be a copy of Russian IL-76 transport aircraft.The PLA activity is not limited to Ladakh. Some 60 km from the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh, people familiar with the matter said, counter-space jammers had been deployed to ensure that PLA activity is not picked up by an adversary through satellites. It is understood that PLA has deployed Russian S-400 missile systems in depth areas around Nyingchi city across Arunachal Pradesh to cater to any aerial threat.The net assessment of PLA posture is that China is consolidating its positions with bases and storage depots being set up in Golmud, which is connected to Lhasa through trains with a dual use airport used for both civilian and military purposes in Qinghai province.While Beijing says that it is committed to disengagement and de-escalation from the Ladakh LAC as agreed upon by foreign ministers S Jaishankar and Wang Yi in Moscow on September 10, the PLA is apparently showing no sign or desire to adhere to the commitment.As a result of China’s reluctance to take a step back, the Indian Army has been on alert with its troops proactively patrolling within its limits with the XIV Corps Command taken over by Lt Gen PGK Menon of the Sikh Regiment. With snow ready to fall in contested points on Gorga-Hot Springs, North and South Pangong Tso, it will be a long winter for the deployed troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-spots-movement-across-lac-china-is-building-new-structures-relocating-troops/story-DIe6zUzawUyTwEBrakZ45K.html
24-10-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti gets back to work, holds first meeting of PDP after release from detention||Peoples’ Democratic party (PDP) leader and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti held her first party meeting in Srinagar on Thursday nine days after her release from a 14-month detention on October 13.The meeting was held at the Fairveiw Guest House, her official accommodation and was attended by top PDP leaders including former ministers and legislators. Thursday’s meeting was significant as the PDP president is now trying to revive her party especially after dozens of former legislators and ministers left to join the Apni Party led by former PDP minister Altaf Bukhari. “It was an important meeting in which the party president reviewed the political situation of the last 14 months. The leadership also discussed the party’s core politics and organisational issues,” said a senior party leader who attended the meeting.Also watch| ‘Will raise tricolour when...’: Ex-J&K CM Mufti’s fresh attack on Centre Another PDP leader said that many issues related to Kashmir politics were discussed in the meeting. “It was after more than one year when the party president was able to meet the party leadership and everyone felt encouraged by her presence.”PDP leaders said that Mufti assured them that the party would emerge as a strong political force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-gets-back-to-work-holds-first-meeting-of-pdp-after-release-from-detention/story-reTe8OBaCk3iBWIgBNYCvM.html
