25-10-2020||India||Govt to revamp system for monitoring NGOs||The social justice ministry has reshuffled 30 key officials and is revamping the system of monitoring non-government organisations (NGOs) that receive financial grants by introducing social audits after surprise inspections threw up evidence of misuse of public funds by entities claiming to be working for the benefit of the underprivileged, senior citizens and drug addicts.According to an order issued by the ministry on Monday, accessed by Hindustan Times, the officials up to the rank of undersecretary have been transferred from their positions. Most of them dealt were in departments that provided support and monitored the work of NGOs that claimed to be providing free coaching to poor students, working for the welfare of senior citizens and upliftment of weaker sections.The move came days after surprise checks by senior government officials, aided by recent graduates of institutions like Delhi University, Tata Institute of Social Sciences and Indian Institutes of Technology, produced evidence of vast discrepancies between the claims of many organizations that received substantial government grants.Based on these checks, the ministry has initiated the process of blacklisting around 150 such organizations. A senior government official, who didn’t want to be named, confirmed that the bureaucratic reshuffle in the social justice ministry was linked to the inspections, which showed that public funds were often not reaching the intended beneficiaries.Nearly 130 or 19 % of the 700 organizations surveyed in the exercise were either non-functional, had violated regulatory norms, did not maintain records or simply could not justify the government grants they sought or had received.A drug de-addiction centres in Sangareddy district of Telangana didn’t keep a record of visits by doctors. Local residents had no idea of the services provided by the centre.Another organization in Mahisagar in Gujarat had received a grant, but hadn’t started any work; it was yet to decide on the location of the centre it wanted to set up.Many organizations were found to be charging high fees for their services.An organization that claimed to run a residential school was found to have only three rooms for accommodating 100 students. In Chamba in Himachal Pradesh, a senior citizens’ home had only two inmates at the time of inspection.On average, each of these institutions received grants of Rs 25 lakh a year.R Subrahmanyam, secretary to the ministry of social justice, confirmed that the ministry was now working on a tighter monitoring system. It is in line with the government’s focus on greater transparency and accountability, the top social justice ministry official said.Social audit units of the rural development ministry will be requested to create a social justice cell. The services of these trained auditors will be used at the district levels for up to six days a month to ensure the money NGOs receive from the ministry isn’t being misused.Auditors of the social justice cell would be trained by the National Institute of Social Defence (NISD). The social justice ministry is planning a pilot project in five states: -- Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Meghalaya and Maharashtra. A Social Audit Advisory Body (SAAB) will be set up to guide these projects||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-revamp-system-for-monitoring-ngos/story-PXHrIFv6jCJGNv7zyO9sAL.html
25-10-2020||India||Smart makeover on the cards for House canteen from Nov 15||India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC), which will start running the Parliament canteen on November 15, plans to hire a celebrity chef as it seeks to improve the quality and expand the varieties of food on offer for MPs, officials familiar with the plan said. ITDC has already zeroed in on a chef who has worked with the President of India for five years and is internationally recognized to oversee the culinary operations of the canteen. Officials did not disclose the chef’s identity. The Lok Sabha secretariat has they approve the plans drawn up by the state-run hotel chain, including the price list.“There will be a gradual change in the service,” said an official on condition of anonymity. “We will start operations with around 125, 150 people.” Initially, because of the Covid-19 outbreak, ITDC will limit itself to serving tea, coffee, kadha (a herbal concoction) and packaged snacks such as salted savories and biscuits. Full operations are likely to start only around the next budget session. An increase of merely Rs. 5 is also expected in the prices, officials added. “It is a major banqueting operation,” said the official mentioned above. “The sweeping changes will be in the service done for sit-down meeting, such as that of the Prime Minister with the council of ministers, joint parliamentary committee meetings, conferences and hosting of foreign delegations.” At present, the corporation is looking to upgrade the cutlery and the crockery, and improve the kitchens to match five-star hotel standards, said a second official. “There will be three primary canteens, Parliament, Parliament annexe and the library,” this official said.  Parliament and ITDC have already signed a memorandum of understanding relating to the improvement in food quality and are expected to finalize an agreement soon. When full operations resume, the workforce is expected to be around 250-strong; the workers will be hired over a period of time. “The basic aspects will likely stay the same,” said the first official. “We have to wait and see what all the secretariat approves. But we would like to offer them a wide variety of teas, coffees, cappuccinos, decafs.” The house last week ended its more than 50-year-old association with Northern Railways that had been overseeing catering n the Parliament House complex since 1968. The staff deployed by Northern Railways has been asked to report back to their department by November 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smart-makeover-on-the-cards-for-house-canteen-from-nov-15/story-piIe1BJGUOZUo8WcRP4IzL.html
25-10-2020||India||‘No place for arrogance, breaking of promises in a ruler’s life’: Sonia Gandhi’s Dussehra message||Vijaya Dashami’s biggest message is that people are paramount in governance and there is no place for arrogance, falsehood and breaking of promises in a ruler’s life, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said on Sunday while greeting people on Dussehra.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also greeted people on the occasion, saying truth ultimately triumphs.In her message on Dussehra, Sonia Gandhi extended good wishes to all.A symbol of victory of justice over injustice, truth over falsehood and prudence over arrogance, Dussehra, after nine days of worship, also brings with it a new resolve and a vow to fulfil duties in any situation, she said.“Public is paramount in governance and there is no place for arrogance, falsehood and breaking of promises in a ruler’s life. This is the biggest message of Vijaya Dashami,” Sonia Gandhi said.The Congress president hoped that this Dussehra will not only bring happiness, peace and prosperity in everyone’s life but also strengthen harmony and cultural values ​​among people.She also appealed to people on this occasion to protect themselves from the coronavirus during festivals and to follow all Covid-19 guidelines.Several senior Congress leaders, including general secretary organization K C Venugopal, chief party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, extended greetings to people on Dussehra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-place-for-arrogance-breaking-of-promises-in-a-ruler-s-life-sonia-gandhi-s-dussehra-message/story-ztlfl2pNsFYGIX2EhGrWTI.html
25-10-2020||India||PM Modi to interact with CEOs of leading oil, gas companies on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the annual India Energy Forum by CERAWeek on Monday and interact with chief executives of leading global oil and gas companies in the annual event organised by NITI Aayog and ministry of petroleum and natural gas.“The objective behind the meeting is to deliver a global platform to understand best-practices, discuss reforms, and inform strategies for accelerating investments into the Indian Oil and Gas value chain. The event also grows in stature with the rise of India, the world’s third-largest energy consumer, which is likely to see over USD 300 billion investment by 2030 in the Oil & Gas sector to meet rising demand,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has said in a statement.Here’s everything you need to know about the event:1. The event, which is being hosted by IHS Markit, will convene an international group of speakers and a community of more than a thousand delegates from India and over 30 countries, including dignitaries from regional energy companies, energy-related industries, institutions and governments.2. This is the fifth such event organised by NITI Aayog and ministry of petroleum and natural gas. Around 45-50 global CEOs of major oil and gas companies will attend the event this year. NITI Aayog initiated the first roundtable of global oil and gas CEOs with the Prime Minister in 2016.3. Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan will make opening remarks which will be followed by a comprehensive presentation giving an overview of the oil and gas sector, and explaining the ambition and opportunities in the sector in India. After this will follow an interaction session with global CEOs and experts.4. Featured speakers include US secretary of energy Dan Brouillette, secretary general of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo; Saudi Arabia’s minister of energy Abdulaziz bin Salman Al Saud; BP’s group chief executive Bernard Looney; chairman and CEO of TOTAL SA Patrick Pouyanné; president and group CEO of Petronas Tengku Muhammad Taufik; Reliance Industries Limited chairman and managing director Mukesh Ambani and president and CEO of Tellurian Inc Meg Gentle.5. Key topics that will be explored include:Impact of the pandemic on India’s future energy demandSecuring supplies for India’s economic growthWhat do energy transition and the climate agenda mean for India?Natural gas in India’s energy mix: What’s the path?Refining and petrochemicals: Strategies midst surplusThe pace of innovation: Biofuel, hydrogen, CCS, electric vehicles and digital transformationMarket and regulatory reform: What is ahead?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-ceos-of-leading-oil-gas-companies-on-monday/story-TQQbTmpU4eVeOhd5Gz50iK.html
25-10-2020||India||Nine more Covid-19 patients die in Uttarakhand, state tally climbs to 60,376||With 221 new Covid-19 cases, the total tally of coronavirus infections in Uttarakhand touched 60,376 on Sunday. The state reported the death of nine Covid-19 patients. Of these 9 deaths, two were due to coronavirus while the rest were due to co-morbidities. With this, the death toll of Covid-19 positive patients has increased to 993 in Uttarakhand. Out of the 993 deaths, 261 were due to coronavirus, while the others died due to co-morbidities. Out of 60,376 people who have tested positive so far, a total of 54,488 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 90.25%. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 6.34%. Also, 319 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Sunday with a maximum of 106 from Dehradun district. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Sunday evening, of 221 fresh cases, the maximum of 89 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district. The new cases reported from other districts included Bageshwar (1), Chamoli (13), Champawat (8), Haridwar (30), Nainital (21), Pauri Garhwal (13), Pithoragarh (1), Rudraprayag (22), Tehri Garhwal (6), US Nagar (8) and Uttarkashi (9). Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum of 16,764 Covid-19 positive cases followed by Haridwar (10,822), US Nagar (9,372) and Nainital (7,097). The state has so far tested over 9.8 lakh samples of which results of over 16,800 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 57 containment zones in six districts including a maximum of 26 in Dehradun district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-more-covid-19-patients-die-in-uttarakhand-state-tally-climbs-to-60-376/story-BZ5H7biDfk1BsoAXXkiXZM.html
25-10-2020||India||Want peace but won’t cede an inch: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said India wants an end to the border tension with China in eastern Ladakh, but at the same time asserted that Indian soldiers will never allow even an inch of the country to be taken away by anyone.The defence minister made the remarks after performing “Shastra Puja” — the customary worship of weapons — at the Sukna-based headquarters of the Indian Army’s 33 Corps in Darjeeling district of West Bengal on the occasion of Dussehra.The defence minister was scheduled to perform the puja at Sherathang, a high-altitude border area near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China in Sikkim, but could not go there due to inclement weather, officials said.“India wants an end to the ongoing border tension with China and restoration of peace. This is our objective. But at times, some nefarious incidents keep happening. I am very confident that our soldiers will never allow even an inch of our land to be taken away by anyone,” Singh said after the ceremonyChief of Army Staff General MM Naravane and several senior officers of the Indian Army were present on the occasion at the key military base, which is responsible for guarding the LAC in the Sikkim sector.After performing the puja, Singh inaugurated a new road in Sikkim through a video-conference from Sukna.“I can say with confidence and on the basis of concrete information that the courage and deeds of Indian soldiers during whatever has happened at the India-China border in Ladakh recently will be written in golden letters by the historians,” the minister said without elaborating.Twenty Indian soldiers laid down their lives while valiantly fighting a group of Chinese troops in the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15, an incident that had significantly escalated the border tension between the two countries.China is yet to disclose the number of its soldiers killed and injured in the clash, though it has officially admitted to have suffered casualties. According to Indian officials, China suffered “heavy casualties” in the incident.Indian troops also occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rezang La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank of the Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh, after the Chinese military attempted to intimidate them in the area on the intervening night of August 29 and 30.Both sides held a series of diplomatic and military talks to resolve the row that began on May 5, following a violent clash in eastern Ladakh. However, no breakthrough has been achieved to end the standoff.The defence minister’s “Shastra Puja” at the strategically important military base was a message to India’s adversaries, a military official said.Singh has been performing “Shastra Puja” during Dussehra for the last several years, including during his tenure as the Union home minister in the previous National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government.Almost all formations of the Indian Army along the LAC are on a very high level of alert in view of the border row with China in eastern Ladakh.The defence minister arrived at the Sukna-based headquarters of the 33 Corps on Saturday.In an address to a group of soldiers at the base on Saturday evening, Singh said India always tried to maintain good relations with its neighbours, but situations arose from time to time when its armed forces had to make supreme sacrifices to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country.The defence minister also reviewed the combat preparedness of the army during a high-level meeting at the military base.The army has significantly bolstered deployment of troops and weaponry along the nearly 3,500-km-long LAC, including in the Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-peace-but-won-t-cede-an-inch-rajnath-singh/story-FORJIBdsvjsBrHtlHqAuNI.html
25-10-2020||India||‘Character assassination of Maharashtra’s sons’: Uddhav Thackeray speaks about Sushant Singh Rajput’s death||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday took a veiled dig at actor Kangana Ranaut over the controversy after Sushant Singh Rajput’s death without naming her and said those who hate Maharashtra have left no stone unturned to defame the state.This is the first time Uddhav Thackeray has spoken about the controversies surrounding Rajput’s death that targeted his son Aaditya Thackeray and actor Rhea Chakraborty among others. “Those crying for justice for Bihar’s son are indulging in character assassination of Maharashtra’s sons,” Thackeray said as he broke his silence on allegations against Aaditya Thackeray.The Shiv Sena chief was speaking at his party’s annual Dussehra rally at the Savarkar hall in Dadar area of Mumbai due to the coronavirus norms instead of the usual venue of Shivaji Park.Thackeray said some people come to Mumbai for bread and butter and abuse the city by calling it Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) but did not name Kangana Ranaut. “People who have no means of livelihood in their home come to Mumbai and betray it. Calling Mumbai as PoK is in fact the failure of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He had said he would get back PoK into India,” Thackeray said.Ranaut had kicked up a controversy after she compared Mumbai with PoK in September. Ranaut’s comment was in response to a remark by Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, asking her not to come back to the city after she claimed she felt unsafe here. She had also made objectionable comments against the Mumbai Police.Also read | ‘Our Hindutva is not clanging bells, utensils,’ says Uddhav Thackeray in Dussehra speechAfter Rajput’s death on June 14, Thackeray’s Shiv Sena-led coalition government was criticised by the Bharatiya Janata Party as well and Ranaut over the handling of the case by Mumbai Police. Mumbai Police, which initially probed Rajput’s death, said it was a case of suicide. However, the actor’s family filed a complaint against Rhea Chakraborty and her relatives, accusing her of stealing his money and driving him to end his life among other things.The case is now being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Several people, including Rhea Chakraborty and her brother, were arrested by NCB, which is probing the drugs angle in connection with Rajput’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/character-assassination-of-maharashtra-s-sons-uddhav-thackeray-speaks-about-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death/story-7hFrz1clY8vlqk5ajjLW3N.html
25-10-2020||India||‘Should be ashamed’: Uddhav Thackeray’s 7 bitter attacks on BJP, Centre in Dussehra speech||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday tore into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Centre as he picked up several issues -- from its poll promise of Covid-19 vaccination in Bihar to what he called was the failure of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime.Thackeray while speaking at his party the Shiv Sena’s annual Dussehra rally said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should acknowledge the failure of GST and revert to the old tax regime. The chief minister also criticised the BJP’s poll promise of Covid-19 vaccination in Bihar as he questioned the party’s understanding of why doesn’t the rest of the country deserve the same medical assistance to fight the pandemic.“It has been a year now. From the day I became the CM, it was being said that the state government will be toppled. I challenge and say that if you have the courage, do it and show,” he said at the annual Dussehra rally held at the Savarkar hall in Dadar due to coronavirus norms instead of the usual venue, the sprawling Shivaji Park.Also read | ‘Our Hindutva is not clanging utensils’: Uddhav Thackeray’s Dussehra speechHere are the seven scathing attacks made by Uddhav Thackeray in his Dussehra speech:1. On Hindutva tussle with Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh KoshyariWe are being asked about Hindutva. That why are we not re-opening temples in the state. They say my Hindutva is different from that of Balasaheb Thackeray. Your Hindutva is about clanging bells and utensils, our Hindutva is not like that.2. On Covid-19 vaccine in BJP’s Bihar poll manifestoYou promise a free Covid-19 vaccine in Bihar, then are people of other states from Bangladesh or Kazakhstan. Those speaking like that should be ashamed of themselves. You are at the Centre.3. On allegations against his son Aaditya Thackeray in the Sushant Singh Rajput death caseThose crying for justice for Bihar’s son are indulging in character assassination of Maharashtra’s son.4. On the GST regimeThe GST regime implemented by the government has failed and PM Modi should acknowledge it and revert to the old tax regime. We (Maharashtra) are yet to get our Rs 38,000 crore as GST refund.5. On Centre’s handling of the Covid-19 disease outbreakA peculiar thing is happening around the country. Around the country, Covid-19 has impacted the economy but the government’s focus is on toppling governments in other states. The BJP is inviting anarchy by doing so. Instead of the ‘no alternative’ factor as was the case earlier, people have now started thinking that anyone will do except you.Also read | Mohan Bhagwat knows the truth, just scared: Rahul Gandhi’s jibe at RSS chief’s China comments6. On RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s Dussehra speechThe RSS chief said Hindutva has been narrowed down to only observing puja rituals. Those who wear black caps like him should understand this if they have brains. I have no happiness in shutting down places. Lifting of restrictions is being done cautiously and gradually.7. On Kangana Ranaut equating Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied KashmirPeople who have no means of livelihood in their home come to Mumbai and betray it. Calling Mumbai PoK is in fact the failure of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He had said he would get back PoK into India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-be-ashamed-uddhav-thackeray-s-7-bitter-attacks-on-bjp-centre-in-dussehra-speech/story-pcB0Tsmf8jk4YgTdmWfV9I.html
25-10-2020||India||Top army commanders to review situation in Ladakh, reforms at 4-day conference||Top commanders of the Indian Army will carry out an inclusive assessment of the country’s combat preparedness in sensitive areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China and in eastern Ladakh at a four-day conference beginning Monday.Army chief General MM Naravane will be chairing the Army Commanders’ Conference (ACC), a high-level event which is held biannually where important policies are made and decisions are taken. “The commanders will carry out a comprehensive review of the security challenges facing the nation including the situation in eastern Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir,” news agency PTI said quoting a source.The commanders will exclusively deliberate on issues relating to human resource management in the Indian Army and will hold an in-depth discussion on Wednesday on various agenda points, according to the report. According to the PTI report, the top commanders will discuss and decide on the pending reform measures such as cutting down on ceremonial practices and non-military activities to make sure resources are distributed in a rational manner.The commanders will attempt to finalise different reform measures that are recommended by separate internal committees while at the same time focusing on enhancing the operational capability of the force, the sources told the news agency.Apart from army commanders, the conference will also be attended by Principal Staff Officers (PSOs) of the Indian Army headquarters and several other senior officers. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh will address the conference on Tuesday, the report said.Top army officials are also expected to examine a proposal to cut down on the number of security guards assigned at official residences of senior officials. The officials will also study the proposal to reduce the number of CSD canteens if several such facilities are functioning within one station.The conference comes at a time as the armies of India and China gave deployed thousands of along the LAC after the border standoff that began in early May and escalated in June after 20 Indian Army soldiers were killed in a clash with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). The situation in eastern Ladakh continues to remains tense even after several rounds of talks on the military and diplomatic levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-army-commanders-to-review-situation-in-ladakh-reforms-at-4-day-conference/story-dMOwAsWia7975iXgeTBi4K.html
25-10-2020||India||Kerala plans to withdraw general consent given to probe agency CBI||The Kerala government is planning to withdraw the general consent given to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) like five other opposition-ruled states. The immediate trigger is the way the central agency took up the Life Mission project case without informing the state government. “The state is seriously considering it. Many states have already withdrawn the consent. There are allegations that the agency is being used to settle political scores. Many states do complain that it is interfering in issues where it has no jurisdiction. We also want to protect the state’s interests,” said state law minister A K Balan. Last week, the Maharashtra government had withdrawn the general consent given to the agency. After withdrawing the consent given under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, the CBI can’t file fresh FIRs but it will not affect the ongoing investigations, said legal experts. Earlier Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan also withdrew consent to the central agency. But in Kerala, opposition Congress and BJP criticized the move saying it was intended to save many in the government allegedly involved in Life Mission project kickbacks. Two weeks back the state government had to rush to the High Court to quash a CBI probe into the Life Mission project and the court had stayed it for two months. A scheme to build free dwelling units for the homeless, irregularities came to light when central agencies were probing the gold smuggling case. When lockers of the main accused in the smuggling case Swapna Suresh were opened they got Rs one crore cash and two kg gold. Later, she reportedly told the agencies that this was the commission she received for clinching a deal with an international aid agency ‘Red Crescent’ which funded the Life Mission project in Vadakancherry in Thrissur district. Later a news channel controlled by the CPI (M) came out with more revelations claiming Rs 4 crore was paid as commission in the Rs 20 crore project. It also came to light that permission of the Union government was not obtained for accepting foreign contribution. The anti-corruption unit of the CBI had registered a case last month under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA). But the state government maintained that it will not come under the purview of the FCRA and moved the court to quash the case. The Congress and BJP alleged that there were huge kickbacks in the project so the state government was opposing the CBI probe. But the LDF said the Union Government was using the central agency to discredit the state government. “Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said two days ago in Wayanad that central agencies were misused to target political opponents. How can the state Congress take such a position?” asked CPI (M) leader A Ananthan. State opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the move was aimed at stopping the central agency reaching the CM’s office. “Even a child can make out that huge corruption took place in the Life Mission project. The government is using all means to prevent a central agency probe which will help unravel kickbacks,” he said. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan also criticised the move. “CM Pinarayi Vijayan is scared the truth will come out but people will realise the government’s designs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-plans-to-withdraw-general-consent-given-to-probe-agency-cbi/story-13ZgUb3ZCyNIMDwYgehj6J.html
25-10-2020||India||Sedition case: Kangana Ranaut, sister seek time till Nov 15 to appear before Mumbai Police||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel have sought time till November 15 to appear before the Mumbai Police in connection with a sedition case. The Bandra Police had summoned the sisters on October 26 and 27 to record their statements but Ranaut’s lawyer, Rizwan Siddiquee, has sent a reply to the police station stating that the sisters are in Himachal Pradesh and are busy with the wedding preparations of their younger brother in their hometown.“My clients Ms. Kangana Ranaut & Ms. Rangoli Chandel will not be attending the Police Station on 26th & 27th because of Wedding preparations & ongoing functions in their hometown concerning their younger brother. I have responded to the summons & sought time after 15th of Nov,” Siddiquee tweeted. My clients Ms. Kangana Ranaut & Ms. Rangoli Chandel will not be attending the Police Station on 26th & 27th because of Wedding preparations & on going functions in their hometown concerning their younger brother. I have responded to the summoms & sought time after 15th of NovBombay High Court had ordered that Ranaut and Chandel must be booked after Bandra metropolitan magistrate JY Ghule took cognizance of the complaint registered by Bollywood casting director and fitness trainer, Munawwarali Sahil Sayyed. The first information report (FIR) was registered under sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, etc), 295A (deliberate acts hurting religious sentiments) and 124-A (sedition), 34 (common intention) of the India Penal Code (IPC).The summons was issued by Bandra Police on October 20 and the sisters were directed to come on October 26-27 to record their statements. In his complaint, Sayyed referred to social media posts made by Kangana Ranaut and her sister and has accused them of posting “very objectionable” comments that have hurt not only his religious sentiments but are also very hurtful to other artists in Bollywood. The complainant also accused the sisters of spreading communal hatred, using offensive language and making derogatory comments about Maharashtra’s chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in their tweets and interviews.Officials of the Bandra Police station have not yet responded to the reply of the actor and her sister.Reacting to the summons, Ranaut took a jibe at the Maharashtra government in a tweet last Thursday. “Obsessed penguin Sena ... Pappupro of Maharashtra, bahut yaad aati hai k-k-k-k-k-Kangana, koi baat nahin jaldi aa jaungi...” she had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sedition-case-kangana-ranaut-sister-seek-time-till-nov-15-to-appear-before-mumbai-police/story-5xpG6vHM6wZVFyzy9zXRPO.html
25-10-2020||India||US secretary of state Mike Pompeo, defence secretary Mark Esper to arrive in India on Monday||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defence Secretary Mark T Esper will arrive here on Monday for the third edition of the two-plus-two ministerial dialogue which is taking place just a week ahead of the American presidential election and in the midst of India’s festering border row with China. The two-plus-two dialogue will be held on Tuesday. The Indian side at the talks will be represented by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. A host of crucial bilateral, regional and global issues including China’s efforts to expand influence in the Indo-Pacific region as well as its aggressive behaviour in eastern Ladakh is likely to figure in the talks. In the last few months, the US has been ramping up attack on China over a range of contentious issues including the border row with India, its military assertiveness in the South China Sea and the way Beijing handled the anti-government protests in Hong Kong. Last week, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the talks will entail a comprehensive discussion on cross-cutting bilateral issues as well as deliberations on regional and global developments. Pompeo and Esper will have bilateral meetings with their Indian counterparts as well. They are also scheduled to make a joint call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Officials said US Secretary of Defence Esper will be given a tri-services guard of honour at the lawns of South Block in the Raisina Hills on Monday afternoon. It is expected that the two sides may finalise the long-pending BECA (Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement) agreement to further boost bilateral defence ties. The BECA will provide for sharing of high-end military technology, logistics and geospatial maps between the two countries. The Indo-US defence ties have been on an upswing in the last few years. In June 2016, the US had designated India a “Major Defence Partner” intending to elevate defence trade and technology sharing with India to a level commensurate with that of its closest allies and partners. The two countries inked the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries use each other’s bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provides for deeper cooperation. The two countries signed another pact called COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in 2018 that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and provides for sale of high end technology from the US to India. The first edition of the two-plus-two dialogue was held in Delhi in September 2018 after the mechanism was approved by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump. The second edition of the dialogue took place in Washington in December last year. The new framework of the ministerial dialogue was initiated in order to provide a forward-looking vision for the strategic partnership between the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-secretary-of-state-mike-pompeo-defence-secretary-mark-esper-to-arrive-in-india-on-monday/story-9SBhVLykE4PE6Syt5NxxZM.html
25-10-2020||India||‘There should be a debate on Uniform Civil Code’: Dattatreya Hosabale||There should be a nation-wide debate on the uniform civil code (UCC) so that people are made aware about what it stands for and what they are going to get, said Dattatreya Hosabale, the joint general secretary of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Sunday. The RSS leader said though UCC is defined in the Constitution under the Directive Principles of State Policy, no time frame has been mentioned for its implementation. The demand for a uniform civil code has been supported by the Sangh and its political arm, the Bharatiya Janata Party. In response to a question on the UCC, Hosabale who was addressing a lecture on the foundation day of the RSS organised by the think tank, India Foundation, said, “It is for the government to decide whether it is a good time or not to (to bring a Bill to introduce UCC). We have to educate people about it. People did not know what Article 370 or Article 35A were. Educating people is important.” He said a “proper public debate” helps clear perceptions and cited the example of how the Citizenship Amendment Act that “was not against any section” was misconstrued. “…Unfortunately people raised their voices against that. It is not taking away anyone’s right. It is for those who are persecuted,” he said. To a separate question on the tussle between the Centre and the states on issues of national as well as international concerns, he said India is a federal mechanism, but not a union of states. The ideas of federalism he said should be strengthened as they are essential for growth and development as a nation. The RSS leader also frowned on the slandering and uncivil language used against women on social media and the shouting matches on television debates. He said while the government should ensure there are laws against crime such as rape; but it is important to teach youngsters to respect women and how to behave with them at work places, during travel and in neighbourhoods. “A section of the media are not playing a proper role; particularly the entertainment industry. In the name of entertainment promiscuity is promoted,” he said. He went on to add that commenting on personalities is an unhealthy practice. “Social media has opened up to people an instrument with no ombudsman or censorship; so mature people should lead a movement to see there is no filthy language. Public discourse has to be healthy. Even if someone does not agree with my views, he is not my enemy,” Hosabale said. “TV debates and discussions have not set good examples. Shouting brigades have come…Fringe elements of any ideology or party are not the real representatives. Restraining the fringe is also the responsibility of mature people,” he said. On the issue of terrorism, Hosabale said India has been at the receiving end of terrorism for a decade or more. “There has been talk of planned action against terrorism but how much they have achieved is there for us to see. Religious heads will have to without any hesitation say that in the name of religion no terrorism is permitted… The government should take strict action and society should support them. Terrorism is the enemy of humanity, terrorists are human but have no human rights,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-should-be-a-debate-on-uniform-civil-code-dattatreya-hosabale/story-zAIHx7vhpAEQOkh8cBsYVO.html
25-10-2020||India||GST officials arrest 1 person for trading in fake invoice, generating ITC worth Rs 52.19 crore||GST officials have busted a fake invoice trading racket and arrested a person for passing on input tax credit (ITC) of over Rs 50 crore, a source said on Sunday.The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Pune Zonal Unit, has arrested Tusshar Ashok Munoat who was into ‘trading of fake invoices’ and used to generate fake invoices on commission basis for ineligible ITC availment and pass it on to others fraudulently.Total ITC involved is Rs 52.19 crore approximately, the source added.  Munoat owns M/s Rutu Enterprise and a few other companies such as M/s Reise Enterprises, M/s Namo Enterprises and M/s Patil Contractor, and used to trade fake invoices to earn commission benefit.  The Finance Ministry source also expressed dismay on those lobbying to oppose ‘arrest’ as an essential preventive measure in GST to curb unbridled dishonest activities by such unscrupulous elements and are challenging the provision of arrest in GST in various courts.The source further said that the government has started use of Aadhaar number in GST registration to check the menace of bogus/fake firms and thereby, put a curb on fraudulent availment and passing on of ITC.  Also, serious deliberations are going on in the Department of Revenue for putting such dubious firms under risk category and to block their refunds, besides other appropriate legal actions, as necessary.The source further said that after tracing for long, Munoat was arrested on October 21 from a remote village in Osmanabad district of Maharashtra. He was produced before a Magistrate who rejected his bail application and remanded him to judicial custody till November 2. Pune-based M/s Rutu Enterprises had four GSTIN numbers, one each for Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh; and was shown engaged in civil work such as interior work, construction of building/roads/bridges, pipe line laying work, earth work, electric work, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-officials-arrest-1-person-for-trading-in-fake-invoice-generating-itc-worth-rs-52-19-crore/story-1MWlpBYUx4rg6h1pT3GpGM.html
25-10-2020||India||Tripura to Chennai: Minor lovers elope, authorities bring them home after 5 days||Over a hundred hours after eloping, holding each other’s hands with a promise to stay together, two minors from Tripura were brought back home. Police teams and Child Welfare Committee authorities of Chennai and Tripura worked round the clock in coordination to bring the duo back home.The minors knew each other for six months and decided to leave their house to settle outside Tripura. As per their plan, they took a flight from Agartala and reached Chennai via Kolkata on October 21 when they caught the attention of the airport security personnel. They were handed over to Chennai Child Welfare Committee who informed Tripura authorities about the incident.“Chennai Child Welfare Committee contacted us on October 21 after spotting the minor duo at the airport. Accordingly, we asked our Childline members to fly to Chennai to bring them. Two Childline members went on October 22 and brought them the next day. Currently, the minors are with their parents,” said chairperson of the Child Welfare Committee, Gomati district.Also read: Nitish Kumar will be behind bars if LJP comes to power - Chirag PaswanDuring the initial probe, Childline members found that the duo first met with each other six months ago when the girl (14) visited her relative’s home near the boy’s (17) home. As their love grew deeper, they decided to elope and stay together. The boy took Rs 20,000 from his house and spent most of the money to procure the air tickets. The boy, however, didn’t reveal how he managed to gather the money.Both the minors stay at two different locations, within 5-6 kilometres distance, in Tripura’s Sepahijala district.According to Childline members, the minors left their houses on October 19 and were spotted on October 21 at Chennai airport.“We safely brought them from Chennai on October 23 and handed them over to their parents. We will soon send a team for their counselling,” said coordinator of Childline, Sepahijala district, Mithun Datta.“We found documents, including mark sheets and certificates, an android phone and Rs 2,000-3,000 from the boy’s possession. The girl had a bag with clothes and a cellphone,” said Datta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-to-chennai-minor-lovers-elope-authorities-bring-them-home-after-5-days/story-9IuF8aEBeenzRB4E6pEB9O.html
25-10-2020||India||Mohan Bhagwat knows the truth, just scared: Rahul Gandhi’s jibe at RSS chief’s China comments||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday took a swipe at Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat over his comments on China during the organisation’s Vijayadashami celebrations. Gandhi, who has been relentless in this attack on the government over the border standoff with the neighbouring country, especially picked on the RSS chief’s remarks on Chinese encroachment in Ladakh.“Deep inside, Mr Bhagwat knows the truth. He is just scared to face it. The truth is China has taken our land and GOI & RSS have allowed it,” Gandhi tweeted after Bhagwat’s speech at the RSS’ headquarters in Nagpur.Bhagwat said in his speech in an indoor event, which was attended by 50 swayamsevaks due to Covid-19 guidelines, that India needs to be better than China in terms of military preparedness, adding the world is aware of that country’s expansionist designs. The RSS chief cited Taiwan and Vietnam as examples of the Chinese expansionist designs and said that many countries are now standing up to China.Also read | ‘We are not kids’, Owaisi’s reply to Mohan Bhagwat’s ‘some people misled our Muslim brothers’“Our defence forces, government and people responded sharply to China’s efforts to encroach on our territories,” Bhagwat said claiming that China was shocked at India’s response to its intrusion. “We don’t know how it will react. So the way forward is to be alert and prepared. We should be more powerful than China in terms of military preparedness, economic conditions, international relations and also relations with neighbouring countries,” he said.“China encroached on our borders amid the pandemic,” he said. “We intend to be friendly with all. This is our nature. But mistaking our benevolence for weakness and attempts to disintegrate or weaken us by sheer brute force is unacceptable. Our detractors must know this by now,” he added.Also read | India’s response has stunned China, says Mohan BhagwatThe government should forge an alliance against China with immediate neighbours like Nepal, Sri Lanka and others, he said. “India needs to grow bigger in power and scope than China,” he added.The border row with China has been on for months now and escalated after 20 Indian Army soldiers were killed in Galwan Valley following a clash with troops of the People’s Liberation Army in June. Before that, the tension was already simmering in Ladakh’s Pangong Lake and several other areas. India and China have held several rounds of talks at the military and diplomatic levels but they have been inconclusive so far.The Congress party, led by Rahul Gandhi, has criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the central government, saying they must talk about the real situation at the Line of Actual Control truthfully.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mohan-bhagwat-knows-the-truth-just-scared-rahul-gandhi-s-jibe-at-rss-chief-s-china-comments/story-HtyyobRxFvQFs1NjJbbSvK.html
25-10-2020||India||‘Our Hindutva is not clanging bells, utensils,’ says Uddhav Thackeray in Dussehra speech||Launching a blistering attack on those who are questioning the Shiv Sena’s Hindutva, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said Balasaheb Thackeray’s Hindutva is not “clanging bells and utensil” during his Dussehra speech on Sunday. Thackeray’s sharp comment comes after a standoff with Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who questioned the chief minister’s stance on ‘Hindutva’ after he did not allow the reopening of religious places in the state. दसरा मेळावा २०२० https://t.co/0VeGFShm0L“We are being questioned over Hindutva. Why? Because temples are not being opened. Such people whose name might not be known to anyone beyond their family, are asking us about Hindutva,” the Sena chief said.Also Read: Uddhav Thackeray blocks CBI from probing cases in Maharashtra, withdraws general consentThis year’s Dussehra rally is significant because this is the first time a Sena chief is also the Maharashtra CM. This is also the first time that the grand annual rally was held not on the Shivaji Park ground — where it used to be held traditionally — but at Swatantryaveer Savarkar auditorium opposite the Shivaji Park ground at Dadar in central Mumbai. The change of the venue was due to Covid-19 protocol. The address was live-streamed on Shiv Sena’s social media accounts. “From the day I became the CM, it was being said that the state government will be toppled. They keep giving dates. I challenge and say that if you have the courage, do it and show,” the Shiv Sena chief said.A day after the party criticised BJP’s vaccine promise in Bihar in its Saamana editorial, Uddhav questioned the national role of the government. “You are talking about giving free vaccines in Bihar. Is rest of the country Pakistan or Bangladesh? Those speaking like that should be ashamed of themselves. You are at the centre,” he said. The recent episodes in which Mumbai has apparently eared a bad name — Sushant Singh Rajput death case investigation, Kangana Ranaut comparing Bollywood to Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir, Bollywood actors being summoned by Narcotics Control Bureau over dug links — also found mentions in Thackeray’s speech. The Maharashtra government has recently withdrawn the general consent of the state to the Central Bureau of Investigation to probe cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-hindutva-is-not-clanging-bells-utensils-says-uddhav-thackeray-in-dussehra-speech/story-JUvwO2MJxKo6o5A3y7GuII.html
25-10-2020||India||Air India One: Second VVIP aircraft in Prime Minister and President’s fleet arrives in Delhi||The second Boeing 777 VVIP aircraft with missile defence systems, which will serve on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Air India One’ fleet, landed in Delhi on Saturday. The first modified Boeing 777 aircraft had arrived in India earlier in October. The special aircraft will only be used by President Ram Nath Kovind, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The aircraft was scheduled to be delivered more than a month ago but it was delayed due to operational issues.Earlier in August, the Centre had sent a team of senior government officials, officers from Indian Air Force (IAF) and Air India to the United States for the assessment of the technical requirements and accepting the delivery of the two VVIP aircraft. Air India had sent the two long-haul Boeing 777-300ER aircraft to a Boeing facility in Dallas to be modified for VVIP travel. Air India One, which is the call sign of any aircraft with the Prime Minister or President on board, has its own missile defence system called the Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) and Self-Protection Suites (SPS), which is capable of countering missile threats from an enemy. These defence systems are capable of diverting heat-seeking missiles by disturbing their guidance systems and jamming enemy radar.The Boeing 777 aircraft, which is on par with the US President’s Air Force One in terms of security measures, will be operated by Indian Air Force pilots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-one-second-vvip-aircraft-in-prime-minister-and-president-s-fleet-arrives-in-delhi/story-r17Uf6zsn24XkWTnZRG2vN.html
25-10-2020||India||Dengue is under control in Delhi, says Arvind Kejriwal||Dengue is under control in Delhi like it was last year, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday. He was speaking on the 8th Sunday of ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute’ campaign against the vector-borne disease. Kejriwal changed water from potted plants and checked other sources of stagnant water at his residence under the campaign. The anti-dengue campaign was also supported by celebrities, including singer Shankar Mahadevan, who encouraged people to follow preventive measures against the disease. “On the 8th Sunday of Delhi’s fight against dengue, I inspected my house for accumulated water and changed it. To prevent dengue, we have to stop the breeding of mosquitoes. Just like last year, dengue is under control in Delhi. Delhi is defeating dengue for the second consecutive year,” Kejriwal said in a tweet.  The species of mosquito which causes dengue thrives in clean stagnant water. Water that deposits in pots, coolers, unused tires, vases and such sources need to be drained under the campaign.  Mosquito breeding can be checked by adding a small layer of oil or petrol to the accumulated water, and covering water tanks with lids. The campaign encourages people to devote ten minutes at 10 am on Sundays for eight weeks to check mosquito breeding and encourages them to influence their 10 friends to follow suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dengue-is-under-control-in-delhi-says-arvind-kejriwal/story-N4wp9bcx9E1Sxx8eNsTbyM.html
25-10-2020||India||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das tests positive for Covid-19||Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das has tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Requesting people who have recently come in contact with him to get tested or check their health, Das said he will isolate himself and will continue work. Day-to-day functioning of RBI will go on normally and the Governor is in touch with deputy governors and other officers through video conferencing and telephone. Giving update about his health, he said he is feeling fine and doesn’t have any major symptom. I have tested COVID-19 positive. Asymptomatic.Feeling very much alright.Have alerted those who came in contact in recent days.Will continue to work from isolation. Work in RBI will go on normally. I am in touch with all Dy. Govs and other officers through VC and telephone.“I have tested COVID-19 positive. Asymptomatic.Feeling very much alright.Have alerted those who came in contact in recent days.Will continue to work from isolation. Work in RBI will go on normally. I am in touch with all Dy. Govs and other officers through VC and telephone,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-governor-haktikanta-das-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-vB4S0eaelQkqUvBb6rTROO.html
25-10-2020||India||Like Ram Mandir, Article 370 move, PM Modi ‘decided’ date of war with China, says UP BJP chief||Amid the ongoing standoff between India and China, BJP’s Uttar Pradesh chief Swatantra Dev Singh has said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided when the country would be at war with Pakistan and China. Like the abrogation of Article 370, the construction of Ram Temple, everything has been decided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Swartandra Dev could be heard saying in a video clip that is now doing the rounds on various social media platforms.“Like the decisions on Ram Mandir and Article 370, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided when there would be war with China,” the Uttar Pradesh party chief said amid claps. Reports said the video is from an event on Friday at BJP MLA Sanjay Yadav’s house. Apart from Article 370, Ram temple and India China war, the BJP chief mentioned India-Pakistan war as he said all dates have been fixed by Modi. “Sambandhit tithi tai hai,” he said in Hindi, claiming that a decision has been taken on the date. “But he won’t let down the poor of the country, he won’t allow the country to be disrespected. We are on the path of Ram and Krishna,” he added.As the remark stoked a fresh controversy over this “date” remark, local MP Ravindra Kushwaha said to PTI that the BJP president made them to boost the morale of party workers.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-ram-mandir-article-370-move-pm-modi-decided-date-of-war-with-china-says-up-bjp-chief/story-TRdTLWjSfrNr1P7POhL5eL.html
25-10-2020||India||32 Maoists surrender in Dantewada, four carried reward of Rs 1 lakh each||Thirty-two Maoists, including four carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh each on their head, surrendered before the Chhattisgarh Police in Dantewada district, police said on Sunday. As per a press release issued by the district police, 19 surrendered Maoists are natives of Bakeli village, four from Korkotti and three each from Udenar, Tumarigunda and Matasi villages which come under Barsoor police station of Dantewada district. Police further claimed that the Maoists surrendered under ‘Lon Varratu’ drive under which banners were put up in their villages, appealing them to surrender. The surrendered cadres were involved in the attack on security forces and other Maoists violence in the district, police added. “Four of them carried a reward of Rs 1 lakh each on their them and were absconding,” the press release stated. Dantewada police provided them with Rs 10,000 as immediate assistance. Other facilities under Chhattisgarh Surrender and Rehabilitation policy will follow. Also read: Against China, India needs to be militarily better prepared: Mohan BhagwatAs per records, at least 150 purported Maoists have laid down their arms and surrendered under the ongoing ‘Lon Varratu’ campaign in the past four months across around 50 villages of the Left-wing Extremism (LWE)-hit Dantewada district. However, the tribal rights activists raised questions on this campaign and claimed that an innocent tribal is trapped between Chhattisgarh Police, other paramilitary security forces and the Maoists. Under the programme, the activists alleged, the police are forcing innocent tribals to turn themselves in. ‘Lon Varratu’ in the tribal Gond dialect means homecoming. The police have earmarked about 50 hypersensitive Maoist-dominated villages where pamphlets have been put up with an appeal for them to surrender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32-maoists-surrender-in-dantewada-four-carried-reward-of-rs-1-lakh-each/story-BcLz0xV0trzsurAfxOYV2O.html
25-10-2020||India||Against China, India needs to be militarily better prepared, says RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday said India needs to be more powerful than China in terms of military preparedness, adding the world is aware of that country’s expansionist designs.Speaking at the Sangh’s annual Vijayadashami rally, which this time was limited to an indoor event attended by 50 ‘swayamsevaks’ due to Covid-19 guidelines, Bhagwat said India needs to be militarily better prepared against China.Many countries are now standing up to China, he said.Claiming that China was shocked at India’s response to its intrusion, Bhagwat said, “Our defence forces, government and people responded sharply to China’s efforts to encroach on our territories.” “We dont know how it will react. So the way forward is to be alert and prepared. We should be more powerful than China in terms of military preparedness, economic conditions, international relations and also relations with neighbouring countries,” he said.The government should forge an alliance against China with immediate neighbours like Nepal, Sri Lanka and others, he said. “India needs to grow bigger in power and scope than China,” he added.“China encroached on our borders amid the pandemic,” he said, adding the world knows the expansionist nature of that country. He cited Taiwan and Vietnam as examples of the Chinese expansionist designs.“We intend to be friendly with all. This is our nature. But mistaking our benevolence for weakness and attempts to disintegrate or weaken us by sheer brute force is unacceptable. Our detractors must know this by now,” he said.Bhagwat said India is a Hindu Rashtra and Hindutva is the essence the country’s selfhood.“When the RSS says Hindustan is a Hindu Rashtra, it does not have any political or power-centred concept in its mind,” Bhagwat said.He said the term Hindutva has been distorted by appending a ritualistic connotation to it.The Sangh believes the term is applicable to all 1.3 billion people in the country who call themselves the sons and daughters of Bharatvarsh...and who are proud of the heritage of their ancestors, he said.On the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), Bhagwat said it is not against any particular religious community, but “some people misled our Muslim brothers” claiming it was aimed at restricting their population.“There was opposition to CAA claiming it was being used to check the Muslim population in the country. In fact, no Indian citizen was threatened due to CAA,” he said.Before the issue could be discussed further, the focus shifted to coronavirus, which overshadowed all other topics, he added.“We need not fear coronavirus, but should be alert and cautious. We cannot stop living. Coronavirus is spreading but fatalities are less. Due to the pandemic, we have started learning the importance of hygiene, cleanliness, environment, family values all over again,” he said.“Coronavirus has given rise to challenges of unemployment. Many lost jobs and labourers are now returning to cities. But the jobs may not be there. The challenge is to create employment opportunities in different places,” he said.Bhagwat said before the pandemic, several issues which were in the public discourse took a backseat.“Article 370 was abrogated, the country accepted the Supreme Court verdict on Ram temple with patience and understanding,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/against-china-india-needs-to-be-militarily-better-prepared-says-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat/story-PlW3GkIT18L6C4pw83QKiJ.html
25-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Key constituencies and their candidates||Bihar, the first state to hold assembly elections amid the coronavirus pandemic, will witness the first phase of polling on October 28. The Election Commission had announced the poll schedule for Bihar assembly elections on September 25. Polling in second and third phases will take place on November 3 and November 7 respectively. While voting will be held on 71 seats in the first phase, 94 seats in second phase and 78 seats will undergo polling in last phase. The results of the Bihar assembly election will be declared on November 10.Here are high-profile seats, which that will draw attention from across the country during the Bihar assembly elections:1. Tejaswi Yadav, the former deputy chief minister of the state, is contesting from the Raghopur seat. In 2015, Tejaswi defeated the then Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) leader Satish Kumar from the constituency. The seat is considered as the Rashtriya Janta Dal’s stronghold. Lalu Prasad Yadav and Rabdi Devi both represented the constituency in the state assembly from 1995 to 2010. In 2010, Rabdi Devi lost the seat to the then Janta Dal (U) leader Satish Kumar. Satish Kumar has now joined BJP after the JD(U) denied him ticket from Raghopur. In 2015, the 30-year-old Yadav scion had defeated Satish Kumar.2. Hasanpur assembly seat will have another Yadav family member fighting the Bihar assembly elections. Tej Pratap, a sitting MLA from Mahua assembly in Vaisali district, has changed the constituency to Hasanpur this time. Yadavs and Muslims are in majority in the constituency. Tej Pratap will face Janata Dal (United) sitting MLA Raj Kumar Ray, who had in 2015 defeated Binod Choudhary of BLSP.3. Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, a friend-turned-foe-turned-friend of chief minister Nitish Kumar, is contesting from the Imamganj seat. HAM(S) is one of the allies of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). In 2015, Manjhi won from the Imamgarh seat as an Independent candidate and defeated then JD(U) leader Uday Narayan Choudhary. Now, Choudhary has left the JD(U) for the RJD. The RJD has pitted former assembly speaker Uday Narayan Choudhary against the former chief minister Manjhi. Choudhary has represented the constituency thrice from 2000 to 2015.4. Bankipur constituency is one of the high-profile seats in Bihar. Nitin Nabin is taking on former BJP leader Shatrughan Sinha’s son Luv Sinha on a Congress ticket and Pushpam Priya Chaudhary of newly-formed Plurals Party. The BJP’s Nitin Nabin has held the Bankipur legislative assembly seat since 2006. Before Nitin, his father Nabin Kishor Prasad Sinha represented the BJP in the constituency. Pushpam Priya is the chief ministerial candidate for her party. In 2015, Nitin Nabin had defeated Congress’ Ashish Kumar by 39,767 votes.5. From the Jale constituency, Maskoor Usmani is contesting on a Congress ticket. Usmani, the former Aligarh Muslim University Students’ Union president, is known for protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019. He also drew attention in the Jinnah portrait row in Aligarh in 2018. Congress has never won the seat since 1995. Usmani is pitted against the BJP’s sitting MLA, Jeevesh Kumar.6. Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, the former heavyweight MP from Madhepura and chief of Jan Adhikar Party-Loktantrik (JAP-L) is contesting from the Madhepura assembly seat. He is pitted against the RJD’s Chandrashekhar, a sitting MLA, and the JD(U) leader Nikhil Mandal. In May 2015, Pappu Yadav was suspended from the RJD.7. Speaker of state assembly Vijay Kumar Choudhary is contesting from the Sarairanjan seat in Samastipur as a Janata Dal(United) nominee. He is the current MLA from the constituency. Choudhary is pitted against Arvind Kumar Sahni of the RJD. Choudhary is a five-term MLA from Sarairanjan and considered a confidant of CM Nitish Kumar.8. Suhasini Yadav, the daughter of a socialist veteran and chief of Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) Sharad Yadav, is contesting from the Bijariganj assembly seat in Madhepura district on a Congress ticket. She is taking on Niranjan Kumar Mehta of the JD(U). In the 2015 Bihar assembly election, Mehta defeated BJP leader Ravindra Charan from the same seat.9. Shravan Kumar, the parliamentary affairs and rural development minister in the Nitish Kumar government, is contesting from Nalanda to seek re-election as a JD(U) candidate. He is pitted against Gunjan Patel of the Congress.10. Manju Verma, a former minister in Nitish Kumar government, is contesting from the Cheria Bariyarpur seat in Begusarai. Rajvanshi Mahto of the RJD is challenging her in the constituency. Manju Verma is a two-term MLA from Cheria Bariyarpur and will be in the fray for a third consecutive term.11. Abdul Bari Siddiqui, a former MP and minister of finance during the RJD-JD(U) coalition government, is contesting from the Keoti assembly seat as an RJD nominee. He has been challenged by the BJP’s Murari Mohan Jha. Abdul Bari became an MLA in 1977 for the first time from Bahera constituency.12. Krishnandan Prasad Verma, the education minister in the state government, is contesting from the Jehanabad assembly seat. He is pitted against Kumar Krishna Mohan alias Suday Yadav of the RJD. Suday Yadav won the by-poll after his father Mundrika Singh’s death in 2017.13. Shreyasi Singh, a national shooter and the daughter of former Union minister Digvijay Singh, is contesting from the Jamui assembly seat on a BJP ticket. She is challenging sitting MLA Vijay Prakash of the RJD. The late Digvijay Singh was a three-term MLA from Jamui constituency.14. Chandrika Rai, a former minister and the father-in-law of Lalu Yadav’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav, is contesting from the Parsa assembly seat in Saran on a JD(U) ticket. He is pitted against Chote Lal Rai of the RJD. Chandrika Rai is a six-term MLA from Parsa. He was first elected to the state assembly in 1985 on a Congress ticket.15. Sandeep Saurav, a former JNU student leader, is contesting from the Paliganj assembly seat as CPI-ML (Liberation) nominee. He is pitted against Jay Vardhan Yadav, a sitting MLA, from the JD(U).16. Nand Kishore Yadav, the state’s road construction minister, is contesting from Patna Saheb seat as a BJP candidate. Praveen Kushwaha of the Congress is challenging his state assembly membership. Patna Saheb is a BJP bastion. Nand Kishore Yadav has been representing the BJP in the state assembly since 1995.17. Anant Singh, a criminal-turned-politician and sitting Mokama MLA, is once again contesting from the Mokama assembly seat on RJD ticket. Rajiv Lochan Narayan of the Janata Dal (United) is challenging him in the constituency. In 2015, Anant Singh won the assembly election from the constituency as an Independent candidate. Before that, he was a member of the JD(U). 18. Lovely Anand, a former MP and the wife of strongman Anand Mohan, is contesting from the Saharsa assembly seat as an RJD candidate. She is pitted against Alok Ranjan Jha of the BJP.19. Divya Prakash, daughter of former Union minister Jay Prakash Yadav, is contesting from the Tarapur assembly as an RJD candidate. She is pitted against Mewa Lal Choudhary of the JD(U).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-key-constituencies-and-their-candidates/story-rGFxIfnbOYavi9i7FzGwWI.html
25-10-2020||India||Road safety: Experts call for stringent medical checks before issuing driving licenses||Two recent incidents have brought to light the rather casual manner in which driving licenses are issued without conducting necessary medical tests. On August 31, 46-year-old Sameer Ali Sayyed drove his Maruti Suzuki Esteem right into a restaurant located on the busy Karnac Bunder street in South Mumbai killing five people and injuring three others. Sayyed had suffered an epileptic attack and had lost control over the vehicle. It was not the first time when Sayyed was involved in such an accident. In May 2020, he suffered a similar attack and crashed his vehicle leaving a woman injured. Sayyed, at that time, had not revealed his medical condition to avoid his license from getting suspended. More recently, on October 20, BEST bus driver Haridas Patil suffered a heart attack while he was driving the bus. Patil lost control over the vehicle which crashed into a signal post at Vasant Park near Chembur and also damaged a small vegetable shop. Luckily, nobody was injured in the accident. India, which continued to top road accident deaths for the second consecutive year in 2019, is yet to have a stringent mechanism of testing the medical condition of driving license applicants. The process is stringent when it comes to most developed countries. Also read: Coronavirus is pummeling Europe’s eateries — and winter is comingBhushan Kumar Upadhyay, additional director general of Maharashtra highway police said, “Although, accidents due to medical conditions of the driver may comprise a small portion of the overall road accidents numbers but it’s a serious issue and cannot be ignored. Medical conditions impact drivers physically as well as mentally, it may (indirectly) contribute to the circumstances that lead to accidents.” Former Director-General of Maharashtra Police Dr PS Pasricha, who was also chairman of the All India Road Safety Committee, said, “Road safety system in our country has always been affected by a very casual approach. There are some sections in the existing road transport laws and rules which need to be seriously reviewed. Medical fitness certification is one of them.” “We do not have a system in place that can identify a driving license holder with an unfit medical condition. While that can be a problem with many other countries, and not just India, it doesn’t mean that nothing can be done for effective prevention of accidents that occur due to the medical condition of drivers. We can simply do it by making the pre-license issuing procedure more rigorous.” The duties of drivers and riders, as defined under the Motor Vehicles (Driving) Regulations, 2017 states, “The driver shall ensure that at the time of driving a vehicle, he is in full control of his physical and mental abilities and physically and mentally fit to drive a vehicle.” It reflects when a Regional Transport Officer from Mumbai, requesting anonymity, questioned, “Why would a medically unfit person take to driving in the first place and risk his/her own life?” An RTO officer, who requested anonymity, explained the existing system and said, “An applicant seeking a driving license to drive a private car or a motorcycle (not commercial/transport/heavy vehicle), need to just submit a self-declaration (Form-1 which covers physical fitness and eyesight effectiveness in seven points) declaring that he/she is fit to drive a non-commercial vehicle. The applicant need not produce a medical fitness certificate issued by a medical practitioner. The applicant would be granted a driving license for 20-years after duly following all the procedures.” Only those applicants who are above 50-years of age and applying for a fresh driving license would have to submit a medical fitness certificate, compulsorily, he added. Also read: ‘Don’t presume to know ...’ - Omar Abdullah to Ravi Shankar PrasadApplicants seeking a driving license to drive a transport vehicle or a commercial vehicle have to compulsorily submit both - self-declaration and medical certificate and at both the stages (while freshly applying for license and at the time of renewal), he further said. A senior transport official, who has been very active in road safety initiatives, on the condition of anonymity said that the procedure and the system to check the medical fitness of a driver while issuing the license is very ineffective, casual, non-stringent and outdated. “Commercial vehicles or transport vehicles (except hazardous chemical vehicles) drivers need to submit the medical certificate to get a license but after getting the license, the driver undergoes medical examination/review for fitness only after five years at the time of the renewal of the license. What if he develops any serious medical condition between those five years, putting his own and others lives at risk?” the officer questioned. The existing rules say that only those applicants are eligible to get a driving license who, at the time of the driving test, manage to convince the officer that they have a “sound mind” and “sound physical fitness”. Vinayak Joshi, an expert in defensive driving said, “With the help of the agents (outside RTO) driving license seekers in Mumbai easily get a medical certificate from a ‘doctor’ practising right outside the RTO office in just Rs 50. Because of such unprofessional, unethical and corrupt practices, there is no strict scrutiny as far as the medical fitness of the applicant is concerned. He/she is given a fitness certificate based on his/her physical appearance. No serious inspection, study or analysis of his/her medical history is done that can probably put light on his inability to drive a vehicle, or need for a medical review.” “How can the system expect from an RTO officer to make such an important observation in a person without having any expertise? To ascertain whether an individual has a sound mind his/her psychological profiling and analysis is required and only medical professionals would be able to assess it. Also, medical professionals can also understand if an applicant is short-tempered. Determining such conditions is very important as it could turn any small incident into a major road rage situation. Remember, driving is not just a skill but also an attitude,” says Sanjay Sasane, deputy regional transport officer, Pune. A driver should also have a strong sixth sense or foresight. RTO officers are not qualified to determine whether an individual seeking a license has these important abilities or not, Sasane added. General Practitioners (GP) are bound to report ‘at-risk’ drivers in countries like the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Great Britain, Hungary, Latvia, Norway, Poland, Portugal and Sweden. Dr Pasricha said, “There should be a legal obligation on the doctors to report unfit medical conditions of a driver to the RTO as a preventive measure but, again, the matter of breach of privacy would arise. So, this issue needs some brainstorming to arrive at a solution that would bring legal obligation on doctors and, at the same time, to ensure that the privacy of a patient is not breached.” “The government need to form a team which can study the rules and laws related to medical standards for the assessment of the fitness of the driver of other countries and pick up their best practices to suit our needs,” added Pasricha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/road-safety-experts-call-for-stringent-medical-checks-before-issuing-driving-licenses/story-3hOi0lLwIjX7JnZFfTkrZK.html
25-10-2020||India||What are the 2+2 talks and what do they mean for US and India?||India and the United States are set to meet for the third ministerial 2+2 talks to be attended by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh and US secretary of state Michael Pompeo along with defence secretary Mark Esper in New Delhi on October 26 and October 27. The talks are part of the larger military cooperation between New Delhi and Washington and are crucial for both India and the US.Here’s what you need to know about the 2+2 talks:What are ‘2+2 talks’?‘2+2 talks’ is a term adopted in foreign diplomacy that implies a dialogue between two countries’ defence and external affairs ministries. India holds such talks with Japan and Australia as well but at the foreign secretary and defence secretary level. It is only with the US that India holds ministerial-level talks. Also read: India-US 2+2 dialogue to focus on regional security cooperation and defence information-sharing What happened in the previous 2+2 talks?India and the US have met for two 2+2 talks - one held in New Delhi in September 2018 and the second held in Washington DC in December 2019. The talks resulted in agreements known as Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) and Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA). LEMOA allows both countries to have access to each other’s designated military facilities for refuelling and replenishment. COMCASA is an Indian specific agreement, which provides a legal framework for the transfer of communication security equipment with no disruption in supply from the US to India and also provides access to real-time classified information from the American navy for the Indian Navy. What is on the table during the 2+2 talks now?The focus of the dialogue will be the Indo-Pacific region and India’s neighbourhood. Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) is likely to be signed in these talks and it will enable India to use American expertise on geospatial intelligence and also help India’s weapon and automate hardware systems.What do these talks mean for India and US?For New Delhi, the talks come at a time of a bitter standoff with China at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh and for the US they come at the cusp of the presidential elections scheduled to be held on November 3 in which the incumbent President Donald Trump has taken a tough stance on China. Therefore, for both the countries China and its aggressive rise is the “area of common interest”. Although strategic experts have been wary of the outcome of the talks as they are the last major diplomatic engagement before the US presidential polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-are-the-2-2-talks-and-what-do-they-mean-for-us-and-india/story-JJBMLcMkoVQ7NYKUl17WdP.html
25-10-2020||India||Senior citizen becomes third Covid-19 patient to die by suicide at Patna’s AIIMS||A 68-year-old Covid-19 patient died by suicide at Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Sunday morning, officials said. This was the third Covid-19 patient to have died by suicide at the institute. “The patient from Siwan was admitted in the general ward and found dead in the bathroom Sunday morning,” said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna. “The patient was admitted to our institute on October 7 after testing Covid-19 positive. He was on the road to recovery and we were planning to discharge him, when we got the news of his death,” he added. “Preliminary inquiry from patients in the ward suggests that the patient was apparently mentally depressed for the past few days,” added Dr Kumar. Earlier, a 38-year-old locomotive driver of the Indian Railways, posted in Delhi, and hailing from Khagaul in Patna, died on June 22. A month later, a 21-year-old youth from Bihta jumped to death on July 25 from the ward on the third floor of the institute where he was undergoing treatment. The condition of deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, who was admitted to the AIIMS-Patna on October 22, as well as Gaya MP Vijay Kumar Manjhi and former state minister Narendra Singh, all undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna after testing positive for the virus, was improving, said Dr Kumar. Meanwhile, 749 new infections were reported Sunday, pushing the total number of Covid-19 cases to 2,12,192 in Bihar. The maximum 238 cases were from state capital Patna, followed by Muzaffarpur 60, Nalanda 38, East Champaran 30, Purnia and Bhagalpur 25, Jehanabad 24, Katihar 22 each among others. Patna with 34,533 cumulative cases topped the state tally, followed by Muzaffarpur 9,619 cases and Bhagalpur 8,332 cases, as on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-citizen-becomes-third-covid-19-patient-to-die-by-suicide-at-patna-s-aiims/story-9VaiwHd0VKh83Xh0QYQksJ.html
25-10-2020||India||‘We are not kids’, Owaisi’s reply to Mohan Bhagwat’s ‘some people misled our Muslim brothers’||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi sharply reacted to RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s comment that “Muslim brothers” have been misguided about the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and said Muslims are not kids who will be “misguided”.“We’re not kids to be ‘misguided’. BJP didn’t mince words about what CAA+NRC were meant to do. If it’s not about Muslims, just remove all references to religion from the law,” Owaisi wrote on Twitter. We're not kids to be 'misguided'. BJP didn't mince words about what CAA+NRC were meant to do. If it's not about Muslims, just remove all references to religion from the law? Know this: we'll protest again & again till there are laws that require us to prove our Indianness...[1] https://t.co/uccZ8JTjsi“Know this: we’ll protest again & again till there are laws that require us to prove our Indianness,” Owaisi added.Talking about anti-CAA protests, Bhagwat, in his annual Dussehra address, said, “CAA does not oppose any particular religious community. But those who wanted to oppose this new law misled our Muslim brothers by propagating a false notion that it was aimed at restricting the Muslim population. Using CAA, opportunists unleashed organised violence in the name of protests.” We'll protest against any law with religion as basis of citizenship. I also want to tell Congress, RJD & their clones: your silence during the agitation is not forgotten. While BJP leaders were calling people of Seemanchal 'ghuspethiye', RJD-INC didn't open their mouths once [2] Upping the ante, Owaisi attacked Congress, RJD too as he slammed Bhagwat’s comment on Muslims being misguided about CAA. “We’ll protest against any law with religion as basis of citizenship. I also want to tell Congress, RJD and their clones: your silence during the agitation is not forgotten. While BJP leaders were calling people of Seemanchal ‘ghuspethiye’, RJD-INC didn’t open their mouths once,” Owaisi wrote. AIMIM is contesting in 24 seats in the Bihar Assembly Election 2020 as part of the Grand Democratic Secular Front.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-not-kids-owaisi-s-reply-to-mohan-bhagwat-s-some-people-misled-our-muslim-brothers/story-l4SbKOsEc4DMSBXbQmKY4H.html
25-10-2020||India||Dasara doll festival: Karnataka based family displays dolls depicting different themes||Members of a Shivamogga based family on Saturday celebrated the Dasara doll festival by putting dolls depicting various themes on display at their residence.Dasara doll festival is an age-old tradition in old Mysuru province including Shivamogga.Dasara Bombe (Dasara doll) installation, depicting various avatars of Gods and Goddesses is a part of auspicious Navaratri festival in Southern Karnataka.Prakash along with his family in Shivamogga installed many idols with different themes.Mysuru palace, Jamboo Savari, Village life, early life of Lord Krishna and also replicas of Buddhist temples in China were put on display.Speaking to ANI, Prakash said, “We have been celebrating this festival for the past two generations. Our aim is to show the victory of good over evil to the new generation. We have collected many dolls from various parts of India and abroad. We have arranged them in the descending order of ages. We have put gods on the top and then come to the era of Rishis and Munis.”The 10th day of Sharad Navratri is celebrated as Dussehra or Vijaya Dashami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dasara-doll-festival-karnataka-based-family-displays-dolls-depicting-different-themes/story-b1pfkjjdYlGtvMwSQHXV7O.html
25-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate jumps from 71% to over 90% in a month||Within a month, the recovery rate in Uttarakhand has jumped from 71% to over 90 %, health officials said Sunday.There is not a single district where the recovery rate is below 80%.On Saturday, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 60,000 mark. Out of 60,155 who tested positive so far, a total of 54,169 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 90.05%. JC Pandey, public relations officer (PRO) of the state health department said in the last few weeks, the pandemic situation has improved significantly in Uttarakhand with improvement in most of the metrics, especially the recovery rate which has crossed over 90 %. “Of over 60,000 people who have tested positive so far, there are only 4,542 active cases at present. This is due to the cumulative efforts of doctors, health staff, district officials and police personnel, who have worked towards checking the spread of the virus in the state and provided the best possible healthcare to the people who test positive”, he said. Pandey said the Uttarakhand government has strengthened the surveillance and control measures against the epidemic in a consistent manner. “The state government has operationalised 37 dedicated Covid hospitals and 417 Covid Care Centres (CCC) across the state. To facilitate the early management of Covid-19 positive patients, the government has designated 19 private hospitals as Covid dedicated facilities”, he said Anoop Nautiyal, from NGO Social Development for Communities Foundation, who has been analysing the Covid-19 data in the state, said the last one week (October 18-24), which was the 32nd week of the epidemic in the state, has been very good when one looks at the Covid metrics. “Recovery rate, which was around 71 % on September 22, has now crossed over 90 %. Over 85,000 samples were sent for testing in the last one week, which is highest in a week so far. We also had the lowest positivity rate in 15 weeks, the lowest number of positive cases in 11 weeks, active cases below 5,000 in the last nine weeks and lowest number of deaths of Covid positive people in eight weeks,” he said. The state has so far tested over 9.73 lakh samples for Covid-19. Since the pandemic began in the state in mid-March, 960 people have died of Covid-19 and comorbidities. The maximum number of Covid-19 cases have been reported from Dehradun district (16,675) followed by Haridwar (10792), US Nagar (9364) and Nainital (7076).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-jumps-from-71-to-over-90-in-a-month/story-L84JQP5NKLYlEwMpSv5icO.html
25-10-2020||India||Hindutva is essence of India’s self-hood: Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday said India is a “Hindu Rashtra”and Hindutva is the essence the country’s self-hood.Speaking at the RSS’s annual Vijayadashami rally here which was broadcast online and attended 50 swayamsevaks (volunteers) due to the Covid-19 guidelines, Bhagwat said when the Sangh says Hindustan is “Hindu Rashtra”, it does not have any political or power-centered concept in its mind.“Hindutva is the essence of this Rashtras Swa(self-hood). We are plainly acknowledging the self-hood of the country as Hindu because all our socio-cultural practices are directed by its principles with their spirit percolating in the personal, familial, professional and social life of each one of us,” he said.The RSS chief said the term Hindutva has been “distorted” by appending a ritualistic connotation to it. The Sangh does not use it to refer to this misconception.“To us, it is the word expressing our identity along with the continuity of its spirituality based traditions and its entire wealth of value system in the land of Bharat,” Bhagwat said.“Therefore, the Sangh believes it is the word applicable to all 1.3 billion people who call themselves the sons and daughters of Bharatvarsh, whose every day life is striving towards an alignment with its moral and ethical code and who are proud of the heritage of their ancestors who successfully traversed the same spiritual landscape since time immemorial,” Bhagwat said.He said being oblivious to the true meaning of this term weakens the thread that integrates us with this country and society.“It is for this reason that this term is the first target of castigation by those who instigate inter-group conflicts, who are bent on splitting our country and society,” he said.By presenting as separate our diversities which are traditionally accepted, respected and are a part of larger scope of Hindu philosophy in reality, they try to convert them into a source of alienation or separatism, Bhagwat said.“Hindu is not the name of some sect or denomination, it is not a provincial conceptualisation, it is neither a single castes lineage nor the privilege of the speakers of a specific language.“There may be some who have an objection in accepting this term. We do not object their using other words if the content in their mind is the same,” he said.However, in the interest of the countrys integrity and security, the Sangh has over the years humbly assimilated the colloquial and global interpretations of the term Hindu, Bhagwat said.He further said being Hindu does not require giving up one’s faith, language, land or any other identity marker. It only mandates an abandonment of the quest for supremacy.“One has only to be alert and keep away from the selfish and hateful forces who confuse and instigate people by showing them false dreams of supremacy, encourage radicalism and foster separatism,” he said.Dwelling on the Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown, he said India stood strong in the face of adversity and dealt with the calamity effectively.“There are some reasons why we escaped corona debilitation that few countries could not. Our governing and administrative agencies promptly sprung up in action. They cautioned citizens, created emergency task forces and efficiently implemented control measures,” the RSS chief said.Government officials, medical practitioners, police officers, municipality workers and cleaners displayed an extraordinary sense of responsibility by dedicatedly serving the infected patients, he said.Citizens of the country too mobilised private resources and left no stone unturned in offering all possible help to their fellow beings, he noted.“The larger picture was that of sensitivity, cooperation and mutual trust between governmental administrative agencies and society,” Bhagwat said.He also talked about reflecting on the centuries’ old culture ethos of the country. “Many of our traditional habits pertaining to cleanliness and hygiene, healthy lifestyle and strengthening immunity with the science of Ayurveda also proved to be useful in this period,” he said.Bhagwat asked for restarting educational institutions, compensating teachers, resending students to their schools and colleges while paying fee for the same.He noted that in cases where families are facing deprivation, stress creeps up in the households. To prevent negative dispositions like crime, depression and suicide, there is an extensive need of counselling and support services at this time, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindutva-is-essence-of-india-s-self-hood-mohan-bhagwat/story-hGYiWUNM5Gzc8vKZogox0I.html
25-10-2020||India||Covid-19 situation contained in Delhi, govt doing all it can: Health minister Satyendar Jain||The coronavirus pandemic situation in Delhi is under control and the government is carrying out containment, contact tracing and isolation to tackle the issue, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday.“Dr Paul expert committee had said that due to winter and festive season cases (of the coronavirus disease per day) can spike up to 12,000-14,000 but right now it is around 4,000 so the situation is contained. We are focused on containment, contact tracing and isolation to tackle the situation,” Jain said, according to news agency ANI.Jain was referring to the report of the high-level expert committee led by NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul which had said that hospitals in Delhi should prepare for 15,000 daily cases owing to a spike in respiratory illnesses with winter setting in along with Covid-19 cases.Also read | Delhi airport to soon start Covid-19 testing for international departuresThe committee had listed three reasons which may lead to a surge in cases. “Winter months that make respiratory illnesses severe; patients may come from outside from Delhi in large numbers; patients coming from distant areas are likely to be get more serious. In addition, with festival gatherings, there could be a sudden rise in the cases,” the report had said.Paul, who heads the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), had also said in an interview to PTI earlier this month that India could see a second wave of coronavirus infections in the winters as he cited the rising cases in Europe. “We cannot rule out (a second coronavirus wave this winter in India). Things can happen and we are still learning about the virus,” Paul said, according to PTI.Delhi had recorded 4,116 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the highest single-day spike in 35 days, and the death toll in the national capital mounted to 6,225. These fresh cases resulted from 55,461 tests conducted the previous day. It was the second consecutive day when more than 4,000 new cases were reported. According to the health bulletin issued by the Delhi government on Saturday, 4,116 fresh cases were reported. On Friday, 4,086 new cases were recorded and 3,882 a day before.The previous highest single-day spike in the cases of the coronavirus disease was recorded on September 18, when 4,127 new infections were recorded. New cases in Delhi had been below the 4,000-mark since September 19, until on October 23.The health bulletin said 36 fatalities were recorded, taking the death toll to 6,225, the bulletin said. The tally of active cases on Saturday rose to 26,467 up from 26,001 the previous day. The total number of cases climbed to 3,52,520, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-situation-contained-in-delhi-govt-doing-all-it-can-health-minister-satyender-jain/story-zXMaUF7TdXZAZqOmnAHADO.html
25-10-2020||India||Tigress that killed domestic animals in Kerala’s Wayanad trapped after 2 months||After two months of intense search forest officials on Sunday captured a tigress that killed many domestic animals and spread terror among local residents in Panamaram in north Kerala’s Wayanad .The animal had killed three goats two weeks back and tried to attack a cow last week, forest officials said. Two cages were set up two months ago after local people protested and but the big cat evaded the trap several times. Forest officials said it is a nine-year-old tigress with a slight injury in one of its paws. The fear of the tigress stopped people from coming out of their homes in the evenings in the Panamaram area. After a health check up of the animal, forest officials will decide whether it can be released in deep forests or kept in a zoo. Wild animals straying into human habitat is regular in Wayanad has now become common, local people complained. In June a tribal youth was killed by a tiger and his half-eaten body was recovered later. A woman on a two-wheeler had a narrow escape in August after a tiger charged and chased her for a short distance before occupants in a vehicle stopped and shooed it away. The district also boasts of a wildlife sanctuary with a thriving population of elephants and tigers. According to the last wildlife census Wayanad wildlife sanctuary spread over 344 sq km is home to 80 tigers. The district has 60 per cent forest cover and it is a major tourist destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tigress-that-killed-domestic-animals-in-kerala-s-wayanad-trapped-after-2-months/story-tHdTNICwre5SEfXPQdbYcP.html
25-10-2020||India||Fadnavis will now realise Covid-19 situation is serious: Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut||Against the backdrop of former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis contracting Covid-19, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday saidthey were telling him to take care and he will now realise that the situation outside is serious.Raut’s remarks came in the wake of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray being recently targeted by the opposition for not moving out of his house during the pandemic.Talking to reporters here, Raut said Thackeray has given directives to ensure that Fadnavis, who is leader of opposition in the state Assembly, gets the best treatment.Fadnavis on Saturday said he had tested positive for coronavirus.The BJP leader was admitted to a government-run hospital in Mumbai and his condition was stable, a party source said.After returning to Mumbai on Friday evening, Fadnavis got himself tested as some of the BJP leaders who had travelled with him during the Bihar poll campaign tested positive for coronavirus, the source said.Fadnavis also toured the flood-affected areas of western Maharashtra and Marathwada from October 19 to 21.“We were telling Devendra Fadnavis to take care. He will now realise that the situation outside is serious. The opposition was targeting the chief minister for not moving out,” Raut said, when asked if Thackeray’s annual Dusshera address on Sunday evening would target the BJP.He said Fadnavis has set a good example by getting admitted to a government hospital, and Thackeray has given directives to ensure he gets the best treatment.The Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson also said the Covid-19 vaccine should be for all citizens and its politicisation was not right.He further said the Shiv Sena has made arrangements to ensure Thackeray’s Dussehra address reaches two crore people in the state.Had there been no Covid-19 outbreak, the Shivaji Park in central Mumbai would have been smaller for the “sea of Shiv Sainiks” who would have come to hear Thackeray’s address, he said.Raut also pointed out that at the Dussehra rally last year, he said the next chief minister of the state would be from the Shiv Sena.Thackeray will deliver his Dussehra speech at the Savarkar auditorium opposite the Shivaji Park in the evening and it will be attended by 50 people, including MLAs, MPs from Mumbai, ministers and the CM’s family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fadnavis-will-now-realise-covid-19-situation-is-serious-shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut/story-l6FHpTsdUMktoYcNiqzQTL.html
25-10-2020||India||‘Don’t presume to know what Supreme Court will decide’: Omar Abdullah takes on Ravi Shankar Prasad on Article 370||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Sunday took on Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad who on Saturday said special status will not be restored in Jammu and Kashmir. The law minister’s comment came after PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti said she would raise the national flag only once the state flag in back, pushing for the restoration of Article 370. The BJP condemned her “seditious comment” and demanded action against the leader, who has been released from detention early this month after 14 months. Dear Ravi Shankar Prasad ji, we don’t expect you to restore anything but unless you are suggesting the Supreme Court has surrendered its independence & takes dictation from you please don’t presume to know what the Hon judges will decide. https://t.co/s8rD3Us6JUThe removal of statehood and the scrapping of Section 370 was done following a proper constitutional process and both houses of Parliament approved it with “overwhelming numbers”, the law minister said.Also Read: Farooq Abdullah president, Mehbooba Mufti vice president of People’s Alliance for Gupkar DeclarationReplying to the law minister, Omar Abdullah took to Twitter on Sunday morning and said it is not expected of him to restore the erstwhile state’s status. “Dear Ravi Shankar Prasadji, we don’t expect you to restore anything but unless you are suggesting the Supreme Court has surrendered its independence and takes dictation from you please don’t presume to know what the honourable judges will decide,” Abdullah tweeted. Seven parties of Jammu and Kashmir — National Conference, People Democratic Party, Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India- Marxist, Peoples Conference, J&K Peoples Movement and Awmai National Conference — have joined hands to form the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration to demand the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah has been appointed the president of the new outfit and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti is the vice-president. The flag of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir will be the flag of the alliance, it has been decided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-presume-to-know-what-supreme-court-will-decide-omar-abdullah-takes-on-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-hSGItpKTzuhM77LpOftfXP.html
25-10-2020||India||SMS before vaccination, QR certificate after: How India may use digital platforms for Covid-19 vaccine drive||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi has emphasised on an IT-backed system to ensure vaccine delivery to the last mile — like the election process in the country — the expert group is planning to include digital features like SMS, digital certificate in the vaccine delivery process, reports said.The Centre had set up a National Expert Committee on Vaccine Administration, led by Niti Aayog member VK Paul. The committee is laying out a detailed plan of vaccine storage and delivery as Indian awaits its first vaccine by the beginning of 2021. The Centre has already asked state governments to send list of priority groups who should get the vaccines first. The information of the beneficiaries will be added to the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) — a digital platform under National Health Mission, which is already being used at different immunization programmes at 32 states/UTs. It provides real-time information on vaccine stocks, flows, cold storages etc. But at present, it doesn’t track the beneficiaries.Like elections, the vaccination drive will be conducted in phases and schools will be used as booths, reports said. In the first phase, India is looking at vaccinating about 30 million people, including healthcare specialists, who are on the frontline of the fight. The 30 million will include 7 million doctors and paramedics, in addition to 20 million other frontline health workers. The expert panel is also mulling to use SMS facility to send a message to the beneficiary informing them about the time, date, venue of their vaccine dosage. After an individual receives the vaccine shot and reports no adverse impact, a QR-based digital certificate will be awarded which can be stored in Digilocker.“We have our own digital platform that has all updated information — from vaccine procurement to storage, cold chain and transportation in refrigerated vehicles.This facility already exists in India, and what the government is contemplating is how to augment this facility to be able to deliver Covid-19 vaccine,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sms-before-vaccination-qr-certificate-after-how-india-may-use-digital-platforms-for-covid-19-vaccine-drive/story-d8I6FIZzPrtKAvLDy6KJmK.html
25-10-2020||India||Mann ki Baat: Light a lamp for soldiers; pick local products while shopping for festivals, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged the people to light a lamp for the soldiers protecting the borders. Wishing the public on Dussehra, the prime minister pointed out that they should show patience and follow Covid-19 guidelines while celebrating during the festive season which includes festivals like Diwali, Valmiki Jayanti, Eid and Guru Nanak Jayanti in the coming days.In his serial radio address, Mann Ki Baat, the prime minister said Dussehra was the victory of good over evil and also of fortitude over adversities. He also reiterated his ‘Vocal for Local’ pitch even as he defended the farm laws brought in by his government, saying the move had opened up new avenues for farmers.Also read | No tolerance for corruption, no place for middlemen in new India, says PM Modi He said Indian products like Khadi were getting international recognition and were being lauded as an eco-friendly clothes. He said an area in Mexico was actively engaged in production of Khadi.The prime minister said during festivals, our support staff -- like the cleaning staff, house help and security guards -- should be taken care of, especially during these difficult times.The prime minister said on Diwali, one lamp should be lighted in gratitude to the soldiers who are protecting our borders. “We have to remember our soldiers, who are standing guard at the borders even in times of festivals. We must celebrate festivals while remembering them. We also have to light a ‘diya’ in our homes to honour these brave sons and daughters of mother India,” he said.He also paid glowing tributes to India’s first home minister Sardar Patel, whose birth anniversary falls on October 31, and asked people to work for the country’s unity through their words and deeds.The prime minister said Patel instilled the idea of Unity in Diversity in the minds of the people. “Today we have to encourage all those aspects which unite us,” he said.He said our ancestors had tried to bring people close. He also mentioned the efforts of Adi Shankaracharya and Sikh gurus had brought people together. The prime minister also expressed his admiration for the teachings of Maharishi Valmiki and said he had inspired millions.PM Modi also remembered former prime minister Indira Gandhi, whose death anniversary is on October 31.He also applauded the brothers and sisters of Pulwama and their families “for educating the young minds of the country”. He said that almost 90% of the demand for pencil slate in the country is met by the Kashmir Valley, and Pulwama has a big share in that. “At one time, we imported the wood for pencils, but now Pulwama is making the nation self-reliant in this field,” he said.The prime minister lauded the technology-based service delivery projects that came up during the lockdown. He also mentioned a fresh vegetable delivery app in Jharkhand by a self-help group led by women. He said new opportunities in the farm sector were encouraging the youth.“This is a new beginning that tell us what kind of changes are possible with the new farm laws,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-light-a-lamp-for-soldiers-practise-caution-while-celebrating-festivals-says-pm/story-rhvBMXEchMEg1H1wRf0wSK.html
25-10-2020||India||Pompeo, Esper to push Trump’s anti-China message in India||Just a week before November’s election, two of President Donald Trump’s top national security aides will visit India for meetings focused largely on countering China’s growing global influence. As the bitter race between Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden winds down, the talks this week in New Delhi aim to reinforce the president’s anti-China campaign message.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defense Secretary Mark Esper will meet their Indian counterparts for strategic and security talks on Tuesday, after which Pompeo will travel on to Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Indonesia. All of them are contending with a tug-of-war between Washington and Beijing that has intensified as Trump seeks to paint Biden as weak on China.Trump has played up his friendship with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his re-election bid but may have set his case back with an off-the-cuff remark about climate change at his Thursday debate with Biden. “Look at China, how filthy it is. Look at Russia. Look at India, it’s filthy. The air is filthy. “ he said, defending his decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord.Also Read | India-US 2+2 dialogue to focus on regional security cooperation and defence information-sharingWhether offense will be taken by the Indians or whether it will affect Pompeo and Esper’s mission is not clear. Yet, regardless of election considerations, it is a critical time in the US-India relationship as China looms large over what Washington has labeled the Indo-Pacific region.Heightened border tensions between New Delhi and Beijing have only added to Chinese-American animosity that has been fueled by disputes over the coronavirus, trade, technology, Taiwan, Tibet, Hong Kong, human rights and disputes between China and its smaller neighbors in the South China Sea. Those competing maritime and territorial claims will figure prominently at Pompeo’s last stop in Indonesia.Meanwhile, India is looking to emerge from a shell of internal issues, including unrest in the Himalayan region of Kashmir, as it faces twin threats from China and Pakistan.Tuesday’s meetings come amid a recent flareup in military tensions between India and China over disputed mountainous border with tens of thousands of their soldiers in a standoff since May. Trump has offered to help defuse tensions but has yet to receive any indication of interest from either side. India and China fought a month-long war over the region at the height of the Cuban Missile Crisis in the fall of 1962 and some fear a similar confrontation before this winter sets in.Pompeo has made no secret of the Trump administration’s desire to isolate China. Asked about his trip, Pompeo said last week: “I’m sure that my meetings will also include discussions on how free nations can work together to thwart threats posed by the Chinese Communist Party.”Ahead of Pompeo and Esper’s visit, Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun visited New Delhi last week and called China “an elephant in the room,” stressing that Washington is keen to advance India’s interests in the region, build a free and open Indo-Pacific, and counter risks posed by Chinese high-tech telecommunication networks that the US sees as central to China’s predatory economic activity.“We will take every opportunity to really advocate for a strong digital economy and partnership in the countries where we’re going and seek support of the Clean Networks, which we think works to every country’s advantage,” said Dean Thompson, the top US diplomat for South Asia.Since Trump became president, the US and India have steadily ramped up their military relationship. When Trump visited India in February, the two sides concluded defense deals worth over $3 billion. Bilateral defense trade has increased from near zero in 2008 to $15 billion in 2019.Still India is wary of being drawn into the fight between the world’s two largest economies. G. Parthasarthy, a retired Indian diplomat, said India was not interested in becoming a front-line state against China. “It is a move to balance the growing Chinese power in this area. The India-China border issue is not going to go away with the Chinese claims increasing,” he said.The talks in New Delhi on Tuesday follow a meeting that Pompeo had earlier this month in Tokyo with his counterparts from India, Japan and Australia, which together make up the four Indo-Pacific nations known as “the Quad.” The Quad is seen as a counterweight to China, who critics say is flexing its military muscle throughout the region.Pompeo will head back to Washington by way of Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Indonesia during which he plans to press each nation to push back in Chinese assertiveness. He’s also expected to raise human rights issues at each stop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pompeo-esper-to-push-trump-s-anti-china-message-in-india/story-fB6h8OsdzsGq49CKhZbEWM.html
25-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate reaches landmark 90%: Govt||India’s rate of recovery from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has touched 90% with 62,077 people recovering in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Sunday. This took the total recoveries to 7,078,123, it added.“India records a new Milestone: Recovery Rate touches 90.00%. 62,077 have recovered and discharged in the last 24 hours whereas the new confirmed cases stand at 50,129,” the ministry wrote on Twitter.It added in a statement that the achievement is matched by the downward spiral of the total active cases, which are maintained below the seven lakh-mark for the third consecutive day.The record recoveries are logged on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi talked about the changed festive scenario in the country. In his Mann ki Baat address, Modi spoke about the pandemic forcing us to stay indoors at that time of year when streets would usually be the most crowded. He, however, stressed on the need to continue to take precautionary measures in the fight against the deadly virus. According to the government, 75% of the new recovered cases are concentrated in 10 states - Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Uttar Pradesh, and Chhattisgarh with Maharashtra leading the tally with more than 10,000 single day recoveries.Earlier in the day, the health ministry also brought to light the rapid pace of recoveries in the country. According to the data it cited, it took three months to achieve three million recoveries from 0.1 million between July and September whereas they surpassed seven million in one and a half months ending October.The active cases (6,68,154) account for only 8.50% of the total positive cases of the country, with 79% of the new cases coming from 10 states and Union territories. Kerala has logged the maximum new cases with more than 8,000 cases followed by Maharashtra with more than 6,000 cases.Also, recoveries exceed active cases by 6.4 million. The daily toll from the infection also continues to experience a downward slope with less than 1,000 deaths since last one week. In the last 24 hours, 578 people died due to Covid-19. The number of fatalities have remained below 1,100 since October 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-touches-landmark-of-90-covid-19-recoveries-govt/story-xMhJRRZTZJiAROI3Swz7iJ.html
25-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 80% Covid-19 deaths being reported from 10 states, says health ministry and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: 80% deaths being reported from 10 states, says health ministry dataEighty per cent of the new deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country are being reported from 10 states, shows Union health ministry data.With 137 deaths reported on Saturday, Maharashtra recorded most new Covid-19 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 patients having succumbed to the viral infection so far in the state is 43,152. Read MoreIndian army won’t let anyone take even an inch of our land: Rajnath SinghAs the tensions with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh continue, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that the Indian Army won’t let anyone take even an inch of the country’s land. He added that India wants the standoff to end and peace to be restored in the sector. Read MoreTrump deploys 2016 playbook, Biden expands 2020 battle groundPresident Donald Trump appears to have gone back to the 2016 playbook for the final nine days of the 2020 race for White House, hoping to pull off a similar win, with not much help from polls or pundits. Democratic nominee Joe Biden, on the other hand, has kept the focus on the present and is seeking to expand the battleground states. He will be addressing two rallies in Georgia, a solidly Republican state. Read MoreThese 21 Android apps on Google Play are nothing but adware, says AvastGoogle has been trying hard to tackle the issue of removing apps that can harm your smartphones and are essentially adware disguised as games. Although the firm’s checking process is stringent, there have always been news of some apps making their way to the Play Store. And this time, security research firm Avast seems to have found some 21 of them. As per the report, these 21 apps are adware apps that pose themselves as games but end up damaging the handsets. Read MoreAudi says Covid-19 has pushed back luxury car segment in India by 5-7 yearsThe coronavirus pandemic has hit hard the luxury car segment in India, taking it back by five to seven years, and it will take two to three years to reach the levels witnessed around 2014-2015, according to a top official of German auto major Audi. Read MoreIPL 2020: ‘He has managed to do that for the team,’ Sachin Tendulkar explains reason behind KXIP’s revival in formKings XI Punjab have turned around their season in the last few weeks of the Indian Premier League 2020. KXIP looked down and out after the first seven matches as they lost six. But they have put in some impressive performances as they defeated table toppers Mumbai Indians, Royal Challengers Bangalore and Delhi Capitals in successive matches. Read MoreInside Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet’s wedding, watch her make grand entry on a chariot for varmala ceremony, sing special songNeha Kakkar has tied the knot with fellow singer Rohanpreet Singh, and pictures and videos are proof that the couple had a blast during the wedding celebrations. After marrying each other in an Anand Karaj ceremony at a gurudwara, the two had another grand varmala ceremony with their friends and family in attendance. Read More‘It’s not how you talk about friends’: Biden on Trump’s ‘filthy India’ remarkDemocratic presidential candidate Joe Biden slammed US President Donald Trump for his ‘filthy India’ remark. Biden wrote on Twitter that he and his running mate Kamala Harris deeply value America’s partnership with India. He tweeted, “President Trump called India ‘filthy’. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-80-covid-19-deaths-being-reported-from-10-states-says-health-ministry-and-all-the-latest-news/story-R26KGN1GsU4GYc6PXJT4aI.html
25-10-2020||India||Flying abroad? Know how you can get tested for Covid-19 at Delhi airport||As the number of people taking international flights from Delhi is increasing, Delhi Airport has opened the testing facility on its premises for outgoing passengers as well. The facility has been limited to incoming passengers so far. All international passengers are required to have a Covid-19 negative report before flying. The report should not be older than 96 hours — the times varies according to the rules of the destination countries. Despite all these checks and balances being in place for international travellers, Indian airlines have been accused of carrying Covid-19 positive passengers. Dubai civil aviation authority has even asked Air India Express to reject Covid-19 report from four specific labs in India, as their negative reports proved to be false.In this background, the facility at Delhi Airport might com handy to outbound passengers. Here’s all you need to know:1. If you are planning to get tested at the airport, you must reach the airport at least 7 to 8 hours before your scheduled journey as the report will take four to six hours to be processed.2. The price is Rs 2,400, as decided by the Delhi government. Waiting lounge charge is Rs 2,600.3. The facility is available round the clock.4. The facility, which was so far limited to only incoming passengers, can be pre-booked online where passengers are required to put their name, email address, Aadhaar or passport number, flight number, PNR number, date, times slot and the number of passengers to be tested. There are one-hour time slots throughout the day.5. Passengers are required to give nasal and throat swab samples.Delhi airport has recently been certified as the second safest aerodrome in the world in post-Covid-19 safety survey. Singapore’s Changi Airport is the first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flying-abroad-know-how-you-can-get-tested-for-covid-19-at-delhi-airport/story-dSPQlgYpDGaZL72es0S8LK.html
25-10-2020||India||Remember soldiers guarding our borders, light a ‘diya’ for them: PM Modi||Asserting that India stands firmly with its brave soldiers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to light a ‘diya’ at their homes to honour security forces guarding its borders while they celebrate festivals. In his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio broadcast, Modi wished people on Dussehra and said that with various festivals coming up, they need to show patience and follow health guidelines in celebrating these auspicious occasions during the Covid times.Also Read | Mann Ki Baat: In push for local, PM Modi highlights ‘Pencil Village of India’ The prime minister also asked people to keep the ‘vocal for local’ resolve in their mind and give priority to local products while shopping for festivals. The world is taking note of India’s products, he said, citing the example of rising popularity of Khadi. The prime minister hailed the contribution of soldiers and their service to the nation.Also Read | ‘People need to show patience while celebrating festivals during Covid-19’: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat “We have to remember our soldiers, who are standing guard at the borders even in times of festivals. We must celebrate festivals while remembering them. We also have to light a ‘diya’ in our homes to honour these brave sons and daughters of mother India,” he said. He also paid glowing tributes to India’s first home minister Sardar Patel, whose birth anniversary falls on October 31, and asked people to work for the country’s unity through their words and deeds. Modi also remembered former prime minister Indira Gandhi, whose death anniversary is on October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remember-soldiers-guarding-our-borders-light-a-diya-for-them-pm-modi/story-vJQ4Mbc94KBG5tuNhzZq6M.html
25-10-2020||India||Mann Ki Baat: In push for local, PM Modi highlights ‘Pencil Village of India’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday asked the people of the country to promote and buy locally-made products during the festival season. Addressing the nation through Mann Ki Baat, he also listed a unique success story.The prime minister talked about Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir which is emerging as a hub for making pencils.“Today, Pulwama is playing an important role in educating the entire nation. Today, if the students across the nation do their homework, prepare notes, it is because of the hard work of the people of Pulwama,” PM Modi said in his 70th Mann Ki Baat address.“Almost 90 per cent of the demand for pencil slate in the country is met by the Kashmir Valley. And Pulwama has a big share in that. At one time, we used to import the wood for pencils, but now, Pulwama is making the country self-reliant in this field,” he added.PM Modi said that the Chinar wood in the Kashmir Valley has high moisture content and softness which makes it most suitable for the production of pencils.“Oukhoo in Pulwama is known as the ‘Pencil Village’. There are many units engaged in the production of pencil slates which are generating employment. And in these units, women are working in large numbers. Pulwama earned this distinct identity when locals here decided to do something novel. They took risk and dedicated themselves to it,” said PM Modi.“I appreciate the brothers and sisters of Pulwama and their families who are making invaluable contribution in educating young minds of India,” the prime minister added.In his monthly radio address, PM Modi wished people on Dussehra and said that with various festivals coming up, they need to show patience and follow health guidelines in the wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.He also paid glowing tributes to India’s first home minister Sardar Patel, whose birth anniversary falls on October 31, and asked people to work for the country’s unity through their words and deeds.Pm Modi also remembered former prime minister Indira Gandhi, whose death anniversary is on October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-in-push-for-local-pm-modi-highlights-pencil-village-of-india/story-lc6eecprKSfZOjRd53bcDJ.html
25-10-2020||India||‘People need to show patience while celebrating festivals during Covid-19’: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that people need to show patience while celebrating festivals at a time when the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is raging across the country.“Dussehra is a festival of victory of patience over crises. Today, all of you are living with great restraint, celebrating festivals with modesty. Therefore, in the Covid-19 battle, we are fighting, victory is certain,” PM Modi said on his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat.“Previously, a large number of people used to gather in Durga Pandal. It was a fair-like atmosphere during Durga Puja and Dussehra, but this time it didn’t happen. Many more festivals are to be observed, we’ve to work with restraint during this Covid-19 crisis,” he added.PM Modi also said that the people of the country must remember soldiers who are protecting the borders of the country. “Light a lamp for them in your homes while celebrating festivals,” he said.The prime minister said that while celebrating festivals, people should remember people who helped them during lockdown times. “Do remember lockdown times when we got to know those close associates of society without whom our lives would have been very difficult. Sanitisation workers, housekeepers and guards were with us in difficult times. Now in festivals, we’ve to take them along,” he said.PM Modi also called for promoting indigenously-built products during the festival season. “This time, amid the enthusiasm of festival, when you go shopping make sure to remember your resolve of ‘vocal for local’. When purchasing goods from market give priority to local products,” he said.Many of our local products have the potential to go global, he added.Highlighting the popularity of local products like Khadi, PM Modi said that a store in Delhi registered Rs 1 crore sale on single day on Gandhi Jayanti. He further said that Khadi has made a mark in Mexico.He also said that traditional Indian sport Mallakhambh is gaining popularity in at least 20 countries.Mann ki Baat is a radio programme, aired on All India Radio on the last Sunday of every month, through which the Prime Minister interacts with the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-need-to-show-patience-while-celebrating-festivals-during-covid-19-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-5QrkishZroHwl5mDQqB6bJ.html
25-10-2020||India||‘World taking note of Indian products like khadi’: PM Modi on Mann ki Baat||In the 70th address on his monthly radio programme Mann ki Baat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi renewed his pitch for domestic products by saying, ‘we must not forget to be vocal for local during this festive season.” He added that the world was taking note of Indian products, and gave the example of khadi’s reach in the international market. He said that the product was not only being used across the world for being eco-friendly but also to make a fashion statement. Elaborating on its popularity within India, Modi said that a Khadi store in Delhi’s Connaught Place registered sales worth Rs 1 crore on a single day on Gandhi Jayanti.’ He hailed khadi as a body friendly and all weather fabric. He also pointed towards khadi’s popularity in Mexico’s Oaxaca where people have taken to the product’s manufacturing in several villages. The fabric has become popular by the name ‘Oaxaca khadi,’ he said. Many self help groups and organisations across the nation are also making masks of khadi fabric, the Prime Minister said. He spoke about Suman Devi, a woman from Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki who is now being joined by many women from around the country in making masks. PM Modi called for promoting indigenously-built products during the festival season. “This time, amid the enthusiasm of festival, when you go shopping make sure to remember your resolve of ‘vocal for local’. When purchasing goods from market give priority to local products,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-taking-note-of-indian-products-like-khadi-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-7hjM6sSMCOof3eJ0sdv6DI.html
25-10-2020||India||In Mann ki Baat address, PM Modi puts spotlight on importance of humour in trying times||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation in the 70th edition of his monthly radio programme, Mann Ki Baat. During the address, PM Modi urged people to remember ‘vocal for local’ while shopping in the festive season. Highlighting Khadi India’s reach in international market, PM Modi said, “many of our local products have the potential to go global.”He also asked people to remember our soldiers during the festivities and “burn a diya in honour of these bravehearts.”PM Modi also paid tributes to the former prime minister Indira Gandhi. Every month, PM Modi address the nation over range of issues through ‘Mann Ki Baat’. The suggestions for each episode’s topic are shared by listeners on PM Modi’s social media accounts.Here are the highlights of his speech:-  “This time, amid the enthusiasm of festival, when you go shopping make sure to remember your resolve of ‘vocal for local.’ When purchasing goods from market give priority to local products,” said PM Modi.- Highlighting Khadi India’s reach in international market, PM Modi said, “Many of our local products have the potential to go global.”“A Khadi store in Delhi registered Rs 1 crore sale on single day on Gandhi Jayanti.”- “Previously, a large number of people used to gather in Durga Pandal. It was a fair-like atmosphere during Durga Pooja and Dussehra, but this time it didn’t happen. Many more festivals are to be observed, we’ve to work with restraint during this Corona crisis,“ said PM Modi.- “We also have to remember our bravehearts who stand on the borders even in these festivals and are serving and protecting India. We have to celebrate our festivals by remembering them. We also have to burn a diya in the house in honour of these brave sons and daughters of Bharat Mata,” said PM Modi.- “Nowadays, our traditional sport Mallakhamb is also gaining popularity in many countries. In US, when Chinmay and Pragya Patankar started teaching Mallakhamb at home, then they also had no idea it will gain so much success. Today, there are many Mallakhamb training centres in US,” said PM Modi.- “On 31st October, we lost former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. I respectfully offer tributes to her.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highlights-pm-modi-addresses-nation-in-mann-ki-baat/story-RQBxDZh8xRVVqJkkCLElGK.html
25-10-2020||India||India’s response has stunned China, says Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, in his annual Vijayadashami speech on Sunday, said India’s assertive response to China’s aggression and expansionist tendency set an example of a strong resolution that stunned Beijing.Referring to the stand-off between India and China in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, the RSS chief said China’s misuse of resources by unleashing terror on the borders of India and the aggressive stance of invading Indian territory is well-known to the world. “Our brave defence forces, government and the people remained unfazed and responded sharply to this attack. This example of a strong resolution, exercising self-respect and bravery, has stunned China. Going further, we must be watchful and remain firm. Even in the past, the world has time and again witnessed China’s expansionist attitude,” he said, speaking in Nagpur. Also read: India must overcome China syndrome, embrace QUAD | AnalysisThe RSS has favoured a muscular foreign policy vis-à-vis China, and has advocated an economic policy that pivots around cutting down imports from China and revisiting trade ties with the nation. RSS affiliates such as the Swadeshi Jagran Manch have started campaigns boycotting goods from China. “Rising above China economically, strategically and securing cooperative ties with our neighbours is the only way to neutralise those demonic aspirations. The policies proposed by our leaders seem to be charting those very horizons. Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal and Myanmar are not just neighbouring countries, we have shared friendly bonds with these nations and they are more or less aligned with our values and ethical code,” he said. Bhagwat also said India’s propensity to offer a hand of friendship should not be misconstrued as a sign of being “weak”. “China, for the first time, should have understood that we are ready and capable to fighting,” Bhagwat said. Bhagwat said threats to India are not only from across the border, but within as well. He referred to the protests against the Citizen Amendment Act, or CAA, as the handiwork of those who want to portray India’s “diversity as divisions”. “What happened in the last one year shows why we need to be vigilant. It is natural in a democracy to have political aspirations and strive to grab power; we can have difference of opinion, but election is not a fight between enemies…And there are powers inside India and outside that take advantage of this difference. They try to show our diversity as divisions. They administration should take quick steps to punish those who create problems,” he said. Quoting Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar’s address to the Constituent Assembly, Bhagwat said there was a need to identify disguised elements and defuse their conspiracies that were out to unleash “anarchy”, and cited attempts made to create communal disharmony by propagating a false notion about CAA. “Those who wanted to oppose the amendment in the Citizenship Act …misled our Muslim brothers by propagating a false notion that was aimed at restricting the Muslim population. Opportunists took advantage of this delicate situation by unleashing organised violence and causing unrest in the name of protests. As a consequence, a tense atmosphere was created in the country that put our communal harmony at stake,” he said. Even as he appreciated the efforts of the administration and the society in fighting the challenges brought on by the coronavirus pandemic, Bhagwat said efforts are required to impart skills and create avenues for employment. He said job losses are a challenge that needs to attention.Having lent support to the government’s “Vocal for Local” initiative that promotes indigenous production, the RSS chief said self-reliance implies overall well-being and upliftment of the whole nation through coordinated efforts and cooperation. “A policy-making process where all concerned people and parties discuss and deliberate extensively and draw consentient conclusions fosters the spirit of oneness and trust among all. Open dialogue with all, drawing consensus through discussion, ensuring cooperation and resultant trust - this is the prescribed method for securing credibility and eminence among one’s family and community,” he said. His comments come in the backdrop of the protests over three pieces of farm reforms legislation passed by Parliament last month. While the government has asserted that the new farm laws allow farmers to sell their produce at profitable rates and rid them of middlemen, farmers’ outfits, including the RSS affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, have protested again the new laws. “Farmers are free to make their own seeds and they are self-reliant they make their own seeds and fertilizer; we need such policies that allow them to make value addition to the age old practices in agriculture,” Bhagwat said. He also suggested that the government should offer some sort of a security blanket to the MSME units and ensure financial help reaches the intended beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-response-has-stunned-china-says-mohan-bhagwat/story-nRsR1WTux0U4O9azUxHTPI.html
25-10-2020||India||Indian army won’t let anyone take even an inch of our land: Rajnath Singh||As the tensions with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh continue, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that the Indian Army won’t let anyone take even an inch of the country’s land. He added that India wants the standoff to end and peace to be restored in the sector. The minister also hailed the braveheart soldiers stationed at the border and stated that their efforts will be written in golden words in history. Singh is currently is on two-day visit to West Bengal and Sikkim, where he performed Shastra Puja with soldiers near the China border.His visit comes in order to boost the morale of Indian troops deployed against the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at the border. He also reviewed the army’s preparedness against the Chinese troops.  भारतीय सेना के जवानों से भेंट करके मुझे हमेशा बेहद ख़ुशी होती है। उनका मनोबल बहुत ऊँचा रहा है, इसकी जितनी भी प्रशंसा की जाए कम है।भारत चाहता है कि तनाव ख़त्म हो और शांति स्थापित हो। मैं पूरी तरह आश्वस्त हूँ कि हमारी सेना भारत की एक इंच ज़मीन भी दूसरे के हाथ में नहीं जाने देगी। pic.twitter.com/jS3GHa4fniEven after seven rounds of military level talks between the two nations, the disengagement and de-escalation process in the tense Ladakh region has not moved forward. The commanders are expected to meet for the eighth round of talks next week.India and China have been engaged in a border standoff since April-May this year. Apart from Ladakh, a tense confrontation between Indian and Chinese soldiers also took place in north Sikkim in early May.The standoff, currently in its sixth month, has taken India-China ties to a new low, with troops even firing warning shots at friction points in August-September, the first such instance since October 1975.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-won-t-let-anyone-take-even-an-inch-of-our-land-rajnath-singh/story-HpStfMvKPmDf5KNLRfNSCM.html
25-10-2020||India||Covid-19: 80% deaths being reported from 10 states, says health ministry data||Eighty per cent of the new deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country are being reported from 10 states, shows Union health ministry data.With 137 deaths reported on Saturday, Maharashtra recorded most new Covid-19 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 patients having succumbed to the viral infection so far in the state is 43,152.The second most affected state in terms of fatalities is Tamil Nadu, with 10,893 deaths, of which 35 were reported on Saturday. It is closely followed by Karnataka at 10,892 deaths which also reported 71 new deaths on Saturday.The other states with high Covid-19 deaths are: West Bengal (1,793), Chhattisgarh (1,793), Uttar Pradesh (6,854), Kerala (1,306), Delhi (6,225), Punjab (4,107), and Andhra Pradesh (6,566). Also read: India’s Covid-19 recoveries soar past 7 million, 4 states account for more than half, says govtHowever, the country’s case fatality rate (CFR), which is the number of patients who died of the disease among those whose test returned positive, is dropping each day, and currently stands at about 1.5%, which is much lower than the global CFR of about 2.7%.“We are losing fewer patients and a major contributing factor is that we now know the disease far better than what we knew of it earlier, especially which medicines and therapies work better on Covid-19 patients. The entire treatment protocol has been revised and standardised that has worked really well,” said Dr Srikant Sharma, consultant, department of medicine, Moolchand Hospital.Those above 60 years of age and people with comorbid conditions are at a greater risk of developing severe illness.The government’s mortality analysis data shows that about one in two (53%) of those who succumbed to the viral infection were above 60 years of age. Also, as high as 88% of the Covid-19 deaths have been in people who were above 45 years of age. More men die of the viral disease than women. Among the victims, nearly 70% were men and 30% were women, shows India’s latest Covid-19 mortality analysis data that the government releases from time to time. Chronic medical conditions that have been commonly observed in Covid-19 patients include hypertension, diabetes, liver disease, heart disease, asthma, chronic renal disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, low immunity, malignancy, bronchitis and chronic neuromuscular disease. Hypertension and diabetes are the two most common comorbidities that lead to the disease progressing to severe levels among Covid-19 patients. With 645 deaths reported on Saturday, the number of Covid-19 deaths in the country stood at 118,591. The total infection count stood at 78,63,871.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-80-deaths-being-reported-from-10-states-says-health-ministry-data/story-znULiU2u8N5yDyz2s6JdqI.html
25-10-2020||India||Indian defence forces, govt, people responded sharply to China’s efforts to invade our territories: RSS chief||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday said that Indian defence forces, government and the people remained unfazed and responded sharply to China’s boisterous efforts to invade the country’s territories. “The role of China in the context of Covid-19 pandemic can be said to be doubtful, but it was clear to the whole world, the manner in which China attempted to encroach on India’s borders, because of its economic strategic force. Indian defence forces, government and the people remained unfazed and responded sharply to China’s boisterous efforts to invade our territories,” Bhagwat said in his address at the annual Dussehra function at Maharshi Vyas auditorium, RSS headquarters in Nagpur.“The message sent by our leaders with a sense of self-respect and the indomitable ethical-patience of our citizens must compel China to reform its attitude but if push comes to shove we will not fall short of alertness, firmness and readiness,” he added.India and China are engaged in a standoff since April-May this year starting from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh in Northeast. India has deployed close to 60,000 soldiers to counter the Chinese Army which first moved troops to transgress into Indian areas in Pangong Lake and other adjoining locations.Also Read | ‘Efforts to reignite anti-CAA protests still continue’: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat in Dussehra addressBhagwat asserted that securing cooperative ties with our neighbours and at international relations is the only way to neutralise the expansionist aspirations of China and “our present policies seem to be charting those very horizons”“Rising above China economically and strategically. We intend to be friendly with all. This is our nature. But mistaking our benevolence for weakness and attempts to disintegrate or weaken us by sheer brute force is unacceptable. Our reckless detractors should know this by now,” he said.“Until recently the philosophy of integrating the world on the basis of the market forces dominated but with the latest turn of events, the idea of safeguarding life and exercising international cooperation has started to take shape in the global mind. We should speed up our pace in making our relations more friendly with Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, our neighbours, who are also our friends and countries of similar nature to a large extent,” he added. RSS marks Vijay Dashmi as one of its biggest events when the RSS chief addresses the RSS workers on a number of issues concerning politics, society, national security and family values.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-defence-forces-govt-people-responded-sharply-to-china-s-efforts-to-invade-our-territories-rss-chief/story-3tkuyXX9lFd8ZpF1kyp8BN.html
25-10-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 cases drop below 51,000; active cases remain below 7 lakh||India’s daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are steadily declining with the figure falling below 51,000 on Sunday morning while the active cases continued to remain below seven lakh for the third day in a row. According to the latest data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the country’s caseload has risen to 7,864,811 with 668,154 active cases and 118,534 deaths due to the disease. As many as 7,078,123 people have recovered from the disease with Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu reporting the most number of recoveries. Earlier in the day, the health ministry had tweeted, “In a significant achievement, India’s total recoveries have crossed the landmark milestone of 70L. The top 4 States account for more than half of the total recovered cases. About 44% active caseload of the country is contributed by them,” the ministry said in a tweet.Through a graph alongside the tweet, the ministry highlighted that while it took three months to go from 0.1 million to three million recoveries from July till September, the recoveries increased at a steady pace and surpassed seven million in one and a half months ending October. It also noted that the decline in active cases on a daily basis was a result of the Centre’s ‘test, treat, track’ strategy. Meanwhile, the infection tally has reached 42.5 million worldwide with the maximum number of cases continuing to come from the United States at 8,571,943. The toll has risen to 1,148,943, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-cases-drop-below-51-000-active-cases-remain-below-7-lakh/story-L3MNqoZ0uAfxKra7HMwR5L.html
25-10-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh ready with 4 habitats for translocation of African cheetahs||The Madhya Pradesh forest department is ready with four suitable habitats to showcase to a three-member committee constituted by the Supreme Court to guide the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) in the translocation of the African cheetah from Namibia to India, a forest official said Saturday. The committee comprising former director Wildlife of India Ranjit Singh, DG of Wildlife of India Dhananjay Mohan and DIG, Wildlife, Ministry of Environment and Forests will visit Madhya Pradesh next week to survey the suitable habitats for the cheetah.The exercise is part of a programme to reintroduce the fastest land animal in India after the Asiatic cheetah was hunted to extinction in the country in the 1950s. The Madhya Pradesh forest department, which was initially vying for translocation of the cheetahs in Kuno National Park in Sheopur district and Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary in Damoh district in 2012, has now added two more locations – Madhav National Park in Shivpuri district and Gandhi Sagar Wildlife Sanctuary in Mandsaur district in the survey, said JS Chauhan, additional principal chief conservator of forest, (Wildlife). “In January, the Supreme Court had allowed the Centre to introduce the cheetah in the country following an application filed by the NTCA. The apex court formed the committee which will submit its survey report before the court so that proper monitoring could take place,” said Chauhan. The forest officer said, “Kuno National Park in Sheopur, which was upgraded for the relocation of Asiatic Lion but the process couldn’t begin, can get good numbers in the survey as the place is most suitable in the country for translocation of the cheetah. Meanwhile, we have prepared all the three other places too by translocating prey base and resolving local issues.” Sheopur, divisional forest officer (DFO), PK Verma said, “Kuno National Park has one of the best prey bases with a population of spotted deer of 45 per sq km. The area which was about 350 sq km is now increased to 750 sq km and all the villages have been shifted from the forest area.” Verma said the forest department has worked hard to ensure that the Kuno National Park has been turned into a suitable habitat for the cheetah.“The process of shifting of the Asiatic lion couldn’t take place. But we hope that the cheetah will come to Kuno. The introduction of the cheetah will give a new life to the area. The locals, who are waiting for Lion and Cheetah for the past 10 years to boost the local economy, will also get benefit of it. We have left no stone unturned to prepare the national park as the most suitable habitat for the cheetah,” said Verma. Asiatic cheetahs once roamed India’s grasslands but indiscriminate hunting led to their extinction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-ready-with-4-habitats-for-translocation-of-african-cheetahs/story-raZ6M8JDVISKeU9ZJMlCdJ.html
25-10-2020||India||‘World knows its expansionist nature’: RSS chief slams China in Dusshera address||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday lashed out at China for encoaching India’s borders during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. In his annual address, Bhagwat said that the world knows China’s expansionist nature.“China encroached on our borders amid the coronavirus pandemic. The world knows the expansionist nature of that country,” news agency PTI quoted Bhagwat as saying.He also said that Indian forces, government and the people remained unfazed and responded sharply to China’s boisterous efforts to invade the country’s territories.Also Read | ‘Efforts to reignite anti-CAA protests still continue’: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat in Dussehra address“The message sent by our leaders with a sense of self-respect and the indomitable ethical-patience of our citizens must compel China to reform its attitude but if push comes to shove we will not fall short of alertness, firmness and readiness,” he added.Bhagwat further asserted that that securing cooperative ties with our neighbours and at international relations is the only way to neutralise the expansionist aspirations of China.“We should speed up our pace in making our relations more friendly with Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, our neighbours, who are also our friends and countries of similar nature to a large extent”India and China are engaged in a standoff since April-May this year.The RSS chief also spoke about the Citizenship Amendment Act. “Citizenship (Amendment) Act not against any religious community, but some people misled our Muslim brothers claiming it was aimed at restricting their population,” he said.The country is celebrating Dusshera, also known as Vijaydashmi, on Sunday. During the celebration, people burn effigies of Ravan to mark the win of Good over evil.However this year the celebrations have been low-key due to the Covid-19 restrictions imposed to curb the spread.The RSS also celebrates Dusshera as one of its biggest events. This year the celebrations were held without with just 50 people in attendance due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-knows-its-expansionist-nature-rss-chief-slams-china-in-dusshera-address/story-lseFaoSfxkrsFl3AHDsU5O.html
25-10-2020||India||Air pollution levels ‘very poor’ in northwest India, may improve marginally||Air pollution levels remained in “very poor” category on Sunday morning in most parts of northwest India. Scientists at air quality early warning system under ministry of earth sciences are expecting air pollution levels to improve marginally after wind speed improved on Saturday.Ambala, Baghpat, Bahadurgarh, Bhatinda, Bulandshahr, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Gurugram were all in “very poor” category. Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 353, also in very poor category. Though wind direction continues to be north-westerly, its speed improved marginally on Saturday which didn’t allow pollution levels to deteriorate to “severe” category. “Wind speed is ranging from 8 to 12 kmph which can aid in dispersion of pollutants. We don’t expect pollution levels to deteriorate further in the next two days. It may marginally improve because our models are showing better ventilation till Monday,” said Vijay Soni, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD).Also read: Pollution tracks rising fire graphMeanwhile, conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of monsoon from the remaining parts of Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and the entire North Arabian sea and from some parts of Odisha, north Maharashtra, Central Arabian Sea during the next 24 hours and from the entire country in the subsequent two days. This will lead to mostly dry weather across the country except peninsular India.“With likely setting in of north-easterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels over Bay of Bengal and extreme south, peninsular India, the southwest monsoon is likely to withdraw from the entire country around October 28. Simultaneously, the northeast Monsoon rains are also likely to commence over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining areas of Karnataka and Kerala around October 28,” IMD said in its Sunday bulletin. The normal date for monsoon withdrawal is October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-levels-very-poor-in-northwest-india-may-improve-marginally/story-dEQD6HXWJ1S598gTZQUvuI.html
25-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rajnath Singh to perform Shastra Puja with soldiers in Sikkim on Sunday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajnath Singh to perform Shastra Puja with soldiers in Sikkim on SundayDefence minister Rajnath Singh will perform Shastra Puja - worshipping of weapons - on then occasion of Dussehra on Sunday with the soldiers of the Indian Army. Singh will perform the puja with one of the local units deployed in Sikkim near the China border. Read more‘Not anti-national or religious fight’: J&K mega alliance vows to expose ‘lies’Members of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration held a meeting in Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar on October 24. The meeting was held at PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti’s residence, and attended by her former rivals Farooq and Omar Abdullah. Watch hereWatch: Donald Trump casts early vote, repeats mail-in fraud charge | US pollsUS President Donald Trump cast an early vote ahead of elections. Trump voted at a library serving as a polling centre in Florida. Trump was seen wearing a mask which he removed during media briefing. Watch hereTweet on ‘pets’ people want but can’t have sparks an interesting threadEvery now and then, YouTube India takes to Twitter to share all sorts of posts. Ranging from funny to emotional, their tweets are varied and thoroughly entertaining. Just like this share which details the pets that people may want but can’t have. Read moreMany happy returns: As more ancient artefacts make their way home, a look at a top 10For hundreds of years, India has been losing ancient artefacts to theft, foreign invasion and colonisation. Some of these artefacts are nearly 2,000 years old. Many have ended up in private collections; some sit on display in museums around the world. Read moreFootfairy movie review: Gulshan Devaiah-starrer murder mystery aims big, achieves littleFootfairy, with the unfortunate rhyming with tooth fairy, is a rather straightforward story of a monstrous ‘fairy’ who takes away only the most beautiful feet it finds. After killing the unfortunate victim first, of course. Read moreJoe Root names the ‘most complete player’ in Virat Kohli, Steve Smith and Kane Williamson trioKohli often faces comparisons from former Australia captain Steve Smith, New Zealand captain Kane Williamson and England captain Joe Root - who all together are regarded as ‘The Big four’ of cricket. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rajnath-singh-to-perform-shastra-puja-with-soldiers-in-sikkim-on-sunday-and-all-the-latest-news/story-tgqjYiEMEYU1je02AqnPWP.html
25-10-2020||India||NGT panel to probe barge accidents on Indo-Bangla waterway causing fly ash pollution||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has formed a committee comprising experts from the Central Pollution Control Board and the West Bengal Pollution Control Board to look into fly ash pollution in the rivers triggered by capsizing barges in the Hooghly river on National Waterway 97, also known as the Indo-Bangladesh Protocol Route.The NGT’s move earlier this week came following a petition by Dakshinbanga Matsyajibi Forum, a union of fishermen in south Bengal. West Bengal’s chief wildlife warden and district magistrate of South 24 Parganas are also in the committee. “Barges transporting fly ash from Kolkata and Haldia in West Bengal to Bangladeshi ports of Khulna, Mongla and Chattagram often capsize in the Hooghly releasing tons of fly ash. This pollutes the river’s ecosystem and adversely affects the fishing industry that thrives on these rivers and in the Sunderbans,” said Pradip Chatterjee, president of the Dakshinbanga Matsyajibi Forum.Everyday hundreds of barges moving along National Waterway 97, also called the Sunderban waterway, carry fly ash from West Bengal to Bangladesh for cement factories in that country. According to the forum at least five barges have capsized this year releasing tons of fly ash in the rivers. While the Sunderbans’ fragile ecosystem is a breeding ground of several species of fish and aquatic animals, the Gangetic dolphin and Hilsa fish are found in the Hooghly river which could be hit by the pollution. The union ministry of environment and forest in its report titled ‘Status of Tigers, Co-predators and Prey in India (2018)’ released earlier this year had also said that India and Bangladesh should carefully use the water-channels in the Sunderban, so as not to disturb the free movement of tigers between the two countries. “Even though cargo used to move through the Indian part of the Sunderbans, it has been stopped totally since 2011. Now the ships and barges take alternate water routes, avoiding the Sunderbans, to reach Bangladesh,” said a senior official of West Bengal forest department. The petition says that most of the barges that move through the rivers carrying fly ash have outlived their lives There is, however, hardly any mechanism in place to check them or make the owners pay on polluters-pay principle. “We are satisfied that substantial question relating to environment arises in this case which requires to be looked into by the Tribunal,” the Kolkata bench of the NGT said. The committee has been directed to verify the factual aspects after physical verification of the area and examine the factors giving rise to barge accidents, suggest measures to prevent occurrence of such incidents and also mitigation measures in respect of fly ash already spilled in the waterway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-panel-to-probe-barge-accidents-on-indo-bangla-waterway-causing-fly-ash-pollution/story-xBD4dQqy4m6M2EenbtoyuI.html
25-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recoveries soar past 7 million, 4 states account for more than half: Govt||Over seven million people have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India and four states, which also have maximum number of active cases, have contributed to more than half of the recovery figures, Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Sunday. “In a significant achievement, India’s total recoveries have crossed the landmark milestone of 70L. The top 4 States account for more than half of the total recovered cases. About 44% active caseload of the country is contributed by them,” the ministry said in a tweet.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The national recovery cate has further improved to 89.78%, the government said on Saturday and added that 61% of the total recovered cases are from six states - Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi.According to data cited by the government, 0.1 million people had recovered from the disease on June 3 and the figures continued to witness an upward trend with the tally tally reaching 7,016,046 on October 24.The graph shared by the ministry along with the tweet also shows the rapid pace of recovery in the recent months. While it took three months to go from 0.1 million to 3 million recoveries, the figure stood at 3 million on September 4 and surpassed 7 million as on October 24, i.e. in little more than one and a half month.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageTime and again, the government has hailed its ‘test, treat, track’ strategy for the steady decline in active cases and increase in recoveries. The total caseload in the country stands at 7,814,682 while the toll stands at 117,956.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recoveries-soar-past-7-million-4-states-account-for-more-than-half-govt/story-FuxDHe8HiBsVAYawn1BW4N.html
25-10-2020||India||IT, ED rarely raided BJP leaders in last six years: Congress||Central government tax and enforcement agencies like Income Tax department and the Enforcement Directorate have rarely raided BJP leaders over the last six years, despite numerous government toppling instances, All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary in-charge of Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao said on Saturday.Addressing a press conference here Rao said, “The BJP is stoking sentiment because party or government programmes do not matter anymore. The economy has fallen, our borders are threatened, our foreign policy has collapsed and we are friendless in our neighbourhood, there is no security for women and dalits.”“Every day we see that ED, Income Tax are raiding Opposition parties. Show me one BJP leader in the last six years who has been issued notice by any of the enforcement agencies. Several state governments have been toppled and hundreds of crores of rupees have been spent in such attempts. IT and ED do not know what is happening? CBI does not know what is happening?” he asked further.Rao said that this “country is being run by capitalists in collusion with Prime Minister Narendra Modi”.“This is not a democracy. This country is being run by big capitalists in collusion with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. They are using human and natural resources of this country to make profit. This is disastrous situation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-ed-rarely-raided-bjp-leaders-in-last-six-years-congress/story-NwIkTPxPWZAZdU2QPL5wyN.html
25-10-2020||India||‘Everyone should get success’: PM Modi wishes nation on Mahanavami||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday extended greetings to people celebrating ‘Mahanavami’, the ninth and last day of Navratri festival.“Heartiest greetings to the countrymen on Mahanavami. On this auspicious day of Navratri, the ninth power of Mother Durga is worshiped by Goddess Siddhidatri. With the blessings of Maa Siddhidatri, everyone should get success in their works,” said PM Modi on Twitter.The nation is celebrating Dussehra and Mahanavami today as the nine-day long Navratri culminates. Mahanavami is celebrated across the country, especially in West Bengal state. It is one of the biggest festivals for Bengali people. However, the celebrations are subdued this year due to the nationwide Covid-19 restrictions preventing people from celebrating the festival on a grand scale.Following pujas and other traditional practices over the five-day long Durga Puja and prior to the immersion of the idol as part of the ‘Ghot Bisharjon’, Vijayadashami is marked with women participating in ‘Sindoor Khela’, which involves women applying vermilion (Sindoor) on each other after applying Sindoor on the Goddess’ feet and forehead and feeding her with sweets and betel leaves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/everyone-should-get-success-pm-modi-wishes-nation-on-mahanavami/story-BMLP6WfjJHDtoJnSiEErBJ.html
25-10-2020||India||On Trump’s ‘filthy India’ remark, Biden says ‘not how you talk about friends’||Slamming President Donald Trump for his comment on India’s air pollution, former vice president and Democratic Party’s presidential nominee Joe Biden on Saturday said he and his running mate Kamala Harris deeply value America’s partnership with India. “President Trump called India ‘filthy’. It’s not how you talk about friends and it’s not how you solve global challenges like climate change,” Biden said in a tweet, two days after Trump during a presidential debate accused China, India and Russia of not taking care of their “filthy” air. “Look at China, how filthy it is. Look at Russia. Look at India. The air is filthy,” Trump had said during the final presidential debate with Biden in Nashville, Tennessee on Thursday. “Kamala Harris and I deeply value our partnership and will put respect back at the centre of our foreign policy,” Biden said in a tweet Saturday as he retweeted his op-ed in the latest issue of ethnic India West weekly.Also watch | ‘It’s not how you talk about friends’: Biden On Trump’s ‘filthy India’ remark“The Obama-Biden years were some of the best we’ve ever had between our two countries. A Biden-Harris administration will build on that great progress and do even more. We can and should be natural allies,” Biden wrote in the op-ed. “That’s why if elected President, I will continue what I have long called for: The US and India will stand together against terrorism in all its forms and work together to promote a region of peace and stability where neither China nor any other country threatens its neighbours,” he said. “We’ll open markets and grow the middle class in both the United States and India, and confront other international challenges together, like climate change, global health, transnational terrorism and nuclear proliferation,” said Biden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-donald-trump-s-filthy-india-remark-joe-biden-says-not-how-you-talk-about-friends/story-5cBQoyz3xwoVBm511gqphI.html
25-10-2020||India||Policeman killed in Maoist ambush in Chhattisgarh’s Narayanpur district||A Chhattisgarh policeman was killed and another injured when Maoists ambushed a police team in the forests of Narayanpur district in Bastar region on Saturday, police said. Police also claimed that about five Maoists were injured after the police team retaliated but managed to escape from the site of the encounter.Santu Vaddu, the deceased jawan was with District Reserve Guard (DRG) of Narayanpur district. Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sunderaj P said that the incident took place near Tadur village under Orchha police station of the district. “On Friday, a team of DRG went inside the jungles of Orchha for an anti-naxal operation launched by the district police. On Saturday, at around 10.30 am, when the team was returning the Maoists ambushed it resulting in an encounter,” said the IG. The IG further said that during the encounter DRG personnel Santu Vadde sustained bullet injuries on his leg and died later during treatment. “Another constable Bajju Ram Kachlam sustained minor injuries and was admitted to a hospital,” Sunderaj added. “Blood stains at the encounter spot suggests that around 4-5 Maoists sustained bullet injuries in the encounter. We have launched operation in the jungles which is underway,” the IG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/policeman-killed-in-maoist-ambush-in-chhattisgarh-s-narayanpur-district/story-pP2LU4eU87rn1lNPrZqrgJ.html
25-10-2020||India||Andhra govt partially demolishes GITAM university campus in Vizag for alleged encroachment||In an overnight drive, civic authorities in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam on Saturday demolished the compound wall and a few other structures of the Gandhi Institute of Technology and Management (GITAM) University, a prestigious private university at Rishikonda on the city outskirts. The demolition followed a recent report submitted by Visakhapatnam revenue divisional officer (RDO) Penchala Kishore to the government, declaring that the university was in possession of 40.51 acres of government land which it had allegedly encroached upon during the previous Telugu Desam Party government. GITAM University was promoted by former TDP parliamentarian late M V V S Murthy. It is currently managed by his grandson M Sri Bharat, who also happens to be son-in-law of senior Tollywood actor and MLA Nandamuri Balakrishna, son of TDP founder and former chief minister N T Rama Rao. Incidentally, Bharat contested the 2019 general elections from Visakhapatnam parliamentary constituency on TDP ticket. The demolitions which began after midnight went on till the early hours of Saturday. Apart from the main entrance and security chamber, the entire compound wall of the engineering and medical blocks was razed to the ground. Heavy police forces were deployed at the demolition site, as the civic authorities closed the approach road towards the university. Later, the authorities put up a board declaring it as the government property. An official of the GITAM University said the GVMC officials had conducted the demolition drive without issuing any prior notice. “We came to know only in the morning. We informed the higher authorities that the land issue is in the court. No marking was done for identifying the government land,” the official, who refused to be named, said. The RDO, however, told reporters that the university had encroached upon over 40 acres of land and the GVMC authorities held talks with the university management several times. “We have demolished certain structures which were built in the encroached portion of the government land. In the next phase, we shall take some more demolitions,” Kishore said. The demolitions evoked strong protests from the TDP. Party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu condemned the demolitions saying it was a clear act of vengeance against the political opponents in the state. He said the matter was in court but the demolitions were initiated without waiting for the final verdict. “The destructive attack on a noted educational institution would be a big threat to the future progress and prosperity of the state as a whole,” he said. He also pointed out that the university had provided medical help to 2,590 Covid-19 patients for which it incurred expenses of crores of rupees. Such a noble educational institution became witness to thoughtless demolitions overnight by over 200 personnel. “One who cannot build has no right to demolish, he argued. Naidu’s son and TDP general secretary Nara Lokesh also condemned the demolitions at GITAM University. “The chief minister’s modus operandi is to create terror in the minds of all the people in Visakhapatnam and perpetrate his ruthless rule there,” he alleged. YSR Congress party legislator from Anakapalle Gudivada Amarnath, however, made it clear that the state government would not spare anybody who resorted to illegal encroachment of government lands and properties. He alleged that the GITAM university had encroached upon government lands worth Rs 800 crore. “What is wrong in taking back the government land?” he asked. He refuted the allegation that the government had not given any notice to the university authorities. “In fact, notices were served on the management five months ago,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-partially-demolishes-gitam-university-campus-in-vizag-for-alleged-encroachment/story-XsrG5Mv4DJdUMytGfeR8CL.html
25-10-2020||India||PM Modi, Donald Trump get along so well, says Nikki Haley||US President Donald Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi get “along so well” and the two countries are partnering in defence, trade and other sectors, said Nikki Haley, American former envoy to United Nations, on Saturday. Speaking during an event here, Haley, Indian-American Republican politician, said in the aftermath of the coronavirus, there is more of a coalition that the United States is bringing in India along with Australia and Japan.“...The relationship with India has never been stronger ever. India is the largest democracy that shares our values. And President Trump and Prime Minister Modi get along so well. But now we are actually partnering with them on defense and trade and other areas,” she said at a fireside chat event organised by the Indian Voices for Trump in the battleground state of Philadelphia.“And with COVID-19 coming from China. There’s more of a coalition that the United States is bringing in India, along with Australia and Japan. And so, really, the foreign policy of President Trump has been gangbusters over any other president that we have had in decades, and that affects every one of us from national security,” she added. Haley, the two-term governor of South Carolina, was the first Cabinet-ranking Indian-American in any presidential administration. She is now campaigning for Trump ahead of the US election.In a message for all Indian Americans, Haley told ANI: “The Indian American community contributes a lot to the United States, and it is the best country in the world but we have to protect them. So we need the American community to remember that President Trump was given us the lowest unemployment has allowed for businesses to thrive.”“It’s really allowed us the opportunity to excel in every field and every direction we need to go and continue to support him so that we can continue doing that for our children, our grandchildren right,” she added.Speaking about China in view of national security threat, Haley said that Beijing is the United States’ “absolute number one” national security threat adding that US President Donald Trump has made sure China does not steal American intellectual property.Haley, former US Ambassador to the UN, said President Trump has “put China on notice”.”China is our absolute number one threat right now, a huge national security threat. With the trade deal that the President did, not only did he get a better trade deal for us, he put China on notice with intellectual property.”“He has made sure that they know that they can not turn around and steal intellectual property. They cannot go and spy on our universities, and that we are going to hold them accountable as we go forward,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-donald-trump-get-along-so-well-says-nikki-haley/story-fjFxgpCF8mqfpswVIzUjCK.html
25-10-2020||India||Rajnath Singh to perform Shastra Puja with soldiers in Sikkim on Sunday||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will perform Shastra Puja - worshipping of weapons - on then occasion of Dussehra on Sunday with the soldiers of the Indian Army.Singh will perform the puja with one of the local units deployed in Sikkim near the China border. He embarked on a two-day visit to West Bengal and Sikkim on Saturday.Shastra Puja is a ritual performed by the Hindus annually around the time of Dussehra. Singh had performed the puja in France last year, on the first Rafale fighter jet India formally received.He emblazoned the aircraft with an Om tilak and laid flowers and a coconut as part of the ritual. The defence minister also took a 35-minute sortie in the two-seater jet.Singh is visiting Sikkim to boost the morale of Indian troops deployed against the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at the border. He will review the deployment of troops at the borders and assess their preparedness against the PLA.The defence minister visited the Headquarters of 33 Corps at Sukna in Darjeeling on Saturday where he said that the country’s boundaries are secure due to its soldiers.“India always wants good relations with all its neighbouring countries, we have always made an effort for the same. But our jawans have had to sacrifice their lives from time to time to protect our borders, integrity and universality,” he said.“This time in Galwan, our 20 jawans of Bihar Regiment sacrificed themselves to protect our motherland...The nation and its boundaries are secure due to you,” he added.The defence minister was accompanied by Chief of the Army Staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane.India and China are engaged in a border standoff since April-May this year. While the Ladakh sector has been the focus of the current round of border tensions with China, a tense confrontation between Indian and Chinese soldiers took place in north Sikkim in early May, just days after a brawl between rival troops on the northern bank of Pangong Tso.The standoff, currently in its sixth month, has taken India-China ties to a new low, with troops even firing warning shots at friction points in August-September. This was the first instance of shots being fired along the LAC since October 1975.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-perform-shastra-puja-with-soldiers-in-sikkim-on-sunday/story-JyIOd3zJjWk5q34LjbJBQO.html
25-10-2020||India||BJP, Cong trade barbs over rape-murder of Dalit girl in Punjab||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday hit out at Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for their “selective outrage” over crimes against women and questioned the party’s alleged silence on the rape and murder of a six-year-old Dalit girl in Punjab. Sitharaman said that crimes against women should not be linked to politics and questioned why the Congress was silent. “All political parties together will have to make sure that the system responds and justice is served in time. But because we want our political games to be played, we are selective about voicing horror... and remain in complete silence when it is in states governed by Congress.”“The pretentious Congress has not said a word. The tweet-friendly Rahul Gandhi hasn’t tweeted on the Hoshiarpur incident. There’s been no outrage, no picnic either,” she added.Congress MP Rahul Gandhi hit back, tweeting: “Unlike in UP, the governments of Punjab and Rajasthan are NOT denying that the girl was raped, threatening her family and blocking the course of justice. If they do, I will go there to fight for justice.” Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev said the reason Congress leaders felt the need to go to Hathras is because the district administration geared up, not to protect the victim and her family, but to threaten them. “That’s why the opposition leaders felt it was their duty to go to Hathras. In Punjab, the chairperson of Punjab Women’s Commission has met the family, assured their full support,” she said while criticising National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-cong-trade-barbs-over-rape-murder-of-dalit-girl-in-punjab/story-NSfpcleveonD5Z2IzRTViP.html
25-10-2020||India||In Odisha temple, animal sacrifice discontinued due to Covid-19 pandemic||For the first time in several decades, the ritual of animal sacrifice in a famous Hindu temple of Odisha could not be held due to Covid-19 restrictions though the Supreme Court had allowed it last week.The famous Chhatar Jatra of Manikeswari Temple in western Odisha district of Kalahandi was conducted on Saturday amid Covid-19 restrictions and tight security without participation of devotees. The festival began early this morning with the procession of Chhatar of Goddess Manikeswari taken to the outskirts of Bhawanipatna town following secret rituals.As per tradition, devotees sacrifice large numbers of sheep, goats, roosters and pigeons in the hope that Goddess Manikeswari would meet all their wishes. However, the Orissa High Court on January 6 had imposed a ban on sacrifice of animals and birds in and around Maa Manikeswari temple. Last week, the Supreme Court had put an interim stay on the High Court order of restricting animal sacrifice during the festival.Despite the SC allowing the sacrifice ritual, the organisers of the festival decided against the animal sacrifice to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “We had imposed section 144 CrPC around the temple to prevent congregation of people around the temple. The organisers too decided not to go ahead with the animal sacrifice due to Covid-19 restrictions,” a senior official of Kalahandi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-temple-animal-sacrifice-discontinued-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-hzOH9q0KpHJlwcZ84GhsiI.html
25-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand crosses 60,000-mark with 359 new Covid-19 cases, 5 more die||Uttarakhand on Saturday crossed the 60,000 mark in Covid-19 cases, with 359 fresh patients taking the state tally to 60,155. Out of 60,155 who have tested positive so far, a total of 54,169 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 90.05 %. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 6.35 %. Also, 451 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Saturday with a maximum 196 from Dehradun district. The fresh Covid-19 cases reported from other districts included Almora (18), Bageshwar (12), Chamoli (31), Champawat (2), Haridwar (63), Nainital (48), Pauri Garhwal (24), Pithoragarh (13), Rudraprayag (13), Tehri Garhwal (7), US Nagar (18) and Uttarkashi (20). The state reported the death of five Covid-19 patients. Of the 5 deaths, one was due to coronavirus while the rest were due to co-morbidities. With this, the death toll of Covid-19 patients increased to 984 in the state. Out of the 984 deaths, 259 are due to coronavirus, while the others died due to co-morbidities. According to the bulletin released by the state health department on Saturday evening, a maximum of 90 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district. Dehradun district has reported the maximum of 16,675 Covid-19 positive cases so far followed by Haridwar (10,792), US Nagar (9,364) and Nainital (7,076). The state has so far tested over 9.73 lakh samples of which results of over 14,900 are awaited. Uttarakhand, currently has 57 containment zones in six districts including a maximum of 26 in Dehradun district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-crosses-60-000-mark-with-359-new-covid-19-cases-5-more-die/story-BpfurnpGWvfSyh9ZLFJb0I.html
25-10-2020||India||J&K coalition is anti-BJP, not anti-national, says Farooq Abdullah||A grouping of six political parties in Jammu and Kashmir chose National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah as its chairperson and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mehbooba Mufti his deputy, giving shape to an alliance that they have formed to demand the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status. The decisions were taken at a meeting held at the Fairview residence of Mufti at the posh Gupkar Road in Srinagar. Leaders of all six parties — NC, PDP, Peoples Conference (PC), Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M), Peoples Movement (PM) and Awami National Conference (ANC) — were present at the meeting. The flag of the erstwhile state was adopted as the flag of the alliance. Abdullah said the grouping, christened People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, or PAGD, was not an anti-national alliance but was definitely anti-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “I want to tell you that it’s a false propaganda by the BJP that the PAGD is anti-national. There is no doubt that it is anti-BJP, but it is not anti-national,” he said. Abdullah, 84, the Lok Sabha member from Srinagar, said their fight was not religious in nature and that it was for their “rights and identity”. “They (the BJP) have tried to destroy the Constitution and divide the country. We have seen what they did to the Constitution of India on August 5 last year...our objective is to fight for the rights of people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh. We will fight for the regional autonomy of Jammu and Ladakh regions as well.”On August 5, 2019, the central government nullified Article 370, which accorded special status to the state of J&K, and bifurcated it into two Union territories – J&K with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one — triggering widespread protests and a political firestorm. Several political leaders and activists including three former chief ministers — Mufti, Abdullah and his son, Omar Abdullah — were detained as a preventive measure to maintain law and order. The Abdullahs were released in March, and Mufti was freed in the second week of October. Since then, the leaders, once fierce opponents, have come together — backed by four other parties — to forge the alliance that aims to work for the restoration of the region’s special status. The grouping’s first meeting was held at the Gupkar residence of Abdullah on October 15.At Saturday’s meeting, PC chairperson Sajjad Lone was nominated as the spokesperson of the alliance. CPI-M general secretary Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami will be its convener and Anantnag parliamentarian Hasnain Masoodi of the NC its coordinator. Members of the alliance said they will come up with a white paper within a month to expose the “lies” spread about the people of J&K. “...it (the white paper) will be placed before the people and the country to expose lies and misunderstandings; it will expose the reality about J&K with statistics. The document will be a tribute to the people,” Lone said. The next gathering of the alliance will be held in Jammu within two weeks and its first convention in Srinagar in November, he added.BJP spokesperson Altaf Thakur said the grouping will not succeed. “These people have ruled J&K for 70 years. Now when they are out of power, the families have again come together to grab power. This is a VVIP alliance of powerful people that will not work.”Noor Baba, a political analyst and the former head of the political science department at the Kashmir University, however, said leaders of the new alliance were a recognised and a significant voice. “The government of India cannot dub them separatists. They cannot be dubbed Pakistanis because their credentials are established as authentic Indians in Kashmir who believe in a certain idea of India — which is secular and allows certain safeguards in relation to the state of Jammu and Kashmir...Their voice is significant if they stand by what they have committed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-coalition-is-anti-bjp-not-anti-national-farooq-abdullah/story-JDwPwkaWdItZ12q6vdFVQM.html
25-10-2020||India||Work for Mahakumbh 2021 to be held in two shifts for time-bound completion||With less than three months left for the Mahakumbh and infrastructural work still going on, the Mela administration is focussing on ensuring time-bound completion of the work, by carrying out constriction in two shifts. A monitoring committee has been set up to assess, monitor and check the Kumbh related work, which reports on a daily basis to the Mela administration. Mela officer-in-charge Deepak Rawat is now routinely inspecting the construction worksites to gauge the pace of work. Directing officials to start operating construction work in two shifts, Rawat has made it clear that quality and time-bound completion of the work is vital for hosting a successful Mahakumbh fair. All the departmental officials have been directed by senior mela administration officials to adhere to the December deadline with regard to Kumbh permanent nature projects. “By December end, we have to ensure all permanent work is completed,” Rawat said, while inspecting the Sukhi rivulet, where a 44 metre bridge construction work is going on at Bhoopatwala. Secretary, public works department (PWD), R Sudhanshu assured that no compromise on the quality of Mahakumbh related work will be made. “Stern directives have been given to nodal and department officials involved in Kumbh projects. Adhering to the deadline of completion of Kumbh projects by year-end is foremost priority along with the quality of the work,” said R Sudhanshu. To ensure speedy construction work, the Mela administration had sought additional time from the Irrigation department of Uttar Pradesh to extend the Ganga canal closure from fortnight to a month this year. The closure of the Ganga canal from October 14 to November 15 has surely increased the speed of the construction work. From the construction of bridges, new Ganga ghats to renovation-cleaning work, the canal closure extension by a fortnight is proving vital for time-bound completion of Mahakumbh projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/work-for-mahakumbh-2021-to-be-held-in-two-shifts-for-time-bound-completion/story-13HttomNiXK2ETSoP1W67O.html
25-10-2020||India||Telangana to revise budget for FY 2020-21 amid revenue drop due to covid||The Telangana government has decided to revise its annual budget for the financial year 2020-2021 amid a shortfall in revenues due to the Covid-19 pandemic, officials familiar with the matter said.Following a meeting with officials of the state’s finance ministry on Friday, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has instructed officials to take up an interim review of the state’s budget, an official release from the CM’s office stated. “The state’s revenue and income have been reduced severely due to the lockdown imposed due to Corona pandemic. There was cut in the funds from the Centre to the State. The Central GDP has fallen to (Minus) -24 percent. This had a major impact on the states,” the statement cited the chief minister as saying. Under these circumstances, KCR said, the state had to prepare estimates on how much funds are actually available and how much funds can be allocated to the departments. “Review the entire state budget and submit a report to the government,” the CM told officials. On March 8, state finance minister T Harish Rao had presented the state’s annual budget with an outlay of Rs 1,82,914 crore, with a revenue surplus of Rs 4,482 crore. The budget projected a revenue expenditure of Rs 1,38,669 crore and capital expenditure of Rs 22,061 crore. The chief minister has also proposed to make changes in the existing method of announcing dearness allowance (DA) to the state government employees and pensioners, officials who attended Friday’s meeting said on condition of anonymity.As on date, DA is being paid to state government employees in accordance with the decision taken by the Centre. The CM said hereafter, the state would announce the DA once in six months without waiting for the decision of the Centre. “Changes could be made in the instalments at later stage, depending on the Central formula,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-to-revise-budget-for-fy-2020-21-amid-revenue-drop-due-to-covid/story-zU8gpGfTwm5QX9tb1jGUmI.html
25-10-2020||India||Third phase of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine to begin soon in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has completed the second phase of clinical trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine. The civic body will soon start third phase trials after the first batch of volunteers complete 28 days since their first vaccination.As many as 200 healthy volunteers participated in the second phase of the trial of the vaccine candidate named COVISHIELD. Both King Edward Memorial (KEM) and BYL Nair hospitals, that are conducting the trials, will now submit their reports to the data safety monitoring board under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization to seek approval for stage III of the trial. “With the approval, we will be able to start the third phase of the trial once the first set of volunteers complete 28 days of the first vaccination. As per ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research), the third trial can only be conducted on volunteers after a gap of 28 days,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. On September 26, the first dosage of the second phase of trial was given to three volunteers between ages 20 and 45 years at KEM hospital. On October 23, they completed 28 days of their first vaccination.Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has partnered with British-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine formulated at the University of Oxford.Meanwhile, as informed SII has suggested that the civic body include 50 more volunteers for the first phase of the trial. Following which, both the hospitals have written to the ICMR seeking approval. “As we have achieved our target of 100 volunteers, we have asked ICMR if they want us to include more volunteers. So far, we haven’t received any response. However, we have kept additional volunteers on standby,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair hospital.However, Kakani said that they wouldn’t wait further for a response from ICMR and start their third phase trial. “We can’t wait any further as we need to provide the third dosage to the first volunteers who have completed their 28 days of waiting period,” he said. Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM hospital confirmed that they are yet to start the third phase of the trial.In August, when ICMR selected the two Mumbai-based hospitals to run clinical trials for the vaccine, they were instructed to enroll 160 volunteers at each hospital. Later, the number of total volunteers was reduced to a total of 200-or 100 each - for conducting the second phase of the trial. According to ICMR, every volunteer is covered by life insurance worth Rs 1 crore in the event of death due to any side effect of the vaccine administered in the trial. Also, they get Rs 50 lakh medical insurance to cover the cost for treatment of any possible adverse effect from the vaccination.In the second week of September, both hospitals had to halt the trial after a participant developed an adverse reaction in the United Kingdom. Later, the Drug Control General of India granted permission to run the second and third phases of the trial. However, both civic hospitals had to receive final approval from their ethics committees before starting with the screening of the volunteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-phase-of-oxford-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-to-begin-soon-in-mumbai/story-nqkpFPgmxiHMrGOTqFXdgM.html
25-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt issues SOP for schools to reopen on November 2 after 7 months||With schools scheduled to reopen for classes 10 and 12 on November 2 after nearly seven months, the Uttarakhand government on Saturday evening released guidelines to be followed by educational institutions in the state to check the spread of Covid-19. According to the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by chief secretary Om Prakash, schools outside containment zones in the state will open from November 2. According to the guidelines, the schools will have to follow many conditions that include sanitization of school premises before and after classes daily, arrangements to be made in schools for sanitizers, handwash, thermal screening, first aid, if any student or teacher shows Covid-19 symptoms, he or she to be immediately sent home, social distancing to be ensured while students arrive at and leave school, wearing of face masks by all students and teachers among others. The other main guidelines include classes be started in two shifts if social distancing cannot be ensured due to large number of students. Schools have been directed that they should seek written permission of the parents/ guardians before allowing students in the schools. The school buses have to be sanitized daily and 50% strength of the seats be used to ensure social distancing while commuting between schools and homes. In classes, seating arrangements should be made in such a way so that there is a distance of six feet between the students. The seating spots on the benches have to be marked for easy identification. If the weather allows, classes can be held outdoors to ensure proper following of social distancing norms. Different timings need to be set for students to come into and leave school premises so that there is no unnecessary crowding when the schools start and close for the day. Prayers are to be held in the classes or outdoors, but no games or recreational activities will be allowed. Schools have been asked not to encourage organizing of events, due to which there is crowding. If some students want to study from home, using online means, they have to be allowed to do so, the SOP states. The decision to open schools from November 2 for classes 10 and 12 was taken during a cabinet meeting on October 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-issues-sop-for-schools-to-reopen-on-november-2-after-7-months/story-dR6ZRHEplVkg1FIE1VYVFO.html
25-10-2020||India||Leopard cub found dead in Uttarakhand’s Nainital||A carcass of a three-month-old leopard cub was found in Uttarakhand’s Nainital on Saturday morning, forest officials said. The cub was found dead in Veer Bhatti area in Manora forest range under the Nainital forest division. The locals informed the forest department about the location of the carcass. Bhupal Singh Mehta, range officer of the Manora forest range said, “On Saturday morning, some locals from Veer Bhatti area who were out for a walk spotted the leopard cub’s carcass and informed us. Our team rushed to the spot and recovered the carcass and sent it for post-mortem examination.” He added that the cub had injury marks on its body and it is likely that it fell down a hill or was killed by another animal “The actual cause of death will be known after the post-mortem examination but prima facie it looks that the leopard either fell from a hill or was killed in some conflict with another wild animal,” added Mehta. This is not the first incident of a leopard death in the state this year. On October 17, a one-year-old leopard cub was found dead in Pithoragarh. On October 22, 2020, a leopard was found dead in the forests of Ramnagar. Last week, three leopard foetuses were found in Almora district. Officials initially thought that three leopard cubs had died but on reaching the spot they found that those were foetuses. On July 12, a leopard was found dead in Dhauladevi block in Almora. On July 4, the carcass of a two-year-old female leopard was recovered by forest officials in Uttarkashi district. On May 28, a three-year-old female leopard died after getting trapped in a fence at Lohaghat in Champawat district. Meanwhile in Pithoragarh district, a woman from Dunga village was attacked by a leopard on Friday night. Vinay Bhargava divisional forest officer Pithoragarh said one Hema Devi, 35 was attacked by a leopard on Friday night when she came out of her house to fetch drinking water. She shouted for help but was severely injured. She was rushed to the local hospital where she is undergoing treatment for her injuries,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopard-cub-found-dead-in-uttarakhand-s-nainital/story-viaRKxhghSTwibZtawiDAJ.html
25-10-2020||India||PM Modi to address the nation on Mann Ki Baat at 11am||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation during the 70th edition of his monthly radio programme, Mann Ki Baat, at 11am on Sunday. PM Modi had sought ideas and suggestions from people on his social media accounts earlier this month about topics for Mann Ki Baat where he addresses the country over a range of issues.The Prime Minister had tweeted to ask people to send their inputs by writing to him using NaMo or MyGov App or by recording their messages by calling on 1800-11-7800. The last date for sending in the suggestions was October 23.In the previous edition of Mann ki Baat, which came shortly after the passage of the farm bills, PM Modi had strongly defended the legislations enacted by his government and said they would benefit farmers by giving them the freedom to choose where they wanted to sell their produce as well as consumers by taking middlemen out of agricultural trading.The government also maintained during the passage of these legislations that they will widen market access to farmers and which opposition parties say are anti-farmer and corporate-friendly.In his 69th edition of Mann Ki Baat on September 29, the Prime Minister also recalled landmark events to be observed in the coming days, including the Bhagat Singh Jayanti and the birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on October 2.He also took a swipe at the Congress party, saying that if the essence of Mahatma Gandhi’s economic philosophy was followed by previous governments, his government would not have felt the need to launch the Aatmanirbhar Bharat (Self-Reliant India) campaign because India would have become self-reliant much earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-the-nation-on-mann-ki-baat-tomorrow-at-11am/story-nzxQM00mI0bFrksTy5AnjI.html
25-10-2020||India||Result of ‘Howdy Modi’, Trump calls India’s air ‘filthy’: Kapil Sibal||Taking a jibe at the Centre, Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Friday said that US President Donald Trump said that India’s air is ‘filthy’, a result of ‘Howdy Modi’ event. “Trump : Fruits of Friendship 1) Questions India’s Covid death toll 2) Says India sends dirt up into the air India “ air is filthy “ 3) Called India “ tariff king “ The result of “Howdy Modi “ Sibal tweeted. US President Donald Trump described the air in India, China, and Russia as “filthy” as he defended his decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord and lauded his decisions with regard to reducing carbon emissions at Thursday’s final debate before the November 3 election.“Look at China. How filthy it is. Look at Russia. Look at India, it’s filthy. The air is filthy,” said Trump while speaking on carbon emissions as he countered Democratic rival Joe Biden at a final debate moderated by NBC’s Kristen Welker.Also watch | ‘It’s not how you talk about friends’: Biden On Trump’s ‘filthy India’ remark Trump further claimed that under his administration the US has had the lowest emission numbers in the last 35 years.Earlier during his first presidential debate against his Democratic challenger Joe Biden, the US President said India, China, and Russia “did not exactly give a straight count” on deaths due to the novel coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/result-of-howdy-modi-trump-calls-india-s-air-filthy-kapil-sibal/story-dpe3EeZ1nDShUXYhCpRbbL.html
