26-10-2020||India||PM SVANidhi scheme for street vendors: Benefits, loan amount, tenure||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday virtually distribute loans to nearly 300,000 street vendors under the Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi Yojana or PM SVANidhi Scheme. PM Modi will also interact with the beneficiaries. Uttar Pradesh has so far received 557,000 applications from vendors, the highest across the country.“The scheme intends to facilitate collateral-free working capital loans of up to INR10,000/- of one-year tenure, to approximately 50 lakh street vendors, to help resume their businesses in the urban areas, including surrounding peri-urban/rural area,” the ministry has said.Here’s everything you need to know about the scheme:1. PM SVANidhi or Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi scheme was launched on June 1, 2020, by the ministry of housing and urban affairs to help street vendors, who were impacted by the coronavirus pandemic, resume their livelihood activities.2. The scheme aims to provide working capital loans up to Rs 10,000 at a subsidized rate of interest. The interest subsidy on timely or early repayment of the loan is at 7 per cent and street vendors will be allowed to repay the loan in monthly instalments in one year.3. If someone can pay earlier than the tenure, an interest subsidy of 7% per annum will be credited to the bank accounts of beneficiaries every quarter. And, there will be no penalty on early repayment of the loan.4. Also, there is a monthly cash-back incentive on digital payments. The benefits can be availed by street vendors or hawkers in urban, pre-urban and rural areas.5. Scheduled commercial banks, regional rural banks, small finance banks, cooperative banks, Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs), micro-finance institutions and Self-Help Group (SHG) Banks will be providing loans under the scheme.6. Applying for the loan can be done in many ways. The documents required for KYC are Aadhaar card, voter’s identity card, driving licence, MNREGA card and PAN card. Application for the loan can be filled on the website www.pmsvanidhi.mohua.gov.in or by visiting a nearby banking correspondent (BC) or the agent of microfinance institution (MFI). Documents can also be uploaded on the PM SVANidhi mobile application.7. The PM SVANidhi scheme is available for beneficiaries belonging to only those states and Union territories which have notified rules and scheme under the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014. However, beneficiaries from Meghalaya, which has its own state street vendors act, can also avail of the scheme’s benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-svanidhi-scheme-for-street-vendors-benefits-loan-amount-tenure/story-oPK5gtff1ZgX2pQIbWyqbK.html
26-10-2020||India||Availability of graveyards, cremation grounds should be as per community population: Sakshi Maharaj||In yet another statement that may stoke a controversy, BJP’s Unnao MP Sakshi Maharaj has said the availability of graveyards and cremation grounds should be in proportion to the population of communities living in an area. Addressing a nukkad meeting for his party’s candidate for the Bagarmau assembly bypolls, Sakshi Maharaj said, “If there is only one Muslim in a village, the graveyard is very big. You people, on the other hand, cremate your dead on the side of a farm or Gangaji. Is this not unfair?” “Graveyards and cremation grounds should be as per population,” the Unnao MP said. There should not be any test of “our patience and decency”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/availability-of-graveyards-cremation-grounds-should-be-as-per-community-population-sakshi-maharaj/story-CISSmsV0XxlUuRBknZlerL.html
26-10-2020||India||‘Can’t be tolerated’: BJP condemns burning of PM’s effigies on Dussehra||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Monday condemned the burning of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s effigies on the occasion of Dussehra in Punjab. Chugh described it as “unfortunate” and said such incidents have hurt sentiments of millions of people in the country. He alleged that effigies of the PM were set on fire at the behest of the Congress-led government in the state and said it showed how the ruling party could “stoop to such a level” just for the sake of “petty politics”. “It cannot be tolerated,” he said. Chugh claimed that the Amarinder Singh-led dispensation in the state was trying to create tension through such acts in order to “please” Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. Meanwhile, in a letter to Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore, Chugh sought action against those behind the burning of effigies. Punjab farmers on Sunday burnt effigies of the Union government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi at several places in protest against the farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-be-tolerated-bjp-condemns-burning-of-pm-s-effigies-on-dussehra/story-UTdZTcLe7YenUpBUXyiBPJ.html
26-10-2020||India||‘Live-streaming court proceedings open to misuse’: CJI Bobde||“Sunlight is the best disinfectant,” the Supreme Court had observed in September 2018 in a judgment that paved the way for live streaming of court proceedings. Two years down the line, Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde on Monday said that in practice, live streaming will be misused as he is already facing several complaints over the virtual hearing taking place over the videoconferencing app VIdyo.Sharing thoughts on live-streaming as part of suo moto proceedings for Court’s functioning during Covid-19 pandemic, CJI Bobde, heading a 3-judge bench said, “In principle, I agree that there should be live streaming but in practice, you must hear me. As CJI, I have to deal with so many complaints over the virtual court proceedings.”The observation followed a suggestion by Attorney General KK Venugopal who insisted that since Gujarat High Court had taken the lead in live-streaming the proceedings, the Supreme Court can follow suit. In September 2018, the Supreme Court had considered this issue in a PIL filed by Swapnil Tripathi and gave it’s go-ahead considering all constitutional aspects involved in this exercise.Venugopal reminded CJI, “Now there is a judgment requiring the Court to have live-streaming. I was satisfied watching the live streaming of proceedings in the Gujarat High Court.” The bench, also comprising Justices DY Chandrachud and LN Rao said, “There can be some negative use or abuse of live streaming.” Justice Chandrachud, who heads the e-committee of the Supreme Court responsible for enhancing virtual court proceedings, told Venugopal that a delay of 20 seconds occurs between the live streaming and actual proceedings in the Gujarat High Court. This ensures a check on nothing untoward going live.Also read: ‘Abductor’ boards train with 3-year-old toddler, turns out to be her fatherJustice Chandrachud revealed that at present the Supreme Court is focusing on enhancing the video conferencing facility. “The idea is to have one video conferencing facility for all High Courts and district courts and a separate facility for Supreme Court. Bids have been invited for managing the entire videoconferencing facility,” Justice Chandrachud said.The rules for conducting such hearing have been finalised by a committee of High Court judges. District courts too would be able to virtually record evidence during trial as 11 out of 25 High Courts have adopted these rules as per area-specific requirements and changes. The remaining High Courts have the option to adopt Rules framed by the e-committee, the bench said.For better connectivity, the CJI sought Centre’s help to access optical fibre network. “In states which do not have fibre optics coverage, we have to rely on satellites,” CJI Bobde said. The Supreme Court e-committee is also working on setting up E-Seva Kendras, one each in over 3,300 court complexes across the country, to provide easy access to lawyers who face difficulties in accessing virtual courtrooms.On the aspect of providing optical fibre network, senior advocate Harish Salve, who was appearing in another case, entered the matter through videoconferencing and offered help on behalf of his client, Reliance Jio. Though Jio is not party to the current proceedings, Salve said, “My client Jio has the best optical fibre network and they offer it at an inexpensive rate.”The bench allowed Salve to tell his client to formally make an offer to the e-committee. The Court also entertained an application filed by senior advocate Vikas Singh, who suggested that even when the Court resumes physical hearing during normal days, videoconferencing should be continued for a certain category of cases with waiting room facility for lawyers and kiosks for media persons to witness the proceedings virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-streaming-court-proceedings-open-to-misuse-cji-bobde/story-HmZ5cu168Rb5IsnwvAo9QK.html
26-10-2020||India||Terrorist killed, another surrenders during encounter in Jammu and Kashmir||An unidentified terrorist was killed, while another surrendered during an encounter with security forces in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, a defence spokesperson said.A joint operation was launched by the security forces at Noorpora in the district’s Awantipora area on the basis of inputs provided by police, the Army said.While one terrorist was eliminated during the gunbattle, another ultra responded to appeal for surrender.“The terrorist, a resident of Gulshanpora area, was apprehended,” he said.The apprehended terrorist had been missing since September 25 this year, he added.One AK rifle and other incriminating material were recovered from the scene of the encounter, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-killed-another-surrenders-during-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-cXBhIFTdSimYzu6AovPDzN.html
26-10-2020||India||Kamal Nath violated poll advisory, says Election Commission||The Election Commission on Monday said former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath had violated its advisory related to campaigning by using the word “item” against a woman BJP candidate and advised the Congress leader not to use such terms in public during the period of the Model Code of Conduct. The poll panel had issued a notice to Kamal Nath after he had used the jibe against BJP candidate Imarti Devi at a poll rally a few days ago, drawing an angry reaction from the ruling party. Addressing a poll meeting last week in Gwalior’s Dabra town, where the BJP has fielded Imarti Devi, Kamal Nath had said the Congress candidate was a “simple person” unlike his opponent who was an “item”. Bypolls to 28 Madhya Pradesh Assembly seats will be held on November 3. Following a complaint by the state BJP and reference by the National Commission for Women, the EC had served the notice to Kamal Nath. The Commission on Monday issued orders against the Congress leader. “ ... the Commission, hereby advises Kamal Nath, ex-chief minister Madhya Pradesh that while making public utterances he should not use any such word or statement during the period of Model Code of Conduct,” the order said. It said Kamal Nath used the word “item” for a lady and that “this constitutes violation” of advisory issued by the Commission relating to the model code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-nath-violated-poll-advisory-says-election-commission/story-UtC9tbVuXoos5yhvjaYPnM.html
26-10-2020||India||Delhi records 54 Covid-19 deaths, highest in over 3 months||The national capital recorded 54 Covid-19 deaths on Monday, the highest in over three months, while the infection count rose to 3.59 lakh, according to Delhi government data.The case positivity rate stood at 8.23 per cent, a slight improvement from 8.43 the previous day. The cumulative positivity rate was 8.17 per cent.Authorities recorded 2,832 Covid-19 cases on Monday. The number of new cases was 4,136 on Sunday, 4,116 on Saturday and 4,086 on Friday.According to the Delhi government’s health bulletin, 54 fatalities, the highest in around 100 days, took the number of deaths to 6,312.The last time the city reported such a high number of deaths was on July 16 (58).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-54-covid-19-deaths-highest-in-over-3-months/story-8RCNVwWWAoWH4BJ1K9AyqK.html
26-10-2020||India||LAHDC-Leh Election 2020 result: BJP bags 15 seats out of 26, Congress wins 9. Complete list here||By bagging 15 seats, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday won the election to the 26-member Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC)-Leh. The Congress won nine seats. Calling the BJP’s victory in Leh ‘historic’, the party chief JP Nadda tweeted: “BJP’s victory in Leh Autonomous Hill Development Council, Leh election is historic. BJP has won 15 out of 26 seats. I congratulate Shri @Jtnbjp and all karyakartas of @BJP4Ladakh unit. Gratitude to the people of Ladakh for their faith in BJP.”Here’s the final aggregate result of 6th LAHDC-Leh Election 2020.BJP won in:1. Turtuk - Gulam Mehdi2. Hundar - Kunzang Lotus3. Panamik- Tsering Sandup4. Diskit - Tsering Angchok5. Tegar- Rigzin Lundup6. Tangtse - Tashi Namgyal Yakzee7. Korzok- Karma Namdak8. Kyungyam- Thinless Nurboo9. Martselang- Stanzin Chospel10. Thiksey- Stanzin Chosfail11. Skumarkha- Sonam Nurbu12. Chuchot-Mirza Hussain13.Lamayuru- Morup Dorjay14. Lingshed- Tashi Gyaltson15. Khaltsi- Lobzang SherabThe Congress won in:1. Igoo - Sonam Thardos 2. Sakti- Rigzin Tsering3. Basgo- Tsering Nurboo4. Saspol- Smanla Dorjay Norbu5. Lower Leh - Tsering Namgyal6. Phyang- Tundup Nurbu Cheeta7. Upper Leh - Phunsog Stanzin Tsepag8. Skurbuchan- Lundup Dorjey9. Temisgam- Sonam DorjayIndependents won in:1. Chuchul- Konchok Stanzin2. Nyoma- Ishey Spalzang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lahdc-leh-election-2020-results-bjp-bags-15-seats-out-of-26-congress-wins-9-complete-list-here/story-0d6LKb1DtDDukAqnb2Iz0M.html
26-10-2020||India||What is BECA and what does it mean for India and US?||India and the United States will sign the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA), the last of four so-called foundational agreements for sharing sensitive information, sales of advanced military hardware and geospatial cooperation, during the 2+2 ministerial dialogue on Tuesday ahead of the November 3 US presidential elections. US secretary of state Michael Pompeo and secretary of defence Mark Esper are holding talks with their respective counterparts external affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh.What is BECA?The Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) is essentially an agreement proposed between the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency of the US department of defence and the defence ministry that will allow India and the US to share military information which includes maps, nautical and aeronautical charts, commercial and other unclassified imagery, geodetic, geophysical, geomagnetic and gravity data. Most of the information that will be shared will be that of the unclassified category but there is a provision of sharing classified information as well with proper safeguards in place to ensure that the information is not shared with any third party. What happened before BECA?India and the US have already signed three key foundational agreements - the General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) in 2002, the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 and Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA) in 2018. BECA has been under negotiations for over a decade as the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government was concerned about the impact of the agreement on the country’s national security. What will India gain from the agreement?The agreement will allow US armed forces to provide advanced financial navigational aids and geospatial intelligence which will improve the military’s accuracy of automated hardware systems and weapons like cruise missiles, ballistic missiles and drones. BECA will also help India and US counter the growing Chinese influence in the Indo-Pacific region thereby strengthening the Quad. The agreement will also help India at a time of standoff with the Chinese army in Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-beca-and-what-does-it-mean-for-india-and-us/story-dpXC8wMONMLZ2w4lm3bEfP.html
26-10-2020||India||PNB scam case: UK court rejects Nirav Modi’s latest bail attempt||A UK court on Monday rejected the latest bail plea of fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, who has been lodged in a London prison since his arrest on an extradition warrant in March last year. The application was reportedly made on the basis of “new evidence”, but Westminster Magistrates’ Court District Judge Samuel Goozee was not convinced to reverse previous bail rejections in Modi’s case.The 49-year-old jeweller, fighting extradition to India on charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, has made around six previous attempts at bail – at the magistrates’ court as well as at the High Court level. However, each of the applications, which came with an offer stringent conditions akin to house arrest and a bail bond security of 4 million pounds, have been rejected each time as he has been deemed to have the financial means and motivation to abscond.“The repeated rejection of bail application is a result of excellent coordination among the CBI, the Ministry of External Affairs and Crown Prosecution Service of the United Kingdom,” a senior CBI official said in New Delhi, commenting on Monday’s development. At Modi’s last High Court bail hearing in March this year, Justice Ian Dove had said, “My central concern of a risk of absconding are not obviated by the measures presented.” Modi’s legal team had offered a package of measures, which included a 24-hour electronic tag as well as a private security guard service and strictly-monitored access to gadgets and telephones. The court has also repeatedly been told of Modi’s fragile mental health and that his psychological condition was “deteriorating with the ever-increasing detention”.“He has increasingly suffered from severe depression and the latest assessment shows he is on the threshold of being subject to hospitalisation unless given proper treatment… and his fitness to plead may be in doubt here or in the requesting state (India) given a high risk of suicide,” Modi’s barrister, Clare Montgomery, had told Westminster Magistrates’ Court last month as part of the defence arguments against inadequate prison conditions in India.Modi is next scheduled to appear via videolink from Wandsworth Prison in south-west London on November 3, for the hearing in his extradition case when Judge Goozee will be presented with arguments to determine the admissibility of the evidence provided by the Indian authorities. There is at least one further final hearing in the case, expected either in December or early next year, for closing submissions by both sides. A judgment in the case is expected only after the closing submissions. At a five-day hearing held in September, Justice Goozee presided over arguments for and against the case for his extradition brought by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED).The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), arguing on behalf of the Indian authorities, played videos in court in support of additional charges of Modi’s disruption of the CBI’s investigation by causing the disappearance of evidence and criminal intimidation of witnesses. Assurances of adequate prison conditions were also provided by the Indian government, including additional commitments of appropriate mental health care for Modi on being extradited. The defence team, led by Montgomery, sought to not only establish that Modi’s actions related to PNB-issued letters of undertaking (LoUs) did not amount to fraud but also deposed witnesses to highlight mental health concerns. The defence has claimed that the conditions at Barrack 12 in Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai, where Modi is to be held on being extradited, do not meet the UK court’s human rights criteria.The first set of hearings in the case took place back in May, with the hearings in September completing the process to establish a prima facie case and determine if the jeweller has a case to answer before the Indian courts. The case is being heard in a partial remote setting to accommodate coronavirus-related social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pnb-scam-case-uk-court-rejects-nirav-modi-s-latest-bail-attempt/story-tXITh8Fc8MvenYf1LMv3mK.html
26-10-2020||India||Air pollution may hinder India’s fight against Covid-19, say scientists||The causal link between air pollution and Covid-19 cases is yet to be established conclusively but long-term exposure will certainly make people more vulnerable to lung infections, warn scientists as the skies over large parts of north India, including Delhi, turn smoky and the air quality deteriorates rapidly.Their concerns come amid several global studies pointing to the possible connection between higher air pollution levels and increased Covid-19 cases and deaths.(Click here for full coverage of Covid-19 )A study by researchers at Harvard University in the US in September showed that an increase of only one microgram per cubic metre in PM 2.5 is associated with an 8 per cent increase in the Covid-19 death rate.“Given the current limited literature, the surge of PM2.5 level in Delhi may be associated with increased Covid-19 cases... Although the literature is relatively sparse at this stage,” Xiao Wu, corresponding author of the Harvard study, told PTI.He said the relationship between long-term air pollution and Covid-19 has been documented in many studies, which indicate that adverse health impacts of air pollution can make people prone to the infection or exacerbate the severity of Covid-19 symptoms once infected.This is interesting, especially considering Covid-19 causes viral pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome, and severe inflammation to the heart and circulatory system, the scientist said.Another study by the University of Cambridge in April found an association between living in an area of England with high levels of air pollution and the severity of Covid-19, caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus.“Based on our findings, I would expect to see an association between higher levels of air pollution in India and Covid-19 in the winter, similar with what we found in England,” said Marco Travaglio, corresponding author of the Cambridge study.“If the levels of air pollution have been consistently above the legal limits for several months or years before this coming winter, I would expect to see a relationship between those levels and Covid-19 burden across different parts of India in November and thereafter,” Travaglio told PTI.He noted that a key component of PM2.5 toxicity is its composition which may vary considerably between countries.“Nonetheless, the WHO legal limits for PM2.5 are currently set at 10 μg/m³ (microgrammes per cubic metre) annual mean. Levels beyond 500 μg/m³ are extremely high and may have considerable impact on people’s health in relation to Covid-19 but also beyond it,” said Travalgo.The level of small particulate matter (PM2.5) levels in Delhi have averaged around 180-340 μg/m³ in the past few weeks while that of bigger pollution particles (PM10) has hovered between 120 and 450 during the time.Long-term exposure to chronically high PM2.5 levels weakens the ability of the lungs to fend off infections, therefore making people more susceptible to Covid-19, the scientists said.In addition, studies from Italy have shown that traces of SARS-CoV-2 RNA, the genetic material of the virus, can be found on pollution particles, meaning that increased air pollution may act as a vehicle to increase Covid-19 transmission in highly polluted places.The air quality in north India is expected to deteriorate further from November to February due to several factors such as stubble burning, festive fireworks and low wind speed conditions which lead to an uptick in vehicular and industrial pollution being trapped in the lower atmosphere.Also Read | Delhi’s air ‘very poor’ for fourth consecutive day“In view of this evidence, high levels of PM2.5 in Delhi may lead to a higher number of Covid-19 cases,” Travalgo added.Studies in humans have shown that toxic air particles can penetrate airways and cause widespread infiltration of lung cells.This chronic state of inflammation may induce or aggravate health conditions such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cardiovascular diseases and diabetes, experts said.Because these conditions have been widely found to be associated with increased risk of contracting Covid-19 or incurring into critical illness, it is likely that air pollution acts as a risk factor to increase the susceptibility to Covid-19.India has the world’s second-highest caseload of over 7.9 million and the third-highest death toll with more than 115,000 from the novel coronavirus.The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has warned that Delhi is likely to report around 15,000 Covid-19 cases daily in winter because of the prevalence of respiratory illnesses during this season that worsen the symptoms of the disease. On Sunday, the national capital recorded 4,136 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike in 38 days.D J Christopher, head of pulmonary medicine at the Christian Medical College in Tamil Nadu, noted that the increased severe form of Covid-19 among patients would lead to an increased ICU hospitalisations, thereby increasing the burden of the healthcare system.“The lung is the gateway to the body and takes the first impact from inhaled pollutants. It causes an inflammatory response which damages the lung and makes it more susceptible to infections,” Christopher told PTI.‘Let us hope the numbers are not so high. There is a chance of hospital beds getting filled and shortage of ICU beds,“ he added.Prof Rajneesh Bhardwaj concurred, saying there is growing scientific evidence that airborne respiratory droplets carrying the virus travel and contaminate the air after an infected person coughs. He added that pollution may help this airborne droplet to remain suspended for a longer time and may increase the spread of Covid-19.Also Read | Recovered from Covid? Get flu shot to keep pollution impact at bay: Experts“PM2.5 are finer particles which remain suspended in the air for a long time and hence droplet or viral particles can cling on to these particles to increase the risk. They may increase the number of cases as pollution increases especially with large PM2.5 levels,” Bhardwaj, associate professor at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay, told PTI.He said the government should make contingent plans to deal with an expected large number of cases and warned that any healthcare system can be overwhelmed by a larger number of cases.According to pulmonologist Anurag Agarwal, however, the relation between air pollution and Covid-19 cases is very complex. While in general high air pollution increases risk of respiratory infections, it is difficult to say much more, he said. “Studies finding more infections and deaths in areas with high pollution have tried to statistically adjust for higher population density in polluted cities. Such adjusted correlations are interesting but do not represent proof,” Agarwal, director of the CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, told PTI.“Nevertheless, it is clear that air pollution is bad for health and Covid-19 is more dangerous in unhealthy people. So the message is clear - we must take steps to reduce air pollution for many reasons,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-may-hinder-india-s-fight-against-covid-19-say-scientists/story-GsJLDVNnjWJkW7vEksvLOM.html
26-10-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Key UAE-based conspirator brought back to India, arrested by NIA||In a key development in Kerala gold smuggling case, key conspirator, Rabins K Hameed, who was running the whole operation from Dubai, was brought to India on Monday by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and taken into custody at Kochi airport in Kerala, people familiar with the development said. HT was first to report on September 2 that Hameed, 42, a native Ernakulam district, Kerala, was the mastermind who used to send the gold consignments to India using different modes including the diplomatic baggage. The NIA, during a trip to Dubai in August, had questioned him there and had confirmed his involvement. Over the past few months, irrefutable evidence was provided to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) authorities through proper channels to convince them for his deportation which was approved a few days back, people cited above said. As part of the deportation process, an NIA team travelled to Dubai last week and brought him at the Kochi International Airport on Monday morning after which he was arrested. The case pertains to the seizure of 30 kilograms of gold worth Rs 14.82 crores on July 5 at Air Cargo of Trivandrum International Airport by Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Cochin, from the diplomatic baggage. Over two dozen people have already been arrested in the case. Also read: Kerala gold smuggling - NIA probe shows Rabins Hameed ran racket in UAEThe NIA, earlier this month, also claimed before a Kerala court that two accused in the high profile case – identified as KT Ramees and M Sharafuddin - have links with underworld don Dawood Ibrahim. Ramees and Sharafuddin even visited Tanzania several times to meet a contact of Dawood known as Feroze ‘Oasis’ and had discussed ways to smuggle firearms to India, the NIA claimed. Agency spokesperson, Sonia Narang, said on Monday that “Rabins Hameed, while being in the UAE and India, had conspired with the arrested accused Ramees KT and Jalal AM, among others, besides arranging funds and purchasing gold in Dubai for smuggling to India through diplomatic baggage.” Ramees KT is the key India link in the whole scandal and is currently in judicial custody. Narang said that a special court at Ernakulam had issued a non-bailable warrant against fugitive Rabins Hameed. “He is also learnt to have arranged for the concealment of gold in electronics or electrical equipment and household items in the UAE for smuggling the contraband to Thiruvananthapuram through diplomatic baggage,” she added. Before the NIA’s visit to Dubai in August, it was believed that another suspect there – Fazil Fareed – was the main conspirator. However, it turned out that Rabins Hameed had contacted Fareed for the last consignment of 30 kilograms of gold which was intercepted in diplomatic baggage on July 5. Hameed’s residence in Ernakulam was also raided the same month wherein several hard disks and incriminating material was recovered. “Hameed coordinated the smuggling from the UAE while another arrested accused Ramees KT, who is from Kerala’s Perinthalmanna, allegedly ran the racket in Kerala,” an officer who didn’t want to be named said. People cited above said deportation of Fazil and two more people - Sidhiqul Akbar and Ahammed Kutty - is also being pursued with the UAE authorities. Recently, the NIA also took over two more gold smuggling cases - pertaining to seizure of 18.5 kilograms of gold in Jaipur by Rajasthan police on July 3 and transportation of gold bars weighing over 83 kilograms by the Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI) on August 28 - to investigate foreign terror link. Both the cases aren’t linked to the Kerala case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-key-uae-based-conspirator-brought-back-to-india-arrested-by-nia/story-iinuKFlkHFjpNR3YmI6YmI.html
26-10-2020||India||China’s hand seen in Myanmar’s insurgent group targeting India-backed Kaladan project||The Arakan Army, an insurgent group whose activities have severely affected the India-backed Kaladan multi-modal transport project in Myanmar, has benefited from the clandestine transfer and smuggling of Chinese-made weaponry, people familiar with developments said on Monday.The group, designated a terrorist organisation by Naypyitaw, clashed with Myanmarese troops on nearly 600 occasions last year, and a majority of the skirmishes occurred in close proximity to the $480-million Kaladan project. There have also been at least four instances of Arakan Army cadres targeting the shipment of materials for the infrastructure project or attacking Myanmar troops providing security to the project, the people said on condition of anonymity. In 2019, just as a key phase of the Kaladan project was nearing completion in Rakhine and Chin states, the Arakan Army shifted its area of operations to these regions, they added.“The Arakan Army has always kept its anti-Kaladan activities below a certain threshold to not raise the ante. But its activities have had the overall impact of severely impeding the execution of the project,” one of the people cited above said.India and Myanmar are currently working to operationalise Sittwe port by early next year as part of the massive transport and transit project that will connect with Kolkata port and help in moving goods to the landlocked northeastern states via Kaladan river.On June 23, the Thai military seized a consignment of Chinese-made weapons, including AK-47 assault rifles, machine guns, anti-tank mines, grenades and ammunition, in Mae Sot district bordering Myanmar’s Karen state. The weapons, worth 30 million baht (almost $1 million), were meant to be supplied to the Arakan Army and Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA), both active in Rakhine, the people said.There are also reports that another large consignment of Chinese-made weapons, including hundreds of assault rifles and machine guns, was smuggled into Rakhine state via Monakhali beach near the junction of Myanmar and Bangladesh in the third week of February this year. These weapons too were destined for the Arakan Army, the people added.“This illicit flow of Chinese-made weaponry into Myanmar poses a threat to regional security and stability and has implications for the Kaladan project. There are strong suspicions that China is orchestrating the actions of the myriad ethnic armed groups in Myanmar to further its objectives,” said a second person from the security establishment who declined to be named.One of the reasons for the push against the Kaladan project is that it is seen as a rival to the China-Myanmar Economic Corridor (CMEC) centred around a port at Kyaukpyu in Rakhine state, the second person said.“This approach isn’t new. China used the same tool against India when it trained and provided arms to insurgent groups in the northeastern states in the 1960s and 1970s. In Myanmar, China appears to be using the Arakan Army to limit India’s inroads through the Kaladan project,” the second person added.Days after the seizure of weapons at Mae Sot in Thailand, Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, the commander-in-chief of Myanmar’s armed forces, told the media during a visit to Russia that a country might not be able to tackle terror groups “when there are strong forces behind” them. At the time, most experts took this to be a tacit reference to China.The people said there were growing signs that Myanmar’s military is acting to curb China’s economic influence, and has had a hand in cancelling or curtailing projects under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The $3.6-billion Myitsone dam project remains suspended despite Chinese pressure, while Kyaukpyu port project was scaled down from $7.3 billion to $1.3 billion and the Myanmar government issued an open tender inviting bids from across the globe for executing the venture.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said it appeared China was trying to undermine the viability of the Kaladan project after being unable to convince Myanmar to give up on it. “The Chinese, when they begin work on the CMEC, will show they have a faster pace of execution because they have access to greater resources, and they will also try to show up India as lagging behind. They will try to convince Myanmar it isn’t viable to invest in Kaladan by propping up such elements and making the security environ difficult,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-hand-seen-in-myanmar-s-insurgent-group-targeting-india-backed-kaladan-project/story-W4PBPgq1Ym1ae7pM8kdl2M.html
26-10-2020||India||Southwest monsoon withdrawing from Odisha: IMD||After overstaying in Odisha for about a fortnight, the Southwest Monsoon on Monday started the process of withdrawing from the state, the Meteorological Centre here said. The Southwest Monsoon has completely withdrawn from eight districts of Sundergarh, Jharsuguda, Deogarh, Sambalpur, Bargarh, Subarnapur, Bolangir and Nuapada, it said.“It has also withdrawn from some parts of Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar, Angul, Boudh, Kandhamal, Kalahandi, Nabarangpur and Koraput districts of interior Odisha today,” it said. Conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of the South West Monsoon from the rest of the coastal state during next 48 hours and also from the entire country around October 28, it added.The South West Monsoon generally withdraws from the state by October 15 but this time it has been delayed by about a fortnight, H R Biswas, the director of the Regional Meteorological Centre here, told PTI. The monsoon had arrived in the state on June 11 and it was a normal monsoon this year, the weatherman said.“Monsoon withdrawal has no specific date like birthdays. But, taking an average of 30 years, we have concluded that it takes place in Odisha by October 15,” Biswas said. During monsoon, wind generally moves in south-westerly direction which changes to north-easterly route after its withdrawal, he said. “However, it depends on the height of a place,” Biswas said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southwest-monsoon-withdrawing-from-odisha-imd/story-vGrTYVM7SPuTrTqGVHGuZJ.html
26-10-2020||India||Storm in favour of Grand Alliance now in Bihar similar to that for Modi in 2014: Rajeev Shukla||Senior Congress leader Rajeev Shukla on Monday claimed that there is a storm in favour of the RJD-headed Grand Alliance in Bihar now, which is akin to the pro-Narendra Modi wave during the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. The “unexpected and unprecedented” poll outcome of Bihar is going to have an impact in the entire country as the mandate will change people’s mind everywhere, Shukla said.“As per the information I received, there is not a wave, but a storm for the Grand Alliance. There is a storm blowing in favour of Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and the Congress- led alliance, which is similar to Narendra Modi’s wave during 2014 Lok Sabha elections,” Shukla told reporters here. Yadav is the chief ministerial candidate of the Grand Alliance which has the RJD, Congress, CPI(ML), CPI(M) and the CPI as constituents.Shukla claimed that the current Nitish Kumar-led NDA dispensation would be ousted after the elections and people have started protesting against the ruling alliance leaders in public meetings. “When people start protesting in front of leaders, it could easily be understood that it is not a wave sweeping against them. I am rather sensing a storm blowing in favour of the Grand Alliance,” he said.Sensing this, the BJP has removed pictures of the chief minister and JD(U) boss Nitish Kumar from all hoardings and posters, the senior Congress leader claimed. “There is only one picture on the BJP’s posters and that is of PM Narendra Modi. They (BJP) have started considering Nitish Kumar as a liability and hence dropped him from its posters,” he said adding that this is the beginning of accepting one’s defeat.The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) is in the National Democratic Alliance at the Centre but it is opposing the JD(U) in Bihar and party chief Chirag Paswan is hellbent on sending the chief minister and JD(U) boss Nitish Kumar to jail, Shukla said. LJP chief Chirag Paswan has alleged corruption in Nitish Kumar’s flagship ‘Saat Nishchay’ (seven resolves) programme and said, if voted to power, he will get it probed and send to jail all the culprits, including the chief minister. Shukla said that youth power is against Nitish Kumar as the two prominent youth faces of the state - Tejashwi Yadav and Chirag Paswan are fighting against him, and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is also campaigning against the CM. Asked why Kumar has branded the RJD’s 15-year regime as ‘jungle raj’, Shukla said the chief minister has learnt this lesson from Narendra Modi. “Whenever Modi faces any problem, he starts blaming Jawaharlal Nehru for things that took place in the 1950s, ‘60s, or even during the British era. Similarly, Nitish Kumar is criticising things that have happened during the 15 years of RJD regime, since he has nothing to show to people,” he said. On why the Congress is playing second fiddle to the RJD, Shukla said “I think this is the best decision taken by the high command. We are fighting for our ideology which is important for us. There is no question of playing first, second or third fiddle.” The Assembly elections in Bihar would be held in three phases - on October 28, November 3 and November 7. Counting of votes will be taken up on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/storm-in-favour-of-grand-alliance-now-in-bihar-similar-to-that-for-modi-in-2014-rajeev-shukla/story-1JJqCOQ9AXAfQzq2ODf3wI.html
26-10-2020||India||Mysuru Dasara festival not be celebrated in big way this year: Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday said that the ‘Mysuru Dasara’ festival will not be celebrated in a big way this year due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.“Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we are not celebrating ‘Mysuru Dasara’ festival in a big way. We wish next year we are able to celebrate it in a grand manner,” Yediyurappa said.The Mysuru Dasara festival, which is traditionally celebrated with much pomp, is observing subdued celebrations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The festival is one of the biggest tourist attractions in the state and the country. It attracts tourists from around the world who come to take part in the festivities. The ten-day program begins on the first day of Navratri and ends on Vijayadashami or Dasara with massive celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mysuru-dasara-festival-not-be-celebrated-in-big-way-this-year-yediyurappa/story-wxVR3q78oFQIsQez4lumSM.html
26-10-2020||India||Tamil Nadu is India’s healthcare capital, says CM Palaniswami||Tamil Nadu has made great strides in strengthening the public health infrastructure and it is the nation’s healthcare capital and the hub of medical tourism, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said here on Monday.The state was a pioneer in providing top notch healthcare services, building public health infrastructure and nurturing human resources, he said.In 11 districts, including Ariyalur, Ramanathapuram and the Nilgiris, construction work was going on to set up government medical college hospitals following the Centre’s approval, he said, unveiling a new hospital of the Fortis Health Care here.The new institutions would provide 1,650 more graduate medical seats in the public sector, the Chief Minister said.Presently, according to the government, the state has 5,550 MBBS seats -- 3,600 in the government and 1,950 in private sector colleges -- and with the proposed additions, the total is set to go up to 7,200.The new colleges are expected to become functional in the next academic year.Palaniswami pointed to a slew of government healthcare schemes like the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, Amma Maternity Nutrition Kit and financial assistance of Rs 18,000 to pregnant women and said 99.9 per cent institutional deliveries showed the success of these schemes.Citing several other measures and honours like award to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here by the Centre and to the state for being a leader in maximum number of organ transplants consecutively for five years, he said, “Tamil Nadu is India’s healthcare capital and hub of the country’s medical tourism”.The state’s healthcare infrastructure would be judged only by assessing the kind of amenities available for poor patients, he said.Last year, Tamil Nadu’s Infant Mortality Rate declined one point to 15 per 1,000 live births, he said.As many as 254 new Primary Healthcare Centres have been set up and 166 PHCs upgraded with more facilities, the chief minister said.In the past three years, various diagnostic equipment, including CT (computerised tomography) scan, have been provided to state-run hospitals and Cath Lab facilities (catheterisation laboratory with imaging equipment to detect heart related illness) established in 18 government institutions, he noted.Linear Accelerator devices have been provided to ten government hospitals at a cost of Rs 190 crore for cancer treatment, Palaniswami added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-is-india-s-healthcare-capital-says-cm-palaniswami/story-kVE0Q1JNJ6VfqVU87FjXPL.html
26-10-2020||India||Curtains come down on Dasara celebrations without crowds||The curtains came down on the 10- day Dasara celebrations here on Monday without people’s participation in thousands on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the key attraction was the ‘Jamboo Savari’, the procession of the city’s presiding deity Goddess Chamundeshwari, an avatar of Durga, mounted on a golden howdah (seat) on the caparisoned elephant Abhimanyu. It was accompanied by other caparisoned pachyderms.Behind them were the tableaux, the cultural troupes of dancers of various art forms such as Yakshagana, Dollu Kunita and Nadaswaram players. Earning the recognition of the ‘Naada Habba’ or state festival, the Dasara celebrations were dedicated to the coronavirus warriors with a tableau of a nurse wearing a mask following the Jamboo Savari. Unlike the five-km-long procession from the Mysuru palace to Banni Mantapa, the Jamboo Savari procession was taken out to a distance of only 400 metres. Amid the chant of Vedic hymns, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa performed the Nandi Dhwaja by showering petals on the idol of Chamundeshwari Devi in front of the Balarama Gate along with the Mysuru royal family members.The heir of Mysuru royal family, Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar took out the Vijaya Yatra from the Amba Vilas Palace. Wadiyar’s aunt Pramoda Devi, who adopted him to continue the lineage of the royal family, and his wife Trishika Devi too attended the celebrations.Speaking to reporters, Yediyurappa said the Mysuru Dasara has its own tradition, which has been passed on for a long time. He said the Mysuru Dasara is an event to showcase the art and culture of Karnataka. “Due to Covid-19, we are organising it in a simple manner by sticking to the basic rituals this year. To avoid crowds, many of the events were dropped. Besides Covid-19, a large number of people are in distress due to floods,” the Chief Minister said. The Dasara procession is held on ‘Vijayadashami’, signifying the victory of good over evil.The rulers of Mysuru or the Wadiyars had been the worshippers of Durga and had established their family Goddess atop a hillock, which has been named as Chamundi Hills. Raja Wadiyar I (1578-1617), the first ruler of independent Mysore kingdom in 1610, had started the Dasara festivities and they have since been on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curtains-come-down-on-dasara-celebrations-without-crowds/story-03huj0CcrONHBMHKZ51izH.html
26-10-2020||India||At India Energy Forum, PM Modi says India’s energy future bright and secure||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday India is “well on track” to meet its renewable energy target of adding 175 gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy to its electricity grid by 2022 and that the country would continue to “fight climate change”. India’s energy plans aim to ensure energy justice, the Prime Minister said, adding that this will be secured while fully following the country’s global commitments for sustainable goals. He said India is one of the most active nations in furthering renewable sources of energy.“India is well on track to meet its COP21 commitment of raising electricity generation from renewable energy sources to 175 gigawatts by 2022,” PM Modi said at the India Energy Forum by IHS CeraWeek. “A self-reliant India will also be a force multiplier for the world economy. Energy security is at the core of our efforts... With a smaller carbon footprint, our energy sector will be growth-centric, industry-friendly and environment-conscious,” he added.Lauding India’s efforts of energy conservation, PM Modi said, “In the last six years, over 11 million smart LED street lights were installed. This has enabled an estimated energy saving of 60 billion units per year. The estimated greenhouse gas emission reduction with this programme is over 4.5 crore tonnes of CO2 annually.”The Prime Minister also said that India will drive the global energy demand as he pointed out his government’s recent reforms in the sector to global investors. He said the coronavirus pandemic had resulted in global energy demand falling by one-third, impacted investment decisions and predictions of a contraction in demand over the next few years. But India is likely to see energy consumption double over the long term, he said.Stating that India saw transformational reforms in the energy sector in the last five years, the Prime Minister highlighted changes in oil and gas exploration and production regime as well as gas marketing. “India’s reform journey has been on the high speed in the last five years,” he said.India will grow oil refining capacity to 450 million tonnes by 2025 from the current 250 million tonnes, PM Modi said in his virtual address. Modi said India’s energy future is bright and secure, adding that access to energy should be affordable and reliable.Pitching a gas-based economy, PM Modi said, “Our refining capacity will increase from about 250 to 400 MMT per annum by 2025. Increasing domestic gas production has been a government priority as well. We plan to achieve One Nation, One Gas Grid and shift towards a gas-based economy.”The fourth edition of India Energy Forum, convening an international group of speakers and a community of delegates from India and more than 30 countries, was inaugurated by PM Modi. The speakers at the event will include Union minister of petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan, Saudi Arabia’s energy minister Abdulaziz bin Salman Al Saud and US secretary of energy Dan Brouillette among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-india-energy-forum-pm-modi-says-india-s-energy-future-bright-and-secure/story-gL6LPhNGRAGJBq9JzzYQZN.html
26-10-2020||India||Key accused in Kerala gold smuggling case brought back from Dubai, arrested: NIA||The National Investigation Agency on Monday confirmed the arrest of the key accused, Rabins K Hameed, in the Kerala gold smuggling case from Dubai. The investigative agency has accused Hameed of managing the complete smuggling operation in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).“Investigation in the case has revealed that Rabins Hameed (A-10), while being in UAE and India had conspired with the arrested accused Ramees K. T. (A-5), Jalal A. M. (A-6) and others besides arranged funds and purchased gold at Dubai, for smuggling to India, through diplomatic baggage. The NIA Special Court at Ernakulam had issued non-bailable warrant of arrest against the fugitive Rabins Hameed (A-10,” NIA said. pic.twitter.com/0akOZALlvbAlso read | Kerala gold smuggling: NIA probe shows Rabins Hameed ran racket in UAE“He is also learnt to have arranged for the concealment of gold in electronics or electrical equipment and household items in the UAE, for smuggling the contraband to Thiruvananthapuram, through diplomatic baggage,” it added.Hindustan Times had earlier reported that 42-year-old Hameed, a Dubai-based businessman, allegedly ran a racket that is believed to have been involved in the smuggling of 30kg of gold, which was recovered at the Thiruvananthapuram airport in July, people familiar with the investigations into the matter said. The gold was being smuggled in baggage addressed to the UAE’s consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-accused-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-deported-from-dubai-arrested-nia/story-49HsBjwWVG4aUMuJThf4XP.html
26-10-2020||India||What is the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council?||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday won 15 seats and the Congress won nine seats in the elections to the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC). The remaining two seats have been won by Independent candidates. The elections on 26 seats of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council election were held on October 22 and the counting took place on Monday.Here’s a look at the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council which manages the local governance issues of the newly-carved Union territory and the elections that happened:1. The Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC), Leh is an autonomous district council that administers the Leh district of Ladakh. The council was created under the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council Act of 1995. The council came into being after holding the first elections on August 28, 1995.2. On October 22, the sixth Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC)-Leh polls were conducted. LAHDC-Leh has a total of 30 seats and four councillors are nominated by the government. An electorate of 89,776 including 45,025 women, were eligible to exercise their franchise in 294 polling stations spread over 26 constituencies across Leh district.3. In the first democratic exercise after Ladakh became a Union territory last year, 94 candidates were in the fray. Besides Congress and the BJP, which both fielded 26 candidates each, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also fielded 19 candidates for the first time, while the remaining 23 are Independent contestants. The regional parties including the National Conference (NC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stayed away from the election.4. Since 1995, the council has always been ruled by one party. Congress had swept the polls thrice, while the Ladakh Union Territorial Front had won the elections in 2005. The BJP took control of the council from Congress for the first time in the last elections by winning 18 out of 26 seats.5. Despite the coronavirus pandemic, the voter turnout was 65.07 per cent as 89,789 voters cast their ballot. For the first time, electronic voting machines (EVMs) were used for polling.6. Leh, which is a Buddhist-dominated district of Ladakh, has demanded the implementation of the sixth schedule for the Union territory to guard against demographic change and dilution of the unique cultural and tribal identity.7. During the poll campaign, the BJP promised a list of developmental activities including a new medical college, central university, and developmental packages. Congress promised the implementation of the sixth schedule. The AAP promised a Delhi-like development model for the UT.8. The election was important for the BJP as it had to prove its popularity in view of the Union territory status granted to Ladakh on August 5 last year. A win for the BJP will also mean huge support for the party at a time of standoff with the Chinese army in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-the-ladakh-autonomous-hill-development-council/story-r8FMlXbxv5apZUut9sK0wO.html
26-10-2020||India||Taxpayers may have to pay interests on outstanding income tax exceeding Rs 1 lakh||Taxpayers having tax outstanding exceeding Rs 1 lakh should not wait for the last date to file income tax returns (ITR) as they could be charged interest on the unpaid tax amount even as the government on Saturday extended the deadline for filing ITRs, officials and experts said.The government on Saturday extended deadlines for furnishing various ITRs and audit reports as a relief to taxpayers from Covid-19 pandemic, but there is no clarification on the aspect of interest waiver. Unless clarified explicitly, taxpayers would have to pay interest on the outstanding amount with effect from July 2020, at least five tax experts and officials said requesting anonymity.“The CBDT (Central Board of Direct Taxes) has extended the due date for filing of the ITR for the Assessment Year 2020-21 to 31-12-2020 for non-audit cases and 31-01-2021 for audit cases, but no relief has been provided from the interest chargeable under Section 234A if the tax liability exceeds Rs. 1 lakh,” Naveen Wadhwa, DGM at tax consultancy Taxmann said. CBDT, an arm of the Union finance ministry, regulates matters related to the income tax. Also read: At India Energy Forum, PM Modi says India’s energy future bright and secureThe recently amended income-tax law provides for the levy of interest at the rate of 1 per cent per month on the outstanding tax liability for the period of default in filing of return of income. The recently amended law - the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Act, 2020 – exempts small taxpayers, such as salaried class and pensioners having a single source of income, from interest burden during the extended period provided their individual tax liabilities do not exceed Rs 1 lakh, people mentioned above said.“The CBDT will issue necessary notification with regard to the extension of the deadlines in due course, which may clarify issues such as interest charged on the outstanding tax amount,” one of the officials, who works in the finance ministry, said. Email queries sent to the finance ministry and the CBDT went without any response.If the total tax deposited by way of tax deducted at source (TDS) and advance-tax fall short of the actual tax liability, the deficiency in payment of tax is met by payment of self-assessment tax, Wadhwa said.“Thus, if self-assessment tax liability of a taxpayer exceeds Rs 1 lakh, he would be liable to pay interest under section 234A from the expiry of original due dates, i.e., 31-07-2020 or 31-10-2020. The interest under section 234A shall not be levied if the self-assessment tax liability of taxpayer does not exceed Rs 1 lakh and ITR is filed within the extended due date, i.e., 31-12-2020 or 31-01-2021,” he said.Archit Gupta, founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of financial technology platform ClearTax, said, “Please note, no formal notification is issued by the (income-tax) department so far. Responses are based on the press release (issued on October 24).”Kapil Rana, chartered accountant and founder of HostBooks Ltd, a cloud-based accounting platform, said that small taxpayers whose, self-assessment tax liability is up to Rs 1 lakh, would not be required to pay interest on the outstanding amount. “Other taxpayers who do not fall under this category shall have pay interest under Section 234A from the due date as mentioned under Income Tax Act... as may be applicable,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taxpayers-may-have-to-pay-interests-on-outstanding-income-tax-exceeding-rs-1-lakh/story-aouvIYNCjuAJXof3NEA2PM.html
26-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand to probe alleged financial irregularities in Rajaji Tiger Reserve||The Uttarakhand forest department has instituted an inquiry into alleged financial irregularities in the Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) during last five years. Jai Raj, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) Uttarakhand forest department said on Sunday that he has ordered an inquiry into the allegations of financial irregularities in Rajaji Tiger reserve during the last five years. “I have ordered the constitution of a four-member probe committee in this regard which will submit its report within two months”, he said. HT has a copy of the order issued on Friday (October 23).It says the inquiry has been ordered following complaints in 2018 by three men involved with wildlife issues - Dinesh Chandra Pandey, Rajeev Mehta and Aditya Sharma. An earlier probe had found irregularities in the Motichur range of RTR. The report in the matter was submitted in March 2019 which stated that there were financial irregularities in the range, especially with regard to approving receipts without scrutiny, removal of Lantana grass, food receipts of patrolling staff and so on. According to the PCCF’s order, when range officers/forest officials were asked about the irregularities in Motichur range, they said such things were happening in other ranges of RTR also. This makes it clear that financial irregularities have been committed in RTR on a big level, the order states. The four-member probe committee constituted by PCCF includes additional PCCF (administration), chief conservator of forests (personnel), financial controller state forest department and honorary warden RTR. RTR spread over 820 sq km in three districts of Uttarakhand- Haridwar, Dehradun and Pauri Garhwal, was established in 1983. In April 2015, Rajaji was declared as a tiger reserve, becoming the second tiger reserve in the state after Corbett Tiger Reserve. RTR is home to 23 species of mammals and over 300 species of birds. It has 38 tigers while the whole Rajaji landscape has 52 tigers, as per the latest All India Tiger Estimation Report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-probe-alleged-financial-irregularities-in-rajaji-tiger-reserve/story-1VDweRCKEUi3flEbMrZ6RI.html
26-10-2020||India||Seaplane service from Sabarmati riverfront to Statue of Unity to start from Oct 31||The seaplane that will connect Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad to Statue of Unity in Kevadia, Narmada landed into Kochi from Male, Maldives. The seaplane will reach Gujarat on Monday and will be inaugurated on October 31st by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to mark the 146th birth anniversary of Sardar Patel.The seaplane is a Twin Otter 300 registered in the name M/s Spicejet Technic, which will be operated by SpiceJet. A 19-seater seaplane which will be used for flights between the Sabarmati riverfront and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s Statue of Unity in Gujarat as a part of regional connectivity scheme between Sabarmati riverfront and Statue of Unity.The 19-seater seaplane will be able to accommodate 12 passengers at the cost of Rs 4,800 per person. The aerial distance between Ahmedabad and Kevadia is around 200 kilometres. The seaplane will take about 45 minutes to cover the distance.“Sea plane for Kevadia takes off from Male, Maldives. Regular sea plane service, 4 times a day will connect 2 great & visionary projects given by Hon’ble Prime Minister to the nation —Sabarmati River Front & #StatueOfUnity. A gigantic leap in making Kevadia a truly international tourist spot”, Dr Rajiv Kumar Gupta, Additional Chief Secretary (Forest & Environment Dept), tweeted.The aircraft, which landed safely in Venduruthy channel for a transit halt, is scheduled to reach Ahmedabad on Monday where the country’s maiden seaplane service will be launched between the Sabarmati riverfront and the Statue of Unity in Narmada district.“The seaplane was provided assistance with berthing facility at Naval jetty and refuelling for its onward journey” a defence spokesperson said.“Seaplanes are a natural choice of connectivity between mainland and Lakshadweep islands. Inland water channels in Kochi and sheltered lagoons in islands offer an ideal space for the seaplanes to land and take-off”, he said.Representatives of SpiceJet, Indian Navy, Cochin International Airport Limited and district administration were present to supervise the transit halt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seaplane-service-from-sabarmati-riverfront-to-statue-of-unity-to-start-from-oct-31/story-hbRzkmNObDITWtuev0gKiK.html
26-10-2020||India||Congress hopes to stop Chenari’s sitting MLA and party hopper in Bihar Assembly Election||The Chenari assembly constituency is among the 71 constituencies which will go to the polls in the first phase of the Bihar assembly election on October 28. The results will be declared on November 10.Chenari is a reserved constituency for Scheduled Castes. It is located in Rohtas district of Bihar and comes under the Sasaram (SC) Lok Sabha constituency.In 2015, the assembly seat had 2,77,549 registered voters. Of them, 1,50,682 were male voters and 1,26,840 were female voters. The Rashtriya Lok Samta Party’s (RLSP) Lalan Paswan won the 2015 assembly election from Chenari defeating Mangal Ram of the Congress by 9,781 votes. Paswan got a total of 68,148 votes, while Mangal Ram secured 58,367votes. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate Ramendra Ram secured a mere 5,455 votes and forfeited his deposit. There were 12 candidates in the fray.The RLSP bagged 45.11 per cent of the votes and the Congress received 38.64 per cent while the BSP could manage only 3.61 per cent of the votes. Chenari was among the two seats the RLSP had won in 2015.Click here for full coverage of Bihar Assembly Election 2020.In May 2019, Paswan joined Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) and will contest once again from Chenari on the party’s ticket. Murari Prasad Gautam of the Congress is his main rival. The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) has fielded Chandra Shekhar Paswan, a nephew of BJP’s sitting Sasaram Member of Parliament (MP) Chedi Paswan. Chenari is one of the seats where the LJP has fielded a candidate against the JD(U). Lalan Paswan had also lost the 2010 assembly election. He was then with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) of Lalu Prasad.A party hopper, Paswan had been with the JD (U) when he won the seat in 2005.The Congress has won the Chenari seat five times and finished second another six times. The erstwhile Janata Dal has won it twice, the Janata Dal (U) has won the seat thrice while the RJD bagged the seat once.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-hopes-to-stop-chenari-s-sitting-mla-and-party-hopper-in-bihar-assembly-election/story-LMxmjtU031cz7LSijMjHgN.html
26-10-2020||India||Hurt over Mehbooba Mufti’s actions and words, 3 PDP leaders resign||Three leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have resigned citing Mehbooba Mufti’s “actions and undesirable utterances”, reports said on Monday. The PDP leaders TS Bajwa, Ved Mahajan and Hussain A Waffa, who resigned from the PDP, wrote to party president Mufti citing their reasons.According to according to news agency ANI, they said in the letter that they are “feeling quite uncomfortable over some of her actions and undesirable utterances especially which hurt patriotic sentiments”.“Instead of overcoming the challenges from within and outside by a process of broader consultations and trust, some elements within the party pulling the party and leadership in a particular direction, thus deviating from the basic principles, agenda and philosophy, making it difficult to face the saner voices in the society,” they added.Also read | J&K coalition is anti-BJP, not anti-national, says Farooq AbdullahThe three leaders said that some of the actions and utterances are unpardonable and unforgettable by the people, for the party, to emerge out and move in the direction of its fundamental approach and identity besides regaining it’s image as a political alternative to the people. “In view of this, we feel uncomfortable and suffocated in the party, forcing us to take difficult decision of leaving the party,” they wrote.Mufti had said last week that her party’s members would not raise the tricolour unless they are allowed to raise the flag of Jammu and Kashmir, the right to which had been conferred on the erstwhile state by the now-defunct Article 370 of the Constitution. The PDP president, who was recently released from detention, said the relationship of J-K with the national tricolour was not independent of the erstwhile state flag. “When this flag comes in our hand, we will also raise that (Indian) flag as well.” Mufti had said J&K’s flag had been taken away by “dacoits.”She has also joined the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a grouping of six political parties in Jammu and Kashmir. National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah has been as its chairperson and Mufti his deputy, giving shape to an alliance that they have formed to demand the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status.The Centre on August 5, 2019, had revoked the erstwhile state’s special status and bifurcated it into Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-pdp-leaders-resign-cite-mehbooba-mufti-s-actions-and-words/story-SQq6m3SUIpkLkpJyO7i6ZO.html
26-10-2020||India||China has ramped up military presence across LAC. Ladakh isn’t only target||China has been massively ramping up its military infrastructure, not just around the stand-off locations but along other stretches of the Line of Actual Control under the People’s Liberation Army’s Western Theatre Command. The deployment and the renewed focus on infrastructure upgrade has prompted Indian officials to suspect that the rapid militarisation of the border may be also linked to continuing efforts by President Xi Jinping to drive sinicization of Tibet with Han domination over Buddhist Lhasa.“We would ordinarily have expected the mobilisation and the focus of the infra upgrade to be limited to the stand-off points, mostly aimed at warding off any armed threat from India to occupied Aksai Chin. But this is not the case,” a top national security planner said. “There has been a clear effort to militarise the autonomous region through infrastructure upgrade”.The official cited recent satellite imagery of the Tibet region that shows shelters to house fighter jets in an excavated hill at Gonggar airbase in Lhasa, massive storage facility at Golmud in Qinghai province, a new road between Xinjiang region’s Kanxiwar, used as forward deployment base during 1962 war, to the Hotan airbase and border upgrade at Nyangulu and Nyingchi across Arunachal Pradesh. Nyangulu, 60 kilometres from the Arunachal border, was again used as a forward PLA camp in the 1962 war.Also Read: Dalai Lama and Tibet card hold key in future India-China border escalation | AnalysisThe development of Shiquanhe a mere 82 kilometres from the Demchok Line of Actual Control and construction of shelters near Mabdo La camp in occupied Aksai Chin means that while the focus of the global community will be on India-China stand-off, the Chinese communist leadership will continue to put its indelible stamp on Tibet.A second official pointed to paramount leader Xi Jinping’s call on 20 August 2020 to build an “impregnable fortress” to maintain peace and stability in Tibet and spoke of an ironclad shield to ensure stability in the region. Speaking at Communist Party Symposium on Tibet Work, Xi directed the party leaders to solidify border defences, ensure frontier security in Tibet and plant “the seeds of loving China in the depths of the heart of every (Tibetan) youth.”The Chinese concern over Tibet has heightened with the US appointing Robert A Destro, Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor as the new special coordinator for Tibet issue on October 14 after a hiatus of four years. Tasked with a mandate of promoting dialogue between the People’s Republic of China and the 14th Dalai Lama to protect the unique religious, cultural and linguistic identity of Tibetans, Destro met Lobsang Sangay, head of Tibetan government-in-exile, a day later in Washington. This was the first time that a US State Department official met the leader of the Tibetan government-in-exile in six decades.Also Read: Xi’s call for bolstering defences in Tibet ‘misguided’ and ‘unrealistic’: Lobsang SangayWhile China has fiercely opposed the appointment of a US coordinator on Tibetan affairs, intelligence reports confirm that for Tibetan Buddhist the 14th Dalai Lama is still considered a living god with his pictures being displayed prominently in houses in the outskirts of Lhasa. Beijing calls the Dalai Lama, who is treated by India as an “honoured guest” and a spiritual leader, a splittist and a terrorist.China is already preparing for the succession of the temporal leader of Tibetans so that the communist party can control Buddhist culture while the PLA builds a military wall on the border with India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-has-ramped-up-military-presence-across-lac-ladakh-isn-t-only-target/story-VZTPSUmIcsbRyeSKpvPH6O.html
26-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Actor Payal Ghosh joins Union minister Ramdas Athawale’s party and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Actor Payal Ghosh joins Union minister Ramdas Athawale-led Republican Party of India (A)Actor Payal Ghosh has joined Union minister Ramdas Athawale-led Republican Party of India (A) in Mumbai and has been named as the vice president of its women’s wing, reports said on Monday. Ghosh had recently accused Anurag Kashyap of rape, a charge denied by the filmmaker. Read moreBihar Assembly Election: Will give momentum to growth in Bihar, if voted to power, says Nitish KumarBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday exhorted voters to bring him back to power so that the development initiatives taken by his government in the past 15 years could be continued. Read moreMike Pompeo, Mark Esper arrive in New Delhi for India-US 2+2 dialogueUS Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark Esper arrived in New Delhi on Monday afternoon for the 2+2 dialogue. The talks will be held on Tuesday. Read moreHardik Pandya takes a knee during IPL 2020 match to show support to Black Lives Matter movementIndia allrounder Hardik Pandya became the first player in Indian Premier League 2020 in the UAE to take a knee to show support to the Black Lives Matter movement. Pandya made the gesture during Mumbai Indians’ IPL 2020 match against Rajasthan Royals in Abu Dhabi on Sunday. Read moreIndian Film Festival of Melbourne to honour Irrfan, Rishi Kapoor, Sushant Singh Rajput with special screenings of their filmsLate actors Irrfan Khan, Rishi Kapoor and Sushant Singh Rajput will be honoured at the Indian Film Festival of Melbourne. As a part of IFFM’s tribute section, the festival will be screening Irrfan’s Song of Scorpion, Rishi’s 102 Not Out and Sushant’s Kedarnath this year. Read moreAirtel IQ cloud-based communication platform launched in India: Here’s what it doesAirtel is making its presence even stronger in the enterprise segment by introducing Airtel IQ. It is a cloud-based communication platform that enables secure and easy communication between customers and businesses.Read moreIndian, Pakistani women diagnosed with more aggressive breast cancer at younger age: StudyIndian and Pakistani women are diagnosed with breast cancer, including more aggressive forms, at a younger age, according to a study that provides an insight into understanding the risk factors influencing the disease. Read moreMan covers himself with over 6 lakh bees, bags record. Video creates buzzGuinness World Records often takes to Facebook to share such videos of records which are astonishing, shocking or awe-inspiring. Chances are their throwback video, posted a few hours ago, will make you feel all of these things at once. It shows how a man named Ruan Liangming made his record involving bees, a lot of them. Read moreBihar: Tejashwi offers onion garland to CM Nitish, Chirag questions liquor banRashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Monday said that besides unemployment, inflation is the biggest issue in Bihar Assembly Elections as onion prices are skyrocketing.”Inflation is the biggest issue. BJP people used to wear a garland of onions. Now it is about to touch Rs 100/kg. Watch Here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-actor-payal-ghosh-joins-union-minister-ramdas-athawale-s-party-and-all-the-latest-news/story-gJNDQfX7vsilZNNErHYdMN.html
26-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: RJD will look to retain Munger constituency||The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has nominated Avinash Kumar Vidyarthi from the Munger assembly constituency with an aim to win from the seat once again in Bihar Assembly Election 2020. Other candidates who are in the fray from the Munger seat are Pranav Kumar Yadav of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and MD Mokim of Nationalist Congress Party, Subodh Verma of the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) and Bahujan Samaj Party’s (BSP’s) Subodh Tanti among others.In the last assembly elections in Bihar, the RJD’s Vijay Kumar ‘Vijay’ had defeated Pranav Kumar Yadav of the BJP by a margin of 4,365 votes. The RJD has changed its candidate this year but the BJP has retained Pranav Kumar Yadav. Voter turnout was 54.26% in the Bihar Assembly Election 2015 and it was 54.85% in 2019 Lok Sabha polls.Click here for full coverage of the Bihar Assembly Election 2020Polling for the Munger assembly constituency, which is in Munger district of Bihar and comes under the Munger Lok Sabha seat, will take place in the first phase on October 28. Out of the total population of 456,751, 52.22% is rural and 47.78% is urban, the 2011 census data shows. The Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) ratio is 9.63 and 0.3, respectively. As per the voter list of 2019, there are 330,355 electorates and 335 polling stations in this constituency.Also read | Bihar campaign reaches fever pitch as first phase draws nearThis year the total electorates are 336,912, including 1,81, 832 men, 1,55,052 women and 28 from the third gender. There were 311, 957 electorates in 2015, including 54.55% of men and 45.44% of women voters.Along with 70 other assembly seats, voting for the first phase of Bihar assembly elections will be held on October 28 in Munger constituency as well. The second-phase voting on November 3 will cover 94 seats and the third phase of voting on November 7 will cover 78 assembly seats. Counting of votes will be carried out on November 10.Also read | Plight of migrant labourers in focus, state government cites skill mapping, job creationLalu Prasad Yadav’s RJD had emerged as the single largest party in the 2015 Bihar assembly election with 80 seats, the Janata Dal(United) won 71 seats and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) got 53 seats.This year, the BJP is fighting these elections along with the JD(U); the Congress has joined hands with the RJD and three other Left parties to form the Mahagathbandhan or Grand Alliance to challenge the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The LJP, led by Chirag Paswan, is going solo this time in the Bihar assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-rjd-will-look-to-retain-munger-constituency/story-kl6NjYcq5xk2KikaGcQERP.html
26-10-2020||India||Man arrested for sexually assaulting friend in southeast Delhi||A 27-year-old man was arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting his friend in southeast Delhi’s Govindpuri area, police said on Monday. The accused, identified as Lalu Kumar, is a resident of Patna in Bihar, they said. On October 19, police got information that a woman was lying injured under a foot over-bridge at Harkesh Nagar. She was shifted to All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) Hospital, a senior police officer said. The woman’s husband said that his 25-year-old wife was missing since October 18 from her home under suspicious circumstances when he and his son had gone to attend a birthday party in Tughlakabad village, police said. He did not report the matter and searched at his own level, they said. During investigation, CCTV footage and technical surveillance revealed that the victim left her home alone and was seen with Kumar at Govindpuri metro station, police said. “Later, it was found that Kumar, who works at a hardware shop in Govindpuri, was missing. He went to his home without informing anyone. Police went to Patna and arrested him from his village,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (southeast) R P Meena said.During interrogation, he said that he was in a relationship with the victim. On the intervening night of October 18 and 19, they both went to Chandiwala park, where he sexually assaulted her, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-friend-in-southeast-delhi/story-CODLNgoFXiv9Wh3gRdCPWM.html
26-10-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate National Conference on Vigilance and Anti Corruption tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the National Conference on Vigilance and Anti-Corruption on the theme ‘Vigilant India, Prosperous India’ at 4:45 pm on October 27 via video conferencing, officials said here on Monday.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) organises the National Conference coinciding with ‘Vigilance Awareness Week’, which is observed in India every year from October 27 to November 2.According to the Prime Minister’s Office, the inaugural session of the conference will be live-streamed and available on ‘pmindiawebcast.nic.in’ link.“Activities in this conference would be focused on vigilance issues aimed at raising awareness and reaffirming India’s commitment to promotion of integrity and probity in public life through citizen participation,” the statement said.The three-day conference would discuss the challenges in the investigation in foreign jurisdictions; Preventive Vigilance as a Systemic Check against Corruption; Systemic improvements for financial inclusion and prevention of bank frauds; Effective Audit as an Engine of Growth; Latest amendments to the Prevention of Corruption Act as an impetus to the fight against corruption; Capacity Building and Training; Multi Agency Coordination-an enabler for faster and more effective Investigation; Emerging Trends in Economic Offences, Cyber Crimes and Transnational Organised Crime-measures to Control and Exchange of Best Practices among Criminal Investigative Agencies.“The Conference shall bring policy-makers and practitioners on a common platform and will act as an enabler to combat corruption through systemic improvements and preventive vigilance measures, thereby ushering in good governance and accountable administration. This is a significant contributing factor for enabling ease of doing business in India,” the statement said.Union Minister of State (Independent Charge), Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh will also address the inaugural session.Heads of Anti-Corruption Bureaux, Vigilance Bureaux, Economic Offence Wings/CID from States and Union Territories; CBI officials and representatives from various Central agencies will also participate in the event. The inaugural session will also be attended by Chief Secretaries and Director Generals of Police of various states and Union Territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-national-conference-on-vigilance-and-anti-corruption-tomorrow/story-4pLJo87wLev0QIh8rE12RJ.html
26-10-2020||India||Ladakh-Leh council polls: BJP takes home 12, Congress gets 6, independent 2 so far||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has won 12 seats, followed by the Congress with six wins and independents two out of the 26 up for grabs in the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC)-Leh elections on Monday afternoon. The results of six other seats are yet to be declared. “By 2.26 pm, the BJP had won 10 seats. It was followed by the Congress and independents two each, while the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) was yet to open its account. There are a total of 26 constituencies and the results of 12 are yet to be announced,” officials said. BJP’s Ghulam Mehdi won the Turtuk seat by defeating independent candidate Ghulam Hussain by a margin of 367 votes. Kunzang Lotus of the BJP won the Hundar seat by defeating the Congress candidate Stanzin Chotar by a margin of 420 votes. BJP’s Tsering Angchuk won the Diskit seat by defeating the Congress candidate Tsewang Rigzin by a margin of 570 votes. BJP’s Rigzen Lundup won the Tegar seat by defeating the Congress’s Jigmet Stobgais by a margin of 416 votes. The BJP also won the Panamik and Tangtse seats by comfortable margins. However, the Chushul seat was won by independent candidate Konchok Stanzin, who defeated BJP’s Konchok Tsepel by 309 votes. The BJP also won the Kungyam, Korzok, Martselang and Thiksay seats. The Congress wrested Igoo and Sakti seats by a narrow margin of 20 and 79 votes from the BJP and AAP candidates, respectively. The BJP has managed to sweep all the five seats of the Nubra valley, which has a significant Muslim population. The council, which has 30 seats, includes four nominated members. The BJP and the Congress had contested all the 26 seats, while the AAP had put up candidates in 19 seats. Altogether, 23 candidates were also in the electoral fray.Residents of Leh have been demanding constitutional safeguards under the sixth schedule of the Constitution. Chering Dorjay, a former BJP minister and ex-president of the party’s Ladakh unit, had cautioned the Centre on September 28 about a sustained campaign in case the Apex Body of People’s Movement, an apolitical body, was hoodwinked about its long-pending demands. The body has former BJP Member of Parliament (MP), Thupstan Chhewang, Dorjay, Rinpoche Nawang Chamba Stanzin, the head of Thiksey monastery, and Nawang Rigzin Jora, a former minister, as it’s members. It has been demanding constitutional safeguards under the sixth schedule of the Constitution to Ladakh on the lines of the north-eastern states. The umbrella group includes political parties and religious organisations and the all-powerful Leh-based Ladakh Buddhist Association. The safeguards will also guarantee more teeth to the two hill development councils of Leh and Kargil with legislative powers. Union Minister for Home Affairs Amit Shah had given an ultimatum to a delegation, which later withdrew its call to boycott the council polls. Chhewang had resigned from his post and primary membership of the BJP in November 2018 after the Centre did not confer on the union territory (UT) status to the Ladakh region and other promises made by the ruling BJP in the run up to the 2014 parliamentary elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leh-council-polls-bjp-takes-home-10-congress-lags-behind-with-2-independent-1-so-far/story-ExkRUHsH44Q8GTm40toO0O.html
26-10-2020||India||With polls close by, politics heats up over a proposed museum in Assam||With assembly polls in the state just few months away, ruling and opposition parties in Assam have started targeting each other over setting up a museum dedicated to the people, predominantly Muslims, living in sandbars and small river islands.The issue came to public notice last week following a letter written by Sherman Ali Ahmed, an opposition Congress MLA, to the director of museums in the state seeking setting up of a museum “reflecting the culture and heritage of the people living in ‘char-chaporis’” (sandbars and small river islands). In Assam, these sandbars and islands, which spread across the state, cover about 3.6 lakh hectares and are home to around 24.90 lakh people (according to the directorate of char areas development) mainly comprising those who migrated from erstwhile East Bengal and present day Bangladesh over many decades. “I would therefore like to request you kindly to expedite the process of establishment of the same,” Ahmed wrote seeking setting up of the museum in Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra, a cultural complex set up by the government in Guwahati, Ahmed’s letter went viral on social media with many questioning how a “Miya museum” can be set up in the state with government funding. Miya is a term used for Bengali speaking Muslims from Bangladesh who started settling in Assam from British days onwards. The term is also used to denote illegal immigrants from the neighbouring country. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in the state, which has recently upped the attack on ‘Mughals’, an indirect reference to the Muslim migrants, in view of the coming assembly polls, soon got involved in the issue. “In my understanding, there is no separate identity and culture in Char Anchal of Assam as most of the people had migrated from Bangladesh. Obviously, in Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra, which is the epitome of Assamese culture, we will not allow any distortion. Sorry MLA ‘sahab’,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted on Saturday attaching a copy of Ahmed’s letter. On Monday, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal told journalists that Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra has been set up with ideals of the Srimanta Sankardeva (a 15th-16th century saint-scholar) and the state government would ensure that they are upheld. The BJP, which came to power in Assam for the first time in 2016, with a staunch anti-immigrant stance, is facing flak from some sections for backing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). The legislation seeks to grant citizenship to religious minorities from three neighbouring countries including Bangladesh - a move many indigenous groups in Assam oppose vehemently. “Sorry Himanta Biswa Sarma Sir. Ancestors of these people (residents of ‘char-chaporis’) migrated from erstwhile Bengal, which was integral part of undivided India. Kindly don’t distort history more just (for) sake of getting power,” Congress Lok Sabha MP from Assam Abdul Khaleque tweeted. The matter took a turn on Sunday when journalist-turned-politician Ajit Kumar Bhuyan, who entered Rajya Sabha earlier this year with support from opposition Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), posted a series of tweets on the issue. “The char-chapori museum was recommended by DRSC (departmentally related standing committee-on education) whose majority members are from BJP and its ruling coalition. Now, after passing a recommendation with support from majority members, BJP is politicizing the whole issue to garner political mileage. What a shame,” Bhuyan, who floated a political party in June, called Anchalik Gana Morcha, tweeted on Sunday. Though Ahmed’s letter had mentioned about the DRSC’s recommendations, it was only after Bhuyan’s tweet it became clear that the 15-member committee, which presented its recommendations to the Assam assembly in March this year, was chaired by a ruling Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) MLA and had 6 members from BJP, 2 from AGP and two from Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), another partner of the ruling coalition. Congress’s Ahmed, who wrote the letter to the director of the museums, was also a member of the committee. Incidentally, besides setting up a char-chapori museum, the committee had also recommended that there will be a separate museum on the Gorha community of Assam at Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra. Assam goes to polls in March-April next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-polls-close-by-politics-heats-up-over-a-proposed-museum-in-assam/story-VbA1iOnuPlu8hNFvkYTFLN.html
26-10-2020||India||Cyclist mowed down in hit-and-run case in south Delhi, driver arrested||A 26-year-old man was arrested for allegedly mowing down a cyclist in south Delhi’s Fatehpur Beri area, police said on Monday. They said the accused identified as Rohit, a resident of Gwal Pahari in Gurgaon, was arrested on Sunday. He runs a food stall in the same village. The deceased man identified as Akhilesh, 30, was on a cycle when the incident took place. He used to work as a manager in a relative’s furniture workshop at Jaunapur village, police said. On Saturday around 8.40 pm, police received information regarding an accident near Rosewood Farm, Jonapur-Mandi Road. Police rushed to the spot where Akhilesh was found injured. He was shifted to AIIMS Trauma Centre where he died during treatment, a senior police officer said. During investigation, police analysed the CCTV cameras and found one Swift Dzire car on the road at the time of the incident. It came to light that the car was registered in the name of one Ramesh Kumar, who said that his car was driven by Rohit on Saturday night and it is with him, the officer said. “Police conducted raids at the residence of the accused and apprehended him. Rohit said that he has given the car at a showroom in Faridabad for repairing,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. Thereafter, the car with damage on the front side was recovered from Faridabad, the DCP said. PTI NIT HDA HDA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclist-mowed-down-in-hit-and-run-case-in-south-delhi-driver-arrested/story-YZ1u8x1aGVpVetoPxykCHM.html
26-10-2020||India||Karnataka fights back coronavirus. What does it mean for India’s third worst-hit state||The steep decline in the number of coronavirus cases and deaths in Karnataka indicate that the infections are shifting from high population density areas to other places, a noted epidemiologist said. After clocking up to 10,000 cases daily for over a week early this month with fatalities even touching 200 on certain occasions, the caseload has come down to about 5,000 to 6,000 in the last week. The fatalities too have dipped from three digits to two digits. According to epidemiologist Giridhara R Babu, the fall in the number of cases and deaths due to coronavirus is quite evident and an encouraging trend. Some experts, however, attribute the drop in daily cases to the high testing rates and early detection of infections. “This reduction indicates that the coronavirus infection is shifting from high population density areas to other areas,” Babu, an epidemiologist at the Indian Institute of Public Health, PHFI (Bengaluru) and a member of the Covid-19 technical advisory group for the Karnataka government, told PTI. He explained in the other areas, higher population density may not be there. “So, therefore, it might be in alignment with what’s happening in the country. So, let us wait and watch,” he said. However, chief of the Karnataka Covid-19 War Room, Munish Moudgil attributed the high testing rate to the slump in the number of new infections. In general, the cases are coming down as the infection is coming under control, Moudgil said. He said holidays too have seen reduction in cases. “But the general reduction trend is correct and proves the success of the Karnataka model of high testing leading to control of the disease,” he added. According to a health official, Karnataka has started conducting tests extensively and opened sample collection centres at crowded places in urban areas. It is a common sight to see people sporting PPE kits under a makeshift canopy in Bengaluru at crowded places such as KR Market, Kalasipalya, Majestic, Gandhi Bazaar, Kumaraswamy Layout, Banashankari, BDA complexes, near shopping malls and bus stands, he said. “We are taking the coronavirus head on. Instead of collecting samples at the designated places with unprecedented precautions, we have opened camps at every nook and cranny in urban areas and other crowded places,” the official added.According to him, health workers have turned into corona warriors in the true sense.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-fights-back-coronavirus-what-does-it-mean-for-india-s-third-worst-hit-state/story-Q7QEHcQcfux3Anq3OmNAyM.html
26-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 fatality rate at lowest since March 22: Health ministry||India’s Covid-19 fatality rate has dropped to 1.50 per cent, the lowest since March 22, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday crediting the focused efforts of the Centre, states and UTs on effective clinical management of hospitalised cases.There are 14 states and Union Territories including Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Bihar, Odisha, Assam and Kerala where the Case Fatality Ratio (CFR) is lower than 1 per cent, the ministry said.With an effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardised clinical management protocols based on holistic standard of care protocol across government and private hospitals, the number of new deaths has significantly dipped, it said. Less than 500 deaths (480) have been reported in a span of 24 hours in the country, according to the data updated at 8 am on Monday.“India has one of the lowest fatality rates in the world. The case fatality rate is lowest since March 22 and is continuously declining,” the ministry said as it underlined that the case fatality rate was 3.23 per cent on May 4.As part of the Covid-19 management and response policy, the Centre has had a sharp focus on not only containing the spread of the disease but to reduce deaths and save lives by providing quality clinical care to critical and severe patients, the ministry said. Collaborative efforts of the Centre, states, and union territories have resulted in strengthening of the health facilities across the country. Presently, 2,218 dedicated COVID hospitals are providing quality medical care, it said.As part of a unique initiative to build the capacities of ICU doctors in clinical management of critical patients towards reducing fatalities, e-ICU has been started by AIIMS, New Delhi, it said. Twice a week, on Tuesdays and Fridays, tele/video-consultation sessions are held by knowledge and domain experts for doctors manning the ICUs in the state hospitals. These sessions started from July 8. Till date, 25 tele-sessions have been held, and 393 institutions across 34 states and UTs have participated in them. Also, many states have conducted population surveys to map and identify the vulnerable population like the elderly, pregnant women and those with comorbidities.  This, with the help of technological solutions like mobile apps has ensured keeping the high-risk population under continuous observation, thus aiding early identification, timely clinical treatment and reducing fatalities. At the ground level, frontline health workers like ASHAs and ANMs have done a commendable job of managing the migrant population and to enhance awareness at the community level, the ministry said. “As a result, there are 14 states and UTs with CFR lower than 1 per cent,” the ministry underscored. The ministry said that 59,105 new recoveries were added in a span of 24 hours as against 45,148 new infections being reported during the same period.  The total number of recoveries have crossed 71 lakh (71,37,228). A higher number of single day recoveries is also reflected in the continuous increase in the national recovery rate, which is 90.23 per cent at present, the ministry highlighted. “India continues to report a trend of steadily decreasing active cases. Presently the active cases comprise merely 8.26 pc of the total caseload of the country standing at 6,53,717. This is the lowest since August 13 when the active cases were 6,53,622,” the ministry said. Seventy eight per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and a UT -- Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. Karnataka has contributed the maximum to the single day recoveries with more than 10,000 cases followed by Kerala with more than 7,000 cases. A total 45,148 new coronavirus infections were registered in a day in the country on Monday which is “the lowest since July 22 when 37,000 new cases were added”, the ministry said. Eighty two per cent of the new cases are from 10 states and a UT -- Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Delhi, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Odisha.  Kerala and Maharashtra contributed the maximum to the new confirmed cases with more than 6,000 cases each followed by Karnataka, Delhi and West Bengal with more than 4,000 cases, the ministry said. Also, 480 case fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours. Of these, nearly 80 per cent are concentrated in 10 states and a UT -- Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. More than 23 per cent of the new fatalities were reported from Maharashtra (112 deaths).  India’s Covid-19 caseload mounted to  79,09,959 with  45,148  new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,19,014 with 480 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am on Monday showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-fatality-rate-at-lowest-since-march-22-health-ministry/story-Wc3iYGgubnG0hXXOJTY7GN.html
26-10-2020||India||Stubble burning: SC suspends earlier order appointing Justice Lokur as one-man committee||The Supreme Court (SC) on Monday suspended its earlier order that was issued on October 16 appointing former apex court Judge Madan B Lokur as a one-man committee to enforce strict ban on stubble burning in neighbouring states of the national capital such as Haryana, Punjab and also western Uttar Pradesh (UP). The order was “kept in abeyance” by a three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, after Solicitor-General (S-G) Tushar Mehta informed the court about a comprehensive law being planned by the Centre to curb stubble burning. “The Centre has taken a holistic view of the matter and now a comprehensive law is being planned with a permanent body with the participation of neighbouring states,” Mehta said.Also read | Researchers look for tech solutions as daily fire count crosses 1,000 mark in Punjab, HaryanaHe stressed that in the past the SC had taken several ad-hoc measures to control pollution by stubble burning, but those steps did not yield desired results. “We will come out with a law within three-four days,” the S-G said while requesting the court to put in abeyance the earlier order appointing Justice Lokur as the interim panel head. “People are choking in this city (Delhi). It is something that should have been curbed by the government and not a matter to be decided in a public interest litigation (PIL). We will welcome the law, if it is appropriate,” the bench said. Earlier, senior advocate Vikas Singh, who had appeared for the petitioner Aditya Dubey, had informed the court it would take time to put a legal mechanism in place and until then, the Lokur Committee should be allowed to operate. The court had accepted the suggestion and decided to appoint Justice Lokur on October 16. Singh had pointed out that the matter could be taken up on Thursday, when the stubble burning cases being monitored by the apex court in the MC Mehta case would come up. The bench agreed to post the matter on Thursday, but also suspended the October 16 order. “There can be a conflict of perception between our committee and what the Union Government is contemplating,” CJI Bobde said. The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said, “Having regard to the statement, we consider it appropriate that the measures adopted by this court on October 16 be kept in abeyance until further orders.”The order was passed on the basis of a PIL by two young environment activists, who had demanded urgent orders to curb stubble burning. The poor air quality could lead to a spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) deaths, the petition had cited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stubble-burning-sc-suspends-earlier-order-appointing-justice-lokur-as-one-man-committee/story-KOJhG1sr5ZiNK1YceAw7AI.html
26-10-2020||India||BJP wins six seats in LAHDC polls as counting underway||The BJP won six seats while an Independent candidate bagged one seat on Monday, as counting is underway for polls to 26 seats in the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council, officials said. BJP, INC and Independents are leading on three seats each, as per trends. BJP, INC, AAP and 23 Independent candidates contested the polls for 26 seats.  Leh recorded a 65.07 per cent turnout  in the 6th Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC) elections on Thursday, an official spokesman said.BJP won seats of Turtik, Hundar, Diskit, Tegar,  Panamik, Tangtse, and only seat was won by an Independent is Chushul. BJP defeated INC candidates in the polls.Counting of votes started at the Amphitheatre of SSK, Tisuru, Leh around 9 am.An electorate of 89,776, including 45025 women, exercised their franchise in 294 polling stations spread over 26 constituencies across Leh district to seal the fate of 94 candidates including 26 each of the BJP and Congress.Besides the Congress and BJP, the Aam Admi Party (AAP) is also trying its luck for the first time by fielding 19 candidates, while the rest of the 23 contestants are independents. Regional parties including National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have chosen to stay away from the election.LAHDC-Leh has a total of 30 seats and four councilors are nominated by the government.Since the formation of the hill council in 1995, the Congress had swept the polls thrice, while the Ladakh Union Territorial Front had won the elections in 2005. The BJP wrested control of the council from Congress for the first time in the last elections by winning 18 out of 26 seats.Kargil district of Ladakh had a separate hill council which was elected in 2018 for a five-year term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-wins-six-seats-in-lahdc-polls-as-counting-underway/story-pX3m34Fck6tiHylZIOwpFJ.html
26-10-2020||India||Mike Pompeo, Mark Esper arrive in New Delhi for India-US 2+2 dialogue||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark Esper arrived in New Delhi on Monday afternoon for the 2+2 dialogue. The talks will be held on Tuesday.The holding of the third US-India 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue demonstrates the high-level commitment the two countries provide to shared diplomatic and security objectives, US State Department had said on Sunday.Before leaving for India, Pompeo had tweeted that he is grateful for the opportunity to connect with our partners. “Wheels up for my trip to India, Sri Lanka, Maldives, and Indonesia. Grateful for the opportunity to connect with our partners to promote a shared vision for a free and open #IndoPacific composed of independent, strong, and prosperous nations,” he said in the tweet.Also read | Pompeo, Esper to push Trump’s anti-China message in IndiaBoth the countries are set to review their strategic and security ties and discuss ways to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific during the third round of 2+2 dialogue.The talks will focus on four themes - regional security cooperation, defence information sharing, military-to-military interactions, and defense trade, according to a US State Department statement last week.Watch | ‘PM Modi and President Trump get along very well’: Nikki Haley The first two 2+2 Ministerial dialogues were held in New Delhi in September 2018 and Washington DC in 2019.During their two-day visit, Pompeo and Esper will hold bilateral talks with their Indian counterparts S Jaishankar and Rajnath Singh and meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval.Officials from both sides have pointed to the significance of Pompeo and Esper making an in-person visit at a time when most diplomatic meetings and interactions have moved online due to the pandemic, saying this reflects the importance attached to the relationship with India.Ahead of the 2+2 dialogue, the US State Department said that it welcomes India’s emergence as a leading regional and global power. It also said the US is looking forward to work closely with India during the latter’s upcoming UNSC term, starting January 1, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mike-pompeo-mark-esper-arrive-in-new-delhi-for-india-us-2-2-dialogue/story-yUU4N1SDQ5eWMexZs6XqyJ.html
26-10-2020||India||Alwar wine shop employee’s charred body found in freezer||The charred body of a 23-year-old man was found from a wine shop’s deep freezer in Kumpur village of Alwar district on Sunday, police said.The family members alleged that the victim was set on fire by the owners of the wine shop. However, police said the preliminary probe doesn’t support the claims.According to a first information report (FIR) lodged by the family members, Kamal Kishor used to work as a salesman at a wine shop owned by Rakesh Yadav and Subhash Chand. They claimed Kishor had not been paid for the last five months.The family said that on Saturday, the owners came to their house at 4 pm and Kishor left with him never to return. Around noon on Sunday, locals discovered that a container of the wine shop located behind it had caught fire. They informed the police and after the fire was put out, Kishor’s badly burnt body was found inside a deep freezer inside the container. There was no power connection in the container and the freezer was cooled by staking ice.“The deep freezer inside the container was for storing liquor. One of the owners has been down with dengue for the last few days and is undergoing treatment. Preliminary probe doesn’t hint at murder. However, we are yet to reach any conclusion. We are probing how the fire took place,” said Ram Moorty Joshi, superintendent of police, Bhiwadi.Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alwar-wine-shop-employee-s-charred-body-found-in-freezer/story-mS8V6ydQSvLPLwdS1jVAIP.html
26-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Chirag Paswan slams Bihar CM again, says people and I believe he is corrupt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘People and I believe he’s corrupt’: Chirag Paswan again attacks Nitish KumarA day after he ‘vowed’ Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar would be behind bars if his party is elected to power in the upcoming Bihar assembly polls, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan on Monday reiterated Kumar was ‘corrupt’ and if not, “it will be cleared in a probe.” Read moreNSA Ajit Doval’s speech not about China or any specific situation, govt officials clarifyThe National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval was speaking purely in a civilisational and spiritual context and was not referring to any country or specific situation at the religious function in Rishikesh on Saturday, government officials clarified. Read moreJ&K government to install smart meters; to begin with Jammu, SrinagarThe J&K government has decided to install smart meters and will begin with the winter capital of Jammu and the summer capital of Srinagar. The process of installation will begin from November 15. Read more West Bengal: Idol immersion in River Ichamati to be a low-key affair this yearThe idol immersion in the Ichamati river, located around 70 kilometres (km) east of Kolkata in the adjoining North 24 Parganas district, which used to attract thousands of revellers from both India and neighbouring Bangladesh every year, will be a muted affair this year because of the coronavirus disease pandemic. Read moreAstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine seen effective in elderly people: ReportBritish national pharmaceutical AstraZeneca’s vaccine for combating the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease has seen a robust immune response in the elderly people, a report has claimed. Read more This Twitter profile is all about memes they are not just funny but respectful tooAre you a meme lover? Is the photo gallery of your phone filled with humorous images? Do you often convey complex emotions through aptly designed memes? If you answered ‘yes’ to any or all of the questions asked above, Read moreRaveena Tandon unveils first look from KGF Chapter 2 on birthday, introduces herself as ‘the gavel to brutality’Raveena Tandon is celebrating her birthday today and treated her fans with her first look from the film, KGF Chapter 2. The actor will be returning to the silver screen in a powerful role of Ramika Sen in the film. Read moreIPL 2020, MI vs RR: ‘Samson is the strongest man in the world,’ Sanju Samson talks about his six-hitting abilitySanju Samson had gone through a tough phase in the previous 5-6 games in the 13th season of the Indian Premier League. After starting the season with a bang with two back-to-back fifties, Samson tapered off as questions were raised on his consistency with bat. Read moreWatch: Seaplane to ferry passengers to Statue of Unity, flights from Oct 31A 19-seater seaplane which will be used for flights between the Sabarmati riverfront and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s Statue of Unity in Gujarat as part of a first-of-its-kind service in the country arrived here from the Maldives on Sunday. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-chirag-paswan-slams-bihar-cm-again-says-people-and-i-believe-he-is-corrupt-and-all-the-latest-news/story-jIxwsAu9IsdJfaMWTSixqL.html
26-10-2020||India||Why no Bharat Ratna for Savarkar yet? Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut asks BJP||A war of words between the Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party has escalated a day after Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray slammed his former ally over Hindutva. BJP leaders questioned the Sena over Hindutva by allying with Congress, which had allegedly insulted Vinayak Damodar (Veer) Savarkar. Sena, in a counter attack, asked why is the BJP-led central government not awarding Bharat Ratna, the country’s highest civilian honour, to Savarkar.BJP spokesperson Ram Kadam said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray gave a “lesson on Hindutva” from Savarkar Memorial during Sena’s Dussehra rally.“Question is why didn’t he utter a single word of praise for Veer Savarkar. Probably, he is afraid of his new friends who have been repeatedly using derogatory remarks against Veer Savarkar,” he said.Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut, however, said that there was no change in the party’s stance on Savarkar. Talking to media persons on Monday, Raut said, “Shiv Sena never changed its stand on Veer Savarkar. Whenever an inappropriate comment was made to insult him, we stood by him. We’ve always had an emotional connection with him. Those who are criticising us must answer why didn’t they give him Bharat Ratna. They have been in power for six years now,” Raut said.Thackeray, during his speech at his first Dussehra rally after becoming the chief minister, on Sunday slammed BJP for questioning the Shiv Sena’s Hindutva. He said his father Balasaheb Thackeray’s Hindutva was not “clanging bells and utensils”. Thackeray even said that BJP must learn Hindutva from its ideological fountainhead, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-no-bharat-ratna-for-savarkar-yet-shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut-asks-bjp/story-ErtvqM6ZiguKhkvlIC2tEI.html
26-10-2020||India||Supreme Court stays MP high court order restraining physical campaigning for assembly bypolls||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed an order of the Gwalior bench of the Madhya Pradesh high court of October 20 restraining physical gathering during election campaigning by candidates in bye-elections to 28 seats. The order came on an appeal filed by Election Commission (EC) which said that the HC order paralyzed election process with few days remaining for the election on November 3. But the apex court also pulled up the EC for not taking a proactive role to enforce Covid-19 protocol at election rallies that led to the high court order. The HC had directed all campaigning to be held virtually and permission for physical gathering was to be given by district magistrate only if virtual mode was impossible. Any such permission by a DM was to have the EC’s approval and the candidate was asked to deposit money that is sufficient to purchase double the number of masks and sanitizer for those attending the event. A three-judge Supreme Court bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar, while granting stay, told the EC that had it taken a proactive role in enforcing the Covid SOPs of social distancing, the HC would not have interfered in the matter. Also Read: MP High Court frowns upon large political rallies amid Covid-19 pandemic“You should have intervened at the appropriate level and asked government to take steps. At public meetings you should have ensured SOP was followed and those candidates who were found to violate ought to have been issued notice. We wish you were proactive to supervise elections better. If parties maintained protocol, this situation would not have arisen,” the top court said.The appeals were filed by the EC and two BJP candidates Pradyuman Tomar and Munnalal Goyal. The BJP candidates appealed to the Court to allow the EC to consider their request granting additional time for campaigning in view of 7 days lost for campaigning. The bench left it to EC to take a call on any such representation that is moved by candidates or political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-stays-mp-hc-order-restraining-physical-campaigning-for-assembly-bypolls/story-GAF6kFsb2QN2AeTOs42o4O.html
26-10-2020||India||NSA Ajit Doval’s speech not about China or any specific situation, govt officials clarify||The National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval was speaking purely in a civilisational and spiritual context and was not referring to any country or specific situation at the religious function in Rishikesh on Saturday, government officials clarified.The officials said any attempt to twist the NSA’s statement, made in a spiritual context, was uncalled for as he was not speaking about either China or the ongoing conflict in the Eastern Ladakh sector.The clarification came as certain media reports suggested that the NSA was speaking in the context of China and the Ladakh situation. Doval who was in Rishikesh’s Parmarth Niketan ashram on October 24 had addressed the devotees there about the spiritual power of India, where he also mentioned Swami Vivekanand.“You said we have never attacked anyone and there are many views about it. If there is a threat to the country, then we should have attacked as it is important to save the country,” the NSA had said.“We will fight where you want us to fight, that is also not mandatory. We fight where we feel the threat is coming. We have never done it for selfish reasons. We will fight a war on our land and others’ land too but not our selfish reasons but for the highest good of others,” he had further stated.The NSA suggested that states are bound by physical dimensions but the nation is an emotional bond which is bound by the common thread of spirituality and culture in which there is a collective sense of pride and role of our Gurus and spiritual centres is to guard this larger sense of collective identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsa-ajit-doval-s-speech-not-about-china-or-any-specific-situation-govt-officials-clarify/story-mK60VS07c335mkwDHvSsfO.html
26-10-2020||India||Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar tests positive for Covid-19||Maharashtra’s deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency ANI reported.Pawar has been admitted to the Breach Candy hospital in Mumbai.The news comes days after former Maharashtra chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis tested positive for the disease.Fadnavis on Saturday said he had tested positive for coronavirus. The BJP leader was admitted to a government-run hospital in Mumbai and his condition is stable.With 1,41,001 total active cases, Maharashtra continues to be the worst affected state by Covid-19 in the country. While 14,60,755 patients have recovered from the disease in the state, 43,264 have died so far.Covid-19 claimed lives of 112 people in the state in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry. Mumbai, which crossed the 10,000 mark for deaths two days ago, remained on top, in terms of mortalities, with 46 more deaths taking the toll to 10,105.However, this was the lowest one-day Covid-19 death toll since June 18 for Maharashtra.Out of 36 districts and 27 cities, 35 districts and cities did not report any death in the past 24 hours. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state is at 2.63 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-Q5F1Wol3eJmkbHq0xM6c1O.html
26-10-2020||India||Former Union minister Dilip Ray sentenced to 3-year imprisonment in coal scam case||Former Union minister Dilip Ray was on Monday sentenced to three-year imprisonment in a coal scam case. Ray was convicted in the case which pertains to irregularities in the allocation of a Jharkhand coal block in 1999.A Delhi court had earlier this month reserved the order for October 26 after hearing arguments from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) as well the convicts. The court directed the convicts to be present before it physically on that date.Besides Ray, former minister of state (coal) in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, the CBI had sought life imprisonment for other convicts - two senior officials of the Ministry of Coal at that time, Pradip Kumar Banerjee and Nitya Nand Gautam, and Castron Technologies Ltd’s (CTL) director Mahendra Kumar Agarwalla.Ray was convicted under various sections including 409 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which pertains to criminal breach of trust of trust by a public servant.“I am very surprised at conviction under section 409 of the IPC as the same court in the past has acquitted people in 409 IPC in view of three-judge bench judgement of Supreme Court. However, I welcome sentence not being harsh of three years having been imposed by the court,” said Vijay Aggarwal, advocate who represented various accused in 2G scam and is also representing various accused in coal scam cases.This was the first conviction in the coal scam.The judge had said that Ray “dishonestly facilitated allocation of the abandoned non-nationalised coal mining area in favour of CTL and that too in violation of the direction of law.”The case pertains to allocation of Brahmadiha coal block in Giridih in Jharkhand to CTL in 1999.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-union-minister-dilip-ray-sentenced-to-3-year-imprisonment-in-coal-scam-case/story-U7tBkZv9fgIqE2WGQLOdRP.html
26-10-2020||India||45,149 new Covid-19 cases take India’s tally past 7.9 million; lowest single-day spike since July-end||India on Monday continued its downward trajectory of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases as the country reported 45,149 new infections in the last 24 hours, taking its caseload past the 7.9 million mark to 7,909,960, as per the Union health ministry’s dashboard.This marks the country’s lowest single-day spike since July-end. Earlier, on October 20, India had reported 46,790 new Covid-19 cases. This was the first time since July 23 that there were less than 50,000 new cases; 45,720 infections were recorded on the said date.(Read more: India records 46,790 new Covid-19 cases, 587 deaths; tally close to 7.6 million)The number of active cases in the country continue to stay below the seven-lakh mark and are currently at 653,717 or 8.50% of the country’s overall caseload. Recoveries, meanwhile, crossed the 7.1 million mark to reach 7,137,228 after 59,105 more people--higher than new infections--recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours.(Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)India’s total recoveries constitute 90% of the country’s total cases. Meanwhile, with 480 new fatalities, the death toll due to the virus has reached 119,014 or 1.50% of the total cases.Also, in the last 24 hours, a total of 939,039 samples were tested for the disease, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said, adding that with this, 103,462,778 samples have been tested in the country thus far.India continues to be the second worst-hit country after the United States, with Brazil in third place. However, it also has the highest number of recovered cases in the world.These latest numbers come at a time the country is opening up gradually, after four strict phases of nationwide lockdown between March 24 and May 31. However, with festival season around the corner, the government has warned the citizens to not get complacent or else there might be a rapid surge in new cases.Europe is witnessing a second wave of infections which has led to severe curbs in several countries there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-149-new-covid-19-cases-take-country-s-tally-past-7-9-million-lowest-single-day-spike-since-july-end/story-DYPbAXx3NL7VDA9V6BxRAP.html
26-10-2020||India||Rajasthan to appoint 29 sports medallists to govt services on out-of-turn basis||The Rajasthan government on Sunday announced its decision to appoint 29 sports medallists to the state services on an out-of-turn basis.The government has also decided to double the daily allowance of sportspersons. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has approved the related proposals, a government statement said. Of the 29 sportspersons, 11 players who are from category ‘A’ will be appointed to Rajasthan Police Services, Rajasthan Excise Services, Rajasthan Forest Services, Rajasthan Education Department and Technical Engineering Services. Out of these, six players will be appointed as deputy superintendent of police and five as assistant conservator of forest. In category ‘B’, 11 players will be appointed as sub-inspectors, one as excise guard, five as regional forest officer, and one as physical training instructor. Gehlot has also decided to double the daily allowance that players currently get. Now, the players participating in national level competitions will get Rs 1,000 instead of Rs 500 per day and the players participating in state level competitions will get Rs 600 instead of Rs 300. Sports minister Ashok Chandna said, “Across the Country, Rajasthan is the only state, which has such an out-of-turn policy. We have even included SAF games medallists in the policy, which no other state has done. Such initiatives by state will create an atmosphere of sports and maximum youth will get into sports. This will also help in reducing crime and addiction. Rajasthan in coming 5-10 years will be the leading state in sports.” “In couple of months, 450 youth under category ‘C’ will be given appointment,” he said.Chandna said soon those who earned medals before 2016; and the junior international medallists will also be provided the benefit of out-of-turn policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-to-appoint-29-sports-medallists-to-govt-services-on-out-of-turn-basis/story-WieE6E0Kjnoe6QqHeEjRbM.html
26-10-2020||India||Act against those violating Covid protocol during festivals, UP Chief Secy tells officials||Chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Sunday asked officials to ensure use of public address systems at religious and other crowded places to urge people to comply with the Covid-19 protocol related to social distancing and wearing of masks. At a meeting to review the pandemic, he said NGOs and volunteers could also be roped in to create awareness among people on the need to wear masks and maintain physical distance to keep the infection at bay. Stressing on the need for people to be more alert during festivals, the chief secretary cautioned that the number of positive cases had receded, but the pandemic was still there. Tiwari asked officials to resort to videography and rely on CCTVs to identify people who do not wear masks and maintain physical distance at crowded places and take action against them accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/act-against-those-violating-covid-protocol-during-festivals-up-chief-secy-tells-officials/story-CIoRqNveIuxzSC8yTzOxaL.html
26-10-2020||India||Gen Rawat asks tri-services to curb peace-time activities in deference to deployed troops in Ladakh||At a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked Indians to light a “diya (lamp)” for soldiers deployed on Ladakh borders, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat has asked the three services to curb all peace-time activities in deference to deployed troops and be ready in case of a worst case scenario.It is understood that Navy’s marine commandos have been asked to be deployed in East Ladakh where the Indian Army is locked in a stand-off with People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Gogra-Hot Springs and both banks of Pangong Tso lake. The MARCOS will be deployed with the Indian Special Forces to gain experience in polar desert conditions with high wind chill factor and heavy snow.The deployed troops are waiting for last shipment of polar winter clothing and face masks, which are expected to arrive from US Army own reserve stocks by the first week of November. Just like the PLA, the Indian Army is prepared for a long haul and is in no mood to cede an inch of territory to the aggressive Chinese Army. The PLA has already deployed strategic jammers in Arunachal Pradesh and is going in for a massive infrastructure and storage capacity upgrade in both Xinjiang and Tibet.According to senior military commanders, Gen Rawat has made it clear to all the three services that these are not normal times with troops, artillery and tanks deployed along the 1597 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh and hence all peace-time activities must be curbed. “As situation in east Ladakh can get worse any time in case of an accident, the armed forces must be ready for any scenario. It cannot be that while the entire northern army command and western air command is battle deployed in frozen condition, the rest of us are celebrating the festival season and playing golf. Let nobody forget there is a war on in Ladakh,” said a South Block official.In lieu of this, the Indian Navy has been asked to focus on Andaman and Nicobar Island to monitor Chinese warship activity in Indian Ocean rather than get concerned about PLA Navy deployments off the coast of Africa. Indian Island territories of Lakshadweep and ANC are the key to national maritime security as they dominate the most important shipping lanes - from Persian Gulf to Malacca Straits—in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gen-rawat-asks-tri-services-to-curb-peace-time-activities-in-deference-to-deployed-troops-in-ladakh/story-TGSzOq5AxnQYe9878sGUrN.html
26-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to disburse SVANidhi loans to 300,000 street vendors on Tuesday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to disburse SVANidhi loans to 300,000 street vendors on TuesdayPrime Minister Narendra Modi would virtually distribute loans to nearly 300,000 street vendors under the PM SVANidhi Scheme (Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi Yojana) on Tuesday. Read moreNumber of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai lowest in two monthsThe number of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has dropped to its lowest in the past two months. On Sunday, the number of active cases in Mumbai was 18, 307. Prior to this, the lowest number of active cases in the city was 17, 931, recorded on August 24. Read moreTemperature set to fall over NW India marginally this weekNight and day temperatures are likely to fall marginally this week, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi. The national Capital recorded a minimum temperature of 15.1 degrees Celsius (C), 1 degree C below normal on Monday early morning. The minimum temperature is likely to fall further, as November approaches. Read more‘Grateful for opportunity to connect with partners’, tweets Mike Pompeo as he leaves for India for 2+2 talksUS Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has left for India to take part of the 2+2 meeting which will largely be focussed on countering China’s growing global influence. US Secretary of Defence Mark T Esper is also accompanying Pompeo for the dialogue. Read moreHave you seen this pic where the Sun looks like a huge flaming jack-o’-lantern? It’s eerieHalloween is just a few days away. This festival has to do with everything spooky. In fact, social media platforms are flooded with various videos and images related to this upcoming holiday. Now, NASA has joined in with an eerie image of the Sun. Read moreMandira Bedi adopts 4-year-old daughter, introduces her as Tara ‘with eyes that sparkle like stars’Mandira Bedi was over the moon as she welcomed a new addition to the family - a daughter. The actor and husband Rraj Kaushal adopted the four-year-old girl in July and have now introduced her to the world as Tara Bedi Kaushal. They already have a son, Vir. Read moreCSK knocked out of IPL 2020 after RR beat MI - ExplainedChennai Super Kings regained some lost ground in the Indian Premier League 2020 on Sunday as they defeated Royal Challengers Bangalore by 8 wickets at the Dubai International Stadium. They had the faintest chance of getting into the IPL playoffs and CSK players gave their best on Sunday. Read moreIPL 2020, RR vs MI: Rajasthan Royals beat Mumbai Indians by 8 wicketsBen Stokes and Sanju Samson proved to be the heroes as Rajasthan Royals defeated the defending champions Mumbai Indians by 8 wickets in Abu Dhabi. Stokes smashed 107* in 60 balls, while Samson scored 54* in 31 balls, as RR chased down the total of 195 set up by Mumbai Indians in 18.2 overs. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-to-disburse-svanidhi-loans-to-300-000-street-vendors-on-tuesday-and-all-the-latest-news/story-P8oQ6Ap39rVFHstv7OzcqI.html
26-10-2020||India||UP tops in loan disbursal to street vendors under PM Svanidhi Scheme||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath has expressed satisfaction after the state in another first to its credit, secured the first rank in implementing one of the Centre’s most ambitious schemes – the PM Atmnirbhar Nidhi Scheme (Svanidhi Scheme), said a government statement.Uttar Pradesh has ranked first in all the categories – applications, sanctions and disbursements. The scheme was launched on June 1 by the central government to help the street vendors resume their livelihood activities that were impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.According to official statistics of UP, loans under Svanidhi scheme would be disbursed to 2.51 beneficiaries by October 27, 2020 when the Prime Minister will address the street vendors of the state.The scheme aims at facilitating working capital loan up to Rs. 10,000 at a subsidised rate of interest, incentivising regular repayment of the loan and to reward digital transactions. The scheme aims at providing benefits to street vendors or hawkers in urban, semi-urban and rural areas.As many as 6,22,167 applications were received under the scheme in UP, the most in the country, out of which sanctions were given to 3,46,150 applicants while the loans were disbursed to 2,26,728 beneficiaries. Seven cities of UP also find place in the list of top 10 cities of the country with latest additions of Ghaziabad and Kanpur.Varanasi, Lucknow and Aligarh are the top three cities in the list while other cities of the state include Allahabad (4th), Gorakhpur (7th), Ghaziabad (9th) and Kanpur (10th). Other Indian cities in the list are Indore (5th), Bhopal (6th) and Hyderabad (8th).As far as the entire list of states is concerned, MP is in the second slot with loan disbursements to over 1.25 lakh beneficiaries followed by Telangana (53,777), Gujarat (18,747), Andhra Pradesh (15,992), Maharashtra (13,021), Chhattisgarh (8,993), Tamil Nadu (8,389), Jharkhand (6,413) and Rajasthan (5,533).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-tops-in-loan-disbursal-to-street-vendors-under-pm-svanidhi-scheme/story-0ps3JzOENAC4igCHTjYccI.html
26-10-2020||India||All citizens in the country to get free Covid-19 vaccine: Union minister Sarangi||Union minister Pratap Sarangi on Sunday said that all people of the country will be given free Covid vaccine, amidst the demand by opposition parties in the country for it and not only in poll-bound Bihar as announced by the BJP.The BJP announcement of free Covid vaccine for Bihar, where assembly polls begin this week, had kicked up a controversy with the opposition parties tearing into the NDA government alleging that the ruling party was using the pandemic for political reasons.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the announcement was in order as it was an election manifesto announcement.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced that all people will be provided free of cost vaccines. An estimated Rs 500 odd will be spent on vaccination of each person, Sarangi told reporters after addressing a campaign meeting for the November 3 assembly by-poll in Balasore.Modi had in a televised address to the nation on October 20 said that Indian scientists are in the process of developing several vaccines that are at different stages of clinical trials and the results seem encouraging.Sarangi, the union minister of state for animal husbandry, dairy, fisheries and micro, small and medium enterprises spoke in reply to question raised by Odisha Food Supplies and Consumer Welfare Minister, R P Swain.Swain had earlier in the day sought clarification from Dharmendra Pradhan and Sarangi, the two union ministers from Odisha questioning them for their silence on their party BJP’s stand on free Covid-19 vaccination for the people of the state along the lines of the one being promised in Bihar.The governments of Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Assam and Puduchchery have already announced free of cost Covid vaccines for the people of their states, while Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has demanded free vaccine for all citizens across the country.Swain had tweeted “I am asking questions to two Odisha union ministers from Balasore soil to clarify as to why the people of the state will not get free of cost Covid vaccine.The union ministers should clarify BJPs stand on the corona vaccination in Odisha.On the state governments steps for vaccination, Swain said it has signed an agreement with a vaccine manufacturer and is committed to extend the facility to all people of the state.He, however, did not say whether the state government will provide the vaccine to the people free of cost.BJP deputy leader in Odisha Assembly Bishnu Charan Sethi said the Centre has been supporting Odisha fully during the pandemic and has granted Rs 22,000 crore for the purpose.“But large scale lapses have been detected in the utilisation of the fund,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-citizens-in-the-country-to-get-free-covid-19-vaccine-union-minister-sarangi/story-cjTn6hpiqMv4L2vepSW6cP.html
26-10-2020||India||Four-day Army Commanders’ Conference begins in Delhi today||The four-day Army Commanders’ Conference, an apex level biannual event, which formulates important policy decisions through collegiate deliberations in the Indian Army, will begin in New Delhi from today.The event will be attended by senior officers of the Army including the Vice Chief of the Army Staff, all Army Commanders, Principal Staff Officers (PSOs) of the Army HQ and other senior officers.“The first day will be spent deliberating on matters related to Human Resource Management. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will address the conference on October 27, 2020. Prior to the Defence Minister’s address, the conference will be addressed by the CDS and all the three Service Chiefs (COAS, CNS & CAS),” Indian Army said in a release.The third day will be spent on in-depth discussions on the various agenda points projected by the various Army Commanders, including an update by CINCAN. This will be followed by brief updates on various issues by the various Principal Staff Officers.The last day of the conference will include an update by the Director-General of Border Roads (DGBR) on the various infrastructure development projects being undertaken by Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and allied formations. Automation initiatives to optimise utilisation of manpower at various levels of the Army will also be discussed.The conference will close with the presentation of the Sports Trophy and Flight Safety Trophy, followed by the closing address by the COAS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-day-army-commanders-conference-begins-in-delhi-today/story-gHiExlBXv91q7IdI55vDVN.html
26-10-2020||India||Temperature set to fall over NW India marginally this week||Night and day temperatures are likely to fall marginally this week, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi.The national Capital recorded a minimum temperature of 15.1 degrees Celsius (C), 1 degree C below normal on Monday early morning. The minimum temperature is likely to fall further, as November approaches. The Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi, has forecast that there would be a gradual dip in both maximum and minimum temperatures by up to 3 degrees C over the next three-four days in the north-western parts of the country.Also read: Delhi chokes on particles as farm fires rage in Punjab and HaryanaIn Delhi, the minimum temperature has been below normal since October 23. On Sunday, the minimum temperature was 13.8 degrees C, three degrees C below normal. The lowest temperature recorded in October was 9.4 degrees C on October 31, 1937.A feeble western disturbance is affecting the north-western region. The weather condition will largely remain dry over the region. Scientists said both day and night temperatures would fall further.“The minimum temperature did not fall much on Monday, but there will be a gradual dip. Nights will record a higher dip than day temperatures. We are assessing what impact the western disturbance had in the upper reaches,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, Delhi.Most parts of north-western India, including Baghpat, Bhiwadi, Bulandshahr, Delhi, Faridabad, Greater Noida, Gurugram and Hisar, have recorded very poor quality air on Monday morning. Moradabad is in the severe category, as it has recorded 419 on the air quality index (AQI). AQI between 301 and 400 and 401 and 500 are considered in the very poor and severe category, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temperature-set-to-fall-over-nw-india-marginally-this-week/story-OCAYWt14iKwE2CWml7bObI.html
26-10-2020||India||PM Modi to disburse SVANidhi loans to 300,000 street vendors on Tuesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi would virtually distribute loans to nearly 300,000 street vendors under the PM SVANidhi Scheme (Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi Yojana) on Tuesday. He would also virtually interact with the beneficiaries, additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal said here on Saturday.Under PM SVANidhi scheme, street vendors can get working capital of up to Rs 10,000 at subsidised rates. Uttar Pradesh has so far received 557,000 applications from vendors, the highest across the country.Sehgal said the state government was working on ‘Mission Employment’. “Special effort is on to fill up vacancies in the government and recruitment process is being expedited. Efforts are also on to generate employment in the private sector and industry,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-disburse-svanidhi-loans-to-300-000-street-vendors-on-tuesday/story-CAGUHVkz0E5nPF5BRCmuyH.html
26-10-2020||India||‘Grateful for opportunity to connect with partners’, tweets Mike Pompeo as he leaves for India for 2+2 talks||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has left for India to take part of the 2+2 meeting which will largely be focussed on countering China’s growing global influence.“Wheels up for my trip to India, Sri Lanka, Maldives, and Indonesia. Grateful for the opportunity to connect with our partners to promote a shared vision for a free and open #IndoPacific composed of independent, strong, and prosperous nations,” Pompeo said on Twitter. Wheels up for my trip to India, Sri Lanka, Maldives, and Indonesia. Grateful for the opportunity to connect with our partners to promote a shared vision for a free and open #IndoPacific composed of independent, strong, and prosperous nations. pic.twitter.com/IoaJvtsHZCUS Secretary of Defence Mark T Esper is also accompanying Pompeo for the dialogue.Ahead of Pompeo’s visit, the State Department said that the holding of third US-India 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue in just over two years demonstrates the high-level commitment the two countries give to shared diplomatic and security objectives.Also Read: What are 2+2 talks and what do they mean for US and India?During their visit to India, Pompeo and Esper will meet with external affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh for strategic talks after which they will travel to Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Indonesia.Pompeo’s visit marks the fourth visit to India by a Secretary of State during the Trump administration. He had recently met Jaishankar during the Quadrilateral meeting in Tokyo.As outlined in US National Security Strategy, the State Department said that Washington welcomes New Delhi’s emergence as a leading regional and global power. The United States looks forward to collaborating closely with India during its upcoming term on the United Nations Security Council (UNSC).The term 2+2 talks, in diplomatic language, signifies a dialogue between two countries. India holds such dialogue with Australia and Japan also, but it is only with the US that ministerial-level talks are held.The focus of the dialogue will be the Indo-Pacific region and India’s neighbourhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grateful-for-opportunity-to-connect-with-partners-tweets-mike-pompeo-as-he-leaves-for-india-for-2-2-talks/story-9l7LRM7WHnqKpe8sr738TL.html
26-10-2020||India||US welcomes India’s rise as a leading regional and global power||The United States welcomes India’s emergence as a leading regional and global power, the US State Department said ahead of the 2+2 ministerial in New Delhi.It also said the US is looking forward to work closely with India during the latter’s upcoming UNSC term, starting January 1, 2021.“The United States welcomes India’s emergence as a leading regional and global power. The United States looks forward to collaborating closely with India during its upcoming term on the UN Security Council,” the State Department said in a fact sheet before the start of the 3rd 2+2 India US ministerial in New Delhi.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defense Secretary Mark Esper will hold meetings with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defense Minister Rajnath Singh for the US-India 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue. The visiting leaders will also meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and hold discussions with other government and business leaders on ways to advance the US-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership, it said.In a fact sheet, the State Department said the two countries have a strong and growing bilateral relationship built on shared values and a commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific. As the world’s oldest and largest democracies, the United States and India enjoy deeply rooted democratic traditions, it added.“The growth in the partnership reflects a deepening strategic convergence on a range of issues. Our cooperation is expanding in important areas including health, infrastructure development, energy, aviation, science, and space,” it said, adding that holding the third US-India 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue in just over two years demonstrates a high-level commitment to their shared diplomatic and security objectives.President Donald Trump made a historic visit to India earlier this year, speaking in Ahmedabad before over 100,000 people. Pompeo’s visit marks the fourth visit to India by a Secretary of State during the Trump Administration.According to the State Department, the recent Quadrilateral Ministerial meeting in Tokyo convened by Pompeo and his counterparts from India, Japan, and Australia, demonstrated the strong cooperative ties among Indo-Pacific democracies interested in strengthening a rules-based order in which all nations are sovereign, strong, and prosperous.“The Quad has proven to be an effective multilateral mechanism, helping to create resilient supply chains, promote transparency, counter disinformation and increase maritime security,” it said.India, with its large economy, strong support for entrepreneurship and innovation, and its growing international trade, is one of the world’s leading economic powers and is well-positioned to promote our shared vision for a free and rules-based Indo-Pacific where all nations can prosper, it said.Observing that India and the US are expanding cooperation between the two militaries, the fact sheet said this includes the navies, which play a critical role in ensuring freedom of navigation in the Indo-Pacific. In July 2020, the Indian Navy successfully completed a passing exercise with the US Navy as the Nimitz Carrier Strike Group transited through the Indian Ocean Region.In 2019, the US and India held their first-ever tri-service exercise, Tiger Triumph, in which the US Navy and Marines, Air Force, and Army participated in a bilateral exercise with their Indian counterparts. The United States welcomes Australia joining the Malabar naval exercise alongside India and Japan, it added.Noting that defence trade has increased significantly over the past two decades, the State Department said India maintains the largest fleets of C-17 and P-8 aircraft outside the United States and as of 2020, the United States has authorized more than $20 billion in defence sales to India.“The United States and India enjoy robust defence industrial cooperation. Through the US- India Defense Technology and Trade Initiative, the United States and India work together on co-production and co-development of defence equipment,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-welcomes-india-s-rise-as-a-leading-regional-and-global-power/story-V9DSooTH06ncVOYkU57xkK.html
26-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand estimates two-thirds of migrants have returned to places of work||Despite massive efforts to ensure reverse migration by Uttarakhand government and give employment to migrants who had returned to the state amid the Covid-19 pandemic, officials from the state migration commission have said two-thirds of the migrants have possibly returned to their jobs as the Unlock process continues. Officials say that most opportunities are self-employment schemes which involve a considerable amount of risk which not everyone is willing to take. SS Negi, vice chairman Uttarakhand Rural Development and Migration Commission said that after speaking to a lot of migrants, they have learnt that many are going back to their previous jobs.“We have started working on a survey to find out how many of the migrants have gone back and what the remaining ones are doing. We started this survey after learning that many of migrants who returned to the state were from the hospitality sector and with the Unlock process they have started going back,” said Negi. The findings of the survey will be used to formulate strategies on how to economically help the ones who have stayed back in the state and what policy changes can be made. He said that after speaking to many migrants personally, he has learnt that almost two-thirds are likely to have gone back. “While talking to the migrants, I learnt that some have applied for loans under state government employment schemes or under Centre’s schemes. The number of loans approved till last month was around 1,400 per district but disbursement is less. Loans are approved by the district administration but the disbursement of the amount happens on the process followed by banks, which may take time and by the time they get the amount, many are being called back by their employers,” said Negi. He added that the migrants are choosing to go back to their jobs as there was a sense of security, steady income and “they got used to a lifestyle which is different from living in villages in hilly areas.” “Most people who came back were from salaried class, but it is not just about income. There are other factors involved like their children being used to city lifestyles, studying in better schools. The migrants had their children still enrolled in schools in the cities, and they prefer to go back to that lifestyle,” added Negi. Kedar Singh, a resident from a village in Tharali block of Chamoli district who returned to the state with over 20 others from Pune in May said that he has been sitting idle since he came back home. “I used to work in a hotel in Pune where I earned Rs 22,000 per month. When lockdown was imposed, we were left jobless all of a sudden. We somehow managed to collect money, booked a bus and came back to the state but since then I have been jobless. Living in the village, day-to-day survival is taken care of through agriculture or other odd jobs, but I do not have secure source of earning,” said Singh. When asked if he tried applying for any of the employment schemes started by the government, Singh said, “I did try to apply for the self-employment schemes, but every time the officials said an initial deposit of Rs 4,000 or Rs 5,000 has to be made after which we can proceed further. When I have been jobless for so many months, how will I afford these charges? I am in touch with my employers and they have been asking me to come back…I will be going back in another month or two.” Data released by the Uttarakhand migration commission in July mentioned that over 2.15 lakh people had returned to their homes in Uttarakhand during the Covid-19 epidemic. In May this year, as a strategy to retain the migrants who returned to the state during the lockdown, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had inaugurated Mukhyamantri Swarojgar Yojana (MSY), aimed at providing self-employment opportunities to youth and ensuring reverse migration. It was launched with a focus on the thousands of migrants who returned to their homes in the state during lockdown so as to provide them with a livelihood by providing them subsidised loans for starting their own venture under MSME sector. There are about 150 works that have been included under the programme by the government which includes starting a restaurant to animal farming. In July, another data released by the state government revealed that 58% of over 2.15 lakh migrants who returned to their homes are skilled people. Speaking on migrants returning to their jobs, Madan Kaushik, cabinet minister and officials spokesperson for the Uttarakhand government said, “We have started many initiatives for self-employment and we are getting a good response but it takes time for the results to show. We are continuously monitoring the initiatives and improvising them as per the feedback that we are receiving from the ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-estimates-two-thirds-of-migrants-have-returned-to-places-of-work/story-YvggTlfRw6eE8RkTxpHWNM.html
26-10-2020||India||Second Boeing aircraft for Prez, PM arrives||The second specially modified Boeing 777 aircraft, part of the Air India One fleet for VVIPs including the President, Vice President and the Prime Minister, landed on Sunday. The aircraft can fly between the US and India without having to stop for refuelling.The first modified aircraft had arrived on October 1 after being delayed by more than a month; officials had cited certain “operational issues” with the aircraft. The two aircraft - Boeing 777-300 ERs - had joined Air India’s fleet in 2018 and had been sent to a Boeing facility in Dallas for customisation. The Centre had sent a team of senior officials from the Indian Air Force and Air India for escorting the aircraft back to India and assessing the technical requirements.The government has planned to procure two such specially modified Boeing-777 aircraft, capable of countering missile threats with their own missile defence system, called the Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) and Self-Protection Suites (SPS).The US Defense Security Cooperation Agency, which had notified the US Congress about its decision to sell the defence system earlier this year, had put its cost at about $ 190 million.The modified aircraft are set to match the US President’s Air Force One in terms of security measures.Air India One is the call sign of any aircraft with the President or Prime Minister of India on board. The aircraft is operated as a VVIP flight by the Indian Air Force.The new long-haul aircraft will be used exclusively by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu.At present, the three dignitaries fly Air India’s Boeing 747 planes that the state-run airline deploys on commercial flights. These are temporarily reconfigured for the dignitaries when they need to travel, with the call sign changing to Air India One.The Boeing- 747 planes that are chartered from Air India for use by the three dignitaries are two decades old.The modified aircraft will also have ‘Bharat’ and India written on them along with the Ashoka emblem. The new planes have been configured to provide generous office space, meeting rooms, a wide array of communication systems and a section for handling medical emergencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-boeing-aircraft-for-prez-pm-arrives/story-jzC0crzenNBbDeAG8mOYLJ.html
26-10-2020||India||Stay patient, buy local: Modi amid muted festivities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a strong pitch on Sunday for the consumption of local products in the festive season, urged citizens to spare a thought for the soldiers guarding India’s borders, and asked them to observe care and restraint in celebrating a range of festivals in the coming days amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.“We must think of our braveheart soldiers who are firmly stationed on our borders in the line of duty, even during these festive times… all in the service and security of Mother India,” Modi said in his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio address .“We have to light a diya (lamp) at home in honour of these brave sons and daughters of Mother India,” Modi added. “I would also like to assure our brave soldiers that despite they being away at the borders, the entire country is with them, wishing well for them,” he said.The Prime Minister’s remarks come in the backdrop of total Covid-19 cases in India inching close to the 8 million-mark, the second highest in the world after the US, and in the middle of a six-month military standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in the Ladakh theatre, where tens of thousands of troops are set to spend a harsh winter in hostile terrain. As the nation celebrates a slew of festivals, after Dussehra on Sunday to Chhath Pooja, Valmiki Jayanti to Eid, and Guru Nanak Jayanti to Diwali in the coming days and weeks, Modi counselled care. He wished the people on Dussehra and urged them to follow the health guidelines such as safe distancing and the use of masks.“Today, all of you are carrying on with immense patience, celebrating the festival with restraint… and hence, in our ongoing fight [against Covid-19], our victory too is assured,” Modi said.He asked people to keep the “vocal for local” resolve in their mind and prefer local products when they shop for the festivals. The world is taking note of India’s products, he said, citing the example of the rising popularity of Khadi.The PM talked about Khadi being popularised in Mexico’s Oaxaca by a man named Mark Brown, who has made it a brand there. He said Khadi face masks had become popular during Covid-19 and that on Gandhi Jayanti, October 2, the Khadi store in New Delhi’s Connaught Place had run up sales of ₹1 crore. He also spoke of indigenous sports and pointed to the growing popularity of Mallakhambh in countries like the US, Germany and Poland.Modi called for national unity, recalling Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, whose birth anniversary will be celebrated on October 31. Modi also remembered former prime minister Indira Gandhi, whose death anniversary is on the same day.He said he will attend many events that day to be held in and around the Patel statue, the Statue of Unity, in Kevadiya, Gujarat, on October 31. “He (Patel) worked for the integration of the princely states with our nation. He was invoking the mantra of ‘unity in diversity’ in the mind of every Indian,” the PM said.“Unity is power, unity is strength, unity is progress, unity is empowerment, united we will scale new heights,” Modi added, warning people against “forces which continuously try to sow the seeds of suspicion in our minds, and try to divide the country”.Highlighting the newly passed farm laws, Modi said a company in Maharashtra had paid not just the cost of the corn it purchased from farmers but also an additional bonus “This was a pleasant surprise for farmers,” he said. The laws allow agribusiness to freely trade farm produce, permit private traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales, and lay down new rules for contract farming. A crucial change is that traders, agribusinesses and supermarkets can buy produce from any market, rather than buy only in notified markets where they are licenced to operate. These rules have frightened some farmers, who fear that the reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, which offers growers an assured price, and leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before.Eminent political scientist Nilanjan Sircar said there was a genuine concern that people will stop adhering to social distancing norms during the festive season. “The PM is using his popularity and position to discourage people from creating crowds and this is important in the fight against Covid,” Sircar said. “At the same time, there is an understanding across the country about the benefit to local communities during this festival. So it is challenge to ask people to maintain distance, but also ensure these communities don’t suffer; hence vocal for local. On the call to light a lamp for soldiers, this is a time that we are struggling economically, this is when you see every political leader is giving a drumbeat of nationalism. However, it should not be seen as aimed at rallying around people for any strategic purpose”. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stay-patient-buy-local-modi-amid-muted-festivities/story-1uD2lKXlJ9mSpG0wvkWTnM.html
26-10-2020||India||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das positive for Covid-19||Reserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das on Sunday said he has been tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and will continue to work from isolation.Das tweeted that he has not yet shown any symptoms and that he has alerted those who came in contact with him in recent days.“I have tested Covid-19 positive. Asymptomatic. Feeling very much alright. Have alerted those who came in contact in recent days. Will continue to work from isolation. Work in RBI will go on normally. I am in touch with all Deputy Governors and other officers through VC and telephone,” he said on Twitter.Das and the entire staff have been working from office ever since the lockdown started in March. Currently, the RBI has full strength of four deputy governors BP Kanungo, MK Jain, MD Patra and M Rajeshwar Rao.Das is the latest high-ranking executive among the country’s policy makers to test positive for the coronavirus. India is the second worst-affected country after the US, and while new infections have been declining, senior government officials including Prime Minister Narednra Modi have recently warned that a potential second wave is a risk to the economy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-governor-shaktikanta-das-positive-for-covid-19/story-tkyHBIGoTOVNmN35zz3CsI.html
26-10-2020||India||Hit by pandemic, India’s circuses forced to walk financial tightrope||The Great Bombay Circus, one of India’s biggest and oldest, had planned mega celebrations in October to mark its centenary this year. With no shows in the past seven months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it finds itself walking a tightrope for survival instead. “We are trying hard to save the circus; in fact, not just us, the pandemic has dealt a body blow to most circuses, which were struggling to stay afloat even before the pandemic,” says KM Sanjeev, co-partner, the Great Bombay Circus. India’s two dozen big and small circuses (once there were over 300) are struggling in the wake of the deadly pathogen, and have so far survived on donations; some, such as Rambo, have even tried to go digital. “Can you imagine what it is like to feed a family of 150 when your income suddenly falls to zero. I had to sell my property to save the circus. When the lockdown was announced, we never thought the crisis would last so long,” says Raju Pehalwan, who owns Asiad Circus, started it in the late 1980s. In October every year, his circus pitches tents in Delhi, performing in places such as Dwarka, Rohini, Pitampura, Janakpuri. The circus was in Indore when the lockdown happened, and has remained stuck there while many artistes have since left for their native places.The Great Bombay Circus was to travel to Delhi where it has been regularly performing in places like Peeragarhi, Rajouri Garden and Karkardooma, in December. It was in Mannargudi in Tamil Nadu when the lockdown happened, and has been stuck there since March.Sanjeev says it takes almost Rs 1 lakh every day to run the circus, including the salaries of artistes, food, ground rent, electricity and water bills. In the initial months of the lockdown, about 200 workers of the circus, including 134 artistes, survived on donations of rice, dal and vegetables from the locals. In late April, the circus ran a campaign on Milaap, a crowd-funding platform, managing to raise over Rs 53 lakh. “It helped us pay a small part of their (artistes) salaries so that they could take care of their families in different parts of the country. The funds also helped us arrange travel expenses of our foreign artists so that they could go home as they were stuck in India since March,” said Sanjeev.Most circus artistes earn anything between ₹15,000 to ₹20,000 a month, and spend their entire lives at the fair. For instance, Tulsidas Chaudhry, 54, who plays a clown, has been working at the Great Bombay Circus for the past several years. “My fellow artistes said that I am old and should go home till things get better and circus restarts. People like me who play such characters (clowns) face only contempt beyond the tents of the circus,” says Chaudhry, who was earning about ₹15,000 a month before the lockdown. He returned to his village in Bihar last month. His circus company, he says, has been generous, giving him half the salary all these months. “It is easier to make people cry than laugh and I want to continue to make people laugh till my last breath. I just hope that I am able to return to the ring soon,” said Chaudhry, who speaks Malayalam, Tamil, Assamese, Bengali and Hindi. “Most old circus artistes can fluently speak many Indian languages.It is because circus has people from all parts of the country, living together like one big family. We are deeply worried about our future in the post-Covid world.”While circus owners such as Pehalwan say the decline of the circus started with a ban on animals in 1998, many believe Indian circus has failed to reinvent itself and the Covid crisis will force them to change. A three-hour show offers the same old fare: gymnastics, juggling, acrobatics and flying trapeze acts unlike their foreign counterparts, which have introduced new technologies, sideshows and new concepts such as theatrical, narrative-driven circus. Most circuses abroad rely on human spectacle than animals. “Circuses in India have been trying to modernise; they have introduced international artistes and new acts. But running the circus at the current size and scale is not sustainable. Circuses will have to be compact with smaller tents, shorter shows and better infrastructure,” said Vipin Nair, a Supreme Court lawyer, who is a member of and legal advisor to the Delhi- based CFS (Circus Fans association). Delhi is also home to Indian Circus Federation, whose declining membership —from 25 to five in the past five years — reflects the diminishing fortunes of the circus in India. “This is a traditional industry. The Indian circus needs to reinvent itself both in terms of the content of the show, infrastructure, and also how it markets itself to the new generation. The Covid-19 pandemic has made them open to change,” said Aditya Shah, whose family has been in the circus management business — providing logistics, advertising and finance, serving some of India biggest circus companies for the past 70 years. “In fact, we are already working with some circuses to modernise interiors and seating and to help them adopt digital marketing, ” he added. Rambo Circus has taken a digital to route to remain relevant during the pandemic. In August, it worked with an event management company and a production house to shoot trapeze acts, acrobatic stunts inside the circus, also weaving the story of the life, achievements, struggles of the artistes, who rehearsed for three weeks in to make the performances look spectacular on the screen. In September, the tickets for the virtual Life Is a Circus were sold on BookMyShow. “We managed to sell about 21,000 tickets. The next digital show is in November, ” said Sujit Dilip, the owner of the circus. “But I know that a live circus is the real thing; digital circus can only be a temporary measure to survive. Most of those who bought tickets were young people who had never been to circus. I am sure our digital shows will eventually help bring new audiences to the circus when we reopen.” Artistes say digital circus is not what excites them. “As a performing artist, I love and live for the audience applause. I have a feeling circus will not survive beyond five years. Covid-19 has only hastened its death. But unlike me, who have agriculture land and can farm, most do not have anything to fall back on,” said Raju Barde, a 40-year-old flying trapeze artiste who has been in the circus for the past 25 years. Biju Pushkaran, 51, a famous circus clown, has similar views. “What excites me are the hugs from children in the audience. They take selfies with me. It is this adulation that kept me going all these years.” In fact, it was his video — an appeal for help recorded in April during the lockdown — that led to the outpouring of support for the circus, helping it get donations of over ₹12 lakh on Ketto, a crowd-funding platform. “We make the world laugh, today I stand before you crying,” said Pushkaran in his video appeal for help. “Jeena yahan marna yahan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hit-by-pandemic-india-s-circuses-forced-to-walk-financial-tightrope/story-J4t5yDt16AcYBLvjLq4SbO.html
26-10-2020||India||Opposition has gone directionless: Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Sunday attacked the Opposition alleging that it has “become directionless”.“It is unfortunate that the Opposition has gone directionless. It has started opposing the country in its antagonism towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Nadda said, while addressing party workers in here through video conference. Attacking Congress over its opposition to abrogation of Article 370, which granted special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, Nadda said the Congress was indirectly supporting Pakistan. “At a time when the entire country was celebrating after the abrogation of Article 370, Rahul Gandhi contended that injustice was done to the people in Srinagar,” he said. Nadda was speaking after inaugurating two party offices and laying the foundation of six offices in various districts of the state. The BJP chief further said that party workers have the responsibility to support government initiatives to ensure that they reach the people and to engage the Opposition in political discourse.Terming the agrarian reform laws as revolutionary, he said PM Modi freed the farmers of restrictions, and they can now sell their produce in any market.He said that the Modi government has worked to secure the country “on land and in air and water”, and referred to the development of border infrastructure that facilitated swift transport of Army personnel and logistics.Nadda also targeted the Congress government in Rajasthan, alleging that the state is reeling from corruption and lawlessness. He said that the state government lacks a commitment towards the people of the state, and the BJP should work to return to power in the next polls. Reacting to Nadda’s statement, Congress spokesperson Pranav Jha said, “ In spite of the BJP’s best efforts to derail and distract the people from real issues in Bihar, the opposition’s campaign and narrative is only about employment, migrant workers, farm distress and failed Nitish-Modi government. There is massive anti- incumbency. Nothing is working for the JD(U)-BJP...the people of the state have resolved to overthrow this unholy alliance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-has-gone-directionless-nadda/story-Noe6Ev3jLhEibaUPNxeKmK.html
26-10-2020||India||Manipur student body’s proposed 48-hour inter-state bandh deferred for 10 days||Manipur-based All Tribal Students’ Union (ATSUM) proposed 48-hour inter-state bandh and ban on construction works of national projects in Manipur. The bandh was scheduled to commence from October 26 but has been deferred for 10 days, according to a press release.“This decision was taken today by ATSUM and its federating units and the state government in its second round of talks with a written assurance that the state government is ready for considering the demand for timely conduct of the ADC (Autonomous District Councils) elections without further extension,” said information and publicity secretary of ATSUM, Khaiminlen Doungelm, in the release on Sunday.The release stated the decision to defer the proposed agitation was breakthrough in the discourse with the written assurance from the state government that demand for timely conduct of ADC elections without further extension will be considered in the state cabinet meeting to be held within a short period of time.“ATSUM believes that the state government will adopt a concrete decision for announcement of the date of elections to the six (6) ADCs in consultation with the relevant authorities within a stipulated 10 days time,” it added.ATSUM, however, warned that they will resume agitation on the expiry of the given 10 days if the state government fails to adhere to its commitment.On October 21, the ATSUM had warned to call 48 hours inter-state bandh on October 26 onwards besides shutting down the undergoing national projects in the state if the concerned authority failed to issue election notification for ADCs on or before October 25.The terms of the current ADCs had expired in May this year. However, the state government extended the terms for six months citing inconveniences in holding the elections during the rainy season, among others. Manipur has six ADCs - Churachandpur, Chandel, Sadar Hills, Senapati, Tamenglong and Ukhrul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/48-hour-inter-state-bandh-called-by-manipur-s-student-body-deferred-for-10-days/story-Var47w7yX1Yj8o7kU3f84N.html
26-10-2020||India||‘NSCN(IM)’s demand for separate flag, constitution being discussed’: Nagaland CM||A final concurrence on the ongoing 23 years old Naga peace talks is imminent with the central government and the NSCN(IM), who have been in a deadlock over the latter’s demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution, apparently finding a middle ground.Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio, who recently met with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi has categorically stated that the central government was having exhaustive discussions with constitutional and legal experts to find ways to enable the Nagas to use a separate flag. On the issue of a separate ‘Yehzabo’ (constitution), he said it was likely that a committee would be set up post settlement, to democratically work out the details.Speaking at a public meeting at Jakhama, under the by-poll bound Southern Angami-I constituency on Saturday evening, chief minister Rio expressed that the final talks were going in a positive direction and the Naga people must not think that the movement started by the Naga National Council (NNC) had failed even though hundred percent of the original aspirations may not be achieved in a go. He reminded that the past generation had brought about statehood through the 16 Point Agreement. Pointing out that these were parts of a process of evolution, Rio said the present generation’s negotiations must arrive at an “upgraded” pact, while the younger generation would be able to make some agreements on the points that are left out.“If we follow the process of evolution, our future generations can peacefully co-exist with each other,” he said.Meanwhile, the working committee of the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), who is also in talks with the government to resolve the Naga issue, will hold a meeting with 14 Naga tribal organisations on October 29, seeking their advice and opinion on issues of ‘common interest’.Although separate negotiations are being held between the central government and different Naga nationalist groups, chief minister Rio had earlier conveyed that the centre was firm on delivering ‘one solution’ for the Naga political issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nscn-im-s-demand-for-separate-flag-constitution-being-discussed-nagaland-cm/story-3xaqtElccbieLRbjdw9xwN.html
26-10-2020||India||Rare Red Coral Kukri snake spotted for 3rd time in Uttarakhand, rescued by forest staff||A very rare Red Coral Kukri snake was spotted in Uttarakhand’s US Nagar district and rescued by forest officials. This is the third time that the rare snake has been spotted in the hill state this year. Earlier, it was spotted twice in Nainital district, while on Sunday it was spotted in Dineshpur area of US Nagar district said forest officials said. According to forest officials, the rare snake was first spotted in Lakhimpur Kheri area of Uttar Pradesh in 1936 from where it got its scientific name ‘Oligodon kheriensis’. The suffix ‘kukri’ in its name comes from Kukri or curved knife of the Gorkhas as its teeth are curved like the blade of the Kukri. Uttarakhand forest department officials rescued the snake from a local resident’s house in US Nagar where it was hiding and released it in the nearby forest area. Abhilasha Singh, divisional forest officer (DFO) of Tarai Central said Rudrapur forest range team got a call regarding a snake rescue on Sunday afternoon from one Triloki, a resident of Jagdishpur village in Dineshpur area. “When the forest team went there and rescued the snake, they realised it was the rare Red Coral snake. It was hiding near a tree in the courtyard of the house. After the rescue, the snake was released in a nearby forest,” she said. This is for the third time the rare snake has been spotted this year in the state. On September 5, and August 7, this snake species was rescued from the same house belonging to one Kavindra Koranga, a resident of Kurriya Khatta village in Bindukhatta area of Nainital district. According to Vipul Mourya, a wildlife expert from Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII), the Red Coral Kukri has been reported earlier in 2015 in Surai forest range of Terai East forest division and in 2014, near the Uttar Pradesh border but then it was found dead. The Red Coral Kukri snake is listed in schedule 4 of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. It is found in red and bright orange colours. This non-venomous snake is nocturnal and feeds on earthworms, insects and larvae.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rare-red-coral-kukri-snake-spotted-for-3rd-time-in-uttarakhand-rescued-by-forest-staff/story-hXwH1i7oS3IXn0sdLmBOeN.html
