27-10-2020||India||‘Pride Station’: North India’s first Metro station dedicated to transgenders in Noida||In a first for Metro services in north India, the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Tuesday officially renamed the Sector 50 station as “Pride Station” dedicating it to the transgender community.This initiative was inspired by the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, passed by the Centre for the protection of the rights of the transgender people. The operator told PTI, “This step has been taken by the NMRC for the inclusion and meaningful participation of the members of the transgender community. As per Census 2011, there are 4.9 lakh transgenders in India, out of whom around 35,000 are staying in NCR. These numbers may have increased manifold in the present scenario”.Gautam Buddh Nagar lawmaker Mahesh Sharma, Noida MLA Pankaj Singh and NMRC managing director Ritu Maheshwari unveiled the new name of the station in the presence of six members of the transgender community, who have been recruited by NMRC through contractors for services at the Metro station. The artwork and look of the Pride Station have also been changed to signify the essence and spirit of the members of the transgender community.NMRC had called for suggestions online for the new name of the station and maximum people suggested the name “Pride”. “The station has been named ‘Pride’ as the NMRC feels extremely proud and privileged to have qualified members of the transgender community as part of the NMRC family. It also instils a sense of pride among the community and this step by NMRC is bound to be a ray of hope to uplift the members of this community and help in breaking stereotypes about them so that they too can live a dignified life with their head held high,” NMRC said in a statement.The Pride Station, though dedicated to the transgenders, will be open for all passengers and will also provide employment opportunities for the transgender community.In 2017, the Kochi Metro Rail Limited in Kerala had taken a similar step by employing 23 transgenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pride-station-north-india-s-first-metro-station-dedicated-to-transgenders-in-noida/story-SYuCwRuTBV8VsuhVePyHbJ.html
27-10-2020||India||Prioritisation has to be done on criteria for Covid-19 vaccination, says Dr VK Paul||Amid claims of various state governments that it would provide free Covid-19 vaccinations, the Union government’s expert group on vaccines on Tuesday said that they should wait for a clearer picture to emerge on vaccine prioritisation.“We’ve requested state governments to wait for an overall picture to become clear ad to take a national approach towards engaging companies, and deciding the criteria for the vaccine. Prioritisation has to be done,” Dr VK Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog and chairperson of Covid-19 taskforce committee said on Tuesday while addressing a Union Health Ministry’s press conference.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHe also said that at present there is no vaccine in the world and that it is fortunate that trials are being done on Indian soil.“We are working to look at our approach to vaccine implementation. As and when vaccines are available, and in that regard, the access to vaccines will be in such a way that vaccine supply is not unlimited. Prioritisation has to be done. The prioritisation principles will be determined on the basis of availability of the vaccine, who should be getting that vaccine,” he stated.Also Read | India reached 1 million Covid-19 recoveries in 13 days: Health ministryDr Paul added that discussions in the committee of Union Government are being conducted and blueprints are being finalized and added that committee and oversee that in order to deliver the vaccine to priority groups, there will be no problems in terms of resources.Dr Balram Bhargava, Director General (DG ) of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) who was also present in the media meet informed that currently, three vaccines are in different stages of trial in India.“There are three vaccine candidates in different stages of clinical testing- Covaxin has got approval for phase III trials, Cadila also progressing with phase-II trials & Serum is completing phase 2b trial and has an ongoing trial in Brazil, South Africa, and the US,” said Dr Bhargava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prioritisation-has-to-be-done-on-criteria-for-covid-19-vaccination-says-dr-vk-paul/story-d1bjzPeS4vDN8F2d3jJ3JJ.html
27-10-2020||India||Chhattisgarh passes amendment bill to counter centre’s farm bills||The Chhattisgarh assembly on Tuesday approved the Chhattisgarh Krishi Upaj Mandi (Amendment) Bill 2020 that declared the entire state as a market for selling agriculture produce to negate the Centre’s farm laws that allowed private players to directly buy produce from farmers.Introducing the amendment bill in the House, state’s agriculture minister Ravindra Choubey said it is aimed at protecting farmers of the state from fluctuating market prices and payment risks.Amendments have been made in the Mandi Act so that farmers can get better prices against their produce. The bill has provision to safeguard the interests of the farmers and at the same time it doesn’t violate any Central laws, thus avoiding confrontation with the Centre, he said.The minister said the state government could have brought an ordinance and enforce the law but looking at the present scenario across the country, the state decided to call this special session for the purpose, he added.Speaking over the objective of the bill, Choubey said, “There are 80 percent small and marginal farmers in the state. Since these marginal and small farmers neither have the capacity to store food grains nor to bargain on its prices in the market, it has become necessary to establish ‘Deemed Mandi (Market)’ and electronic trading platform in their benefit so that they can get the right price for their produce without being impacted by market fluctuations”.Also read: Covid-19 fear looms large among officials as Bihar readies to go to pollsChoubey said in this bill, an amendment Deemed Mandi has been added with Mandi and the state has defined Deemed Mandi as private markets.The state government may, by another notification, declare/establish deemed market which shall be known as deemed market of the market established under sub-section (l) for the purpose of this Act, sale-purchase, processing and manufacturing, cold storage, silos, warehouse, electronic trading and transaction platform and other such places or structures, in respect of the agricultural produce specified in the schedule.The amendment bill also has the provision to ensure power to the secretary or any employee of the market committee or the board, who is empowered by the competent authority or notified officers to order production of accounts relating to the purchase and sale of the notified agricultural produce from any person.Provisions have been added wherein state government departments/officials have been given right to inspection and, if required, seizure as well. They also have the right to inspect storage (godowns) and vehicles and seize if required. The bill has also defined the rights of courts.The state government may establish an electronic trading platform for the sale of notified agriculture produce. Farmer/seller should sell his produce to the local market as well as other markets of the state and traders of other states through a transparent auction process on the basis of quality to get better price and timely online payment, Chaubey said.Meanwhile, while discussing the Chhattisgarh Agricultural Produce Market (Amendment) Bill 2020 in the special session of the legislative assembly, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said that the new agricultural law introduced by the central government is not for the farmers but for the capitalists.Baghel criticised the three agricultural laws passed by the central government and while underlining the shortcomings of these laws said that the Chattisgarh government wants to protect the interests of farmers and also the business sector of Chhattisgarh.“People of Chhattisgarh are innocent. Hence, we take it as our responsibility to protect the interests of farmers and general consumers by amending the Mandi Act,” the CM said.Expressing disagreement towards the idea of opening private markets under the new law of central government, CM said that this seems like a conspiracy to abolish government mandis. “This law would gradually destroy the mandis,” the chief minister said, adding, “the way chit fund companies looted people, similarly, the farmers and the common consumers will be looted through these new laws passed by the central government”.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-passes-amendment-bill-to-counter-centre-s-farm-bills/story-9V5SdvuQmYMiLf9EnU2QcM.html
27-10-2020||India||Role of elusive businessman in Kerala smuggling racket baffles probe team||The multi-agency team probing the Kerala gold smuggling case has come across a Middle East-based elusive businessman Dawood al Arabi after interrogating some of the accused. They reportedly told the agencies that he invested heavily in the smuggling network and runs a thriving hawala racket also, a senior officer part of the investigation team said. Officials suspect that he may be an Indian but took a fictitious name to confuse authorities. One of the main accused K T Ramees was the first to take his name and later others also named him. Now agencies are trying to ascertain whether this is a real name or a fake one. During investigation they also found that the accused were using code names in WhatasApp and Telegram chats. They expect after interrogating Rabin Hameed, who was extradited from the UAE on Monday, they will get more information on this kingpin. Usually in smuggling cases carriers and their immediate contacts are arrested and funders and end- users always slip out. This time central agencies have been given clear instructions to get to the bottom of the racket that is posing a serious threat to the economy of the country. Despite the high-profile case smuggling continues unabated-- the in last one week 25 kg of gold was seized from four international airports in different cases. In the remand report of Hameed, the NIA said he played an important role in the network and suspected to have links with subversive elements. He was later remanded to the custody of NIA for five days. He is 10th accused in the NIA’s probe. A senior official said third accused Faizal Fareed will also be extradited from Dubai in a couple of days. Both were reportedly arrested by Dubai police after the NIA alerted it. Earlier it had issued a blue corner notice against them after securing arrest warrants from a local court. “We are at the fag end of our investigation and we will not spare anyone involved in the crime,” said the official. The sensational smuggling case surfaced on July 5 after 30 kg of gold was seized by the customs from a package camouflaged as a diplomatic consignment addressed to the UAE consulate. Later PS Sarith Kumar, a former public relations officer of the consulate who came to receive the luggage, was arrested. Two other suspects, Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Sandip Nair, were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru five days later. CM’s former secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, was suspended after his alleged links with Suresh surfaced. The High Court had stayed his arrest till Oct 28.A multi-agency team comprising the National Investigation Agency, Enforcement Directorate, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Customs and Income Tax is probing the case and 31 people have been arrested so far. There are reports that smuggling was going on for more than a year through the UAE consulate and they smuggled at least 400 kg of gold in several consignments. Kerala higher education minister K T Jaleel was also investigated in connection with one of the consignments that came last March. But the minister said the consignment carried only religious books. Interrogated twice, central agencies are yet to give him a clean chit. In a related development, the statement of wife of accused Sandip Nair was leaked out to the media. In her statement to the ED she reportedly said her husband was working for a smugglers’ gang in Koduvally, a small town in Kozhikode known for its gold ornaments and designs, and it was controlled by legislator Karat Razak, CPI (M)-backed independent. But the MLA denied this and said it was part of a conspiracy to implicate him in the case. Earlier another CPI (M) leader from the area Karat Faizal was also questioned by the Customs and ED.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/role-of-elusive-businessman-in-kerala-smuggling-racket-baffles-probe-team/story-Mv9tJvXEb5fFdCjDV1fKxO.html
27-10-2020||India||Covid-19’s cognitive costs? Some patients’ brains may age 10 years||People recovering from Covid-19 may suffer significant brain function impacts, with the worst cases of the infection linked to mental decline equivalent to the brain ageing by 10 years, researchers warned on Tuesday. A non-peer-reviewed study of more than 84,000 people, led by Adam Hampshire, a doctor at Imperial College London, found that in some severe cases, coronavirus infection is linked to substantial cognitive deficits for months.“Our analyses ... align with the view that there are chronic cognitive consequences of having Covid-19,” the researchers wrote in a report of their findings. “People who had recovered, including those no longer reporting symptoms, exhibited significant cognitive deficits.” Cognitive tests measure how well the brain performs tasks –- such as remembering words or joining dots on a puzzle. Such tests are widely used to assess brain performance in diseases like Alzheimer’s, and can also help doctors assess temporary brain impairments.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHampshire’s team analysed results from 84,285 people who completed a study called the Great British Intelligence Test. The findings, which have yet to be reviewed by other experts, were published online on the MedRxiv website The cognitive deficits were “of substantial effect size”, particularly among people who had been hospitalised with Covid-19, the researchers said, with the worst cases showing impacts “equivalent to the average 10-year decline in global performance between the ages of 20 to 70”.Scientists not directly involved with the study, however, said its results should be viewed with some caution. “The cognitive function of the participants was not known pre-Covid, and the results also do not reflect long-term recovery - so any effects on cognition may be short term,” said Joanna Wardlaw, a professor of applied neuroimaging at Edinburgh University.Derek Hill, a professor of medical imaging science at University College London, also noted that the study’s findings could not be entirely reliable, since they did not compare before and after scores, and involved a large number of people who self-reported having had Covid-19, who had no positive test. “Overall (this is) an intriguing but inconclusive piece of research into the effect of Covid on the brain,” Hill said. “As researchers seek to better understand the long term impact of Covid, it will be important to further investigate the extent to which cognition is impacted in the weeks and months after the infection, and whether permanent damage to brain function results in some people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-s-cognitive-costs-some-patients-brains-may-age-10-years/story-o3SxdfVanfpS9zzMvXyQMP.html
27-10-2020||India||Delhi records highest single-day Covid-19 cases at 4,853, tally over 364,000||Delhi reported 4,853 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, the biggest single-day jump in fresh infections, according to government data on Tuesday. This is also the fourth time in the past five days the number of infections has been over the 4,000-mark.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDelhi now has more than 364,000, including 27,873 active cases. The Capital also reported the highest casualties since July 7 with 54 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the total toll to 6,312. The national capital also recorded 2,722 recoveries. Over the last one week, the daily positivity rate — the percentage of people who test positive for the disease versus those who were tested — has also increased. Monday saw a daily positivity rate of 8.23%.VK Paul, NITI Aayog (health) member and head of the national task force for Covid-19, said on Tuesday that Delhi is progressing towards a third peak. The Union health ministry also warned that the Covid-19 situation has worsened in Delhi amid the ongoing festivals. Health experts had warned earlier that flouting the Covid-19 warns and social distancing practices amid the festive season, change in weather and lack of restrictions on cross-border movement might lead to a spike in cases across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-highest-single-day-covid-19-cases-at-4-853-tally-over-364-000/story-1x7hOGoci3ibrk8enbmjHN.html
27-10-2020||India||India reached 1 million Covid-19 recoveries in 13 days: Health ministry||India took 13 days to reach one million recoveries, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday, as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to see a downward trend in the country. On Tuesday, India registered a sharp fall in its daily cases as the country logged a total of 36,470 new infections in the last 24 hours, taking the overall caseload closer to the eight million mark to 7,946,429.“It took us 57 days to register a recovery of 10 lakhs from 1 lakh. However, the latest 10 lakh recoveries have been achieved in 13 days which is a satisfactory sign,” Rajesh Bhushan, health secretary, said during a media briefing on the Covid-19 situation in India.Bhushan informed that Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka are five states that reported 58% of new Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. He said that 78% of active cases are present in 10 states and Union territories. These include Maharashtra, which is accounting for 21.52% of total cases, followed by Kerala, Karnataka, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh with 15%, 12.05%, 5.94%, 4.68%, 4.6% respectively. “During the festival season, cases have increased in Kerala, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi,” Bhushan also said.In a positive sign, the recovery rate has reached 90.62% in the country and it is constantly increasing further, he said. The health ministry official further noted that the decline in daily Covid-19 cases in the country is “particularly noteworthy” even as the countries of the northern hemisphere are witnessing a severe increase in the intensity of pandemic.“We are very fortunate that our trend is in the opposite direction. We are fortunate that today we are showing a decline of the pandemic, except in two or three states. This decline is particularly noteworthy because in other countries of the northern hemisphere there is a severe increase in the intensity of pandemic,” said VK Paul, chairperson of the national task force for Covid-19, who was also part of the briefing.Speaking on Covid-19 vaccine development in India, Balram Bhargava of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said three candidates are in different stages of the clinical testing. “Covaxin has got approval for Phase 3 trials, Cadila also progressing with Phase 2 trials and Serum is completing Phase 2 trial and has an ongoing trial in Brazil, South Africa and the US,” the ICMR director general said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reached-1-million-covid-19-recoveries-in-13-days-health-ministry/story-rclKErKXMJ9eJHZjI458XN.html
27-10-2020||India||BECA done, fighters and armed drones next as India turns US positive||US secretary of state Micheal R Pompeo on Tuesday wrapped up the India leg of his four-nation tour to power an alliance against Chinese aggression that he underlined not only impacts India but other countries as well. Pompeo arrived along with defense secretary Mark Esper on Monday for the annual US-India 2+2 strategic dialogue.As he ended his meetings in New Delhi, Pompeo promised at a media briefing on Monday that the United States would stand with the people of India as they confront threats to their sovereignty and to their liberty, a not-so-oblique reference to Indian soldiers standing up to China’s People’s Liberation Army for more than five months in the East Ladakh sector.Pompeo and Esper also indicated that the Chinese actions in Ladakh, South China Sea, Senkaku Islands and trade wars with Australia were discussed and assessment shared on how to counter them.The two sides also signed a bunch of five pacts including BECA, or Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement, to share sensitive satellite and map data. This agreement - Esper called it a “significant milestone” - will give India access to topographical, nautical and aeronautical data vital for pinpointed attacks using missiles and armed drones.BECA clears the path for India acquiring armed drones in the first instance and at a later date, fighter aircraft. Esper alluded to the discussions around this topic when he announced that the US planned to sell more fighter planes and drones to India. He did not elaborate.India has been looking at buying medium-altitude long-endurance armed Predator-B drones from the US instead of the unarmed drones that it had planned earlier. An Indian official said New Delhi had been earlier offered F-16 and F-18 fighters but India was looking at Boeing’s F-15EX fighters that the aircraft manufacturer hasn’t yet been licensed to sell abroad.“There is a possibility that the F-15EX could be sold on a government-to-government basis,” a top government official familiar with the discussions told Hindustan Times. “Never before have we achieved so much in so little time,” a second official said, underscoring that he had never seen “such a positive attitude” on either side of the talks table.He also suggested that there was a slow, but gradual change in New Delhi’s approach to dealing with China that has been a hush word in India diplomacy.A decision to place an Indian liaison officer in the US 5th Fleet headquarters in Bahrain has been taken. The United States would also depute a liaison officer at the Indian Information Fusion Centre (IFC) of Indian Navy that monitors the Indian Ocean region.A second official said the Indian linkup with the US central command and African command indicates that the two countries have bonded on hard security issues. “It is quite evident from the 2+2 dialogue today that India has completely integrated with other members of the four-nation QUAD - Australia and Japan are the other two members - to monitor the Indian Pacific region,” he said.The participation of Australian Navy in the Malabar exercises in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea later this month will add to maritime heft of the QUAD that is expected to undertake more complex naval maneuvers.Esper told reporters that the two countries’ focus must now “be on institutionalising and regularising our cooperation to meet the challenges of the day and uphold the principles of a free and open Indo-Pacific well into the future.”That, he said, is particularly important ”in light of increasing aggression and destabilising actions by China.”Jaishankar and Rajnath Singh didn’t name China but left no one in doubt when they spoke about the importance of peace, stability and prosperity for all countries in the region. The Indo-Pacific region was a “particular focus of our talks”, Jaishankar told reporters, and made it clear that China’s effort to dominate Asia was not acceptable to India when he underlined that a “multi-polar world must have a multi-polar Asia as its basis”.Jaishankar had set the tone right at the start of Tuesday morning’s 2+2 strategic dialogue when he also pushed hard for closer India-US cooperation in defence and foreign policy. “The ability of India and the US to work closely in defence and foreign policy has a larger resonance. Together, we can make a real difference when it comes to regional and global challenges, whether it is in respecting territorial integrity, promoting maritime domain awareness, countering terrorism or ensuring prosperity,” the minister said as he laid stress on the importance of upholding a rules-based international order.It seems that the hesitation on India’s part to embrace the US for its national interest is finally gone. The die has been cast and it doesn’t matter who wins the presidential election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-china/story-m0lDncNIZ8biYci35G6O6K.html
27-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 antibody response wanes over time, says UK study and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 antibody response wanes over time: UK studyThe antibody response to Covid-19 virus wanes over time, said a new analysis released on Tuesday based on finger-prick tests on more than 365,000 randomly selected people in England. Read MoreSushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty opposes sisters’ petition to quash FIRIn an affidavit in reply to the petition in the Bombay high court (HC), Actor Rhea Chakraborty has opposed the petition filed by Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh, sisters of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput , for quashing the first information report (FIR) registered against them by Bandra police. Read MoreCovid-19: MHA extends guidelines for re-opening till November 30, most remain unchangedThe Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) extended the guidelines for re-opening the country, which were issued last month, till November 30. There are no fresh changes and all major activities have already been allowed but strict lockdown will continue in containment zones, it has said. Read More‘Request selectors to see his records’: Harbhajan Singh not pleased with Suryakumar Yadav’s absence from India squadVeteran off-spinner Harbhajan Singh wasn’t pleased with the team selection as he wanted to see Mumbai Indians batsman Suryakumar Yadav in the team. He expressed his disappointment on Twitter and said there are different rules for different players. Read MoreFacebook’s India head of public policy Ankhi Das quitsFacebook’s India head of public policy Ankhi Das on Tuesday announced that had resigned from the company. Das, who allegedly interfered in the company’s hate speech policy to support the ruling Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP), announced her departure from the company via a post on her Facebook handle. Read MoreCoolie No 1 promotions: Sara Ali Khan ‘thinks pink’ in fuchsia one-sleeved snake print jumpsuit with her ‘Hero No 1’ Varun DhawanSara Ali Khan may have been MIA for a while, given that she was mired in controversy with her name popping up in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, but the 25-year-old Love Aaj Kal actor is back to work and has started the promotions of her upcoming film Coolie No 1 alongside co-star Varun Dhawan. Read MoreShah Rukh Khan gives witty reply as troll asks if he will sell his home: ‘Mannat is not sold, but asked for with a bowed head’Actor Shah Rukh Khan gave a sweet treat to his fans by hosting an ‘Ask Me Anything’ session on Twitter on Tuesday. Shah Rukh took on questions and requests, some from his die-hard fans and some from rude Twitter trolls, responsding to them in his usual witty fashion. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-antibody-response-wanes-over-time-says-uk-study-and-all-the-latest-news/story-BlsW4nGcvGDADAz2pNFXxN.html
27-10-2020||India||I don’t have insane expectations, says Kangan||Hailing from Margherita, Assam, actor Kangan Baruah Nangia says that coming from a non-film background and a small town, her set of struggles are very different but she feels content.After wrapping shoot for OTT series ‘Jackson’ in Lucknow, the actor said, “Since I come from a small town, my expectations are also not very crazy and insane. I feel content with whatever I am doing.”Talking about her journey, she said, “My struggles are very different. For us, who come from nowhere, getting a project is very difficult. Even after I did ‘Beyhad-2’, I did not have anything for 4-5 months and now even if I am playing a lead in ‘Jackson’ I don’t know what I will get next! We need to prove again and again so it’s an ongoing struggle for us.” Kangan’s father wanted to become an actor and she grew up as a movie buff. “I also sing, so it was in Class XI when I did my first musical-play ‘Oliver Twist’ as lead. While graduating from Miranda House I did a lot of plays and joined a professional theatre group DramaTech. Then I moved to Mumbai and started with ads and did a web show ‘Hawa Badle Hassu’, few short films and then did TV show ‘Beyhad-2’ which ended with lockdown.” The actor got the role while under quarantine in Assam. “For 10 years — first schooling in boarding, then three years in college and finally Mumbai — I have been away from home. From my hometown I sent my audition and within eight hours I was on a video call with Saurabh sir and I was in! And, here I am shooting as a LU student.” This is her second visit to UP. “Since I was doing History (Hon), I once visited Agra for an educational trip from college. Best thing I like, as in my hometown Assam, the sun here rises so early unlike in Mumbai. We shot at Rumi Darwaza, Lucknow University, Residency, around both Imambaras which have a beautiful past. I even love the Hazratganj architecture. Being a history student, I feel a special connection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-don-t-have-insane-expectations-says-kangan/story-aaBODVpS1etcwhkuOx8LIK.html
27-10-2020||India||India, US call on Pakistan to take immediate and irreversible action against terrorism||India and the US on Tuesday reiterated their call for Pakistan to take irreversible action to ensure its territory isn’t used for terror attacks and to speedily prosecute the perpetrators and planners of the attacks in Mumbai, Uri and Pathankot. The demand for action by Pakistan to counter terrorism, which figured in a joint statement issued after the 2+2 ministerial dialogue, was similar to calls made by India and the US in recent years. The joint statement also called for “concerted action” against terrorist networks such as al-Qaeda, Islamic State and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). Besides China’s aggressive actions across the region and beyond, counter-terrorism was part of the discussions between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh and their US counterparts Mike Pompeo and Mark Esper. Jaishankar told a media interaction after the meeting that the Indian side made it “clear that cross-border terrorism is completely unacceptable”. ALSO READ | 2+2 meeting: Pompeo says US will stand with India to face threats to sovereignty, libertyThe joint statement noted the ministers had “denounced the use of terrorist proxies and strongly condemned cross-border terrorism in all its forms”, and said: “They emphasised the need for concerted action against all terrorist networks, including al-Qaeda, ISIS/Daesh, Lashkar-e- Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and Hizb-ul-Mujahideen.” The statement added, “The ministers called on Pakistan to take immediate, sustained and irreversible action to ensure that no territory under its control is used for terrorist attacks, and to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators and planners of all such attacks, including 26/11 Mumbai, Uri, and Pathankot.” Six American citizens were among the 166 people killed in the 2008 Mumbai attacks carried out by a 10-member LeT team from Pakistan. The 2016 Uri attack and the Pathankot attack in 2016 were blamed on Pakistan-based JeM. The joint statement said the two sides are committed to continued exchange of information about sanctions and designations of terror groups and individuals, particularly in light of recent legislative changes in India, and countering the financing and operations of terror organisations, countering radicalism and terrorist use of the internet. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that India-US counter-terrorism cooperation has made considerable progress with enhanced information-sharing and operational cooperation. The joint working groups on counter-terrorism and designation dialogue meet regularly to enable cooperation in pursuing sanctions and designations of terror groups and individuals, the people said. The joint statement further said the two sides are committed to countering “cross-border movement of terrorists, and prosecuting, rehabilitating, and reintegrating returning terrorist fighters and family members”. While enhancing cooperation in multilateral forums such as the UN, the two sides reaffirmed their support for early adoption of a UN Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism to strengthen global cooperation. The ongoing Afghan peace process also figured in the 2+2 meeting, with the joint statement saying the ministers had discussed their “shared interest in promoting a sovereign, peaceful, united, democratic, inclusive, stable and secure Afghanistan, including support for an Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace process”. The US side “applauded India’s development assistance and efforts to build trade linkages and multi-modal connectivity infrastructure for Afghanistan to enhance its regional connectivity to sustain growth and development”. Jaishankar told the media interaction: “On Afghanistan, India’s stakes in its security and stability are evident, as is our willingness to contribute to international efforts to that end.” Pompeo said the “US values India as a multilateral partner, whether it’s through the Quad [or] making the Afghan peace negotiations successful...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-call-on-pakistan-to-take-immediate-and-irreversible-action-against-terrorism/story-KqlOXxZpUoInRcOaVjmWSN.html
27-10-2020||India||Facebook’s India head of public policy Ankhi Das quits after row over regulating political content||Ankhi Das, Facebook’s head of public policy who was in the eye of storm over alleged bias in blocking of hate content on the social media platform, has quit the company. “Ankhi has decided to step down from her role in Facebook to pursue her interest in public service. Ankhi was one of our earliest employees in India and played an instrumental role in the growth of the company and its services over the last 9 years,” Ajit Mohan, Managing Director India of Facebook, said in an e-mailed statement. “When I joined Facebook in 2011, internet growth in the country was woefully low and I often wondered how social and economic asymmetries will be addressed,” Das said announcing her resignation.“We were a small unlisted startup back then guided only by our mission and purpose to connect people in India. After nine long years, I feel that the mission has largely been met. There is an enormous amount I have learnt from incredibly smart and talented people in the company, particularly form people on the policy team. This is a special company and a special group of people, “ she also said.“Thank you, Mark for creating something beautiful for the world. I hope I have served you and the company well,” she also said.The resignation comes as Das was facing allegations of opposing enforcement of hate-speech rules against a political party. She was also accused of posting messages in support of the BJP for several years on a Facebook group of the company’s employees.Her resignation came about two-and-a-half-months after she first shot into the limelight due to the allegations.Over 40 human rights and internet watchdog organisations had called on Facebook to place Das on leave until the company finishes conducting an ongoing audit of its India operations.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-india-s-ankhi-das-quits-as-head-of-public-policy/story-vyt35yEN5eFAnj5bzmrBWL.html
27-10-2020||India||Hyderabad Airport introduces e-boarding for international passengers||The GMR Hyderabad International Airport on Tuesday announced the introduction of paperless e-boarding facility for all international passengers travelling abroad from Hyderabad. Claiming that it is a significant milestone in the history of Indian aviation, chief executive officer of GMR Hyderabad International Airport Limited (GHIAL) Pradeep Panicker said the e-boarding solution for international operations was the first for any Indian airport. He reminded that the Hyderabad International Airport held the distinction of being the first and only airport in India to offer truly end-to-end paperless e-boarding to all its domestic passengers across all flights. “In line with this, we have launched this facility for international passengers as well,” he said. The pilot project of providing e-boarding solutions to international passengers was introduced on IndiGo Airlines on October 2, when its Sharjah-bound passengers e-boarded themselves from Hyderabad on the 6E 1405 flight. “After the successful pilot of the project and all regulatory approvals, we have used our internal capabilities to take up e-boarding solution for international operations,” Panicker said. Based on a rigorous and successful pilot project, the government gave its nod for the Hyderabad International Airport to roll out its e-boarding services for international flights. “The service is currently available for select international flights of IndiGo Airlines,” an official release from GMR said. Other scheduled international carriers operating out of Hyderabad are in the process of integration with the airport’s e-boarding system, which will be rolled out soon, the release said. As a process, any passenger boarding an international flight using e-boarding service will have to book the ticket online and do a web check-in. At the airport, the passenger has to display the digital/printed boarding card at the e-boarding scanner. The CISF personnel will validate the documents and allow the passenger to enter. At the check-in counter, the check-in agent scans the boarding card and the passenger has to drop the luggage off at the counter. At the immigration, the authorities verify the passport. At the security screening zone, the passenger puts his or her hand baggage on the Automatic Tray Retrieval System (ATRS), moves for security check. Scans the boarding card on an e-boarding scanner and moves on. At the boarding gate, the passenger scans the boarding card on an e-boarding scanner and moves towards the gates for boarding the aircraft, the official release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-airport-introduces-e-boarding-for-international-passengers/story-6KTP3EgYBaxGo8oFOotZyH.html
27-10-2020||India||Facebook’s public policy head for India Ankhi Das quits: Read full statement||Facebook’s public policy head for India, South and Central Asia Ankhi Das on Tuesday left the company amid the row over regulating political content. Her resignation came about two-and-a-half-months after she first shot into the limelight due to the allegations of opposing enforcement of hate-speech rules in the country.Here is the full text of her statement:I have decided to step down from Facebook after long service to its mission of connecting people and building communities to pursue my personal interest in public service. When I joined Facebook in 2011, internet growth in the country was woefully low and I often wondered how social and economic asymmetries will be addressed.We were a small unlisted startup back then guided only by our mission and purpose to connect people in India. After nine long years, I feel that the mission has largely been met. There is an enormous amount I have learnt from incredibly smart and talented people in the company, particularly form people on the policy team. This is a special company and a special group of people. Thank you, Mark for creating something beautiful for the world. I hope I have served you and the company well.I know we will be in touch on Facebook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-s-india-head-of-public-policy-ankhi-das-quits-after-row-over-regulating-political-content/story-j2MCO1yWnBkiYA1O4MWKaJ.html
27-10-2020||India||Kashi vendor invites PM Modi to his momos cart||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was all praise for the initiative of Varanasi-based street vendor Arvind Maurya, a beneficiary of PM SVANidhi scheme, who told the PM that he offered a free momo (steamed dumpling with some form of filling) each to those who wore masks and followed social distancing to keep Covid-19 at bay. Interacting with the PM, Arvind told him, “I sell momos and coffee and have my vending cart in Durga Kund area.” On being asked if he faced any problems in getting loan under the scheme, Arvind said, “No. Officials of Varanasi Nagar Nigam and district urban development authority did a survey and had a form filled. Around after a week, I got a call from my bank branch that Rs 10,000 loan had been sanctioned. I went to the bank with a copy of my Aadhaar card and the certificate issued by the Nagar Nigam and the money was transferred into my account.”When, in a lighter vein, PM Modi said that nobody offered him momos whenever he visited Varanasi, Arvind invited him to his vending cart. When the PM asked him if he was aware that he can make his loan interest free under the scheme, the beneficiary said, “Yes, I am aware that if I pay my instalment on time, I can make it interest free and get further assistance worth Rs 20,000 for a year.”Also read: PM Modi interacts with SVANidhi scheme beneficiariesHe also told the PM that through a company, he also ensured home delivery of momos.When the prime minister enquired if he was getting benefits of any other government scheme, Arvind said he got free ration under Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Antyodaya Yojana.He also appreciated Shramyogi scheme saying under it, contribution of Rs 150 per month will fetch him Rs 3,000 per month when he was 60. Expressing happiness that Arvind was getting benefits of many government schemes, the PM conveyed his ‘Pranam’ to the people of Kashi through him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashi-vendor-invites-pm-modi-to-his-momos-cart/story-FRbJ31wkHRafjhi5eYtYLO.html
27-10-2020||India||India, US hold third 2+2 ministerial dialogue. Read joint statement here||The United States stands with India in its efforts to defend its sovereignty and liberty, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Tuesday after the third edition of the 2+2 strategic dialogue that majorly focused on dealing with China’s aggressive military behaviour in eastern Ladakh, Indo- Pacific and other parts of the world.Here is the full text of the joint statement issued by India and US:India’s Minister of Defence Rajnath Singh and Minister of External Affairs Dr. S. Jaishankar welcomed US Secretary of State Michael R. Pompeo and Secretary of Defense Dr. Mark T. Esper to New Delhi for the third annual India-US. 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue. The Ministers welcomed the elevation of the India-U.S. relationship to a Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership during the visit of President Donald J. Trump to India in February 2020. They reiterated their commitment to further strengthening the India-US. partnership, anchored in mutual trust and friendship, shared commitment to democracy, converging strategic interests, and robust engagement of their citizens.While celebrating more than seven decades of diplomatic engagement between India and the United States, the Ministers intend to expand cooperation under the 2+2 framework to realize the full potential of the India-US. Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership.Co-operation during the Covid-19 PandemicThe Ministers applauded the exemplary cooperation between India and the United States in confronting challenges emerging from the Covid-19 pandemic. They reiterated their resolve to strengthen cooperation in the development of vaccines, therapeutics, diagnostics, ventilators and other essential medical equipment. Recognizing that bilateral engagement in the research & development and the mass production of vaccines and therapeutics plays to our respective strengths, the Ministers sought to jointly promote access to high quality, safe, effective and affordable Covid-19 vaccines and treatments on a global scale. India expressed appreciation for the 200 ventilators provided by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to the Indian Red Cross Society, while the US expressed appreciation for India’s export of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), essential medicines, and therapeutics to the United States during these challenging times. The Ministers looked forward to the conclusion of an overarching MoU between India’s Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), including their component agencies and departments, to enhance health cooperation, including on health emergencies and pandemics, prevention, diagnosis and treatment of communicable and non-communicable diseases, and biomedical research and innovation. The Ministers also looked forward to the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAD/NIH) to collaborate through an International Center of Excellence in Research focused on infectious diseases including Covid-19 and other emerging threats. They welcomed the upcoming call for applications for clinical research fellowships for early and mid-career Indian and American scientists to help expand the cohort of physician scientists focused on research that will advance clinical practice and benefit public health in both countries. Noting the importance of health sector cooperation, they also looked forward to convening the India-US Health Dialogue at an early date.The Ministers reaffirmed efforts to enhance supply chain resilience and to seek alternatives to the current paradigm, which had come under severe strain during the pandemic and exposed critical vulnerabilities. The Ministers sought to support the global economic recovery, including in India and the United States, to emerge from the pandemic more resilient than ever.The Ministers expressed appreciation for the repatriation of stranded Indian and US nationals from both countries during the pandemic.Shared Vision for the Indo-Pacific and Global LeadershipThe Ministers reiterated their commitment to maintaining a free, open, inclusive, peaceful, and prosperous Indo-Pacific built on a rules-based international order, underpinned by ASEAN centrality, rule of law, sustainable and transparent infrastructure investment, freedom of navigation and overflight, mutual respect for sovereignty, and peaceful resolution of disputes. Highlighting the importance of securing the economic and security interests of all stakeholders having a legitimate interest in the region, the Ministers welcomed the growing understanding on the Indo-Pacific among like-minded countries. They reaffirmed that closer India-US cooperation will support shared interests in promoting security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond. They also emphasized that the Code of Conduct in the South China Sea should not prejudice the legitimate rights and interests of any nation in accordance with international law.The Ministers welcomed the recent convening of the Second Australia-India-Japan-United States Quadrilateral Ministerial Meeting in Tokyo on October 6, 2020.They appreciated the exchange of views on regional issues of mutual interest, as well as ongoing cooperation related to maritime security, humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, regional connectivity, health security and counter terrorism. The Ministers also welcomed the fact that these Consultations would now be held annually. They expressed their support for further strengthening Quad cooperation through expanded activities, including initiating a dialogue among the development organizations of partner countries.The Ministers expressed their support for sustainable, transparent, quality infrastructure development in the Indo-Pacific region. They looked forward to furthering collaboration between USAID and India’s Development Partnership Administration (DPA) with a view to undertaking joint projects in the region. The Ministers welcomed the establishment of a permanent presence of the US International Development Finance Cooperation (DFC) in India this year. The United States expressed strong support for the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI) as a leading mechanism for promoting regional economic development. Recognizing the need to contain the build-up of sovereign debt in developing and low-income countries by ensuring responsible, transparent, and sustainable financing practices for both borrowers and creditors, the Ministers looked forward to exploring ways to cooperate under the Blue Dot Network. They also looked forward to the Second Indo-Pacific Business Forum (IPBF) to be held on October 28-29, 2020.Building on a strong record of peacekeeping cooperation, the Ministers decided to expand joint capacity building efforts with partner countries in the Indo-Pacific and to participate in multilateral peacekeeping training exercises.The Ministers discussed their shared interest in promoting a sovereign, peaceful, united, democratic, inclusive, stable and secure Afghanistan, including support for an Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace process. They applauded India’s development assistance, and efforts to build trade linkages and multi-modal connectivity infrastructure for Afghanistan to enhance its regional connectivity to sustain growth and development over the long term.The United States congratulated India for its non-permanent membership of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) for the term 2021-2022. The Ministers reiterated their commitment to work together in close coordination at the UNSC and in International Organizations. The US also reaffirmed its continued strong support for India’s permanent membership in a reformed UNSC as well as for India’s early entry into the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG).Advancing the Defence and Security PartnershipNoting the 15th anniversary of the inaugural US-India Defense Framework Agreement, the Ministers commended what has become a comprehensive, resilient, and multi-faceted Major Defense Partnership (MDP) between India and the United States. They applauded the significant step of the signing of the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA). They also welcomed enhanced maritime information sharing and maritime domain awareness between their Navies and affirmed their commitment to build upon existing defense information-sharing at the joint-service and service-to-service levels and explore potential new areas of mutually beneficial cooperation.The Ministers reaffirmed their commitment to deepening bilateral defense consultation and collaboration and to exploring opportunities to expand cooperative capacity-building efforts with partners across the region. They also affirmed their commitment to pursue increased cooperation between the Indian military and US Central Command and Africa Command, including broader participation in exercises and conferences, so as to promote shared security interests. The US appreciated India’s leadership in establishing an Information Fusion Centre for the Indian Ocean Region (IFC-IOR). The Ministers welcomed the positioning of a Liaison Officer from the US Navy at the IFC-IOR and the positioning of an Indian Liaison Officer at NAVCENT, Bahrain and reiterated their intent to assign additional Liaison Officers.The Ministers expressed satisfaction at the ongoing progress in the implementation of Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) and Communications, Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA), including the expansion of secure communications capabilities to include secure video teleconference capabilities between their respective Navies, Armies and Air Forces as well as between respective Foreign and Defense Ministries. The Ministers welcomed the convening of the Military Cooperation Group (MCG) later this year to review bilateral military-to-military engagement including joint exercises, training and expert exchanges. They looked forward to interaction between the Special Forces of India and the United States.The Ministers welcomed the inclusion of the Royal Australian Navy in the US-India-Japan MALABAR Naval Exercise scheduled to be held in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea in November 2020. Highlighting the importance of deepening maritime cooperation and the growing sophistication of US-India naval cooperation, the Ministers welcomed the PASSEX carried out by the Navies of both countries. They also looked forward to the convening of the next edition of the Tri-Services Amphibious TIGER TRIUMPH HADR Exercise and Army Exercises YUDH ABHYAS and VAJRA PRAHAR in 2021. The US welcomed India’s co-hosting of the Indo-Pacific Armies Chiefs Conference (IPACC), Indo-Pacific Armies Management Seminar (IPAMS) and Senior Enlisted Leader Forum (SELF) in 2023.The Ministers decided to work together to realize the development of their respective defense industries. Acknowledging India’s contributions to the global supply chain of major defence platforms and commitment to defense innovation, the Ministers reiterated the importance of Defence Technology and Trade Initiative (DTTI), and stated their intention to fast track projects under DTTI. They noted with satisfaction the signing of a Statement of Intent (SoI) at the 10th DTTI meeting to strengthen dialogue on defence technology cooperation on several specific DTTI projects as well as a DTTI Standard Operating Procedure (SoP) for identification and development of joint projects. India looked forward to the participation by the US Government and defence industry at the upcoming Aero-India in February 2021.Recognizing the importance of cooperation in defence innovation, the Ministers welcomed the inaugural meeting between the Indian Defence Innovation Organization (DIO-iDEX) and US Defense Innovation United (DIU) in July 2020. They also looked forward to the inaugural Industrial Security Annex (ISA) Summit later this year which would further strengthen defence industrial cooperation between both countries.Strengthening Bilateral India-US CooperationThe Ministers welcomed efforts to rejuvenate and expand bilateral India-US trade in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. In this regard, they noted ongoing discussions by the Unites States Trade Representative and India’s Ministry of Commerce and Industry to reach an understanding on improving market access, removing barriers to trade, and improving the business environment.The Ministers noted with satisfaction the significant strides made under the four Pillars of the Strategic Energy Partnership (SEP) covering Oil & Gas, Power and Energy Efficiency, Renewables and Sustainable Growth. They also appreciated the progress made under the India-US Gas Task Force and the launch of industry-led projects. They welcomed the announcement of new priorities and roadmap for each of the Pillars during the Ministerial meeting of the SEP held on July 17, 2020. With the objective of intensifying cooperation in the area of Strategic Petroleum Reserves (SPRs), the Ministers welcomed the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding in this regard.Recalling the historic India-US Civil Nuclear Agreement, the Ministers welcomed the project Division of Responsibility principles between Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL) and Westinghouse Electric Company (WEC) for the construction of six nuclear reactors at Kovvada, and looked forward to the detailed Division of Responsibility that would pave the way for a techno-commercial offer. The Ministers also welcomed the extension of the MoU between the Government of India and the Government of the United States of America concerning cooperation with India’s Global Centre for Nuclear Energy Partnership (GCNEP).The Ministers welcomed the virtual convening of the 17th meeting of the India-US Counter Terrorism Joint Working Group and the 3rd Session of the India-US Designations Dialogue on September 9-10, 2020. They denounced the use of terrorist proxies and strongly condemned cross border terrorism in all its forms. They emphasised the need for concerted action against all terrorist networks, including al-Qaeda, ISIS/Daesh, Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and Hizb-ul-Mujahideen. The Ministers called on Pakistan to take immediate, sustained and irreversible action to ensure that no territory under its control is used for terrorist attacks, and to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators and planners of all such attacks, including 26/11 Mumbai, Uri, and Pathankot. The Ministers also committed to continued exchange of information about sanctions and designations against terror groups and individuals, particularly in light of recent legislative changes in India, as well as countering the financing and operations of terrorist organizations, countering radicalism and terrorist use of the internet, cross-border movement of terrorists, and prosecuting, rehabilitating, and reintegrating returning terrorist fighters and family members.The Ministers intend to enhance their ongoing cooperation in multilateral fora, including the UN. They also reaffirmed their support for the early adoption of a UN Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism (CCIT) that will advance and strengthen the framework for global cooperation and reinforce the message that no cause or grievance justifies terrorism.In view of the announcement made during President Trump’s visit to India to establish a new India-US Counter-Narcotics Working Group, the Ministers welcomed the proposal to convene the first such virtual meeting later this year, with an in-person meeting in 2021, to enhance cooperation between Indian and US drug and law enforcement agencies. The Ministers welcomed efforts by the US Department of Homeland Security and India’s Ministry of Home Affairs to reinvigorate the Homeland Security Dialogue.The Ministers welcomed the virtual convening of the India-US Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Working Group on October 1, 2020. They reaffirmed their commitment towards an open, reliable and secure internet as well as the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance. They emphasized fostering cooperation between their industry and academia for an open, secure and resilient supply of strategic material and critical infrastructure and to independently evaluate the risk associated with deployment of emerging ICT technologies, including 5G networks.The Ministers also welcomed the recent convening of the annual India-US Cyber Dialogue on September 15, 2020 and the first India-US Defence Cyber Dialogue on September 17, 2020.Recalling their countries’ proud record of achievement in space science and satellite application, the Ministers applauded the ongoing collaboration between the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) and National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), including on the NASA-ISRO Synthetic Aperture Radar (NISAR) satellite scheduled to be launched by 2022. The Ministers also looked forward to sharing Space Situational Awareness information, which will catalyze efforts to create the conditions for a safe, stable, and sustainable space environment. They also expressed the intent to continue the India-US Space Dialogue as well as discussions on areas of potential space defense cooperation.The Ministers welcomed the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for Technical Cooperation in Earth Observation and Earth Sciences between the Indian Ministry of Earth Sciences and the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for developing a better understanding of the regional and global weather origins in the Indian Ocean and advancing common research goals in meteorology, oceanography, and management of living marine resources. The Ministers welcomed the signing of an Agreement between India’s Department of Post and the United States Postal Service, which will facilitate the electronic exchange of customs data related to postal shipments. They also applauded the signing of the Letter of Intent (LoI) between the Indian Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences, Ministry of AYUSH and the Office of Cancer Complementary and Alternative Medicine, US Department of Health and Human Services.Nurturing the People–to-People BondsUnderscoring the importance of ties between our respective legislatures, the Ministers welcomed the launch of an India-US Parliamentary Exchange.Applauding the entrepreneurial spirit of Indians and Indian-Americans that has mutually benefitted both nations, the Ministers recognised the important role of people-to-people linkages in strengthening the overall bilateral relationship and economic ties. Both sides look forward to the next iteration of the India-US Consular Dialogue to further increase cooperation and discuss issues of mutual concern, including visas, and familial issues related to marriage, adoption and child custody.The Ministers welcomed the increasing number of Indian students in the United States and acknowledged the role of expanding educational ties and fostering entrepreneurship and scientific innovation. In this context, the Ministers welcomed India’s National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 which would pave the way for enhanced collaboration between academic institutions of both countries. The Ministers looked forward to discussions to further advance India-US educational partnerships.Appreciating the valuable contribution of the Fulbright-Nehru Program over the years in furthering exchange of outstanding academics and professionals between both countries, the Ministers celebrated the 70th anniversary of the Program this year.The Ministers welcomed the commencement of issuance of 12-month reciprocal temporary duty visas to officials from both Governments as a step to facilitate the growing partnership.The United States looks forward to hosting the next 2+2 Ministerial in 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-hold-third-2-2-ministerial-dialogue-read-joint-statement-here/story-ZzXXaZUvIvkrVUT5Xk1RhI.html
27-10-2020||India||Karnataka health minister confident of Covid-19 vaccine by early 2021||Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday expressed confidence that a vaccine for Covid-19 would be available early in 2021 and said the government would ensure that it reaches every nook and corner of the state after its launch.Speaking to reporters after a meeting with AstraZeneca Managing Director Gagan Singh Bedi, he said the first phase of trials of the vaccine were encouraging.“The first phase trial of the vaccine developed by Oxford/AstraZeneca has been completed and has shown encouraging results.The second and third phase trials are underway,” he said.The Minister said Bedi had told him that the company, which was trying to launch the vaccine in the initial months of 2021, had the capacity to supply a billion doses.Once it came out in the market, the Karnataka government would ensure that it was made available “in every nook and corner of the state,” he said.The first set of people to get it would be the covid frontline warriors like doctors, nurses and paramedics, followed by elderly people with comorbidities, pregnant and lactating women and children, the minister said.To a question, he said the results of the first phase trial were encouraging, with 56 people who were administered the vaccine developing antigens, which has remained intact in them since then.“We need to wait for six months to see whether the antigens are maintained,” Sudhakar said.To a question on the price of the vaccine, he said he did not wish to get into the “controversy” over it and would leave it to the discretion of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa.He however, maintained that the state had been conducting tests and providing treatment free of cost.“Our government is committed to public health. We will make sure it reaches all,” Sudhakar said.Members of the Karnataka Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19, as also senior officials and experts on the subject were present during the meeting, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-health-minister-confident-of-covid-19-vaccine-by-early-2021/story-IBzvxYR19yWRRIrINkUlEM.html
27-10-2020||India||Delhi HC suspends 3-year jail term of former Union minister of state for coal Dilip Ray in coal scam||Delhi High Court on Tuesday suspended the sentencing of former Union minister of state for coal Dilip Ray, who was given jail term of three years by a special CBI court on Monday for illegally allocating a coal block in Jharkhand to a private company in 1999.The special CBI judge, Bharat Parashar, observed that the Brahmadiha coal block in Jharkhand’s Giridih was allocated to Castron Technologies Ltd (CTL) by Dilip Ray, who was the tminister of state (Mos) for coal at that time, despite the fact that he was part of a “caretaker” government, which should not have taken a major policy decision. Ray, 66, was part of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government that was acting as a caretaker government when this particular allocation was approved by Ray.Besides Ray, two former senior officials of the coal ministry, Pradip Kumar Banerjee and Nitya Nand Gautam, as well as Mahendra Aggarwalla of Castron Technologies Ltd were sentenced to three-year jail terms and fined Rs 10 lakh each. The judge also imposed fines of Rs 60 lakh on CTL and Rs 10 lakh on Castron Mining Ltd (CML). The accused were convicted on October 6 for criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust, cheating and prevention of corruption act.The case pertains to allocation of 105.153 hectares (ha) of an abandoned coal mining area in Giridih district in favour of Castron Technologies Limited by the 14th screening committee of the Union coal ministry in 1999. It is different from the investigative agency’s probe into improper allocation of captive coal blocks between 2004 and 2009 -- a scandal that roiled the United Progressive Alliance headed by Manmohan Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-suspends-3-year-jail-term-of-former-union-minister-of-state-for-coal-dilip-ray-in-coal-scam/story-LmoNCsAA1AP9JWDvOyxJlO.html
27-10-2020||India||Veteran Uttarakhand BJP leader Naresh Bansal files nomination papers for Rajya Sabha seat||Uttarakhand BJP leader Naresh Bansal on Tuesday filed his nomination papers for the upcoming biennial elections to the Rajya Sabha seat from Uttarakhand, which will fall vacant on completion of Congress MP Raj Babbar’s tenure on November 25. BJP state spokesperson Devendra Bhasin said Bansal filed his nomination papers in the presence of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and senior party leaders including state BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat. The Rajya Sabha election is scheduled on November 9 and results will be declared two days later. The ruling BJP, with 57 MLAs in the Uttarakhand Assembly, is certain to win the Rajya Sabha seat from the state Bansal, holds cabinet minister rank as vice chairman of the state-level 20-point programme implementation committee. He has been an active member of the RSS in the past. Bhasin said Bansal’s candidature was announced by the central election committee on Monday evening. “Before filing his nomination papers, Bansal resigned from the post of vice chairman of the state level 20-point programme implementation committee, which was immediately accepted by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat,” he said. Bansal, who has been active in state politics for over four decades, joined RSS in his teenage and has held various posts in the state over the years including BJP state general secretary, chairman state housing and development council and has been the star campaigner for BJP in the Lok Sabha and state assembly polls. Bansal while talking to reporters expressed his gratitude to the senior party leaders, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and state BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat for reposing faith in him and supporting his candidature for the Rajya Sabha seat. CM Rawat said Bansal is a veteran BJP leader in the state, who has been associated with RSS since his childhood and has subsequently contributed to the party in various capacities. “As no other candidate has filed a nomination so far, his victory is certain. Our best wishes are with him,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-uttarakhand-bjp-leader-naresh-bansal-files-nomination-papers-for-rajya-sabha-seat/story-IvYAkfbrrdbVIIpj2p2KbK.html
27-10-2020||India||EC notice to BJP candidate for calling political rival ‘insane’||The Election Commission (EC) on Tuesday issued a notice to BJP’s Imarti Devi, who is contesting a bypoll in Madhya Pradesh, for allegedly describing an unnamed political rival as “insane” and making remarks against women members of his family.She has been given 48 hours to respond to the notice, failing which the EC would take a decision without further reference to her.Taking note of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister and Congress leader Kamal Nath’s “item” jibe against Imarti Devi, the commission had on Monday advised him against using such words during the period of the model code.Imarti Devi, who is also a minister in the Madhya Pradesh government, did not name the political rival in a video on social media.The commission also refused to identify the leader, saying it does not know whom she was referring to. “Let the person reply to the notice. We have the transcript of the video,” a senior EC official said.Bypolls to 28 Madhya Pradesh assembly seats will be held on November 3.According to the transcript of the video, made part of the notice, Imarti Devi said after the person left the chief minister’s post in Madhya Pradesh, he became “insane”. She also allegedly that the person’s mother and sister could be “item” of Bengal. “We don’t know,” Imarti Devi said.The notice said her statement was found to be violative of the provisions of the model code.It also referred to a provision which states that political parties and candidates should refrain from any deeds, actions and utterances that may be construed as being repugnant to the honour and dignity of women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-notice-to-bjp-candidate-for-calling-political-rival-insane/story-mIrTSOhasK1vaiV56n8qqM.html
27-10-2020||India||Rajya Sabha poll: BJP candidate Naresh Bansal files nomination||Senior BJP leader Naresh Bansal filed his nominations on Tuesday as the party’s candidate for the Rajya Sabha polls from Uttarakhand.  Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, Pradesh BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Madan Kaushik, Minister of State for Higher Education Dhan Singh Rawat and a host of party MLAs accompanied Bansal to the Vidhan Sabha  secretariat where he filed his nominations for the only Rajya Sabha seat from the state going to polls on November 9.  Soon after filing his nominations, Bansal thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, party president Jagat Prakash Nadda, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and the party’s entire parliamentary board for reposing faith in him.The BJP’s central election committee had announced Bansal’s candidature for the seat on Monday night.Vice-Chairman of the state level 20-point programme implementation committee with an RSS background, Bansal holds the rank of a cabinet minister in Uttarakhand.He has been fielded for the Rajya Sabha seat that falls vacant next month on completion of Congress MP Raj Babbar’s tenure on November 25.Election of Bansal is certain with the BJP having 57 out of a total of 70 assembly seats in the state in its kitty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-poll-bjp-candidate-naresh-bansal-files-nomination/story-Uzb4nOkgpUBm1NG3NEI04I.html
27-10-2020||India||‘Corruption hurts development’: PM Modi calls for transparent, responsible and answerable admin process||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday singled out corruption as the biggest enemy of transparent and responsible administrative processes. PM Modi was addressing the national conference on vigilance and anti-corruption via video conferencing. “It is imperative for development that our administrative processes are transparent, responsible, accountable and answerable to the people. Corruption was the biggest enemy of all these processes. Corruption hurts development and disrupts social balance,” PM Modi said.He said during his address that the country is preparing to celebrate Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s birth anniversary and called him an architect of India’s administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corruption-hurts-development-pm-modi-calls-for-transparent-responsible-and-answerable-admin-process/story-Hy54jppBljm9KSeYN8QPcO.html
27-10-2020||India||Farmer is our annadata, use of technology can make them prosperous, says Uddhav Thackeray||Farmers can prosper if modern technology is used in agriculture, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Tuesday.Speaking at the online inauguration of a meeting of agriculture universities in the state, he also advised farmers to focus on growing crops which have a market.“The farmer is our `annadata’ (someone who provides food). If technology is used in agriculture, farmers will become prosperous,” Thackeray said.“Farmers should now grow crops that sell,” he added.Punjabrao Deshmukh Agriculture University, Akola and Maharashtra Council of Agricultural Education and Research have organized the 48th Joint Agriculture Research and Development Committee (Agrisco) Meeting.Speaking on the occasion, Union Minister of State for Electronics and IT Sanjay Dhotre said information technology should be used to make agriculture more productive.State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse said the latest research must reach farmers, and the Maharashtra government is taking steps in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-is-our-annadata-use-of-technology-can-make-them-prosperous-says-uddhav-thackeray/story-h7p1hLgQUo4CeLKj6ye7HI.html
27-10-2020||India||Kerala Opposition leader says CMO involved in gold smuggling case||Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala on Tuesday alleged that evidence from the gold smuggling probe by investigative agencies pointed out that the Kerala Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) had been used by former Principal Secretary M Sivasankar for gold smuggling and hawala transactions.“The WhatsApp chats that came out of Sivasankar with his Chartered Accountant are shocking. The chats revealed the hand of the former Principal Secretary. After Kerala CMO’s close connection of Ministers KT Jaleel and Kadakampally Surendran came out and both Ministers visited the UAE consulate many times. They should make clear why they visited a foreign consulate,” he said.The Congress leader said now Koduvally Left MLA Karat Rasak’s involvement has come out and it is a serious matter.“The involvement of more and more CPI(M) leaders are being revealed. Sivasankar was the kingpin in the gold smuggling. Now, it has come to light that he was using Kerala CMO to help the gold smuggling accused. Pinarayi Vijayan has no moral authority to continue in the post,” he said.Reacting to Pinarayi Vijayan’s remark regarding the Opposition Leader rejecting the stand taken by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Centre of Centre using investigation agencies pin down political opponents, he said, “Rahul Gandhi is my leader. Vijayan should not be worried about what is happening in Congress. He should be worried about his own party. CPI(M) and BJP are making baseless allegations to corner me, which will not work.”Regarding the Walayar case, Chennithala said, “I had visited the house in Walayar where the mother of the Dalit sisters, who were sexually assaulted and killed are protesting. Till now, the SC/ST Minister AK Balan has not even visited the family. This government has failed to give justice to the family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-opposition-leader-says-cmo-involved-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-ldpTgdOOOEKvYDCyMQMDBJ.html
27-10-2020||India||Centre amends laws to allow people from outside J&K to buy land there||The Centre has paved the way for people from outside Jammu and Kashmir to buy land in the union territory by amending several laws, over a year after the nullification of Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution. In a gazette notification, the Centre has omitted the phrase “permanent resident of the state” from Section 17 of the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act that deals with disposal of the land in the union territory. Before repeal of Article 370 and Article 35-A in August last year, non-residents could not buy any immovable property in Jammu and Kashmir. However, the fresh changes have paved the way for non-residents to buy land in the union territory.Also Read | Centre designates 18 Pakistan-based terrorists as ‘individual terrorists’ Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha told reporters that the amendments did not allow transfer of agricultural land to non-agriculturists. However, there are several exemptions in the Act which enable transfer of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes, including setting up of educational or health care facilities. Former Advocate General Mohammad Ishaq Qadri said the amendments have opened floodgates for people from outside Jammu and Kashmir to buy lands. “Now there is no legal bar on purchase of land here by outsiders,” he said. National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said the amendments were “unacceptable”. “Unacceptable amendments to the land ownership laws of J&K. Even the tokenism of domicile has been done away with when purchasing non-agricultural land & transfer of agricultural land has been made easier. J&K is now up for sale & the poorer small land holding owners will suffer,” Omar tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-amends-laws-to-allow-people-from-outside-j-k-to-buy-land-there/story-zsrkHYZOUUwcowhkZCpXNL.html
27-10-2020||India||Driver, cleaner killed as boulders crush truck in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh||Two men were crushed to death when boulders fell on their truck in Pithoragarh district on Monday evening, officials said.Driver Naveen Kumar (25) and cleaner Suraj Kumar (20), who were killed, hailed from Champawat district. district officials said. Tushar Saini, sub-divisional magistrate Pithoragarh said the incident occurred near Gurna temple on Pithoragarh-Tanakpur road, on which road widening work is going on. The truck was going from Pithoragarh to Tanakpur, he said. Saini said after they were informed about the incident, the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) team was called for search and rescue operations. With much difficulty the SDRF team managed to take out the bodies from the debris, he said. The bodies were then handed over to the local police. Saini said though the road widening work remains closed between 8 am to 3.30 pm on a daily basis, the danger of boulder fall or shooting stones still remains. “We have been cautioning vehicle operators on this road stretch about the possibility of boulder fall,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/driver-cleaner-killed-as-boulders-crush-truck-in-uttarakhand-s-pithoragarh/story-K8G6RtygyOkBuS9I5Bro9K.html
27-10-2020||India||Centre asks 14 states to increase RT-PCR tests, bring positivity rate below 5||The Union health ministry has asked 14 states to control the Covid-19 pandemic by reducing the test positivity rate (TPR) below 5% and keep a close watch on ‘evolving situation’ in view of the festive season.In a communication to these states having high Covid numbers, the Centre stressed on the need to increase the number of RT-PCR (reverse transcription- polymerase chain reaction) tests to identify Covid patients in a bid to reduce TPR and fatality rates. The Centre’s directive came during a review meeting held with representatives of various states through a video conferencing earlier this month.The Centre’s report containing challenges and action plan for 14 states say , “The high caseload districts including Hyderabad (Telangana), Chennai & Salem (Tamil Nadu), Alwar & Kota (Rajasthan), Nagpur (Maharashtra), East Godavari & Chittoor (Andhra Pradesh) and Kamrup district (Assam) need high degree of alertness to be maintained.” All the states were asked to have an intensive IEC (information, education and communication) campaign under a Jan-Andolan to create mass awareness among people against Covid-19 and plan, install and operationalize PSA (pressure swing adsorption) oxygen generation plants in government hospitals. “Delhi has seen a drop in number of tests. The split of tests is heavily skewed towards antigen tests. Delhi should follow the ICMR protocol and ramp up testing by RT-PCR. Despite a decrease in absolute number of deaths, Delhi needs to ensure decline in fatality rate. It also needs to restart monitoring of hospital wise fatalities,” the report said. In regard with Maharashtra which has the highest Covid numbers, it said, “Though the average daily new cases are showing a declining trend, Maharashtra’s week on week average number of tests done is declining. The state is also witnessing a high positivity rate. The week on week case fatality rate is also increasing which is an area of concern.” The report further says, “The death in the first 48 hours is very high among hospitalised patients. The state needs to ensure effective surveillance for early case detection and an ambulance system that would promptly shift the patients to hospital.” On Kerala which was once hailed as a role model for its fight against the pandemic the report states, “The weekly new cases have increased manifold which is a matter of concern. The testing has gone down and the positivity rate has gone up.” Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal were asked to ramp up testing particularly through RT-PCR. About Telangana, the report says, “As compared to mid-September there is a reversal of testing strategy from RT-PCR (90% in mid-September) to RAT (rapid antigen test) (89% in October). If this is due to data discrepancy the same needs to be corrected with ICMR.” The report warns Tamil Nadu stating that the state is witnessing a migration in hotspot areas to newer districts. On infection and deaths among health care workers (HCWs) the centre asked Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Odisha to work on it by training and re-training HCWs on infection, prevention and control practices. The report also said high death rate in the first 24 to 72 hours in the states like Madhya Pradesh (26% of Covid deaths in first 24 hours), West Bengal (20% of Covid deaths in first 24 hours) and Rajasthan (25.6% of Covid deaths in first 24 hours) was an issue of concern.The report said these states with Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka have a positivity rate of 12% or more. Besides these states, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh too were asked to reduce the fatality rate among Covid patients. Madhya Pradesh Health Commissioner Dr Sanjay Goyal said, “We are working on the action plan including PSA oxygen generation plants. The situation is much under control in the state which is far better than that in many other states. We are constantly working on strengthening our health system.”Principal secretary, department of Medical and Health, Rajasthan Akhil Arora said, “Concerns raised by GoI were suitably addressed. However, the kind of information available with them had certain gaps. We apprised them with the action plan and steps taken by the state, the union secretary and DG ICMR, appreciated five things Rajasthan is practicing – pre-Covid suspect treatment; post-Covid treatment; overall arrangement of oxygen; testing strategy and Jan Andolan for awareness, which we started prior to GoI.” He said, “Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu are the only two states, which are conducting 100% RT-PCR tests. Our confirmation percentage is around 5% as compared to the national average, which is over 7%. Less than 10% of patients are dying within 24 hours due to Covid-19.” Odisha health secretary Pradipta Mohapatra said, “Currently Odisha has less than 3,000 patients in hospitals and oxygen supply is not an issue. Besides, since last 8 days Odisha has continued to report less than 2,000 new Covid-19 cases bringing down the daily positivity rate to 4%.” Managing director of National Health Mission, Odisha, Shalini Pandit, who is looking after the Covid tests, however, did not comment on the declining number of tests as well as RT-PCR tests. As per Kerala health officials the test positivity rate (TPR) is almost triple the national average (14.19% against 5%) and in active caseload it is on third spot. Officials said a Union health ministry expert team that visited Kerala two weeks back was satisfied with the state government’s initiatives. (With inputs from Rajasthan, Odisha and Kerala bureaux)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-14-states-to-increase-rt-pcr-tests-bring-positivity-rate-below-5/story-u8p0VIVJzpDgFXzadhssjL.html
27-10-2020||India||Covid-19: MHA extends guidelines for re-opening till November 30, most remain unchanged||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Tuesday extended the guidelines for re-opening the country, which were issued last month, till November 30. There are no fresh changes and all major activities have already been allowed but strict lockdown will continue in containment zones, it has said.The latest guidelines also asked people to exercise extreme caution and follow Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Jan Aandolan launched earlier this month and to fight the coronavirus pandemic.Here is a look at the re-opening guidelines:Re-opening of activities outside containment zonesAlmost all activities have been gradually opened up in areas outside containment zones since the first order on lockdown measures by the MHA on March 24. While most activities have been permitted, some involving large gatherings have been allowed with some restrictions and subject to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) regarding health and safety precautions being followed. These activities include Metro rail, shopping malls, hotels, restaurants and hospitality services, religious places, yoga and training institutes, gymnasiums, cinemas, entertainment park etc.State governments and administrations of Union territories have been permitted to make decisions for their re-opening, based on the assessment of the situation and subject to SOPs. These include schools and coaching institutes and state and private universities for research scholars allowing gatherings above the limit of 100 etc.Activities permitted but with certain restrictionsThe MHA said that further decision regarding these activities will be taken based on the assessment of the situation.International air travel of passengers as permitted by MHASwimming pools being used for training of sportspersonsExhibitions halls for business to business (B2B) purposesCinemas, theatres and multiplexes up to 50% of their seating capacitySocial, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations, in closed spaces with a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity and subject to a ceiling of 200 peopleCovid-19 appropriate behaviourThe MHA has already advised chief secretaries and administrators of all states and Union territories that they should endeavour to promote Covid-19 appropriate behaviour “extensively at the grass-root level and take measures to enforce the wearing of masks, hand hygiene and social distancing.”“The essence behind graded re-opening and progressive resumption of activities is to move ahead. However, it does not mean the end of the pandemic. There is a need to exercise abundant caution by adopting COVID-19 appropriate behaviour by every citizen in their daily routine,” the MHA said in its guidelines.“A ‘Jan Andolan’ was launched by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi on 8th October 2020 on COVID-19 appropriate behaviour to follow three mantras, namely: wear your mask properly; wash your hands frequently; and maintain a safe distance of 6 feet,” it added.Directives for Covid-19 managementThe national directives for Covid-19 management, the MHA said, will continue to be followed throughout the country, so as to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.Strict enforcement of lockdown in containment zones till November 30Lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in the containment zones till November 30Containment zones shall be demarcated by district authorities after taking into consideration the guidelines of the Union health ministry with the objective of effectively breaking the chain of transmission. Strict containment measures will be enforced in these containment zones and only essential activities will be allowed.Within the containment zones, strict perimeter control shall be maintained and only essential activities allowed.These containment zones will be notified on the websites of the respective District Collectors and by the States/ UTs and information will also be shared with the health ministry.States will not impose any local lockdown outside containment zones. They will not impose any local lockdown on the state, district, sub-division, city or village level outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the central government.No restriction on inter- and intra-state movementThere shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. There is no separate permission, approval or e-permit need for such movements.Protection of vulnerable peopleVulnerable people or those above 65 years of age, with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years, are advised to stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes.Aarogya SetuThe use of Aarogya Setu mobile application will continue to be encouraged, the MHA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-extends-guidelines-for-re-opening-most-remain-unchanged/story-rakuYGHWVQnI4hslOGE4mJ.html
27-10-2020||India||Woman shot dead outside college in Haryana’s Ballabhgarh, accused arrested||The man, who shot dead a 21-year-old woman just after she took an examination in a college in Haryana’s Ballabhgarh on Monday, and his accomplice have been arrested, according to reports. The main accused, who the police have said knew the victim, had tried to pull the woman inside his car in a possible bid to abduct her and then shot her.“My daughter went to appear for an examination at the college. The assailant tried to forcibly make her sit in his car but she refused. After a brief scuffle, he shot her,” the victim’s father said, according to news agency ANI. “We complained earlier also as these people used to trouble her and now they have killed my daughter,” he added. “Nikita had come to college for an exam. Accused, Touseef, whom she knew, tried to speak to her and then shot her,” Jaiveer Rathi, Ballabhgarh’s additional commissioner of police (ACP), said.The woman, a final year student of BCom, was rushed to a hospital after the attack but succumbed to her injuries, police said.Haryana chief minister ML Khattar assured that strict action will be taken against the culprits and state home minister Anil Vij said a special investigation team (SIT) is probing the killing of the woman.“Both accused involved in the brutal murder of a girl student in Faridabad last evening have been arrested. The murder weapon has been recovered. An SIT led by ACP Crime Anil Kumar will ensure quick probe and time-bound trial to ensure justice to the family,” Vij was quoted as saying by ANI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-shot-dead-outside-college-in-haryana-s-ballabgarh-accused-arrested/story-pbZS9eOm88hYiLaYhUxtPK.html
27-10-2020||India||MCDs not releasing salaries of doctors shameful, Centre must grant funds to civic bodies: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said it is shameful that doctors of MCD-run hospitals are forced to protest over salary dues and requested the Centre to grant funds to municipal corporations so that their paychecks can be issued.  Several doctors in hospitals run by the North MCD have claimed they have not been paid in three months and have been protesting for the last two weeks. Kejriwal also alleged gross mismanagement and corruption in the functioning of the MCDs and said it was time things were set right. There was no immediate reaction available from the North MCD. “It pains me that our doctors have to protest for their salaries. These doctors risked their lives to serve us during the pandemic. This is shameful,” the CM said while inaugurating a waste-to-energy plant at the Ghazipur poultry and fish market. “We have been witnessing that civic bodies have not been able to pay salaries of teachers, sanitation workers and doctors over the years. Why is there such an acute shortage of funds in MCDs?” he asked. “We have released more funds to the MCDs as compared to previous governments. We have given them more than their due,” he said. Kejriwal said there should be no politics over the issue of doctors’ salaries and everybody should make efforts to ensure they get their paychecks. He claimed that the Centre has been “providing grants to municipal corporations across the country, barring Delhi”. “I request the Centre to give funds to MCDs so that they release salaries of doctors,” the CM said.  The pandemic has hit the tax collection of the Delhi government. Still, it has been managing affairs properly and releasing salaries of its doctors and teachers, he said. “If we had the funds, I would have given the salaries of doctors of MCD-run hospitals today itself… doesn’t matter if it was as per the Constitution or not,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mcds-not-releasing-salaries-of-doctors-shameful-centre-must-grant-funds-to-civic-bodies-kejriwal/story-hR0JPTDsZ5xdrG8ArfpElN.html
27-10-2020||India||US stands with India, says Mike Pompeo; cites killing of Indian soldiers in Galwan||US secretary of state Mike Pompeo on Tuesday offered his support to India as he mentioned the killing of Indian Army soldiers in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley after a clash with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in June this year.“We visited the National War Memorial to honour brave men and women of Indian armed forces who sacrificed for the world’s largest democracy, including 20 killed by PLA in Galwan Valley. The US will stand with India as they confront threats to their sovereignty, liberty,” Pompeo said while issuing a joint statement after the 2+2 India-US Ministerial Dialogue.Cornering China, Pompeo said, “The US and India are taking steps to strengthen our cooperation against all manner of threats and not just those posed by the Chinese Communist Party. Last year, we have expanded our cooperation on cyber issues, our navies have held joint exercises in the Indian Ocean.”Pompeo accused China’s ruling party of not following the rule of law and transparency. “Our leaders and citizens see with increasing clarity that the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is no friend to democracy, rule of law, transparency... I’m glad to say India and the US are taking all steps to strengthen cooperation against all threats and not just those posed by CCP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-stands-with-india-us-secretary-of-state-pompeo-says-mentions-killing-of-indian-army-soldiers-in-galwan-valley/story-4zGkQgjXLoQ4a6EQ58bFcL.html
27-10-2020||India||NCP looking for non-Congress, non-BJP partners for Goa polls: Praful Patel||The Nationalist Congress Party will offer a non-Congress non-BJP option for the people of Goa and will look to get together with like minded parties ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in the state, party leader Praful Patel said Tuesday. Addressing a press conference in Goa, the former Union minister for civil aviation, also said that a post-poll anti-BJP alliance could be on the cards in Goa on the lines of the Maha Vikas Angadi (MVA) government in neighbouring Maharashtra. “I am sure the NCP along with like minded parties without Congress or BJP will be in a position to build trust of the people of Goa. NCP will work in every constituency in Goa and try to build the party in a formidable way. Certainly not with BJP or Congress as I said, last time, they (Congress) did not want to have an alliance with us. Now also they are making announcements that they will fight on their own. We will definitely not go with AAP,” Patel said. When asked who these other parties would be, Patel said that he was looking at smaller parties and independents. “Last time so many won as independents and there are smaller parties. I have been approached by many persons from Goa, some sitting MLAs too and others,” he said. Patel said that a senior minister from the Maharashtra government will be in charge of Goa affairs so that the party could reach every constituency effectively in the next 18 months.Goa is scheduled to go to the polls in early 2022.The NCP is currently represented by a lone MLA -- Churchill Alemao in the Goa Legislative Assembly who has chosen to remain ‘neutral’ while supporting the government on some issues, opposing them on others but choosing to remain seated when issues are put to vote in the legislative assembly. Political developments in the state have been picking up pace with an eye on the elections now barely 18 months away with a former BJP MLA joining the Goa Forward Party along with a few other people including former BJP MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncp-looking-for-non-congress-non-bjp-partners-for-goa-polls-praful-patel/story-6UaSMh3njGpSPnXunq3C4H.html
27-10-2020||India||100 MSRTC bus staffers who worked in Mumbai test positive for Covid-19||At least 100 Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) staffers tested positive after reaching Sangli district in Maharashtra, the corporation said onTuesday.The staffers were deployed in Mumbai and were operating buses in the city. They had completed their duty and reached their hometown where they underwent a rapid antigen testing. Of the 400 MSRTC staffers, at least 100 tested positive. MSRTC staffers are deployed in the city for seven days after which they return to their home towns. The Brihan Mumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) has leased buses from MSRTC to operate in the city. A total of 3,500 MSRTC staffers are deployed everyday to operate buses in the city.“Ninety per cent of the MSRTC staffers that tested positive are asymptomatic. The staffers were operating buses in the city. A hundred of them tested positive. Most are under home quarantine. The ones who have mild symptoms are hospitalised. There is no critical patient.”said Abhijeet Bhosale, MSRTC spokesperson.MSRTC staffers who have returned from the city in other districts of Maharashtra will also be screened for coronavirus.Earlier this month, the BEST had hired 76 MSRTC buses to operate in the city. Later, BEST hired nearly 1,000 MSRTC buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-msrtc-bus-staffers-who-worked-in-mumbai-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-WqaWlCRhD6AEDGtrzGg57J.html
27-10-2020||India||Significant move, says Rajnath Singh as India signs defence pact, BECA with US||India and the United States signed the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) during the 2+2 ministerial dialogue on Tuesday which allows both countries to share sensitive information regarding satellite and sensor data. The landmark defence pact was signed after discussions between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his visiting American counterpart Mark Esper.In a joint statement after the signing, Singh described it as a “significant move” and said, “We reaffirmed our commitment to peace and security in Indo-Pacific region... Our military to military cooperation with the US moving forward very well and we have identified projects for joint development of defence equipment.”Also Read | What is BECA and what does it mean for India and US?“We also agreed that upholding rules-based international order respecting rule of law and freedom of navigation in the international sea and uploading territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states are essential,” Singh also said.US secretary of state Mark Pompeo mentioned the killing of 20 Indian Army personnel in Galwan Valley after a clash with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China and said his country stands with India to deal with any threat.“The US and India are better aligned to protect our democracies and shared values,” Pompeo also said during the joint statement.“Our leaders and citizens see with increasing clarity that Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is no friend to democracy, rule of law and transparency,” Pompeo said taking shots at China. “I am glad to say India and US are taking all steps to strengthen cooperation against all threats and not just those posed by CCP,” he added.BECA is considered the last of the foundational agreements between India and the US. The agreement was proposed between the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency of the US department of defence and the defence ministry and allows India and the US to share military information which includes maps, nautical and aeronautical charts, commercial and other unclassified imagery, geodetic, geophysical, geomagnetic and gravity data.Most of the information that will be shared under the agreement will be that of the unclassified category but there is a provision of sharing classified information as well .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/significant-move-says-rajnath-singh-as-india-signs-defence-pact-beca-with-us/story-5XbOt8kCcImb66wSdMmKGM.html
27-10-2020||India||BJP leaders conduct coronavirus awareness campaign at major Delhi roads||Delhi BJP leaders, including party president Adesh Gupta, on Tuesday participated in a coronavirus awareness campaign at prominent road intersections in the city and appealed to people to follow safety measures. Gupta along with other party leaders participated in the campaign at ITO crossing in the morning and were seen carrying posters with the message “Jab Tak Dawai Nahi, Tab Tak Dhilai Nahi” (No laxity until there is a cure).“Coronavirus crisis is not yet over, so even a slight carelessness can cause infection and people need to follow social distancing and other safety measures,” Gupta said.Delhi BJP vice president Virendra Sachdeva, who participated in the campaign near V3S Mall in Nirman Vihar, said awareness is the major weapon to fight Covid-19 till a vaccine is available to check its spread.Several other party leaders including general secretary Kuljeet Chahal at Connaught Place, vice president Rajan Tiwari and spokesperson Aditya Jha at Paharganj Chowk, and vice president Ashok Goel at Shastri Nagar Red Light, created awareness about the need to take safety precautions.The seven-day campaign was launched by the Delhi BJP on Saturday to make people aware of the need to follow precautions like wearing face cover and maintain social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-conduct-coronavirus-awareness-campaign-at-major-delhi-roads/story-7QPylW7Icy4eZhRtPw1xZL.html
27-10-2020||India||SpiceJet starts online booking of Covid-19 test for passengers in India, UAE||Low budget airline SpiceJet has commenced online booking of Covid-19 reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for its passengers that can be taken at home in India and UAE. This makes SpiceJet the only airline to offer such a facility to its passengers. The airline is working with VFS Global, a visa outsourcing and technology services specialist, to provide this facility.The airline said the cost of the test will be as per the price set by local government bodies and the same rates will apply for children and adults.The aim is to ease passengers’ travel experience because it is mandatory for international passengers to produce Covid-19 negative test reports on arrival. According to SpiceJet, there are rising apprehensions among travellers regarding the process of complying with various pre-travel requirements. This facility will help passengers book RT-PCR test using the appointment booking service offered by VFS Global.Also read | Bangladesh-India flights to resume from October 28 through ‘air bubble’The airline spokesperson said, “Passengers will have to visit SpiceJet’s website and avail the service under the ‘Add-ons’ section. To initiate the booking process, they will have to click on the ‘Book now’ button and follow a few simple steps to book an appointment. They can either request for a test at their doorstep or visit the nearby lab, as per their convenience and the available schedule. Besides, customers will also be offered the option to select their preferred testing location and appointment slot. SpiceJet chief commercial officer Shilpa Bhatia said, “SpiceJet’s online booking of the Covid-19 test is a step in that direction and we believe that this will give our passengers the confidence and peace of mind while adjusting to the new norms of travelling. Though the service is currently available for customers in India and the UAE, we plan to roll it out for a host of other countries soon.”The airline said that Indian customers can also visit an associated ICMR approved lab in Mumbai, Delhi, Kochi, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Chennai, Bangalore, Jalandhar, Chandigarh, Ahmedabad and Pune. Passengers travelling from UAE will have to submit their test samples at the partnered laboratory in Ajman, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, or Sharjah, or at a chocied location within UAE. The test prices will start from AED 160 for both children and adults and results will be sent to the registered email address within 24 to 60 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-starts-online-booking-of-covid-19-test-for-passengers-in-india-uae/story-IxXLg4UTIkWizjoBt0Nu0K.html
27-10-2020||India||Centre terms 18 individuals as terrorists under UAPA: Check who they are||The Centre on Tuesday released a list of 18 individuals who have been declared as ‘terrorists’ under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. The Union home ministry in a statement said that these 18 terrorists have been involved in several acts of terrorism across the border and have been relentless in their criminal efforts to destabilise India.Some of these terrorists have been a part of the major attacks the country has ever seen such 26/11 Mumbai attacks (2008), attack on the Akshardham Temple (2002), Parliament attack of 2001 and Mumbai blasts of 1993. The list also includes terrorist who have carried out attacks in Kashmir. The UAPA, 1967 was amended in August 2019 to include the provision of declaring an individual as a terrorist. Before this, only organisations could be declared as terror outfits. Here is the complete list 1.Sajid Mir- also known as (Sajid Majeed, Ibrahim Shah, Wasi, Khali, Muhammad Waseem)Sajid Mir is a Pakistan based top LeT Commander and was one of the main planners of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack in 2008.2.Yusuf Muzammil- also known as ( Ahmad Bhai, Yousuf Muzammil Butt, Hurreira Bhai)Yusuf Muzammil, also referred to as Yousuf Muzammil Butt, is another Pakistan based Commander of LeT operations in Jammu & Kashmir and is also accused in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack.3.Abdur Rehman Makki- also known as (Abdul Rehman Makki)Abdur Rehman Makki is the brother-in-law of Hafiz Saeed- who is the co-founder of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and is listed on National Investigation Agency (NIA) most wanted list.4.Shahid Mehmood- also known as (Shahid Mehmood Rehmatullah)Shahi Mehmood is the Pakistan based deputy chief of proscribed organization Falah-i-lnsaniyat Foundation (FIF), which is a part of the LeT.5.Farhatullah Ghori- also known as (Abu Sufiyan, Sardar Sahab, Faru)Ghori is Pakistan based terrorist and was involved in the attack on Akshardham Temple (2002) and Suicide attack on Task Force office in Hyderabad (2005).Also Read: Centre designates 18 Pakistan-based terrorists as ‘individual terrorists’6.Abdul Rauf Asghar- also known as (Mufti, Mufti Asghar, Saad baba, Maulana Mufti Rauf Asghar)Another Pakistan-based terrorist, Asghar has been involved in setting up of training camps in Pakistan for recruitment and militant training and key conspirator in the attack on Indian Parliament in 2001.7.Ibrahim Athar- also known as (Ahmed AliMohd. Ali Shaikh, Javed Amjad Siddiqui, A.A. Shaikh, Chief)Ibrahim Athar was involved in the Kandhar hijacking of 1999 and was also a key conspirator in the Indian Parliament attack of 2001.8.Yusuf Azhar- also known as (Azhar Yusuf, Mohd. Salim )Pakistan-based terrorist, involved in the 1999 Kandhar hijack.9.Shahid Latif- Chota Shahid Bhai- Noor Al Din)Shahid Latif is Jaish-e- Mohammed’s (JeM’s) Commander of Sialkot sector, involved in the launching of terrorists into India. He is also involved in planning, facilitation and execution of terror attacks in the country.10.Syed Mohammad Yusuf Shah- most commonly known as Syed Salahudeen (also known as Peer Sahab, Buzurg)The biggest name in this list is of Syed Mohammad Yusuf Shah aka Syed Salahudeen- the supreme commander of the terror-outfit Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM) and chairman of the United Jihad Council. He is involved in fundraising and routing finances to India for the furtherance of terrorist activities by Hizb-ul-Mujahideen’s cadres.11.Ghulam Nabi Khan- also known as (Amir Khan, Saifullah Khalid, Khalid Saifullah, Jawaad, Daand)Pakistan based Ghulam Nabi Khan is the deputy supreme of the Hizbul Mujahideen.12.Zaffar Hussain Bhat- also known as (Khursheed, Mohd. Zafar Khan, Moulvi, Khursheed Ibrahim)Being the deputy chief of the Hizbul Mujahideen, Zaffar Hussain Bhat handles financial affairs of the terror outfit. He is responsible for sending funds for operatives in the Kashmir Valley.13.Riyaz Ismail Shahbandri- also known as (Shah Riyaz Ahmed, Riyaz Bhatkal, Md. Riyaz, Ahmed Bhai, Rasool Khan, Roshan Khan, Aziz)Founder member of terrorist organization Indian Mujahideen, Shahbandri has been involved in various bomb attacks in India including German Bakery (2010), Chinnaswami Stadium, Bangalore (2010), Jama Masjid (2010), Sheetlaghat (2010) and Mumbai (2011) etc.14.Md. Iqbal- also known as (Shabandri Mohammed Iqbal, Iqbal Bhatkal)Iqbal is the co-founder of the Indian Mujahideen. He has been involved in terror financing and various serial blast attacks including Jaipur Serial Blasts (2008), Delhi Serial Blasts (2008), Serial Blasts of Ahmedabad and Surat (2008), German Bakery Blast, Pune of (2010) and Chinnaswami Stadium, Bengaluru Blasts (2010) etc.15.Shaikh Shakeel- also known as Chhota ShakeelA close associate of Dawood Ibrahim, Chhota Shakeel looks after all criminal and underworld operations of the D-Company and finances its operatives. He was involved in the smuggling of firearms to Gujarat, India, during the 1993 Bombay blast.16.Mohammad Anis ShaikhPakistan-based terrorist, involved in Bombay Bomb Blast Case, 1993 and responsible for the supply of arms, ammunition and hand grenades.17.Ibrahim Memon- also known as (Tiger Memon, Mushtaq, Sikander, Ibrahim Abdul Razak Memon, Mustafa, Ismail)Ibrahim Memon, alias Tiger Memon hatched the criminal conspiracy of the Bombay Bomb Blast Case, 1993.18.Javed Chikna-also known as (Javed Dawood Tailor)Chikna is another associate of Dawood Ibrahim and was involved in Bombay Bomb Blast case, 1993.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-terms-18-individuals-as-terrorists-under-uapa-check-who-they-are/story-CejvZs21xsFcvaDYiuwpbM.html
27-10-2020||India||India designates 18 terrorists based in Pakistan under anti-terror law||The government on Tuesday formally designated 18 individuals wanted in India for terror attacks as terrorists under a new clause of India’s anti-terror law. The 18 terrorists based in Pakistan include those involved in terrorist attacks in India including the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts, the 26/11 Mumbai attacks, IC 814 hijacking, Pathankot airbase attack and the Pulwama suicide bombing.This is the third batch of terrorists designated under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967 that was amended in August 2019 to include a provision for designating an individual - and not just a group - as a terrorist.Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar, Lashkar-e-Taiba co-founder Hafiz Saeed, Lashkar-e-Taiba commander Zakir-ur-Rehman Lakhvi and underworld don Dawood Ibrahim were the first to be designated last year under this law. In July, the Union home ministry had designated another nine individuals associated with the Khalistan separatist movement driven by Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence (ISI).A Union home ministry statement said the Modi government had reinforced the commitment to strengthen national security and its policy of zero tolerance to terrorism by issuing the fresh list of 18 designated terrorists.Some of the names on the list include 26/11 mastermind Sajid Mir; Abdur Rehman Makki, the brother-in-law of Lashkar chief Saeed; Abdul Rauf Asghar, the brother of Jaish chief Masood Azhar; Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) chief Syed Salahuddin; Indian Mujahideen (IM) founder Riyaz Bhatkal and his brother Iqbal; Dawood Ibrahim’s right hand man Chhota Shakeel, as well as Tiger Memon and Javed Chikna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-designates-18-terrorists-based-in-pakistan-under-anti-terror-law/story-gtHrQI4ukckQkHgjcqek3J.html
27-10-2020||India||Final testing on to check if Ram temple pillars could last 1000 years||Testing of pillars to be used for construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya is now in its final stages. Among other things the testing is to determine if the pillars would last a thousand years, experts said. In the presence of experts on Monday, around 700 tonnes of weight was put on 12 foundation pillars from the top and from the sides to test their strength and durability. The scientists will also test whether the Ram temple’s foundation will be able to withstand an earthquake or be able to survive in case the Saryu river changes its course. Ayodhya is situated on the banks of river Saryu. This tests are being conducted under guidance of technical experts of Larsen and Toubro and IIT Chennai. Almost all data related with the testing has been sent to IIT Chennai for analysis. The IIT experts will send the final report related to all tests carried out till date and would also test if the foundation pillars will be able to survive for 1000 years, experts said. If required, further tests might also be carried out on suggestion of IIT, experts said. “Most of the testing work is over and a report has been sent to IIT Chennai. Now, IIT experts are carrying out further laboratory tests on the basis of data sent by the technical team of Larsen and Toubro. We are waiting for the IIT’s report,” said Mahant Kamal Nayas Das. Kamal Nayan is successor-designate to Mahant Ntirya Gopal Das, chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. Around 12 pillars, a metre-long in diameter, have been laid 100 feet below the ground. These pillars are being subjected to various tests to check their strength and durability. Around 1,200 pillars will be laid about 100 feet below the surface to prepare the temple’s foundation. In technical terms, this process is called piling. After this testing work is over, remaining pillars will be laid. The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust on September 11 last had started the piling work for testing the foundation pillars.“Before starting construction work of Ram mandir the trust wants to ensure that the temple’s foundation is rock solid and could last for the next 1,000 years,” said Kamal Nayan Das. Stones for construction of Ram mandir will be sourced from mines of Bansi Paharpur in Bharatpur district, Rajasthan. According to experts, pink stones of Bansi Paharpur are considered most durable and can last for more than 1,000 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/final-testing-on-to-check-if-ram-temple-pillars-could-last-1000-years/story-4LsrVc7Yl7e4TZBpF1rbfN.html
27-10-2020||India||Centre designates 18 Pakistan-based terrorists as ‘individual terrorists’||The Centre, on Tuesday, designated 18 Pakistan-based fugitive terrorists or associates as ‘individual terrorists’, including those involved in the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts, the 26/11 Mumbai attack, the 2019 Pulwama bombing, the 2016 Pathankot IAF base attack, the 1999 IC-814 Indian Airlines hijacking, Indian Mujahideen attacks, and terror incidents in Jammu and Kashmir over the years, people familiar with the development said. Among those declared as ‘individual terrorists’, under the amended Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) that allows the seizure of properties of these persons, are Pakistan spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) asset Sajid Mir, who monitored the 26/11 Mumbai attacks from a control room in Karachi; Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) chief Syed Salahuddin, Lashkar-e-Taiba chief Hafiz Saeed’s brother-in-law Abdur Rehman Makki, Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Maulana Masood Azhar’s brother Abdul Rauf Asghar, founder of terror outfit Indian Mujahideen Riyaz Bhatkal and his brother Iqbal Bhatkal, as well as underworld don Dawood Ibrahim’s right hand man Chhota Shakeel, and two others in D Company Tiger Memon and Javed Chikna. Also Read: Imran Khan drags India into his letter to Facebook opposing IslamophobiaIn September 2019, Masood Azhar, Hafiz Saeed, Dawood Ibrahim and Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi were declared ‘individual terrorists’ while nine Khalistani terrorists, including the US-based head of Sikhs For Justice Gurpatwant Singh, were designated so in July this year. According to a statement by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Tuesday, “Under the strong and iron-willed leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Central government had amended the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 in August 2019, to include the provision of designating an individual as a terrorist. Prior to this amendment, only organisations could be designated as terrorist organisations. Union Home Minister Amit Shah has unequivocally reaffirmed the nation’s resolve to fight terrorism.” “Reinforcing the commitment of strengthening national security and its policy of zero tolerance to terrorism, the Modi government today [Tuesday] has declared the following eighteen more individuals as designated terrorists,” it said. While Mir is the main accused in the 26/11 attacks, Abdul Rauf Asghar, allegedly on the directions of the Pakistan army and ISI, has carried out multiple attacks on Indian security forces in the last few years, including in Pathankot and Pulwama, as well as on Parliament on December 13, 2001. Nine others designated as ‘individual terrorists’ on Tuesday are commander of LeT operations in Jammu & Kashmir and accused in the 26/11 Mumbai Terror attack Yusuf Muzammil alias Hurreira Bhai; deputy chief of LeT’s financial arm Falah-i-lnsaniyat Foundation Shahid Mehmood; Pakistan-based terrorist involved in the 2002 Akshardham Temple attack and the 2005 suicide attack on Task Force office in Hyderabad Farhatullah Ghori alias Abu Sufiyan; Ibrahim Athar, Masood Azhar’s cousin who was involved in the hijacking of the Indian Airlines Flight No. lC-814 on December 24, 1999 (the Kandahar hijacking case), and was also the key conspirator in the Indian Parliament terrorist attack; Yusuf Azhar, another IC-814 hijacking accused; Shahid Latif, a JeM commander of Sialkot sector involved in sending JeM terrorists into India; Ghulam Nabi Khan, the deputy supreme of Hizbul Mujahideen (HM); Zaffar Hussain Bhat, the deputy chief of Hizbul Mujahideen; and D Company man Mohammad Anis Shaikh who was involved in the Bombay serial blast case, 1993, and was responsible for the supply of arms, ammunition and hand grenades. “These individuals are involved in various acts of terrorism from across the border and have been relentless in their nefarious efforts of destabilising the country,” the MHA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-designates-18-pakistan-based-terrorists-as-individual-terrorists/story-QTYO9f1UftnvtY54vLLW0J.html
27-10-2020||India||PM Modi condoles demise of ‘Maheshbhai’, ‘Nareshbhai’, shares old photo with Kanodia brothers in remembrance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the demise of actor-turned-politician Naresh Kanodia who passed away on Tuesday, just two days after his Mahesh Kanodia breathed his last. Mahesh Kanodia was 83 and was suffering from prolonged illness. Naresh Kanodia was suffering from Covid-19 and was on ventilation support. In a span of two days, we have lost both Maheshbhai and Nareshbhai Kanodia. Their contributions to the world of culture, especially popularising Gujarati songs, music and theatre will never be forgotten. They also worked hard to serve society and empower the downtrodden. pic.twitter.com/Ri4GzOO5zo“In a span of two days, we have lost both Maheshbhai and Nareshbhai Kanodia. Their contributions to the world of culture, especially popularising Gujarati songs, music and theatre will never be forgotten. They also worked hard to serve society and empower the downtrodden,” PM Modi tweeted sharing an old photo when he can be seen with both the Kanodia brothers. ગુજરાતી ફિલ્મના સુપરસ્ટાર અને ભાજપા અગ્રણીશ્રી નરેશભાઈ કનોડિયાના દુઃખદ અવસાનથી શોકમગ્ન છું.આગવા અભિનય દ્વારા ગુજરાતી ચલચિત્રોને લોકપ્રિય બનાવી ગુજરાતીઓનું હ્રદય જીતનાર સદાબહાર અભિનેતાની ખોટ ગુજરાતને હંમેશા રહેશે.સામાજીક અને કલાક્ષેત્રે તેમનું અમૂલ્ય યોગદાન નવી પેઢીને પ્રેરણા આપશે pic.twitter.com/7lAiDtPYHxThe superstar of Gujarati cinema, Naresh Kanodia worked in more than 100 Gujarati films. He represented Karjan Assembly constituency from 2002 to 2007. The brothers started their musical career together and became one of the most successful musical pairs in Gujarat. In 2012, Naresh Kanodia was awarded with the Dadasaheb Phalke Academy Award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-demise-of-maheshbhai-nareshbhai-shares-old-photo-with-kanodia-brothers-in-remembrance/story-MvT2kMmxUEO19pOmCZS1KN.html
27-10-2020||India||Hathras gangrape case: SC directs Allahabad high court to monitor CBI probe||The Supreme Court (SC) on Tuesday entrusted the monitoring of investigation in the Hathras gangrape and murder case to the Allahabad high court (HC) and left it open-ended about the transfer of the trial from Uttar Pradesh (UP) to Delhi after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) completes its probe. The CBI, which started the probe into the case on October 10, will now report its progress to the HC. The HC will also determine the transfer of the trial and security to witnesses and the victim’s kin.Also read | UP cops gather evidence of Kerala scribe’s role in Hathras violence incitement plotThe order was passed by a SC bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, which had reserved its orders in the case on October 15.The order came following a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking a court-monitored probe by Satyama Dubey, a social activist . Several women lawyers and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) have also joined in with the demand to shift the trial outside UP and provide safety to witnesses in the case. At present, the UP Police authorities are providing round-the-clock protection to the witnesses and family members of the victim. The petitioners demanded Central forces to take over the security duties from UP Police. The apex court has also directed the HC to delete the name of the victim and her family members from the order sheet while taking a suo motu (on its own) cognisance of the proceeding.The HC’s lapse was pointed out to the SC by Solicitor-General (S-G) Tushar Mehta during the last hearing on October 15 . Advocate Seema Kushwaha, who represented the victim’s family, prayed before the apex court to shift the trial to Delhi after the CBI probe is over. S-G Tushar Mehta, who represented the UP government, had submitted before the SC that it had no objection if the probe is court-monitored or security is handed to some other agency. The UP Police maintained that any such order would not reflect the authorities concerned in poor light. The gang-rape rape and murder of a Dalit teenager (19) had occurred in UP’s Hathras district had occurred on September 14. She had succumbed to her injuries at a hospital in Delhi a fortnight later.UP government authorities had performed her last rites at the dead of night the following day under UP Police’s protection.The HC had taken note on its own about the hurried cremation of the victim without showing her face to her family members.The matter is still pending before the HC.So far, UP Police has arrested four upper caste men -- Sandeep Singh, Ravi, Ramu and Luvkush Sikarwar – for their alleged role in the gang-rape and murder of the Hathras victim. The accused are lodged in Delhi’s Alipur jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gangrape-case-sc-orders-monitoring-by-allahabad-high-court/story-SIcFERyVfsL1gAoDquciuJ.html
27-10-2020||India||India, US engaging intensively on matters of national security: Jaishankar in opening remarks at 2+2 ministerial dialogue||In his opening remarks at 2+2 ministerial dialogue, external affairs minister S Jaishankar welcomed the American delegation to India and said that as foreign minister, he attaches great importance to this particular format of interaction for three reasons.“First, we live in a more uncertain world with much greater stresses and sharper faultlines. For most countries, that means giving security a greater salience in their foreign policy. As major powers, this is even more so in our case,” he said.Second, over the last two decades, the bilateral relationship between India and the US has grown in its substance, facets and significance and the accompanying comfort level today enables the two countries to engage much more intensively on matters of national security, he said, adding that this format is clearly tailored to that purpose.“Third, at a time when it is particularly important to uphold a rules-based international order, the ability of India and the US to work closely in defence and foreign policy has a larger resonance. Together, we can make a real difference when it comes to regional and global challenges, whether it is in respecting territorial integrity, promoting maritime domain awareness, countering terrorism or ensuring prosperity,” he said.“I am therefore looking forward to our discussions today. I am sure that they will be very productive and fruitful,” he said while concluding his opening remark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-us-have-to-give-security-a-greater-salience-in-foreign-policies-s-jaishankar/story-EHp6Qigv0sqJdz51cMAzNJ.html
27-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Priyanka Gandhi slams PM SVANidhi scheme, says street vendors need special package, not loan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Priyanka Gandhi slams PM SVANidhi scheme, says street vendors need special package, not loanCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday targeted the Centre over its Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi Yojana (PM SVANidhi scheme) by saying that street vendors require a special assistance package and not a loan. Read moreWhat festive cheer? Why prospects for two-wheelers may be dimmer than for carsThe festive period in India starting around October usually brings about reasons to cheer for the country’s automotive sector regardless of how the preceding months may have been. In the face of challenges galore in 2019, the industry saw an uptick during late September and October of the year which acted as a balm of sorts over sales wounds. Read moreInside Neha Kakkar-Rohanpreet wedding reception: Newlyweds sing a romantic song together, Neha dances like a dreamNeha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh are now married. The couple followed up their grand wedding ceremonies with a reception on Monday. While Neha decked up in white, Rohanpreet was a contrast in blue. Read more‘If Kolkata had a face’: Amitabh Bachchan praises special artwork, netizens love it tooA unique representation of the city of Kolkata has grabbed the attention of netizens after being shared by Amitabh Bachchan on Facebook. Compiling all the special things the City of Joy has to offer, the artwork attempts to capture the essence of the city. Read more Sonam Kapoor Ahuja practises coronavirus safety in Rs 4k pajama set from Dandelion DreamsSonam Kapoor Ahuja is enjoying some down time amid the coronavirus pandemic with husband Anand Ahuja, and the fashionista, much like the rest of us, is spending the days in her pyjamas, or so her recent social media post suggests. Read more‘I’ve found it tougher since retiring’: Australia fast bowling legend Mitchell Johnson opens up on struggles with depressionMitchell Johnson was one of the most fearful bowlers of his generation. He played an integral part in the domination of the Australia cricket team. He was awarded the Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy (ICC Cricketer of the Year) in 2009. Read moreExplained: How India-US BECA pact will help in LAC faceoff with ChinaThe stage is set for the signing of the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement for Geo-Spatial cooperation during the 2+2 meeting between India and US. BECA is considered the last of the foundational agreements to be signed by India and the US. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-priyanka-gandhi-slams-pm-svanidhi-scheme-says-street-vendors-need-special-package-not-loan-and-all-the-latest-news/story-XGrYOYHkY0aBxr3XT70LXJ.html
27-10-2020||India||Less than 0.5% households in Maharashtra have solar home system: Report||Only 41% households in Maharashtra are aware of the solar home system while only 0.43% have installed it in their homes, a survey by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) reveals.The report - State of Electricity Access in India: Insights from the India Residential Energy consumption Survey (IRES) 2020, looks at household energy consumption patterns across 21 states in the country.In Maharashtra, the CEEW surveyed 1,400 households in the state and 96 households in Mumbai. The report also stated that only 7.29% households have considered buying a solar home system. Sunil Mani, programme associate at the CEEW said, “Most of the households who are aware of the system said that it is expensive and also requires more space which is not feasible. Plus, Maharashtra and particularly, Mumbai also has good power supply, which is why many households have not considered the solar system though it is the best option from a sustainability point of view.”Mani said that financially viable products and more awareness of the solar home system could help people switch to it.The survey reveals that 91% of the households use liquified petroleum gas (LPG) for cooking and 5% of the households utilise electricity for cooking. A large number of rural households - 36% - still use traditional cooking fuel. “People in rural households still have a preference for the traditional cooking fuel as it is available cheap. Many urban households also do not switch to using electricity for cooking for cultural reasons,” Mani said.The report states that 99% of the households in Maharashtra are electrified with 22 hours of supply on an average everyday. Ninety eight per cent of the households also have functional meters and 99% are regularly billed while 88% of those surveyed said that they are also satisfied with the services. “Though a high number of consumers are satisfied with the services, many also feel that they need to be informed about power cuts in advance,” Mani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/less-than-0-5-households-in-maharashtra-have-solar-home-system-report/story-cXN5T82JMtwLbpEcXVhgJI.html
27-10-2020||India||Bombay HC refuses bail to man found travelling in SUV with 500 kg ganja in 2018||Non-compliance of search related provision of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985 cannot be considered for granting bail to an accused, the Bombay high court said last week while refusing bail to a Malegaon resident arrested after 500 kg ganja was seized from a SUV in which he was travelling. The accused, Kalu Mohite, was arrested by the Azad Maidan unit of the anti-narcotics cell (ANC) of the Mumbai police on March 13, 2018 while traveling in a SUV in which the narcotic was found. Acting on a specific tip off, the ANC had intercepted the vehicle at Mulund check post and apprehended three persons, including Kalu and driver Sanjay Mohite. The drug material was allegedly kept in 13 gunny bags in the vehicle.After failing to secure bail on the ground of Covid-19 pandemic from special NDPS court, Kalu had moved HC contending that he was falsely implicated in the case. He claimed to be a gratuitous passenger and did not know that the contraband material was being transported in the vehicle.The claim, however, failed to impress justice Bharati Dangre after additional public prosecutor AA Takalkar pointed out that Kalu knew the driver of the vehicle Sajay Mohite and Kalu’s call data record showed that he was in touch with him.Kalu’s counsel, advocate Pritam Runway also contended that the ANC had failed to comply with certain mandatory provisions, like section 50 of the NDPS Act,which confers right on the accused to get himself searched in presence of a gazetted officer or a magistrate.Runway relied on the Constitution bench judgment of the Supreme Court in Baldev Singh’s case to support his contention that failure to comply with section 50 vitiates the trial and Kalu was entitled to bail on the ground of non-compliance of the mandatory provision.Justice Dangre, however, refused to accept that the non-compliance by itself would be a ground to release the accused on bail.The judge said the compliance of section 50 has been held to bemandatory by the Constitution bench, obliging the officer concerned to inform the suspect of his right to be searched in presence of the nearest gazetted officer or magistrate. “However, it has also been held that after being informed,whether such a person opted for such a course or not would bequestion of fact,” the judge said, adding that the safeguard contained in section 50 is to ensure that the persons are only searched with a good cause and also to maintain the veracity of evidence derived from such search.The HC clarified that “this, however, would be required to be established at the trial” and “at the stage of bail the said factor cannot be taken into account.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-refuses-bail-to-man-found-travelling-in-suv-with-500-kg-ganja/story-uUHFtgar2oD0CZi3fwHTPK.html
27-10-2020||India||Supreme Court asks Allahabad high court to monitor Hathras case investigation||The Supreme Court on Tuesday has ordered the Allahabad high court to monitor the ongoing investigation into the Hathras gang-rape case. The order came on a PIL filed by social activist Satyama Dubey demanding a court-monitored probe into the alleged gang-rape of a 19-year Dalit woman, who died on September 29 at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital. All aspects of the investigation will be examined by the Allahabad high court, the apex court has said. At present, the case rests with the Central Bureau of Investigaion (CBI), which may approach the high court with its investigation status report.A three-judge bench headed by CJI SA Bobde felt it appropriate that the high court should monitor the case, considering the fact that the court is already examining a suo moto proceeding on the “hurried cremation” of the victim.The apex court was hearing a batch of pleas which also sought a transfer of the trial from Uttar Pradesh to Delhi as several lawyers, including lawyer-activist Indira Jaising, expressed their apprehension that a fair probe was not possible in Uttar Pradesh. On the question of transferring trial from Uttar Pradesh to Delhi, there has been no ruling as the investigation is still going on.The Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad high court expressed dismay over reports describing how the victim was cremated in a hurried way allegedly without the consent of the family members. It took suo moto cognisance of the case and summoned top government and police officers of Uttar Pradesh. It has also heard the family members of the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-directs-allahabad-high-court-to-monitor-hathras-case-investigation/story-e0D53zn2SXIep8wCKsSM7I.html
27-10-2020||India||At NSA Doval’s meeting with Pompeo and Esper, focus on shared objectives||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defense chief Mark Esper on Tuesday met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval to discuss challenges of strategic importance for the two countries. The two sides highlighted the need to take forward shared objectives and build capabilities across all domains, people familiar with the matter said.Mike Pompeo is the country with Esper for the two-plus-two dialogue, his first stop in a four-nation tour to drive the Trump administration’s anti-China message that will later take him to Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Indonesia. At all his meetings, according to reports in the US, Pompeo is expected to build support for countries to push back in Chinese assertiveness. Indian officials said the two sides did also speak about India’s military stand-off with China’s People’s Liberation Army that has continued for 175 days and led to bloodshed as well in June.Officials said NSA Doval, Pompeo and Esper extensively discussed ways to deepen the relationship between the two countries and beyond to ensure a safe, stable and rule based regional and global security environment, an oblique reference to China that has driven India, United States, Japan and Australia as part of QUAD, or Quadrilateral Security Dialogue.Also Read: India should end its ostrich-like approach to China, work with the US | AnalysisUS President Donald Trump has, right from the beginning, worked closely with India over the last four years to deepen military ties between the two countries in an effort to isolate China. In February this year, the two countries had sealed defence deals with US $ 3 billion.Pompeo and Esper had opened their India visit with talks with their counterparts. External affairs minister S Jaishankar who met Pompeo last evening tweeted that relations between the emerging allies had “grown substantially in every domain”. They agreed the US-India partnership is “critical to the security and prosperity of both countries, the Indo-Pacific region, and the world,” according to a US statement.Pompeo and Esper sealed BECA (Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement) at their “two-plus-two” talks with Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday morning that will enable the US to share geo-spatial intelligence and give India access to sophisticated missile technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-nsa-doval-s-meeting-with-pompeo-and-esper-focus-on-shared-objectives/story-ew9TxGGDsjXdLyp7gUKdtL.html
27-10-2020||India||I-T dept busts Rs 500-cr racket of fake bills operating from several states||The Income Tax Department on Monday carried out raids on a large network of entry operation racketeers who generated cash through fake billing. The search operations were conducted on 42 premises across Delhi- NCR, Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa.According to a press release issued by the department on Tuesday, documents showing accommodation entries of more than Rs 500 crore were found and seized. Documents evidencing accommodation entries of more than Rs 500 cr were seized.During the search, cash of Rs. 2.37 cr & jewellery worth Rs. 2.89 cr has been found along with 17 bank lockers, which are yet to be operated. Further probe underway: Central Board of Direct Taxes https://t.co/wfcCplSPo6“Several shell firms were used by the searched entry operators for layering of unaccounted money and cash withdrawals against fake bills issued and unsecured loans given. The personal staff members were made dummy directors/partners of these shell entities and all bank accounts were managed and controlled by these entry operators. Statements of such entry operators, their dummy partners/employees, the cash handlers as well as the covered beneficiaries have also been recorded clearly validating the entire money trail,” the statement said.The individuals raided by the department were also found to be beneficial owners of several bank accounts and lockers, functional under the names of their family members, employees or shell entities. How these individuals were managing these accounts online in collusion with bank officials is being further investigated, the statement added. Rs 2.37 crore and jewellery worth Rs 2.89 crore was seized and 17 bank lockers, which are yet to be operated, were found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-t-raids-on-fake-currency-racketeers-across-states-expose-rs-500-crore-racket-of-entry-operation/story-CgEdUDwGZlYlMJ4zzaWKuJ.html
27-10-2020||India||Bengal tries out greener measures for idol immersion post Durga puja||Authorities in West Bengal are trying out greener methods for idol immersion this Durga Puja, the biggest festival in the state, to keep the water bodies and the Hooghly river cleaner and less polluted. In south-Dum Dum, in the northern fringes of Kolkata, authorities have earmarked and barricaded portions of two large water bodies to try out an immersion model. Synthetic liners have been spread out below and on the sides of the earmarked portion, which authorities said will help to check the pollution from spreading to the rest of the water body. “We are also planning to come up with mobile treatment plants so that the polluted water in the earmarked zone of the pond could be treated. The sludge deposited in the synthetic liner would be scraped out. This would help the water body to stay cleaner and less polluted,” said Kalyan Rudra, chairman of the West Bengal Pollution Control Board. Around 1000 idols, both big and small, are expected to be immersed in the two ponds. The immersion process started on Monday and around 200 have already been immersed. The immersions will end on Thursday.“Our machineries are parked on the banks of the water body and as soon as any idol is immersed the structure is being fished out. We have tied up with the West Bengal Pollution Control Board for this initiative,” said a senior official of South Dum Dum municipality. While authorities in Delhi, had started immersion of idols in artificial ponds created solely for the purpose since 2019 to keep post-immersion pollution in the Yamuna river low, Mumbai has been doing it for the past few years for now to keep the sea clean. In Kolkata a few hundred idols are immersed in the Hooghly river after Durga Puja. In yet another initiative, a puja committee in south Kolkata used water jets to melt down the idols. A small water body using bags and synthetic liner was created for the purpose. “It served two objectives. First, we wanted to avoid going to the river bank because of the pandemic. Loading the idols on a truck and unloading it, would require more than a dozen men without maintaining any physical distance. Secondly, it also helped to keep the pollution down in the river as the idol was not immersed in the river,” said a member of the Tridhara Sammilani in south Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-tries-out-greener-measures-for-idol-immersion-post-durga-puja/story-6STBboJOkdUrzPw0gBcEfM.html
27-10-2020||India||Street vendors need special package, not loan: Priyanka Gandhi slams PM SVANidhi scheme||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday targeted the Centre over its Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi Yojana (PM SVANidhi scheme) by saying that street vendors require a special assistance package and not a loan.Taking to Twitter, Gandhi said street vendors and small shopkeepers were hit hard during the coronavirus (Covid-19) induced lockdown that ruined their livelihood. आज पीएम साहब यूपी के कुछ रेहड़ी-पटरी दुकानदारों से बात करेंगे।पूरे लॉकडॉउन में रेहड़ी-पटरी वालों, छोटे दुकानदारों पर भयंकर मार पड़ी। घर चलाना मुश्किल हो गया, रोजी-रोटी उजड़ गई।रेहड़ी-पटरी वालों, दुकानदारों, छोटे व्यापारियों को आज लोन नहीं एक स्पेशल सहायता पैकेज की जरूरत है।On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, through video conferencing, distributed loans to nearly 300,000 street vendors under the scheme and also interacted with its beneficiaries. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath was present at the event.The PM SVANidhi scheme which is entirely funded by the ministry of housing and urban affairs was launched on June 1, 2020 with an aim to provide credit for working capital to street vendors who have been affected due to the Covid-19 crisis in the country.Also Read: ‘Not an income tax officer but asking...’ PM Modi interacts with SVANidhi scheme beneficiariesThe scheme ensures a working capital loan up to Rs 10,000 for these vendors, incentivizes regular payment and rewards digital transactions- which further open up new opportunities and allow this business sector to flourish in the economy. All street vendors who have been in the business on or before March 24, 2020, are eligible to avail the benefits.Prime Minister Modi during his virtual addresses lauded the street vendors and said that India moves forward due to their hard work. He added that maximum use of technology has been ensured in this scheme so that vendors do not face any problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/street-vendors-need-special-package-not-loan-priyanka-gandhi-slams-the-pm-svanidhi-scheme/story-UNqvQeZNOG2sbmEDUcQZPK.html
27-10-2020||India||Khushbu Sundar detained on way to protest VCK chief’s Manusmriti comments||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Khushbu Sundar was detained by the police on Tuesday while on her way to Chidambaram. The BJP leader was on her way to protest against Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) leader Thol Thirumavalavan’s alleged remark that Manusmriti denigrated women.The VCK leader had earlier said, “Manusmriti has made a bad structure in our society in which women are the main focus. In the name of purity, women were made slaves and their character assassination was done. We should discuss what is written. Let PM Modi come, I can discuss it with him. I am a son of Ambedkar and a student of Periyar. I have no intention to hurt anyone, particularly women.”Thirumavalavan had also demanded the ban of the Manusmriti, saying, “Periyar saw that the Manusmriti had made women slaves, which is why I believe that it should be thrown away. My protest will continue until then.” After a case was filed against him for his statements, DMK chief MK Stalin condemned the filing of the case and said that Thirumavalavan’s words had been twisted with the intent of inciting communal clashes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khushbu-sundar-detained-on-way-to-protest-vck-chief-s-manusmriti-comments/story-j6A74UpnxtudnyfuEwWKGK.html
27-10-2020||India||Air quality in UP cities ‘very poor’, to worsen in coming days||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data recorded the air quality of Uttar Pradesh cities as ‘very poor’ on Monday and has issued a forecast for air quality worsening further.Experts warn that in the coming days a drop in temperatures will compound the problems caused by vehicular emission, construction work etc and the burning of farm waste/stubble.The average air quality Index (AQI) of eight UP cities was recorded above the 350 mark on Monday. All these cities – Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Baghpat, Agra and Bulandshahr, Muzaffarnagar and Kanpur – belong to West UP. The state capital also recorded an average AQI of more than 360 in the past couple of days.In Lucknow, the industrial area in Talkatora region recorded the worst AQI followed by Gomti Nagar area. PM (Particulate Matter) 2.5 and PM 10 were the major pollutants in the area.According to the CPCB classification of air quality above 401 is considered severe while that between 301 to 400 and 201 to 300 are considered very poor and poor, respectively. Severe air quality impacts the health of even normal individuals, while it is particularly harmful for people with pre-existing health conditions, and that of senior citizens.CPCB officials said that the poor air quality is primarily due to three factors - rise in human activities which leads to increased vehicular emission, construction work etc; drop in average day temperatures and burning of farm waste/stubble by farmers.Officials said the UPPCB is striving to contain stubble burning. Along with respective district administrations the board officials are persuading farmers in west UP districts to not burn stubble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-in-up-cities-very-poor-to-worsen-in-coming-days/story-IreOnPBvnYZ9EsTYZg8AjM.html
27-10-2020||India||‘Not an income tax officer but asking...’ PM Modi interacts with SVANidhi scheme beneficiaries||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday interacted with the beneficiaries of SVANidhi scheme of Agra, Varanasi, Lucknow and asked about the well-being of the vendors who received up to Rs 10,000 working capital at subsidised rates under the scheme.“How are your business going?” “How many officers did you have to visit to get this loan?” “How much are you earning daily now?” PM Modi asked the vendors and added on a lighter note, “ Though I should not be asking this question... I am not an income tax officer.”Talking to a momo vendor of Varanasi, PM Modi said, “I have heard momos have become popular in Varanasi. But no one has offered me momos.”Also Read: PM Modi to virtually distribute loans to 300,000 street vendors under PM SVANidhi Scheme todayThe prime minister also asked the beneficiaries whether they are aware that they can make this loan interest free. As he was interacting with the vendors, he inquired about social-distancing guidelines being maintained at their stalls. “Our vendor brothers and sisters have suffered a lot during lockdown. Now it’s our duty to empower them. There was a time when even salaried people had to run from pillar to post to get a loan. Poor people didn’t even have the courage to walk into a bank. But now the bank has come to them. This would not have been possible without the tireless effort of the banks,” PM Modi said. Also Read: PM SVANidhi scheme for street vendors: Benefits, loan amount, tenureOver 24 lakh applications have been received under this scheme so far, with 557,000 applications from vendors in Uttar Pradesh, the highest across the country. As many as 3.27 lakh applications from UP have been approved and loan of 1.87 lakh has been disbursed. Out of the total applications, 12 lakh have been approved and loans worth about 5.35 lakh have been disbursed. PM SVANidhi Scheme was launched on June 1, 2020 for poor people selling goods on roads and tracks, who were affected due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-an-income-tax-officer-but-asking-pm-modi-interacts-with-svanidhi-scheme-beneficiaries/story-cnF78IdCG4dIIK9M6fKReK.html
27-10-2020||India||‘This is something unpardonable’: Judges shocked as advocate appears shirtless for online hearing||A lawyer appeared shirtless for a few seconds on the screen when the Supreme Court was hearing the Sudarshan TV case over video conference on Monday. The lawyer logged out soon after Justice DY Chandrachud asked the lawyer to identify himself. The bench later mentioned the incident to the government’s second most-senior law officer Tushar Mehta. Justice Indu Malhotra, who was also part of the bench, described the incident as ‘unpardonable’.Court hearings, including that of the Supreme Court, are being conducted online and this is not the first incident of an advocate or lawyer found violating decorum.A senior lawyer was once spotted smoking during an online hearing at the Supreme Court.A Rajasthan high court lawyer, in another instance, appeared in an online bail hearing in vest, drawing the ire of a judge. “This court has already observed that during this pandemic where court functioning is being done through video conferencing, lawyers must appear in proper uniform... keeping in view that the petitioner’s counsel was not in proper uniform, the matter is adjourned,” the court said. Advocates Act requires lawyers to appear before courts in a prescribed dress, it had noted.Gujarat high court imposed a penalty of Rs 10,000 on an advocate who was caught smoking during online hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-something-unpardonable-judges-shocked-as-advocate-appears-shirtless-for-online-hearing/story-g9rLVictYmQHOmWG2KOu5L.html
27-10-2020||India||BJP misusing power for UP assembly bypolls, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday alleged that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was misusing power in the seven assembly constituencies where bye-elections will be held on November 3. “Fearing its defeat, the BJP is engaged in the misuse of power and intimidation of voters. Pressure is being built on gram pradhans. Police are being misused to threaten people. The Election Commission should take cognizance of all this and intervene,” said Akhilesh in a statement.He also said: “gram pradhans,The SP is contesting six seats and its ally Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) the Bulandshahar seat. The BJP is set for a defeat and SP-RLD are headed for big victories. The tactics to mislead the people won’t work. The people’s verdict in the bypolls would indicate the possible results in the 2022 UP assembly polls,” he said.The SP candidates were getting strong support of the people because of their clean image, Akhilesh Yadav said.The SP’s Syed Javed Abdi is contesting Naugawan Sadat. The other party candidates are: Maharaj Singh Dhangar (Tundla), Indrajeet Kori (Ghatampur), Lucky Yadav (Malhani), Brahmashankar Tiwari (Deoria) and Suresh Kumar Pal (Bangarmau).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-misusing-power-for-up-assembly-bypolls-says-akhilesh-yadav/story-GWyFHtkQA0bL7BWxE8WTqL.html
27-10-2020||India||BJP fields 8 candidates for Rajya Sabha polls in UP, avoids replay of 2018||In a surprising move, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announced only eight candidates for the November 9 Rajya Sabha (RS) polls from Uttar Pradesh. The decision went against the popular perception that the party would make a bid for a ninth seat also as it did in 2018. The biennial elections will be held for a total of 10 seats from the state.Two years ago, despite not having the numbers, the party had succeeded in ensuring the win of its ninth Rajya Sabha candidate and stopped the Bahujan Samaj Party nominee from winning. This time, unless the BJP springs a last-minute surprise by fielding a ninth candidate, its decision would help the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which has fielded a candidate despite not having enough numbers on its own to ensure its victory, political experts said. Tuesday is the last date for filing nominations for the Rajya Sabha election. The BJP retained its three sitting Rajya Sabha members from UP – Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri, former Ballia MP Neeraj Shekhar, son of late Prime Minister Chandrashekhar and party general secretary Arun Singh – whose term would expire on November 25. Among others, the BJP settled for former UP minister Haridwar Dubey, three-time MLA Seema Dwivedi, both Brahmins and former director general of police Brij Lal, a Dalit. The line-up includes two OBCs — former Auraiya district chief of BJP Geeta Shakya as well as BL Verma, the current UP BJP vice president and chairman of state construction and infrastructure development corporation limited.For an outright win, each candidate requires 36 votes. The BJP with 305 lawmakers in the UP assembly is set to ensure the win of eight candidates. It would still have 16 surplus votes left to make a possible bid for the ninth RS seat. “As of now, there are just 10 candidates in the fray for as many vacancies from UP and unless there is a contest, all 10 would win,” a BJP leader admitted. “If the BJP does field a ninth candidate, it would mean that the BSP would have to depend on the Congress, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and possibly the Samajwadi Party too for helping its candidate win. Maybe, the party’s move might be aimed at foiling any chance of opposition unity,” said Irshad Ilmi, a veteran journalist.The BSP has 16 MLAs in the UP assembly against arch rival Samajwadi Party’s 48 MLAs.“Each candidate would require 36 votes for an outright win,” said an official of the UP assembly secretariat. Thus, apart from BJP that has 305 MLAs in the state assembly and can easily get eight candidates elected, only the SP is poised to ensure the victory of its candidate. The current strength of the UP assembly is 395. Eight seats are lying vacant. Bypolls are scheduled on November 3 for seven of these seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-fields-8-candidates-for-rajya-sabha-polls-in-up-avoids-replay-of-2018/story-0PzfM9sCQrWAnB2Mp1NoVP.html
27-10-2020||India||With 36,470 infections, India records lowest single-day number in 3 months; total tally nears 8 million||India registered a sharp fall in its daily novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases as the country logged a total of 36,470 new infections in the last 24 hours, taking the overall caseload closer to the eight million mark to 7,946,429, the Union health ministry’s dashboard showed on Tuesday.(Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)This is India’s lowest single-day spike since July 18, when 34,884 new cases were reported.The virus also claimed 488 lives across the country in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 119,502, which is 1.50% of the total number of cases.Recoveries in the last 24 hours rose by 63,842--way higher than new infections--to reach 7,201,070 or 90.23% of the total cases. Active cases, meanwhile, continue to remain below the seven lakh mark and are currently at 625,857 or 8.26% of the total tally.These latest numbers come amid a steep fall in the country’s new daily Covid-19 cases in the last few days. The previous spike of 45,149 was the lowest since that on July 23, when 45,720 infections were reported. Earlier, on October 20, the country had logged 46,790 cases, which was the first time since July 23 when less than 50,000 new infections were reported.(Read: 45,149 new Covid-19 cases take India’s tally past 7.9 million)The previous single-day death toll of 480 was the lowest since 475 on July 10.Also on Tuesday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said it had tested a total 104,420,894 samples for Covid-19 thus far, including 958,116 on October 26. Total 10,44,20,894 samples tested for #COVID19 up to 26th October. Of these 9,58,116 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) pic.twitter.com/ERv3MslH96Earlier today, the health ministry also said it aims to take the country’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) to 1% and sustain it. The ministry also listed out 14 states and Union territories (UTs) which are reporting a CFR of less than 1% even now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-36-470-infections-india-records-lowest-single-day-number-in-3-months-total-tally-nears-8-million/story-aqtiY1UOBbjq1GwafSCSiK.html
27-10-2020||India||Rajya Sabha polls: BSP’s Ramji Gautam files papers||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate from Uttar Pradesh (UP) Ramji Gautam filed his nomination papers on Monday for the upcoming biennial elections to the Rajya Sabha (RS).BSP general secretary SC Mishra, its legislature party leader Lalji Verma and 18 party lawmakers were present when Gautam filed his papers. Gautam is BSP’s Bihar in-charge. The BSP’s decision to field a candidate for the RS has set the stage for an interesting contest. The scenario will become clearer after November 3, which is the last date for withdrawal of nomination papers.Also read | RS polls: BJP announces 8 candidates from UP, one from U’khandElection Commission of India (ECI) has announced that polling for election to the RS would be held on November 9. The election results will be announced on the same day. Samajwadi Party’s (SP) Ram Gopal Yadav had filed his nomination papers last week.The BSP is hopeful that opposition parties will support Gautam. The SP has 12 additional votes.Though the Congress has seven legislators, two of them have rebelled and are likely to support Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidates. The BSP is also hopeful of the support of the four lawmakers of Om Prakash Rajbhar’s Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) that has a lone lawmaker.The BSP has its task cut out in the upcoming RS polls following the rebellion of two of its lawmakers – Anil Singh and Ramvir Upadhyay – and the incarceration of its legislator Mukhtar Ansari, who has been languishing in a Punjab jail for the past 22 months. An RS candidate requires 36 votes for victory.The BJP, which will be left with 16 additional votes, is banking on the support of alliance partner Apna Dal (Sonelal) that has nine legislators and rebel Congress and BSP lawmakers to repeat its 2018 feat in a bid to win its ninth RS seat from UP in the upcoming polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-polls-bsp-s-ramji-gautam-files-papers/story-C21YyhFubgBfzQC98h4tJO.html
27-10-2020||India||‘Neither it says good, nor it does,’ Sonia Gandhi slams Bihar govt in video message||A day before Bihar goes to the polls for the first phase on October 28, Congress president Sonia Gandhi released a video message and urged Bihar people to vote against the government whose ‘actions and intentions are questionable’. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi shared the message on Twitter championing for a change in Bihar which can be brought in by the Mahagathbandhan alliance. ‘बदलाव की बयार है।’कांग्रेस अध्यक्ष श्रीमती सोनिया गांधी जी का बिहार की जनता के नाम संदेश आपसे साझा कर रहा हूँ।नए बिहार के लिए एकजुट होकर महागठबंधन को जीताने का समय है। pic.twitter.com/ptmzjEjQuh“Dear my brothers and sisters of Bihar. Government in Bihar has gone astray. High on power and its ego, current Bihar government has deviated from its path. Neither their saying nor doing is good. Labourers are helpless, farmers are anxious and youth are disappointed. Public is with Congress Mahagatbandhan and it is the call of Bihar,” Sonia said.Click here for complete coverage of Bihar assembly elections 2020“Bihar is in crisis today. Dalits, backward people are being subjected to continuous oppression ... the governments in Bihar and the Centre are ‘bandi governments’. They only know notebandi, lockdown leading to economic crisis,” the Congress president said in her five-minute-long address.“Bihar has quality, talent, strength and the power of construction. But unemployment, migration, inflation, starvation gave them tears and blisters. Words that can’t be said have to be said with tears. Govts can’t be formed on basis of fear and crime,” the Congress president said addressing the issues of health, education, agrarian crisis, increasing crime rate, migrant crisis in Bihar. “Bihar is known as the melting pot of knowledge. I appeal Bihar voters to vote for Mahagathbandhan; to vote for change,” the Congress president said, concluding her speech.About 71 seats is 16 districts will go to the polls on Wednesday, which will be the first phase of the three-phase polling in the state. A total of 10,066 candidates are in the fray. Congress, Rashtriyana Janata Dal, Communist Party of India (CPI), Communist Party of India Marxist (CPM), Community Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation (CPIML) are part of the alliance. Tejashwi Yadav is the chief ministerial candidate of Mahagathbandhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neither-it-says-well-not-it-does-well-sonia-gandhi-slams-bihar-government-in-video-message/story-4tfwfcDjy28o4NN3XwbPdL.html
27-10-2020||India||Nitin Gadkari to lay foundation stones for projects worth Rs 2,752 crore in Tripura||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari will on Tuesday lay the foundation stones of nine highway projects in Tripura to be built at over Rs 2,752 crore, the government said on Monday. The projects will enhance socio-economic conditions of the locality, it said. “Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari will lay the foundation stones of nine national highway projects with a total length of nearly 262 km worth over Rs 2,752 crore in Tripura tomorrow (Tuesday),” the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a statement. The projects, on completion, will provide faster and hassle-free inter-state and international connectivity to Bangladesh, and will be a major stride towards strengthening the tourism sector of the state, the statement said. The new projects will provide better connectivity, fast and safe movement of traffic to various tourist places, historical places and religious places in the entire state, it added. “They are likely to generate a large number of employment and self-employment opportunities to the unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled manpower of the region. The projects will reduce travel time and maintenance cost of the vehicles and saving of fuel,” the statement said. Implementation of the project would result in enhanced socio-economic conditions of the locality, it said adding that these will improve transport of agricultural goods and access to greater markets, thereby reducing the cost of goods and services. These will also create easy and speedy access to health care and emergency services. “In a nut shell, after completion of the above projects, there will be a quantum jump in the development of tourism, economic and international connectivity of this region. Finally, it will give impetus to the GDP (gross domestic product) of Tripura,” the ministry said. The event will be presided over by Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb in presence of Union ministers Jitendra Singh and V K Singh, ministers from the state, members of parliament, MLAs and senior officers from the Centre and the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-to-lay-foundation-stones-for-projects-worth-rs-2-752-crore-in-tripura/story-gZVby2NXhACiAJ3EjfaY3N.html
27-10-2020||India||West Bengal Assembly Election: CPI(M) mulls seat-sharing proposal with Congress||The Communist Party of India’s (Marxist) Central Committee (CC), its highest executive body, will discuss a proposal for a seat pact with the Congress for the next year’s West Bengal assembly elections amid mounting pressure from its state unit about such a tie-up. The 94-member CC will meet on Friday and Saturday (October 30 and 31) to discuss the proposal for a seat-sharing agreement. The move comes after the CPI(M) and other Left parties have been a part of a similar pact with the Congress and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in the upcoming Bihar polls. Two senior Left leaders said the CPI(M) politburo, the party’s highest body that met on Sunday, held a preliminary discussion on the issue and the matter was referred to the CC. Meanwhile, the central leadership of the Congress is yet to receive any formal proposal from the Bengal unit on the alliance with the CPI(M), a party functionary said. Also Read: CPI(M) criticises Bengal governor for sharing photos of ailing ex-CM on social mediaHe said the talks are in progress at the state level and the central leadership would take up the alliance issue after the Bihar polls, which end on November 7. The state unit, especially its chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, is keen on an alliance with the Left parties in the next year’s assembly elections. The CPI(M) and the Congress have joined hands for several protests and public programmes against the Mamata Banerjee-led government in Bengal. Chowdhury’s appointment as the state unit chief of the Congress also strengthened the prospects of an electoral tie-up between the Left and the Congress. Chowdhury is a staunch critic of Banerjee and nurtures an agenda against her party, the Trinamool Congress (TMC). However, the CPI(M) leadership will wait for a green signal from the Congress after its bitter experience in last year’s parliamentary elections. The CPI(M) had unilaterally announced its willingness for a seat pact, but the Congress didn’t settle for an alliance in last year’s Lok Sabha elections. The parties fought the elections separately, and the Left parties failed to win a single seat from Bengal, once its political fortress. A CPI(M) leader said, “Let us see if the Congress camp is interested in a pact. We will discuss a proposal for a pact as we can’t enter into a full-fledged alliance on ideological grounds.” The last party Congress of the CPI(M) had barred any alliance with the Congress or any such party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpi-m-to-mull-seat-sharing-proposal-with-congress-for-next-year-s-west-bengal-assembly-election/story-CYSW4gSme8eWD2VrAB78fM.html
27-10-2020||India||Rajnath Singh to address four-day Army Commanders’ Conference in Delhi today||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh will address the four-day long Army Commanders’ Conference, an apex-level biannual event to deliberate on crucial policy decisions, on Tuesday.The conference which is being held from Monday (October 26) to Thursday (October 29). Senior officers of the Army, including the Vice Chief of the Army Staff (VCOAS), Army Commanders and Principal Staff Officers (PSOs) of the Army HQ, will be a part of this event.On Monday, deliberations were held on concerns related to human resource management and the conference was addressed by CDS General Bipin Rawat and all three service chiefs General Manoj Mukund Naravane, Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauri and Admiral Karambir Singh.On Tuesday, apart from the defence minister’s address, top army commanders are likely to carry out a comprehensive review of India’s combat readiness in the eastern Ladakh region including other sensitive areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) amid the border standoff with China. The Army in a release stated that the third day will see in-depth talks on the various agenda points projected by Army Commanders, including an update by the Commander in Chief, Andaman and Nicobar Command (CINCAN). On the last and the final day of the conference, the Director-General of Border Roads (DGBR) will update on various infrastructure development projects undertaken by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and allied formations. Automation initiatives to facilitate enhanced utilisation of manpower at various levels of the Army would also be discussed.The conference will end with a presentation of the Sports Trophy and Flight Safety Trophy, followed by a closing address by the Army chief.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-address-four-day-army-commanders-conference-in-delhi-today/story-ol7QIX7L5vSyLRjyekagNJ.html
27-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to inaugurate three-day conference on vigilance, anti-corruption and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to inaugurate three-day conference on vigilance, anti-corruption todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate a three-day national conference on vigilance and anti-corruption, on the theme Satark Bharat, Samriddh Bharat (Vigilant India, Prosperous India) on Tuesday evening via a video-conference link. Read moreUpper-caste votes may emerge crucial in Bihar pollsAshok Singh is a rice mill owner in Bihar’s Rohtas district and an upper caste (Rajput). He has always backed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) but is looking to switch his vote this time. Read more‘A momentous day for America’: Trump hails Barrett’s confirmation as Supreme Court justiceUS President Donald Trump hailed Amy Coney Barrett’s confirmation to the Supreme Court as “a momentous day for America and for the United States Constitution.” Read moreWoman tries ‘henna lip stain’, netizens say they rather not. WatchThe variety of content available for viewing on the Internet seems to be quite diverse. From videos that evoke mild disgust in you to those that seem oddly satisfying to watch, the list is long. Watch hereHyundai gives glimpse at its smallest EV yet, a pocket-sized bullet for kidsHyundai Motor Company has released teaser images of what is its smallest electric vehicle (EV) yet in an effort to showcase its versatility when it comes to designing, styling and engineering products with battery-powered technology. Read morePriyanka Chopra’s mom reveals ‘the stupidest thing’ she said after actor’s Miss World crowning moment in 2000Priyanka Chopra has shared the intricate details of the day when she was crowned the Miss World at the age of 18. The Sky Is Pink actor has shared a video in which her mom Madhu Chopra reveals “the stupidest thing” she told her daughter after her win. Watch hereNeka Kakkar-Rohanpreet Singh look dreamy as they twin in red ensembles by Falguni Shane Peacock on wedding nightSetting fans on frenzy with their ravishing looks, singer Neha Kakkar and beau Rohanpreet Singh treated the Internet to pictures of their colour-coordinated outfits from the label Falguni Shane Peacock on their wedding night. Read moreIPL 2020, KKR vs KXIP: Kings XI Punjab beat Kolkata Knight Riders by 8 wicketsMandeep Singh smashed an unbeaten 66 as Kings XI Punjab chased down the total of 150 in 18.5 overs to help their team to a 8-wicket win. Chris Gayle also helped Mandeep in the chase, scoring 51 in 29 balls. Mohammed Shami registered figures of 3/35 earlier to help restrict KKR to 149/9 in 20 overs. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-three-day-conference-on-vigilance-anti-corruption-and-all-the-latest-news/story-LE92VSDQvenWAfsDixwoNK.html
27-10-2020||India||Unmarried male government employees can also get child care leave: All you need to know||Union minister Jitendra Singh has announced child care leave for male government employees if they are raising the child alone. The order was passed earlier but the minister has said that not many people were aware about it.Here is all you need to know:1. Child Care Leave is generally granted to women employees. This can be for a period of maximum two years during the entire service before their child reaches the age of 18.2. It is treated as earned leave.3. But it may not be granted more than thrice in the same year.4. The order making single, male government employees eligible for this leave was passed in 2018. But as the minister said there is not much awareness about the policy.5. Out of the total 730 days of leave, employees get full salary during the first 365 days and 80 per cent of the salary in the next 365 days.6. Who will qualify as a single, male government servant eligible for this leave? Widower, divorcee, unmarried male government services.7. An employee on child care leave may now leave the headquarters with the prior approval of the competent authority, the minister said.8. Leave Travel Concession (LTC) may be availed by the employee even if he is on child care leave.9. In case of a disabled child, the condition that child care leave can be availed by the parents only till the child reaches 22 years of age has been removed. Now, it can be availed at any point of time.10. The aim is to bring ease-of-living for government servants, the minister has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unmarried-male-government-employees-can-get-child-care-leave-all-you-need-to-know/story-Ejj80XPNX3J5hUxpiB1tTJ.html
27-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Aim is to achieve fatality rate of 1% and sustain it, says health ministry||With India reporting its lowest single-day deaths due to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease since July, the Ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Tuesday said the aim is to achieve a Case Fatality Rate (CFR) of less than 1% and then sustain it.(Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)The ministry also listed out 14 states and Union territories (UTs) which are reporting a CFR of less than 1% even today. According to the health ministry’s website, deaths due to Covid-19 in India constitute 1.50% of the total number of cases.(Read more: What you need to know on Covid-19 today)With 480 fatalities between Sunday and Monday, India had logged its lowest single-day death toll since 475 on July 10. Overall, there have been 119,014 deaths thus far in the country due to Covid-19, the third-highest globally behind the United States and Brazil. “On a steady decline, India’s Fatality Rate has touched 1.5%. The aim is to achieve a Case Fatality Rate (CFR) of less than 1% and sustain it. 14 states and UTs are demonstrating CFR less than 1% even today,” the ministry said on its official Twitter handle. #IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCoronaOn a steady decline, India's Fatality Rate has touched 1.5%.The aim is to achieve CFR of less than 1% and sustain it.14 States/UTs are demonstrating CFR less than 1% even today. pic.twitter.com/vR7s54GF39The 14 states/UTs, which have a CFR less than 1% are: Mizoram (0%), Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu (DNHDD; 0.06%), Arunachal Pradesh (0.23%), Kerala (0.34%), Nagaland (0.36%), Assam (0.44%), Odisha (0.44%), Bihar (0.50%), Telangana (0.57%), Manipur (0.81%), Andhra Pradesh (0.82%), Jharkhand (0.87%), Meghalaya (0.90%) and Rajasthan (0.99%).“This has been possible through ramped up medical infrastructure, effective clinical management based on a Standard Treatment Protocol, skill enhancement of ICU doctors and use of non-invasive oxygen,” the ministry further tweeted.(Read more: 45,149 new Covid-19 cases take India’s tally past 7.9 million)India’s current Covid-19 caseload stands at 7,909,959, the second-highest after the United States and ahead of Brazil in third. Also, for the first time since July, the country has logged less than 50,000 single-day cases, twice in nearly a week: 45,149 on Monday and 46,790 on October 20; with the former being the lowest single-day numbers since 45,720 on July 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-aim-is-to-achieve-fatality-rate-of-1-and-sustain-it-says-health-ministry/story-EpK2qI1bTVDceCDvO99r1O.html
27-10-2020||India||PM to inaugurate three-day conference on vigilance, anti-corruption today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate a three-day national conference on vigilance and anti-corruption, on the theme Satark Bharat, Samriddh Bharat (Vigilant India, Prosperous India) on Tuesday evening via a video-conference link. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) organises the national conference coinciding with the Vigilance Awareness Week, which is observed every year from October 27 until November 2. People familiar with the development said the activities in the conference would be focused on vigilance issues aimed at creating awareness and reaffirming the country’s commitment to promotion of integrity and probity in public life through citizen participation.Also read | At India Energy Forum, PM Modi says India’s energy future bright and secureThe conference will discuss the challenges in investigation in foreign jurisdictions; preventive vigilance as a systematic check against corruption; systematic improvements for financial inclusion and prevention of bank frauds; effective audit as an engine of growth; latest amendments to the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act, 1988 as an impetus to fight against corruption; capacity building and training and multi-agency coordination -- an enabler for faster and more effective investigations. People cited above said that law enforcement officers from across the country will also discuss emerging trends in economic offences; cyber crimes and transnational organised crime measures to control and exchange of best practices among criminal investigation agencies during the conference. “The conference will bring policymakers and practitioners on a common platform and will act as an enabler to combat corruption through systemic improvements and preventive vigilance measures, ushering in good governance and accountable administration. This is a significant contributing factor for enabling ease of doing business in India,” said RK Gaur, spokesperson, CBI.Minister of state (MoS) for Personnel Jitendra Singh will also address the inaugural session of the conference. The participants in the conference include heads of anti-corruption and vigilance bureaus, economic offences wings and crime inspection department (CID) units from all states and union territories (UTs) apart from central agencies. Chief secretaries and director-generals of police (DGPs) of all states and UTs will also attend the inaugural session of the conference on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-inaugurate-three-day-conference-on-vigilance-anti-corruption-today/story-CQegTfjem5owpIaZd9p6XL.html
27-10-2020||India||India to get 5 military theatre commands, one each for China and Pak||The Indian military is expected to be reorganised under five theatre commands by 2022 with defined areas of operation and a seamless command structure for synchronised operations.With the department of military affairs soon to have additional and joint secretaries after Cabinet clearance, the task of reorganisation of the three services under theatre commands has begun with a China specific Northern Command and Pakistan specific Western command under serious consideration. India’s Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat has been given the mandate by the Narendra Modi government to create theatre commands much like the ones China and the US currently have.Also Watch | 2+2 Meeting: India to get US military satellite data; will China heed warning? Also Read: China has ramped up military presence across LAC. Ladakh isn’t only targetAccording to military and national security planners, the northern command’s remit will begin from the Karakoram Pass in Ladakh and continue up to the last outpost Kibithu in Arunachal Pradesh , with the military mandate of guarding the 3,488 kilometre of Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China. The HQ of this command could be Lucknow. The western command’s remit will be from Indira Col on Saltoro Ridge in the Siachen Glacier region to the tip of Gujarat with its HQ likely in Jaipur. The third theatre command will be the Peninsular Command; the fourth, a full-fledged air defence command; and the fifth, a maritime command. The likely HQ of the Peninsular command could be Thiruvananthapuram. The air defence command will not only spearhead the country’s aerial attack but also be responsible for defending Indian airspace through multi-role fighters with all anti aircraft missiles under its control. Currently, the Indian Army, Indian Air Force and the Indian Navy all defend Indian airspace on separate communication frequencies and without synergy. This is despite the fact that all Indian Army Corps Headquarters are located next to an air base as a result of which there is duplication of effort and wasteful expenditure. The planners said there is option of extending this to an aerospace command as per future requirements.India will have only one maritime command with a possibility that the tri-service Andaman and Nicobar Islands Command being merged with this . The task of the maritime command will be to protect the Indian Ocean and India’s Island territories as well as keep the sea lanes free and open from any outside pressure. Although in a nascent stage, the Indian Navy’s maritime assets will be placed in Karwar on the western seaboard, Vishakhapatnam on the eastern seaboard and in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. With China emerging as a threat, the possible headquarters of the Maritime Command could be Andhra Pradesh’s new capital with Port Blair emerging as another major base for naval operations.Also Read: Gen Rawat asks tri-services to curb peace-time activities in deference to deployed troops in LadakhTheaterisation refers to placing units of the army, air force, and navy under a single Theatre Commander. The operational command of such combinations will be under one officer drawn from one of the three services. “Theaterisation of commands is imperative to integrate resources of the three services for maximising impact in any war. The geographical expanse of theatres in India demands unified commands for strategic decisions and critical outcomes that will be possible in concentrated employment of resources,” said former amry vice chief Lt Gen AS Lamba (retd). According to senior officials familiar with the matter, all five commands will be headed by Lt General or equivalent rank commanders, who will be the first among equals with the heads of the present commands reporting to them. The task of the Chief of Staff of Army, Chief of Air Staff and Chief of Naval Staff will not be operational but involve mobilising resources to the theatre commanders as it is in the US military.If the Andamans and Nicobar Command goes under the maritime command as is being visualised, then the CDS will have the Armed Forces Special Operation Division, Cyber Command and the Defence Intelligence Agency under him with manpower drawn from all the three services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-get-5-military-theatre-commands-one-each-for-china-and-pak/story-UzFJNollsvpj3tcUetWVNM.html
27-10-2020||India||Supreme Court to decide today whether Hathras trial should be shifted out of UP||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce its judgment on Tuesday on a batch of pleas which have sought a transfer of the trial to Delhi along with a court-monitored probe as senior lawyers, including lawyer-activist Indira Jaising, expressed their apprehension that a fair probe was not possible in Uttar Pradesh. A 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital during treatment.The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. The body was cremated at the dead of night allegedly without the presence of her family members. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out “as per the wishes of the family”.The Uttar Pradesh government had set up a Special Investigation Team, which has completed its probe. It was supposed to submit its report to the government, which had extended the deadline. Meanwhile, the SIT came into news after the wife of a senior police officer who is part of the SIT died of suicide.A public interest litigation (PIL) and several intervention pleas have been filed demanding a court-monitored probe into the Hathras case. Demand to shift the trial out of Uttar Pradesh is also gaining ground. At present, CBI is investigating the case.A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde, Justice A S Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian is hearing the case. The lawyer, appearing for the victim’s family, had told the apex court that trial in the case be shifted out of Uttar Pradesh to a court in the national capital after completion of investigation.As the security of the family members of the victim is paramount in this case, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had referred to the affidavit filed in the apex court by the Uttar Pradesh government which gave details about the security and protection provided to the victim’s family and witnesses in the case.Mehta said that victim’s family has informed that they have engaged lawyer and they have also requested that government advocate should also pursue the case on their behalf. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-decide-today-whether-hathras-trial-should-be-shifted-out-of-up/story-YfA0FiBDaiLH0ro6nwQZeP.html
27-10-2020||India||PM Modi didn’t accept tea during 9-hour questioning by Gujarat riots SIT: Probe chief||Without parrying a single question out of the 100-odd ones put to him by the 2002 Gujarat riots SIT, Narendra Modi as the then Gujarat chief minister “kept his cool” throughout the marathon 9-hour questioning and did not accept even a cup of tea from investigators, the probe team’s chief at that time R K Raghavan has said in a new book. Modi had also readily agreed to come to the SIT office in Gandhinagar for the questioning and brought his own bottle of water, Raghavan has written in his autobiography, ‘A Road Well Travelled’. Before being asked to head the Supreme Court-appointed SIT that probed the 2002 Gujarat riots, Raghavan had also served as head of premier probe agency CBI. He was also involved in several other high-profile investigations over years, including those relating to the Bofors scam, the 2000 South Africa cricket-match fixing case and the fodder scam. Talking about the time the SIT had called Modi for questioning as the then Gujarat chief minister, Raghavan writes in the book, “We had it conveyed to his staff that he had to come in person to the SIT office for this purpose and that meeting him elsewhere would be misconstrued as a favour.” “He (Modi) understood the spirit of our stand and readily agreed to come to the SIT office within the government complex in Gandhinagar,” Raghvan said. The former police officer further said he took the “unusual step” of asking Ashok Malhotra, an SIT member, to do the questioning, mainly to avoid any “mischievous allegation” later that Modi and he had struck a deal. “This stand was endorsed months later by no less a person than amicus curiae Harish Salve. He told me that my presence would have vitiated Modi’s statement and would have robbed it of its credibility,” Raghavan said, adding that he had never consulted Salve prior to the event. It was my personal decision flowing from sheer intuition, said the retired IPS officer of Tamil Nadu cadre, who was also appointed as High Commissioner to Cyprus in 2017. “Modi’s questioning lasted nine hours in my own chamber at the SIT office. Malhotra told me later that Modi kept his cool right through the marathon session which ended late at night,” Raghavan said. “He (Modi) never parried questions. Nor did he give the impression of padding up his responses. When Malhotra asked him whether he would like to break for lunch, he initially turned down the offer. He brought his own bottle of water and did not accept even a cup of tea from the SIT during the marathon questioning comprising a hundred- odd questions,” he said. Raghavan said it required “tremendous persuasion” to make Modi agree to a short recess. “This was possibly Modi’s concession to the need for a respite for Malhotra rather than for himself. Such was the energy of the man.” In February 2012, the SIT filed a closure report, giving a clean chit to Modi and 63 others, including senior government officials, saying there was “no prosecutable evidence” against them. In the book, the former CBI Director also asserted that the probe into the Gujarat riots by the Supreme Court-mandated SIT under him was “clinical and professional” and the SIT’s “unequivocal stand” on the chief minister’s role was “unpalatable to his (Modi’s) adversaries” in the state and in Delhi. “They engineered petitions against me, accusing me of favouring the chief minister. The grapevine had it that they misused central agencies to monitor my telephonic conversations. They were, however, disappointed not to find anything incriminating,” he said. Raghavan said false charges were aired against him on the sly to start with, and later openly. “Fortunately, the apex court stood by me and backed me to the hilt. I was found inconvenient because I refused to buy the argument that the state administration connived with the rioters who were targeting the Muslim community. Our investigation was clinical and professional,” he asserted. “If I displayed a measure of professional acumen and objectivity, it was not a little due to the sterling assistance of Ashok Kumar Malhotra, whom I inducted into the SIT in 2009,” said Raghvan praising Malhotra, who was asked to oversee the team’s work after the apex court allowed Raghavan to be relieved from the duty in 2017. Without naming anyone, Raghavan said it was unfortunate that he was the target of attack by those instigated by “highly placed persons at the helm of affairs in Delhi”. Talking about the Ehsan Jafri case, he said there was no record to establish that the Congress MP had tried to reach the chief minister by phone. “A few others, including Sanjeev Bhat, had also alleged that the chief minister, at a late-night official meeting on 28 February 2002, had directed senior police officers present at the meeting not to intervene if Hindu emotions overflowed. Here again, there was no corroboration to the charge,” Raghvan asserted. None whose presence at the meeting was established beyond doubt told SIT that they saw Sanjeev Bhat at the meeting, held essentially to review the law and order situation arising from the Godhra train attack, he said. “In our report to the apex court we absolved the chief minister of the alleged illegal direction to the police,” he said. Raghavan assumed office as head of SIT in early 2008 and carried on for nine years, until April 30, 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-didn-t-accept-tea-during-9-hour-questioning-by-gujarat-riots-sit-probe-chief/story-Cc61UEAiStF47GikrCRkeK.html
27-10-2020||India||PM Modi to virtually distribute loans to 300,000 street vendors under PM SVANidhi Scheme today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will distribute loans to nearly 300,000 street vendors under the PM SVANidhi Scheme (Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi Yojana) through video conferencing on Tuesday. He will also communicate with beneficiaries of the scheme on the occasion.PM SVANidhi Scheme was launched on June 1, 2020 for poor people selling goods on roads and tracks, who were affected due to the coronavirus pandemic.“Will interact with my brothers and sisters from Uttar Pradesh who sell goods on roads. It will be an opportunity to know how Pradhan Mantri Swanidhi Yojana gave new strength to them,” PM Modi tweeted on Monday. Under PM SVANidhi Scheme, street vendors can get working capital of up to Rs10,000 at subsidised rates. According to news agency ANI, over 24 lakh applications have been received under this scheme so far, with 557,000 applications from vendors in Uttar Pradesh, the highest across the country.As many as 3.27 lakh applications from UP have been approved and loan of 1.87 lakh has been disbursed, ANI said quoting the website narendramodi.in. Out of the total applications, 12 lakh have been approved and loans worth about 5.35 lakh have been disbursed, it added.UP chief minister Yodi Adityanath is expected to attend the event.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-virtually-distribute-loans-to-300-000-street-vendors-under-pm-svanidhi-scheme/story-qWXAP8AJlvH7igekRNSPsL.html
27-10-2020||India||RS polls: BJP announces 8 candidates from UP, one from U’khand||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri and MP Neeraj Shekhar are among eight candidates nominated by the BJP for the November 9 Rajya Sabha polls from Uttar Pradesh. The party also announced Naresh Bansal as its Rajya Sabha nominee from Uttarakhand. Puri, Shekhar and party general secretary Arun Singh are all sitting MPs who have been renominated. Besides them, Geeta Shakya, Haridwar Dubey, Brijlal, BL Varma and Seema Dwivedi have been nominated. Earlier this month the Election Commission had announced elections to 10 Rajya Sabha seats in Uttar Pradesh and one in Uttarakhand, falling vacant on November 25. With the BJP having 304 members in the Uttar Pradesh assembly, the election for the 10 Rajya Sabha seats from the state may turn out to be a nearly one-sided affair for the party, feel poll analysts. The BJP’s all eight nominees for Rajya Sabha from Uttar Pradesh are likely to win as the party has the three-fourth majority in the state assembly. Similarly, party’s nominee for Rajya Sabha from Uttarakhand is also expected to win. With these nine new possible members, the BJP’s own tally in Rajya Sabha will cross 90 in the 245-member house. The ten Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh that are falling vacant are three of the BJP, four of the Samajwadi party, two of the Bahujan Samaj Party and one of the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-polls-bjp-announces-8-candidates-from-up-one-from-u-khand/story-FjwX5MgFnwUBvemLcjqQqM.html
27-10-2020||India||Central law in works to curb air pollution||The Union government will bring in a new law for a permanent authority to oversee matters relating to air pollution in the National Capital Region (NCR), the Centre told the Supreme Court on Monday, prompting the judges to suspend an order that authorised former top court judge Madan Lokur to tackle the issue.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said the new authority will have a statutory role and have members from all states that contribute to the pollution problem in NCR, assuring the bench that a draft of the law will be shared in four days. “The Centre has taken a holistic view of the matter and found that several ad hoc measures taken in the past have not achieved any results. Now a comprehensive law is being planned with a permanent body having participation of neighbouring states,” he said. The submission came on a day when farm fires in Punjab and Haryana hit a new peak and the Capital’s air quality index (AQI) continued to linger in the “very poor” category for the fourth consecutive day, threatening to plunge into the “severe” zone as it has inevitably done at this time of the year for every year since 2016.Mehta indicated the new law is likely to be brought in as an ordinance and, while he did not give more details, a top environment ministry official told HT it will focus on the Delhi-NCR region. “I will not share any details of the law or what penalties are involved but this is a comprehensive law focused only on the Delhi-NCR region to curb the air pollution menace here from various sources. It is not an amendment of existing laws,” said RP Gupta, secretary, environment ministry. The solicitor general also repeated a request for the top court to suspend an October 16 order designating retired justice Lokur to oversee the farm fire problem, claiming there could be points of conflict between the new authority and the former judge’s single-member panel.Farmland fires contribute heavily to the annual air pollution crisis. Smoke from smouldering paddy fields, which are set alight as a way to prepare for sowing the next crop, rises up and settles over much of north and northwest India. Coupled with local emissions and dust, it has in recent years turned cities into what the Supreme Court once described as gas chambers.The top court accepted the Centre’s request till the next date of hearing. “People are choking in this city. This is something that the government should have curbed and not a matter to be decided in a public interest litigation (PIL). We will welcome your decision if it is appropriate,” said chief justice SA Bobde, who headed a bench that also comprised AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. Senior advocate Harish Salve, who has been assisting the SC on environment-related issues, supported the Centre’s stand. “Attempts made by the Court in the past are not working out. Union government may require to write to states to take effective steps [to curb stubble burning],” Salve said.The lawyer of the petitioner whose plea triggered the hearing had opposed the decision to put the October 16 order “in abeyance”. “For this year, justice Lokur Committee should continue. The law can be made operational from next year. On Thursday, the stubble burning cases in the MC Mehta case are listed. By then, justice Lokur’s report will also be ready,” said Vikas Singh. The October 16 order required the Lokur Committee to submit periodic reports. It was Singh who had suggested appointing an expert committee led by justice Lokur, who has past experience in hearing matters related to stubble burning and Delhi’s pollution.Experts said that while the Union government has the constitutional right to bring in a law since environment is a central subject, its implementation will need focus. “Though I have not seen the draft and heard only what solicitor general said in the Supreme Court, I believe such a law could be binding on state governments. But orders by the authority to be created under the law would have to be implemented by the state government. In the past, we have seen statutory orders under the Air Act by CPCB were also not implemented by state governments. So, the question would remain that what action Centre can take if the state fails to follow the directions,” said Vijay Panjwani, former counsel for Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), in the Supreme Court.Environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta too said the focus should be on enforcing existing mechanisms instead of creating new ones. “Air pollution has been an issue for a fairly long time. Why do you need an ordinance now? The Centre has powers to issue directions under Section 5 of the environment protection act. Why is this coming in the pre-pollution season? It’s a distraction as drafting a law will take time,” he said. Dutta added that the new law will also create multiple authorities. A third expert said the new law and the mechanism will need to look beyond NCR. “What we need is legal compliance and deterrence strategy for the entire country. The Graded Response Action Plan and the comprehensive action plan are both notified under the environment protection act. There is no dearth of power under the law. The question is of adherence,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment. “There is always a need to review and refresh laws to keep pace with current requirements. However, this should not be used to evade or dodge the regulatory failures to curb air pollution that have been in and out of courts since the 1980s. At the same time, the socio-political dimensions of the air pollution crisis need to be called out and addressed. This will happen when we get a closer understanding on who bears the heaviest burden of compliance. Even today, the biggest contributors to air pollution like thermal power plants and real estate continue to receive concessions and subsidies,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-law-in-works-to-curb-air-pollution/story-D0LoR08IuarqrFlgtosfzN.html
27-10-2020||India||Gujarat HC starts live streaming of proceedings||The Gujarat high court on Monday became the first in the country to start live streaming proceedings on a YouTube channel, with the court of chief justice Vikram Nath accessible to the public through a link on the court’s official website. Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said on Monday that in practice though, live streaming could be misused as already he was facing several complaints over the virtual hearings taking place over the videoconferencing app Vidyo.According to an administrative order issued by justice Nath, the live telecast from Court No. 1 was purely on an experimental basis, and the “aspect of continuing with or adapting the modality of live court proceedings will be decided based on the outcome of this trial”.The first hearing that was live streamed on Monday was a plea seeking relief for admission to medical colleges through NEET for students who had not taken the Class 12 exam from Gujarat. The court issued a notice to the state government and reserved its order in the case. Proceedings were live on the YouTube link — provided on the Gujarat HC website — for over five hours and about half-a-dozen cases were heard. Around 68,324 viewers watched the channel on Monday. All high court benches have been functioning through video conferencing since March 24 amid the Covid-19 pandemic, in which advocates, parties, victims and witnesses are made to participate in a video hearing.In a statement, the high court referred to a Supreme Court judgment which ruled that the public should be allowed to view hearings conducted through video conferencing. The communication referenced a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Nirma University School of Law student Pruthviraj Sinh Zala that sought the court to issue directions for live streaming to keep with the principles of access to justice. Hearing the PIL, the Supreme Court, on April 6, 2020, issued seven guidelines for web-based hearings and live streaming of court proceedings, saying that the “successful implementation will ensure that the judiciary rises to face the unique challenge presented by the outbreak of Covid-19”. “In the Model Video Conferencing Rules as prescribed by the e-Committee of the Supreme Court of India, it has been provided that the public will be allowed to view the court hearing conducted through video conferencing,” the Gujarat HC’s chief justice said in his order.Welcoming the order, Aaditya Bhatt, a high court lawyer in Ahmedabad, said: “It will usher in a new era of transparency in the judicial system. It will also make the lawyers accountable to their clients...” Aseem Pandya, former president of Gujarat High Court Advocates Association, said, “This is one of the remarkable and great moments for judiciary in our country.” “Sunlight is the best disinfectant,” the SC had observed in September 2018 in a judgment that paved the way for live streaming of court proceedings. Two years down the line, CJI Bobde said on Monday that in practice, live streaming could be misused. Sharing his thoughts on live streaming as part of suo motu proceedings on court functioning during the pandemic, CJI Bobde, heading a three-judge bench, said, “In principle, I agree that there should be live streaming but in practice, you must hear me. As CJI, I have to deal with so many complaints over the virtual court proceedings.”The observation followed a suggestion by Attorney General KK Venugopal who suggested that since the Gujarat high court had taken the lead in live streaming the proceedings, the Supreme Court could follow suit. The bench, also comprising Justices DY Chandrachud and LN Rao, said, “There can be some negative use or abuse of live streaming.” Justice Chandrachud, who heads the e-committee of the SC responsible for enhancing virtual court proceedings, told Venugopal that a delay of 20 seconds occurs between the live streaming and actual proceedings in the Gujarat high court. This ensures a check on anything untoward going live.Justice Chandrachud said at present the SC was focusing on enhancing the video conferencing facility. “The idea is to have one video conferencing facility for all high courts and district courts and a separate facility for the Supreme Court. Bids have been invited to manage the entire videoconferencing facility,” Justice Chandrachud said.For better connectivity, the CJI sought the Centre’s help to enhance the optical fibre network. “In states which do not have fibre optics coverage, we have to rely on satellites,” CJI Bobde said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-hc-starts-live-streaming-of-proceedings/story-ZfdJv5uE3Bi7q8luSwtrCK.html
27-10-2020||India||Mercury set to dip this week as winter sets in||Night and day temperatures are likely to fall over the next seven days in northwest India, including in the national capital, as winter conditions set in and due to a feeble western disturbance that led to snowfall in the upper reaches of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, from where colder winds are forecast to enter the northern plains, weather scientists said. According to the forecast by the India Meteorological Department’s regional meteorological centre, Delhi, the weather will largely remain dry, and there will be a gradual decline in maximum and minimum temperatures by 2°-3° C in the next three to four days.Delhi has been recording below normal night time temperatures for at least a week now. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 15 degree Celsius, two degrees below normal on early Monday morning, and this is likely to dip as the month of November approaches. On Sunday, the minimum temperature in Delhi was only 13.8 degree C, three degrees below normal. It was also the lowest for the month of October since 2009, when 13.5 degree C was recorded. The lowest-ever temperature recorded in October was 9.4 degree C on October 31, 1937. “As we approach November, minimum temperature starts falling. The sky is clear now [less cloud cover] so the heat radiates back at night [leading to a cooling effect]. There was snowfall in the higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh on Sunday and Monday... northwesterly winds blowing from the direction of Himalayas bringing cold air but wind speed is low. We will see a fall in temperatures across northwest India,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.“For nearly a fortnight, Delhi has been recording minimum temperatures that are at least 1 to 2 degree C below normal. On October 26 and 27, the normal minimum temperature expected is 16.7 degree C and after than 15.9 degree C till November 1. But we expect minimum temperatures to be around 13 to 14 degree C,” Shrivastava added. “There is smoke in the air which is why there are haze-like conditions during the day time.Wind direction will continue to remain northwesterly but there may be some improvement in wind speed Tuesday onwards,” he said, referring to the air pollution levels in the capital city. Air quality in most parts of northwest India including Delhi, Faridabad, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Baghpat, Bhiwadi, Bulandshahr remained in the ’very poor’ category air on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-set-to-dip-this-week-as-winter-sets-in/story-zmKtHO7HvHjmxH87TEomyK.html
27-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||I skipped four instalments of this column because I decided to take a short break — part birding trip, part R&R, but all safe, masked, and socially distanced. It involved driving through rural and semi-urban Uttar Pradesh, where no one appears to be wearing masks (and there is no social distancing), and Uttarakhand, where most people sport them, and there is some adherence to social distancing norms.That India’s largest state has managed to keep its Covid-19 numbers where they are (470,270 cases till the evening of October 25; 6,882 deaths; a mere 2,032 cases on October 25 itself; and only 27,317 active cases) despite a dependence on rapid antigen tests (which are unreliable) and lax enforcement of both mask discipline and social distancing is truly impressive — and also surprising.Uttarakhand, at least the part I went to, wasn’t crowded. The state insists that all inbound tourists register themselves, and there was a check at the point of entry to ensure this. A test isn’t required, although I did take a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) one a few days before I travelled (it was negative). According to the HT dashboard (which is also the source of the Uttar Pradesh numbers), Uttarakhand saw 221 cases on October 25, has seen 60,376 in all, and has had 993 deaths. That means it has fewer than 5,000 active cases.To digress, it felt good to get out of Delhi after nearly eight months. I think, when this is all over (which must be one of the most commonly used phrases these days), it will take me some time to get used to not wearing masks; it felt strange to walk even on jungle trails without a mask despite there being no one else around. The sense of normalcy in both Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand isn’t surprising given their current caseloads. India itself has just around 650,000 active cases at this point. And on Sunday, India registered a mere 46,011 cases, half the number of cases it was registering per day in the third week of September. The last time it registered such numbers was in late July. As Dispatch 176 on October 7 first pointed out, the first wave of the coronavirus disease in India is over. It lasted roughly seven months.There’s no telling how long the lull will last, and how low the daily case numbers could go. Yet, based on what’s happening in Europe — Dispatch 155, on September 11, referred to the emergence of the second wave in Europe that is now raging through that continent — and the US (the same column mentioned the likelihood of a third wave in the US), the respite will likely be temporary. And based on the trajectory of the second and third waves in the US and the second in Europe, there is a high probability that the intensity of the second wave in India will be stronger than the first. The second wave in Europe is following the same trend seen in the second wave in the US: it is leading to fewer deaths, and it will be interesting to see if the number of deaths in the ongoing third wave in the US is lower even than that seen in the second. Still, lower deaths haven’t meant fewer hospitalisations. Hospitals in many European countries have been overwhelmed by the sheer number of people needing treatment for Covid-19, and the same thing is beginning to happen in several US states.Part of the reason for the higher intensity of subsequent waves of the coronavirus disease is obvious — they coincide with progressive easing of restrictions on movement and activities, often encouraging people, usually the young, to indulge in irresponsible behaviour. In many European countries, the median age of people infected in the second wave is lower than that in the first.The result isn’t just a spike in infection numbers but severe illnesses, and may be even deaths in vulnerable populations. Research by Paraic Kenny of the Gundersen Medical Foundation, Wisconsin, and others, published on pre-print server medRxiv and reported in Nature, shows a strong correlation between the reopening of in-person education in colleges in one of the state’s counties and an increase in coronavirus disease infections, with one of the strains (the researchers carried out a genomic investigation) spreading to old-age homes where it infected eight and killed two.That is what countries, including India, have to guard against.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-3SJSLwHfGGPO6ZHaC4KpXL.html
27-10-2020||India||S-I dismissed for stalking, harassing women, minor||A 35-year-old Delhi Police sub-inspector, who was arrested on Saturday for sexually harassing and stalking three women and a minor girl, was on Monday dismissed from service. The man had flashed, passed indecent remarks and stalked three women and a minor girl on a road in southwest Delhi’s Dwarka between October 17 and 20. He is currently in prison.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav confirmed sub-inspector Puneet Grewal was dismissed on Monday. Grewal was posted with the special cell -- the police’s anti-terror cell.Three incidents took place on October 17, at different places under the jurisdiction of Dwarka South police station while another took place on October 20, under the limits of Dwarka North police station. Grewal, who was arrested from Janakpuri, has been booked in cases registered under Indian Penal Code’s sections 354-D (Stalking), 354 (molestation), 354 A and 509 (sexual harassment) and sections 8 and 10 of Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.While the minor girl and two women gave their complaints, one woman refused to file her complaint. The police spoke to her about the incident, took suo motu cognizance and filed a case.A police officer, who wished not to be named, said Grewal was arrested following a week-long investigation during which they scanned CCTV footage from several points in Dwarka and examined more than 100 grey Baleno cars, similar to the one that Grewal was driving at the time of incidents.“Our teams scanned through over 150 CCTV footage clips showing more than 100 cars, similar to those which Grewal was driving, that were spotted on those stretches from where the incidents were reported. He was arrested soon after it was confirmed that he was in the car at the time of incident,” said a senior officer.The officer also said that Grewal has claimed that he was drunk at the time of all four incidents.Another senior officer said that the woman who did not file her complaint posted a video on October 21, on social media narrating the sexual harassment she faced from a man in grey car, while cycling in Dwarka on October 17. The woman alleged that she was cycling near Dusshera Ground close to the DDA Sports Complex in Dwarka when she noticed a car following her.“While cycling I noticed a small grey car the rear glass of which was shattered and it was noticeable. As I was cycling near along the footpath, the car driver started driving parallel to me. Since I ignored it and did not look towards the driver, he honked. At this, I signalled the driver to drive ahead. But the driver did not leave and he continued driving parallel to me,” the woman said in the video.She added, “When I realised that something was not right, the man started greeting me by saying Hello. As I stopped and looked at him, the man asked for directions to reach Dwarka Sector-14. Before I could reply, I saw that he had unzipped his pants and was flashing me. I screamed at him and asked him to leave. At this, he started saying nasty things...I realised there was nobody there, cars were passing by...I was thinking whether I should start recording his acts on my cellphone or leave the place...”According to the officer cited above, two more incidents had taken place on that day. One of the victims, a 17-year-old girl, had reported the incident to the police by calling the control room and filing a written complaint as well. “The woman in the video refused to file a complaint, even after we spoke to her on phone and counselled her. The other woman filed her complaint and we converted into an FIR on October 22, the day two more cases were registered. Apart from the three incidents on October 17, a similar incident took place on October 20,” said the officer.Since the three women and the minor girl gave similar descriptions, the police suspected that the same person was involved in all the crimes. The incidents were also almost identical – a man in grey car stalking, passing lewd remarks, touching the women and the girl inappropriately and making indecent gestures. Several teams were formed to investigate the cases, identify the suspect and bring him to justice.“We scanned footage from CCTV cameras installed around the crime scenes. The car was spotted. Our teams followed the routes the car took after the crimes and scanned footage from over 200 cameras. This exercise led us to the place where the car was parked. The suspect turned out to be a Delhi Police sub-inspector. We arrested him after collecting evidence. Till his arrest, we did not know that the suspect was a policeman as he was not in uniform during the crimes,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s-i-dismissed-for-stalking-harassing-women-minor/story-3I0oGi75A8s5cPsx71zoTM.html
27-10-2020||India||Fresh row between govt, corporations||The Delhi government on Monday said that it is the Centre that owes money to the municipal bodies and not the AAP dispensation as the mayors of three corporations squatted outside the chief minister’s house to demand Rs 13,500 crore for paying salaries to striking doctors and other medical staff. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash along with South corporation mayor Anamika Mithilesh and East Delhi mayor Nirmal Jain sat outside the main gate of CM’s residence from 11.30am till 8.30pm. The mayors called off the protest in the evening after health minister Satyendar Jain, who earlier in the day said that the mayors didn’t turn up for a meeting called by him at 2pm, came down to meet them outside the CM’s house. Hundreds of doctors from North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run hospitals and dispensaries are on a strike, protesting over non-payment of salaries for three months. Asserting that the mayors were politicising the issue, Jain said the BJP should resign and hand over the three civic bodies to the Delhi government to resolve all these issues. “I met the three mayors on Monday evening and told them that the central government is supposed to give ₹12,000 crore to the MCDs. The central government is supposed to give Rs 488 per resident as a grant to the MCDs but they have not paid this money for years,” he told reporters.“I have requested them to urge the central government to pay this money. But they have not shown any interest in this suggestion which clearly shows that the BJP ruled MCD just wants to politicise the issue. I have also raised the issue of corruption in the BJP-ruled MCDs but they have rejected the claims. Everybody is aware of the corruption in MCD but they [the mayors] are silent on this,” he said.“In Delhi, to build a new house a person needs to pay lakhs of rupees to the MCDs. Today the MCDs are unable to pay the doctors and nurses along with other employees because of this corruption. I will again say that if they are unable to run the MCDs then the BJP must resign and we will run the MCDs with the same budget,” Jain said, adding that they would run the civic bodies openly and effectively while paying the salaries of the “heroes” on time. Earlier, North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash said, “We have been sitting outside the CM’s residence for over seven hours and they have not contacted us. Satyendar Jain left a message on Twitter. Is this how the government functions? This just shows their seriousness about the issue.”According to the mayors, the government owes ₹3,000 crore to the East corporation, ₹4,000 crore to the South corporation and ₹6,500 crore to North Corporation. In the current financial year, the government has not released the entire payment till the second quarter, they alleged. Nirmal Jain and Mithilesh said, “How do they expect us to pay salaries to our employees. With the implementation of 7th pay commission, our expenditures have increased and the Delhi government is not releasing funds.”Accusing the BJP of politicising the issue, the AAP alleged that the Centre owes the municipal corporations ₹12,000 crore but the BJP leaders are not demanding the Centre to release the funds.Senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said as per the 14th finance commission report, the Centre has to provide grants to the municipal corporations. “In the last 10 years, the Centre should pay the civic bodies in Delhi around ₹12,000 crore…The Delhi CM and the finance minister have repeatedly written to the Centre asking them to release this fund. The Delhi BJP leaders have never asked the Centre to release this fund. We demand that this should be released immediately,” said Pathak.While Pathak urged Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to intervene and release the funds, the health minister said that the government will support the mayors if they go and ask the centre for pending funds.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said this is just a tactic by the AAP to shrug off its responsibility and indulge in blame game. He said that the ₹13,500 crore demand is as per the recommendations of the 3rd, 4th and 5th Delhi Finance Commission.Gupta said the government is doing all this at a time when the city is fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. “The government has a ₹60,000 crore budget and it is not paying the funds which it is supposed to pay as per the finance commission recommendations. They are only inconveniencing the people of Delhi. It has not even paid ₹9 crore spent by the North corporation to make Hindu Rao a Covid-only facility. They are doing politics in this hour of crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-row-between-govt-corporations/story-BfN2DZEaMiHUccusNkdg8N.html
27-10-2020||India||Man arrested from Bihar for raping woman in SE Delhi park last week||Delhi police on Sunday arrested a man who had raped a 25-year-old in a park in south east Delhi’s Harkesh Nagar last week. Police have identified the man, who is 27-years-old, and worked at a hardware shop and lived in the same neighbourhood as the woman. Police said they had received a call at Govindpuri police station on October 18, reporting that an injured woman was lying under a foot-overbridge in Harkesh Nagar.A police team reached the spot and took the woman to AIIMS where her medical examination revealed that she was raped. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said a case of rape was registered to probe the crime. Local enquiry helped police identify the woman. Police then met her husband, he said.“The man told police that his wife had gone missing on the night of October 18, when he and their son left for Tughlakabad to attend a birthday party. He told police that when he returned they searched for the woman and before he could go to the police the next day, she was found. During investigation, we checked CCTV footage and the woman could be seen leaving her house. More CCTV footage were checked and we spotted a man who joins her,” Meena said.The DCP said local enquiry helped them identify the man, who lives in Govindpuri. “Since the woman was last spotted with him, we raided his house but he was at large. We obtained the address of his native place in Patna, Bihar and following a raid he was arrested from Patna,” the officer said.During questioning, the man confessed to have sexually assaulted the woman. “He said that on October 18, both of them went to Chandiwala park where he sexually assaulted her,” Meena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-from-bihar-for-raping-woman-in-se-delhi-park-last-week/story-PiNzBjotgB8pCR2vinmTZP.html
27-10-2020||India||SC stays HC order barring rallies in MP||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed a direction passed by the Madhya Pradesh high court that imposed strict conditions on physical gatherings by political parties on the campaign trail for the 28 assembly seats in the state for which bypolls will be conducted on November 3.The high court order -- delivered by its Gwalior bench on October 20 and later extended on October 23 -- said that public campaign meetings could be held only if virtual events were not possible, and with the written permission of district magistrates after fulfilling safety conditions due to the pandemic.The order was challenged by the Election Commission of India (ECI) on the grounds that it amounted to a direct interference with the commission’s power to supervise and monitor elections in the country under Article 324 of the Constitution. ECI also contended that the high court order paralysed election campaigning in the state.It was also challenged by two candidates from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – Pradyuman Singh Tomar and Munnalal Goyal, contesting elections from two seats in the Gwalior assembly segment -- who said that the restraint on physical rallies has cost them a seven days of campaigning, and asked that they should be compensated for this by being given additional time to reach out to the electorate. The bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjeev Khanna agreed that the order must be stayed, but justified the high court’s directions in light of the spread of the virus. “We direct the Election Commission to consider the issues referred to in the impugned order (of the high court) and proceed in the matter in that regard in accordance with law appropriately. We are not expressing any opinion either way on the merits of the process to be adopted or about the decision to be reached by the Election Commission of India,” the bench said.“The situation was not improving on the ground so High Court had to interfere. You (ECI) should have intervened at appropriate stage and ensured that public meetings by candidates do not violate the Standard Operating Protocol (issued by the state owing to the Covid-19 pandemic). We wish you were more proactive in supervising elections,” it added.ECI issued guidelines on September 25, allowing for physical gatherings subject to curbs recommended by the state. But the HC was told on October 20 that 10 FIRs were registered against candidates who violated rules.The judges told the probe panel that it shoulders the responsibility for holding free and fair elections and not the High Court. “You must set right the situation. We will stay this order but you must ensure there is no violation of the law seeing the ground situation.” On the demand for added time for campaigning, the bench gave liberty to the candidates or political parties to approach ECI.State spokesperson for the Bharatiya Janata Party, Rajneesh Agrawal, said: “Our party will continue to respect and follow the ECI guidelines in the elections as decided by the SC.”Congress spokesperson for the state, Bhupendra Gupta, hailed the order. “High court’s order had led to a state of confusion as to whose orders to follow whether ECI’s or Home Department’s or the high court’s. The SC’s order has made the situation clear.”Political analyst Girija Shankar said, “Supreme Court’s order has come in accordance with The Representation of the People Act, 1951 which states that once the election process begins Election Commission is the authority which will decide the entire election process. After high court’s order it appeared that the high court was intervening in the process slightly. Hence, it’s ECI which moved the Supreme Court first.” Still, Shankar added, the HC was only trying to address inadequacies in how campaigning was happeing against the backdrop of Covid-19. “Political parties have been responsible for crowds in political meetings and violations of Covid-19 protocol. Unfortunately, the collectors who were and are supposed to take action in capacity of returning officers on such violations kept mum. Hence, HC had to intervene. But even then the HC didn’t fully undermine the authority of the Commission as it said the permission for the political meetings will be given by the collectors only after approval by the Commission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-stays-hc-order-barring-rallies-in-mp/story-fQqg7GEdxeE5yliMMOzIJP.html
27-10-2020||India||Ex-NDA minister Dilip Ray gets 3-year jail in coal case||A Special CBI court on Monday sentenced former union minister of state for coal, Dilip Ray, 66, to three years for illegally allocating, in 1999, a Jharkhand coal block to a private company Castron Technologies Ltd (CTL). The special CBI judge, Bharat Parashar, observed that the Brahmadiha coal block in Giridih, Jharkhand was allocated to Castron Technologies Ltd in 1999 by Dilip Ray, the then minister of state (Mos) for coal despite the fact that he was part of a “caretaker” government, which should not have taken a major policy decision. Ray was part of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government that was acting as a caretaker government when this particular allocation was approved by Ray. Besides Ray, two former senior officials of the coal ministry, Pradip Kumar Banerjee and Nitya Nand Gautam, as well as Mahendra Aggarwalla of Castron Technologies Ltd have also been sentenced to three-year jail terms and fined ₹10 lakh each. The judge also imposed fines of ₹60 lakh on Castron Technologies Ltd (CTL) and ₹10 lakh on Castron Mining Ltd (CML). The accused were convicted on October 6 for criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust, cheating and prevention of corruption act. In his conviction judgment on October 6, Parashar said: “Undoubtedly, the approval of said guidelines for allotment of captive coal blocks for opencast mining and underground mining amounts to taking a major policy decision and which Dilip Ray as part of a Caretaker government should not have taken. The question which however requires examination is as to whether the impugned decision was necessary for day to day administration or it could have waited till the new elected government was formed”. Ray’s lawyer Manu Sharma said: “We are going to challenge this particular assertion about caretaker government because CBI never brought up this charge during investigation or trial.” Former Chief Election Commissioner (CEC), V S Sampath said: “There is nothing like a caretaker government. A government is a government”. Still, the Election Commission also clarified in 2018 that a caretaker government in states should desist from taking any major policy decisions. Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, who has represented various accused in coal scam cases, said: “I am very surprised at conviction under section 409 of the IPC (criminal breach of trust by a public servant) as the same court in the past has acquitted people charged under 409 IPC in view of three-judge bench judgment of Supreme Court.” His reference to the SC’s three-judge ruling is about a 1999 order in Common Cause Vs Union of India matter in which the apex court said that the power of a minister to allot a property due to discretionary powers over dealing with a particular good is not covered by criminal breach of trust. Aggarwal added that the sentence was not harsh. Parashar, while sentencing Ray and others, observed on Monday that “the loss from ordinary crimes such as burglaries, robberies and larcenies etc. may run into few thousand rupees only but the loss from white collar crimes may run not only in lacs but in crores of rupees”. “Though on the face of it, the arguments of learned counsels for the convict(ed) companies that no loss was caused to anyone in the present matter since almost the entire amount of extracted coal was surrendered back to the government while surrendering back the lease deed, seems to be attractive. However, non-availability of sufficient raw material such as coal has in fact resulted in the lack of infrastructural/industrial development of the country. Had coal block been allocated to a deserving applicant company after following the due process of law and the company would have proceeded to extract coal so as to use it captively in its end use project then it would have certainly added to the infrastructural/industrial development of the country,” the order said. “...suffice to state that arbitrary allocation of coal blocks as has been seen in the present matter to unscrupulous persons who never intended to establish any end use project in itself has caused huge loss to the nation which is difficult to be computable in monetary terms,” Parashar observed. The case pertains to allocation of 105.153 hectares (ha) of an abandoned coal mining area in Jharkhand’s Giridih district in favour of Castron Technologies Limited by the 14th screening committee of the Union coal ministry in 1999. It is different from the investigative agency’s probe into improper allocation of captive coal blocks between 2004 and 2009 -- a scandal that roiled the United Progressive Alliance headed by Manmohan Singh. Ray, a hotelier, was one of the founding members of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) in the 1990s. The BJD was part of the short-lived Vajpayee government that was in power for 13 months. He left the BJD in 2002 (he was actually expelled) but returned to the Rajya Sabha (to which he had been elected in 1996) as an independent with the support of some Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmakers from Odisha. He joined the Congress in 2004, and returned to the BJP in 2009, actually winning the Rourkela assembly election on the party’s ticket in 2014. By then, however, the CBI case against him had been registered at the instance of the Supreme Court. In 2017, charges were framed against him and in 2018, he quit the BJP and also politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-nda-minister-dilip-ray-gets-3-year-jail-in-coal-case/story-d5L61q3wXZHbv109tB4rzN.html
27-10-2020||India||3 PDP leaders quit after Mehbooba Mufti’s flag remark||Three senior Peoples Democratic Party leaders resigned from the party on Monday terming party president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s remarks on the tricolour as “provocative” which “hurt patriotic sentiments”. In a joint letter addressed and signed by the three leaders -- former MP, TS Bajwa, former member of legislative council Ved Mahajan and former state secretary, Choudhary Hussain Ali Wafa-- said, “We, your party colleagues in Jammu region, most of whom remained associated with the party through every thick and thin, since its formation, are feeling quite uncomfortable over some of your actions and undesirable utterances, especially which hurt patriotic sentiments.”On Friday, addressing her first press conference after over 14 months of detention, Mufti said she was not interested in contesting elections or holding the tricolour till the constitutional changes enforced on August 5 last year were rolled back. Attacking the BJP-led central government, Mufti had said, “They [Centre] themselves desecrated the Constitution...What do they expect from us? Our flag is this {pointing towards the erstwhile J&K flag} and our relations with the country’s flag have been established by this flag.” Once close confidante of Mufti, Ved Mahajan said, “We strongly condemn her provocative comments against tricolour. Tricolour is our identity and national pride. We are patriotic people. How can we tolerate such provocative remarks from her. They were highly provocative. We are angry with her statement. PDP was formed by late Mufti Sahib to provide an alternative to the people of Jammu & Kashmir, which we did,” he said. PDP leaders were not immediately available for comment.Separately, in Srinagar, three men, claiming to be BJP workers, were detained on Monday after they tried to organise a rally to hoist national flag, police said.Senior Superintendent of Police, Srinagar, Haseeb Mughal said that they did not have the permission to hold the rally. Later, BJP workers held the rally moving with tricolour from Tagore Hall to Sher-i-Kashmir International Conference Centre, to commemorate accession day.BJP leader Aijaz Hussain said that they wanted to send a message to PDP that there are thousands who are ready to die for the national flag.Reacting to BJP’s tricolour rally, PDP leader, Firdous Tak said in a tweet, “We don’t need a certificate of nationalism from the Godse brigade who have always discredited and dishonoured the flag and constitution of this country....”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-pdp-leaders-quit-after-mehbooba-mufti-s-flag-remark/story-RXJSI5Mbra2DhhPUPiSZVI.html
27-10-2020||India||Chhattisgarh may amend state law to counter farm legislation||To counter the three agriculture laws enacted by the Centre last month, the Chhattisgarh government has decided to amend its own law on agricultural produce to bring in specific safeguards for farmers, senior state government officials aware of the development said, adding that this is a different route to what the Punjab government took when it passed a new set of legislation to negate the central laws.A draft of the Chhattisgarh Agriculture Produce Market (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was on Monday approved by the state cabinet at a meeting chaired by chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, and would be tabled in the special assembly session to be held on Tuesday and Wednesday.Chhattisgarh is the second state after Punjab to hold a special session of the assembly to counter the central laws. The Punjab assembly had on October 20 passed four bills and a resolution to invalidate the three farm laws, guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) for wheat and paddy growers, and provide for imprisonment of not less than three years and fine for its sale or purchase below the MSPs, even as it is yet to get presidential ascent for the state legislations. In first week of November, Rajasthan government too will call a special session of the assembly in which bills to provide MSP protection for seven staple crops would be introduced, state government officials said.According to a senior government official privy to the developments, the Chhattisgarh government, where the Congress is in power, has not opted for new bills to negate the central legislations because it could be in direct conflict with it.“So, the state government has decided to amend its own Chhattisgarh Agriculture Produce Market Act for safeguarding the interests of the local farmers,” the official said on condition of anonymity.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 were pushed through in Parliament last month. Big farmers’ groups, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, say the Centre’s farm reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the system of MSPs and that deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before.Agriculture minister Ravindra Chaubey said that of the three central laws, the federal government has gone back to original position on the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, after the onion crisis in the country. “As far as other two bills are concerned, the Chhattisgarh government will not bring any law to negate them but will amend Chhattisgarh Agriculture Produce Market Act. The aim is to counter the central law with our own state laws,” he said.The minister said the amendments by the state will increase the “operating area” of mandis to the entire state, like Rajasthan did in September to limit the impact of central farm laws. “Through these amendments, we would be able to audit and investigate the procurement by private companies,” Chaubey said, adding that the Constitution has given the state government power to make laws for agriculture.On why Chhattisgarh has opted for a different route than that of Punjab, a senior official at the Chief Minister’s Office said getting the governor’s approval for a new law would be difficult. “But, widening the ambit of our own APMC law will not be in conflict with the central farm laws and the governor should not have any problem in approving it,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-may-amend-state-law-to-counter-farm-legislation/story-FD2SZAoxuBnrRDksQ4S3vO.html
27-10-2020||India||BJP wins Ladakh council polls by bagging 15 seats, Congress wins 9||The Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) on Monday won 15 out of the 26 seats in the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC) –Leh elections while the Congress managed to capture nine seats. Independents won two seats in the election, the first since Ladakh was made a Union Territory in August last year. The Leh Council has a total of 30 seats with four of the councilors nominated by the government. BJP president JP Nadda termed the party’s victory as historic. “Gratitude to the people of Ladakh for their faith in BJP,” he tweeted and congratulated party leaders and workers.Former BJP minister and ex-president of the BJP’s Ladakh unit, Chering Dorjay said, “It’s a mandate against the BJP. In 2015 they had won 18 seats and this time around they won 15. The BJP lost in their strongholds like Upper Leh. The party’s CEC P Wangyal also lost Sakti, while Phyang and Temisgam constituencies went to Congress.” “I think it is a big defeat of Jamyang Tsering Namgyal, the BJP MP and party chief of Ladakh UT. Though 14 is required to form the council and numbers are on their side but denial of sixth schedule and Wangyal’s performance was not good,” Dorjay added. BJP’s Ghulam Mehdi won Turtuk seat by defeating independent candidate Ghulam Hussain with a margin of 367 votes. Kunzang Lotus of BJP won Hundar seat by defeating Congress candidate Stanzin Chotar with a margin of 420 votes. P Wangyal couldn’t be reached as his cell phone was switched off. The BJP also won Diskit, Tegar, Panamik, Tangtse, Kungyam, Martselang, Karzok, Thiksay, Chuchot, Sku-Markha, Lamayouru, Khaltse and Lingshet, officials said. The Congress won Saspol, Igoo, Temisgam, Basgo, Lower Leh, Upper Leh, Phyang, Sakti and Skurbuchan council seats. The Independents bagged seats of Nyoma and Chushul.BJP and Congress had fielded their candidates on all the 26 constituencies while Aam Aadmi Party fielded 19 candidates. 23 independents were also in the fray. The campaign for the polls was dominated by the demand for the Sixth Schedule status to protect local demography, jobs and land and legislative powers to the LAHDC-Leh. Dorjay had cautioned the Centre on September 28 about a sustained campaign in case the Apex Body of People’s Movement, an apolitical body, was hoodwinked about its long-pending demands. The body has former BJP Member of Parliament (MP), Thupstan Chhewang, Dorjay, Rinpoche Nawang Chamba Stanzin, the head of Thiksey monastery, and Nawang Rigzin Jora, a former minister, as it’s members. The umbrella group includes political parties and religious organisations and the all-powerful Leh-based Ladakh Buddhist Association. The safeguards will also guarantee more teeth to the two hill development councils of Leh and Kargil with legislative powers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-wins-ladakh-council-polls-by-bagging-15-seats-congress-wins-9/story-FrSsK1RB3uHta85k29hrNI.html
27-10-2020||India||Woman’s decapitated, mutilated body found||A 35-year-old woman’s headless body, chopped into pieces was found in a sack in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut on Monday, the police said.Some passers-by spotted a sack near a graveyard in the Fatehullahpur locality and reported the matter to the police on Monday morning, said Prashant Kapil, the station house officer of Lisari gate police station.“The initial examination of the body indicates that the crime could have been committed at least a day before and the chopped body was dumped at a secluded place near the graveyard. The killers disposed of the chopped head elsewhere to conceal the identity of the woman,” said Kapil. The body would be sent for post-mortem examination, he said. Meerut’s superintendent of police (city) A N Singh said it appeared that the woman was murdered inside a house by some persons who knew her and her beheaded body was dumped near a graveyard to conceal her identity. He said CCTV footage was being collected and examined to trace the perpetrators of the crime.Prima facie it appears that somebody known to the woman has killed her and it (beheading) was done to hide the identity of the deceased. The body was stuffed in a sack, which was apparently being pulled by stray animals at the dump site,” Singh said. “An investigation is on and efforts are on to work out the case,” the officer said.Police were trying to identify the woman through her clothes and efforts were underway to find out whether any woman had gone missing from the area, the SHO said. Legal proceedings are being carried out in the case, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-s-decapitated-mutilated-body-found/story-5P5tujxQQGwLPDu1XgIDcL.html
27-10-2020||India||Single-day Covid-19 deaths drop below 500||The number of daily Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) deaths reported in India dropped to 443 on Sunday, a 66% reduction from a peak of 1,290 deaths on September 16.The cumulative number of deaths due to Covid-19 nationally was 119,034 till Sunday night according to the HT dashboard. “With effective containment, aggressive testing, and standardized clinical management protocols across government and private hospitals, the number of new deaths has significantly dipped,” the Union health ministry said in a statement. Critical care specialists treating Covid-19 patients also say that more lives are being saved now in hospitals as compared to a few months ago because of a better understanding of the disease, and what therapies work. “More serious Covid-19 patients in hospitals are now recovering well. My experience has been that four things work in saving a serious patient: oxygen therapy, steroids, heparin (blood thinner), and the state of care that includes infrastructure in the ICU, training of staff etc. The jury is still out on the benefits of the others, including investigational therapies,” said Dr Anjan Trikha, professor, department of anesthesia, critical care and pain medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi. “It is not just giving oxygen but also how you give oxygen that is an art that actually helps in saving a critical patient. All these training workshops that we hold on critical care of Covid-19 patients, the focus is on training doctors in providing oxygen therapy using the right way,” he added. There are 2218 dedicated Covid hospitals in the country. To be sure, the progressive reduction in daily deaths, even amidst rising cases is a feature of the pandemic in Europe as well as the US. The drop in the number of deaths has resulted in steadily declining case fatality rate (CFR), which is the total number of Covid-19 deaths out of total number of cases that returned Covid-19 positive. India’s current CFR stands at 1.5%, which is nearly half of Covid-19 deaths reported globally, and is the lowest since March 22 this year, when it was a little over 3% (3.3%). There are 14 States with CFR lower than 1%, the target that government has set for the country. “Absolutely numbers do not give the real picture . What tells us that the number of deaths is declining is the case fatality rate. A drop in CFR means the overall Covid-19 deaths are going down, which is a good sign,” said Dr Giridhara Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/single-day-covid-19-deaths-drop-below-500/story-jgtwoQKsJ0z1r17JXTrXNP.html
27-10-2020||India||‘Cannot stand it’: CJI laments standard of TV news debates||Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde told television presenter Arnab Goswami’s lawyer on Monday that he could not stand the level to which prime time news channel debates had descended and wondered where that had left public discourse in the country.In an open admission during a hearing before a three-judge bench of an appeal filed by the Maharashtra government challenging a stay order on an investigation against Goswami in criminal cases lodged against for allegedly spreading social disharmony, Justice Bobde commented it was the court’s duty to ensure peace in society.“Frankly speaking, I cannot stand it. This has never been part of our public discourse,” he said about the high-decibel television debates. “Frankly speaking” also happened to be the title of a show presented by Goswami. The Maharashtra government appealed against a June 30 order of the Bombay high court staying the investigation into two FIRs naming Goswami and other members of his channel, Republic TV. Appearing for Goswami, senior advocate Harish Salve said the FIR was politically motivated as it targeted the news anchor and his channel for raising questions over the silence of Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and her party over the killing of two Hindu seers by a mob in Palghar in April.“At best, these individuals can file defamation but where is the question of charging them under Section 153A which is inciting disharmony,” Salve argued. This fact was noted by the high court which in its June order said, “It is quite clear that the object of or the target of the petitioner’s attack was primarily Sonia Gandhi and the Congress party. There was no mentioning of either the Muslim or Christian community. It would be too far-fetched to say that the two religious communities were involved in the debate.” The Supreme Court bench, also comprising justices DY Chandrachud and LN Rao, said, “We are more concerned about peace and harmony in this country. Nobody is immune from being questioned. We can ensure questioning is done (by police) in keeping with your right to dignity. But we want an assurance of a sense of responsibility from you (Goswami).”Salve replied, “Responsible journalism is covering sensitive cases without sensationalising.” Salve agreed there was too much noise in television debates which made the court remark, “It is better to remain old fashioned.” The bench said it was concerned that with each passing day, there was a new conflict between the state and Goswami’s channel. The court allowed Salve to file an affidavit mentioning further developments since the high court stay on the investigation. The Maharashtra government questioned why Goswami should get treatment distinct from that given to any other citizen as the high court even stalled the investigation into the two FIRs in relation to the Palghar incident. The bench replied, “While nobody is above the law, some are targeted with greater intensity. Some people thus need additional protection.” The bench said in such matters it adopted a “conciliatory” approach and asked the state to produce a list of all cases being investigated against Goswami and his channel in two weeks. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi appearing for the state said that the high court stay on the investigation must go. He was willing to give an undertaking that there shall be no arrest, and summons for appearance will provide a time gap of 48 hours and no questioning will be conducted during night time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-stand-it-cji-laments-standard-of-tv-news-debates/story-SAmCfKWWdbjH6QSavZ2rBP.html
27-10-2020||India||India, US to sign BECA agreement during 2+2 dialogue to facilitate exchange of sensitive information||India and the US will sign the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA), the last of four so-called foundational agreements for sharing sensitive information and sales of advanced military hardware, during the 2+2 ministerial dialogue on Tuesday.The agreement, which will facilitate sharing of classified satellite and sensor data, figured in discussions between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his visiting American counterpart Mark Esper on Monday. The signing of the pact will be one of the key outcomes of the 2+2 dialogue between the foreign and defence ministers of the two sides.“The two ministers expressed satisfaction that agreement of BECA will be signed during the visit,” the defence ministry said in a statement after the meeting between Singh and Esper, who arrived in New Delhi on Monday afternoon along with secretary of state Mike Pompeo.Also Read: India must overcome China syndrome, embrace QUAD | AnalysisBECA is considered the last of the foundational agreements to be signed by India and the US. The two sides have been sharing real-time intelligence under the Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA), which was signed in 2018. The two countries signed the General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) in 2002 and the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016.Pompeo held a separate meeting with external affairs minister S Jaishankar, during which they discussed concerns and interests, including stability and security in Asia, and the global situation and contemporary challenges, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. It is understood that the India-China border standoff figured in the discussions, though the people said specific issues would be taken up at the 2+2 dialogue. Jaishankar was briefed by Pompeo on the US administration’s thinking on the situation in Afghanistan and the peace process. Jaishankar “highlighted India’s stakes and its continuing concern that decisions should be made by Afghans themselves without the “use of force”, one of the people cited above said. He also made it clear that “cross-border terrorism was completely unacceptable”, the person said. India has been worried by the sharp spike in violence in Afghanistan, mainly by elements with ties to Pakistan’s military, even as the Taliban and the Afghan government are holding talks in Doha. New Delhi has already said the outcome of the intra-Afghan dialogue must ensure that the soil of Afghanistan isn’t used for anti-India activities. Jaishankar stressed the “uniqueness of technology and talent flow connects” India and the US and said “a knowledge economy with greater data sensitivity makes an even stronger case for collaboration”, according to the people. An innovative partnership would be central to the future of the two sides and their policies must support this, he added. Education is a special bond between India and the US and both should work to further expand cooperation in this sphere, Jaishankar was quoted as saying by the people. The discussions between Jaishankar and Pompeo, described as productive, followed up on their meeting in Tokyo earlier this month, and they believed bilateral ties have grown in almost all domains, including trade, energy, defence and education, over the past four years. The two leaders followed up on Indo-Pacific engagement and the Quad deliberations, and also focussed on maritime security, counter-terrorism, open connectivity and resilient supply chains, the people said. Also read: China has ramped up military presence across LAC. Ladakh isn’t only targetOn his arrival at South Block, Esper was given a tri-services guard of honour before his meeting with Singh, during which the two leaders reviewed bilateral defence cooperation, including military-to-military cooperation, secure communication systems and information-sharing, and defence trade and industrial issues. They also discussed ways to take bilateral cooperation forward, the statement said.The US defence secretary welcomed Australia’s participation in this year’s edition of the Malabar exercise that features the navies of India, Japan and the US. India, last week, invited Australia to join the exercise, making it the first military drill in recent years to feature all members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad). The foreign ministers of the Quad nations held their second meeting in Tokyo on October 6.Singh and Esper expressed satisfaction at the close engagements between the armed forces of India and the US and discussed “potential new areas of cooperation, both at service-to-service level and at the joint level”, the statement said. They called for continuation of existing defence dialogue mechanisms at all levels during the Covid-19 pandemic, particularly the Military Cooperation Group (MCG), the statement said. “They also discussed requirements of expanding deployments of liaison officers,” it added.Singh spoke about initiatives under India’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India) initiative and encouraged investments in the country’s defence industry. He invited US companies to take advantage of India’s liberalised policies and the favourable defence industry ecosystem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-to-sign-beca-agreement-during-2-2-dialogue-to-facilitate-exchange-of-sensitive-information/story-cxoGqo9rluG1Rq8RUI0utJ.html
27-10-2020||India||Nehru-Gandhi dynasty never respected the PM’s office: JP Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda on Monday lashed out against the Congress for alleging that freedom of speech under the current dispensation and democracy is at a crossroads. In a series of tweets, Nadda accused the Congress of disrespecting the Prime Minister’s office and of double-speak on the issue of freedom of expression. He said the Congress can never pontificate about freedom of speech as they have shown contempt against dissenting voices for decades. “...We saw glimpses of it during the emergency. Later on, the Rajiv Gandhi government made a brazen attempt to weaken press freedom. Free press rattles Congress,” he tweeted. On freedom of speech, Congress can never pontificate to others. They have contempt for dissenting voices for decades. We saw glimpses of it during the Emergency. Later on, the Rajiv Gandhi government made a brazen attempt to weaken press freedom. A free press rattles Congress.Nadda went on to say if anyone wants to see a laboratory of usage of brute state power, troubling opponents, curbing freedom of speech in trademark Congress style, they should see the working of the Congress blessed Maharashtra government. “…Except governing, they are doing everything else,” he tweeted. The BJP leader’s comments were a response to Congress president Sonia Gandhi‘s piece in the Hindustan Times where she wrote about the fundamental right of freedom of expression being systematically suspended through suppression and intimidation.  “Many institutions that are meant to uphold the rights of citizens and society at large have been co-opted or supported. The Indian state now diverts attention from the real problems of the people by pronouncing bogus threats to ‘national security’ everywhere,” Gandhi wrote. In response the BJP hit back by claiming that the Congress has been misleading people and despite their “lies”, the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi continue to receive support from the masses. “One dynasty’s deep personal hatred against a person who was born in poverty and became prime minister is historic. Equally historic is the love people of India have showered upon PM Narendra Modi. More Congress is lies and heat increases, the more people will support PM Modi!” Nadda said. One dynasty’s deep personal hatred against a person who was born in poverty and became PM is historic. Equally historic is the love people of India have showered upon PM @narendramodi. More Congress’ lies and hate increases, the more people will support PM Modi!He also criticised Congress MP Rahul Gandhi for burning the PM’s effigy in Punjab during a protest against the recently framed farm rules. “The Rahul Gandhi-directed drama of burning PM’s effigy in Punjab is shameful but not unexpected. After all, the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty has NEVER respected the office of the PM. This was seen in the institutional weakening of the PM’s authority during the UPA years of 2004-2014,” he said. While the Congress has accused the BJP of being anti-Dalit and failing to curb crimes against women, Nadda responded that if there is any party whose conduct reeks of disgust it is the Congress. “…Atrocities against SC/ ST communities are at an all-time high in Rajasthan, women are unsafe in Rajasthan as well as Punjab, and the Punjab ministers are committing scholarship scams.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nehru-gandhi-dynasty-never-respected-the-pm-s-office-jp-nadda/story-Qx55ydZK5k395jXjFR4QFK.html
27-10-2020||India||Mike Pompeo, Mark Esper to attend India-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue||India and the US are set to review their strategic and security ties and discuss ways to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific during their third 2+2 dialogue between the defence and foreign ministers in New Delhi on Tuesday. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark Esper arrived in the national Capital Monday afternoon for a two-day visit, during which they will also hold bilateral talks with their Indian counterparts S Jaishankar and Rajnath Singh and meet National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The 2+2 ministerial dialogue, to be held on Tuesday morning, is expected to focus on regional security cooperation, defence information-sharing so that the two sides can tackle regional challenges more effectively, global cooperation, including public health collaboration to cope with Covid-19, economic cooperation, and working together in the Indo-Pacific, officials have said. “Grateful for the opportunity to connect with our partners to promote a shared vision for a free and open #IndoPacific composed of independent, strong, and prosperous nations,” Pompeo tweeted on Sunday as he began a trip that will also take him to Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Indonesia. Wheels up for my trip to India, Sri Lanka, Maldives, and Indonesia. Grateful for the opportunity to connect with our partners to promote a shared vision for a free and open #IndoPacific composed of independent, strong, and prosperous nations. pic.twitter.com/IoaJvtsHZCThe two sides are widely expected to sign the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA), one of four so-called foundational pacts to facilitate sharing of classified satellite and sensor data, during the 2+2 meeting. Shortly after their arrival in the national capital on Monday afternoon, Pompeo and Esper will hold separate bilateral meetings with their Indian counterparts that will allow the two sides to review and assess bilateral cooperation in diplomacy and defence. Officials from both sides have pointed to the significance of Pompeo and Esper making an in-person visit at a time when most diplomatic meetings and interactions have moved online due to the pandemic, saying this reflects the importance attached to the relationship with India. Also Read: ‘Grateful for opportunity to connect with partners’, tweets Mike Pompeo as he leaves for India for 2+2 talksHolding the third 2+2 ministerial dialogue in a little more than two years “demonstrates high-level commitment to our shared diplomatic and security objectives”, the US state department said in a statement. The US and India have a commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific, and the growth in the partnership “reflects a deepening strategic convergence on a range of issues”. The visit by Pompeo and Esper will cap a series of high-profile engagements between the two sides this year, which began with President Donald Trump’s visit to India in February. “India, with its large economy, strong support for entrepreneurship and innovation, and its growing international trade, is one of the world’s leading economic powers and is well positioned to promote our shared vision for a free and rules-based Indo-Pacific where all nations can prosper,” the statement said. As outlined in the US national security strategy, Washington welcomes New Delhi’s emergence as a leading regional and global power, and looks forward to collaborating closely during the country’s upcoming term as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council during 2021-22. Also Read: US welcomes India’s rise as a leading regional and global powerThe recent ministerial meeting of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad in Tokyo, convened by Pompeo and his counterparts from India, Japan and Australia, “demonstrated the strong cooperative ties among Indo-Pacific democracies interested in strengthening a rules-based order”, and the grouping has helped to create resilient supply chains, counter disinformation, and increase maritime security, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pompeo-and-esper-set-to-arrive-today-for-india-us-2-2-ministerial-dialogue/story-qUc5mKwwN3q8YkfSTkxQfJ.html
27-10-2020||India||India should end its ostrich-like approach to China, work with the US | Analysis||India and the US will today sign the Basic Exchange Cooperation Agreement (BECA),the last of the four foundational military agreements which allows both countries to share geo-spatial data. The signing is a culmination of 13 years of negotiation, delays and reflects the mistrust between New Delhi and Washington in the past. The misplaced fear that the US will be able to access Indian data, which could compromise national security in the future, was used by South Block to object to the agreement. That India would be able to get geo-spatial data of the entire neighbourhood, including its adversaries, from the US was not considered.That wasn’t surprising. Since the 1960s, India’s policies and national objectives have been framed in such a way that strategic independence meant distance from America. The matter got compounded when a Republican administration under Richard Nixon feted China in July, 1971 and sent Task Force 74 led by USS Enterprise to the Bay of Bengal in December to punish India for liberating Bangladesh and deter New Delhi from taking military action against Pakistan. The Enterprise’s presence in the Bay of Bengal made such a lasting impact on young Congress politicians at the time that neither Pranab Mukherjee nor AK Antony could erase from their memory as defence ministers during the UPA I and II regimes. It was the Enterprise syndrome that sowed the seeds of suspicion between India and the US. Today, the US Republican administration under Donald Trump has taken a 180 degree turn from Nixon’s China move after 50 years by openly contesting the expansionist policies of Beijing.If it was the Enterprise syndrome that hobbled India’s relations with the US, then Indian policy planners have, since 1962 border skirmishes, adopted an ostrich like approach towards China with all its foreign policy moves towards Beijing bordering on appeasement. The very belief that China will accommodate India if the latter reciprocates and that disagreements should be brushed under the carpet for the larger good of the relationship has not worked — at least for New Delhi. While China wants to deal with India bilaterally on the border issue, it had no compunction in bringing its all-weather ally Pakistan into the border equation when the latter illegally ceded 5180 square kilometres of territory in Shaksgam Valley to Beijing in 1963 and then allowed CPEC construction through Occupied Kashmir. It was China who bought Pakistan as a third party without any qualms. The fact is that China has encouraged Pakistan to punch way beyond its weight category with India in order to create hurdles in the form of terrorism, communalism and to globally entangle it on the issue of Jammu and Kashmir. China has blocked India from becoming a permanent member of the UN Security Council, and the Nuclear Suppliers Group and has gone to the extent of conspiring with Pakistan to brand Indian engineers working in Afghanistan as global terrorists under the 1267 UNSC resolution.  Also Watch | Trump vs Biden, who’s better for India? The China, economy, climate factorsIndia, in the name of strategic autonomy and non-alignment, has always been accommodating towards China since 1950s Panchsheel Treaty, trying to ignore China’s unwanted comments on the status of J &K, Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh in the past, even while maintaining a studied silence over its iron rule in Tibet, Xinjiang, Hong Kong and Taiwan. There was an initial attempt to downplay the Arunachal Pradesh stapled visa issue in 2010 and the denial of visa to the Northern Army Commander (Kashmir is under its protection) but India finally took a firm stand after the facts were made public.China has been quite unforgiving towards New Delhi and has always been wary about the economic rise of India , a country with far more soft power and natural affinities with the West, especially the US. The on-going aggression in Ladakh is also designed to punish India for abrogating article 370, making Ladakh into a separate union territory and publishing a new Ladakh map on November 20, 2019 with both occupied Aksai Chin and Gilgit-Baltistan shown as part of it. The resurrection of the already rejected 1959 claim line by Beijing and declaring Ladakh to be under the occupation of India is also an attempt to test the resilience of the Narendra Modi government while at the same time asking New Delhi not to be part of any US alliance. Beijing has played its cards very cleverly. It saw a opportunity in the 2008-2009 world economic crisis . Today under the shadow of the coronavirus disease , which originated from Wuhan, it is again on the front-foot and has no qualms in even engaging Iran while pushing India on Ladakh, Australia on trade, Japan over Senkaku Islands, Taiwan with brute military force, and ASEAN countries like Vietnam, Malaysia and Indonesia though sheer bullying over already rejected claims in the South China Sea.Under the circumstances, as a rising power, India should not only protect its national interest but also advance it by aligning with other QUAD members in order to boost trade and connectivity; work together on counter-terrorism initiatives; and strengthen its financial status. QUAD should be seen as a stabilizing global order in an increasing multi-polar world and a counter to China’s expansionist moves under Xi Jinping. In its hey days, the US would have solely handled China but today with its declining heft it needs a rising Japan, Australia and India to restore the rule of law, trade and free and open sea lanes of communication. The third edition of the two-plus-two dialogue and the QUAD maritime exercises next month in Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea provide India an opportunity to synergise its hard security objectives with the US. QUAD is a reality now and not a pipedream.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-must-overcome-china-syndrome-embrace-quad-analysis/story-PPdMWVCGNaK1NwQ8YPzhsJ.html
27-10-2020||India||NHRC study recommends protecting rape accused from ‘false cases’ till found guilty||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has recommended protecting the rape accused from “false cases” by keeping their identities under wraps until they are found guilty.The NHRC recommendation has come at a time when rape cases are leading to public outrage and the public and the political parties alike are demanding the strictest action against the accused.A study, which was commissioned by the NHRC and conducted by the Centre for Women’s Development Studies that is affiliated to the ministry of education, sought to understand sexual violence against women from the perspective of sexual predators. Also read: NHRC issues notice to UP govt, state police chief in Hathras gangrape caseIt said, “While revealing the identity of victims of sexual crimes is a punishable offence, the same principle does not hold in the case of alleged or actual offenders, whose names and personal details can be freely circulated. A time has come, when there is a need for safeguards to protect the accused from ‘false claims’ .” The study – titled “Interrogating violence against women from the other side: An exploratory study into the world of perpetrators” – asserted that anonymity would be beneficial, particularly for the juvenile accused.“Although issues of identification and naming of the principal actors may not appear to be significant in the larger scheme of things, they have major ramifications especially for accused, who are later found to be innocent,” it said.It suggested introducing reforms for perpetrators rather than declaring them guilty at the time of framing of charges against them. “…. a crime like rape must be understood not only in the context of an illegal act that breaches a given statute but as a transgression aimed at violating the agency of the victim(s)” and “there is a crucial need to understand the reasons behind such crimes,” it stated.The study has also dwelt on the concept of consent in a sexual activity. “According to the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act, 2012, sexual activity with anyone below 18 years of age is illegal, and yet today’s social context has created the conditions for such interactions. Consequently, the narrative of ‘false cases’ and ‘framing’ by the girl and her family come to represent the deep tensions between tradition and modernity,” it said.“Perhaps, for the first time, women are exercising sexual autonomy and choice in a social milieu in which premarital sex for pleasure especially for women is still very much taboo,” it added.However, activists don’t agree with keeping the name of accused persons in rape cases ‘anonymous’. Lawyer and women rights activist Vrinda Grover said, “What public purpose will be served by anonymising the name of the adult accused in cases of rape? If the argument is that disclosure of the name of an accused impacts his reputation, then that would be relevant for accused of all crimes, including, for example, acts of terrorism. There is no rationale to create an exception for this purpose.” “By raising the age of statutory rape to 18 years, the State has enabled the criminalisation of consensual sexual relationships between adolescents and allowed parental and societal control over the lives of young people. It is these cases that provide fodder for the “false cases” narrative. There is compelling evidence available for the state to amend the law and revert the age of statutory rape to 16 years,” Grover added. Women rights activist and Secretary of All India Progressive Women’s Association (AIPWA), Kavita Krishnan said “The solution to this issue is not to put an embargo on naming persons accused of rape. The solution lies in lowering the age of consent to 16, as it was before 2013, when the government went against the Varma committee recommendations and raised the age of consent to 18”. “Using these facts about girls’ parents criminalising consensual relationships to feed the bogey of ‘false cases’ is disingenuous, dishonest. There’s no evidence that false cases filed by women is a phenomenon at all. In cases where women (not parents and caste or communal outfits) file rape cases, why should the accused not be named? In many cases the accused already enjoys impunity, and popular movements are needed to break that impunity. If we didn’t know rape accused Kuldeep Sengar was being protected from arrest because he was a ruling party MLA, would Sengar be convicted and jailed today?” Krishnan added. The researchers interviewed about 70 juvenile and adult offenders lodged at three facilities in the national capital such as Observation Home for Boys Sewa Kutir at Kingsway Camp, where undertrial juveniles, aged between 15 to 18 years, are housed; Special Home for Boys at Majnu Ka Tilla, which is for convicted juveniles; and Tihar Jail, where adult inmates are lodged. Also read: ‘Harassing for money after failed marriages,’ allege parents after MP woman accuses brothers of rapeExperts from the fields of psychiatry, law, police, media, gender, child and women’s rights were also interviewed before arriving at the conclusion.Majority of these sexual predators claimed that they had a “romantic or consensual relationship” with their victims, whose family members were allegedly responsible for framing them.About 40% of juveniles of the 43 boys interviewed at Sewa Kutir said they had a consensual sexual relationship with their victims that either turned sour or was disapproved of by their parents. “In these cases, the boy usually blamed the parents of the victim for framing him. Some of the respondents expressed concern for the security of the victims, who went back to their family members after their arrest. Four of the respondents accepted that they had committed rape,” the study said. Three out of the 43 boys said they were part of the crime under “peer pressure”. “Three of boys noted that they were part of a gang that committed rape; but they denied having committed the act themselves. They said they were either making a video of the act being committed by other gang members or just watching it from a distance” the study added.At least seven cases out of the 43 relate to “elopement”, where juveniles eloped with the victims without realising the legal implications of underage sexual relationships or marriage.The reasons for rape given by eight juveniles interviewed at Special Home for Boys at Majnu Ka Tilla mirrored the issues and themes found in the narratives in the interviews done at Sewa Kutir, the study cited.In Tihar Jail, 20 adults, accused of sexual assaults, were interviewed. “A majority of the interviewees in Tihar Jail denied the charges. Most of them blamed the criminal justice system, which was in their view tilted towards the victim. Others claimed that the charges were levied against them due to reasons such as family rivalry or alcoholism. Some others denied the charges claiming they were co-accused in a gang-rape, in which they played little to no part,” it added. Neeraj Kumar, a former Delhi Police commissioner, who had handled the investigations during December 2012 Nirbhaya gang-rape case in the national capital, agreed with some of the findings of the study.“I agree. It is widely accepted that adding severity of punishment to a certain offence does not necessarily lead to its prevention. However, I do feel that the quantum of punishment prescribed for an offence reflects the view of the society: how it looks at the offence; how it sends the message that justice has been done and the victim avenged. All these are important attributes to a healthy justice system,” he said.“It is a fact that rape laws have been misused by stretching the concept of consent a bit too far. Miscarriage of justice on this count can be prevented by alert and mindful judiciary. Treating adults accused of rape on par with juvenile offenders is stretching the logic a little too far. By the same argument, adults accused of other crimes should also not be named until framing of charge. This suggestion appears untenable,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-study-recommends-protecting-rape-accused-from-false-cases-till-found-guilty/story-WDKegC6e1EZkpqtIeCJogN.html
