28-10-2020||India||Citizens can’t be harassed for being critical of govt: SC||New Delhi Ordinary citizens cannot be harassed for criticising the government, the Supreme Court said on Wednesday in a matter wherein a Delhi woman was summoned by Kolkata Police over a Facebook post that she shared of a crowded Raja Bazar area and questioned the Mamta Banerjee-led government’s seriousness in enforcing the lockdown imposed to fight Covid-19.Finding the post too innocuous to be converted into a first information report (FIR), the bench of justices DY Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said that if police were to issue summons to ordinary citizens in such a manner, it would force the courts to step in and protect the constitutionally guarded fundamental right of free speech under Article 19(1)(a). “If some person writes something against the government in some country, are you (state) going to make him appear, say in Kolkata or Chandigarh or Manipur and tell him that now we will teach you a lesson? This is a dangerous proposition. Let this remain a free country,” the bench remarked.The court stayed a high court order of September 29 asking the woman to appear in Kolkata while asking the petitioner to cooperate with the investigation. The investigating officer (IO) was granted liberty to question the petitioner through video-conferencing or even travel to Delhi to confirm facts.The court was hearing a petition filed by Roshni Biswas, a resident of Delhi against whom an FIR was registered at Ballygunje police station on May 13, 2020 for an allegedly objectionable post attributed to her on a Facebook page. The FIR was registered for offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) involving promoting enmity between religious groups (Section 153A), outraging religious feelings (Section 295A), defamation (Section 500), breach of peace (Section 504), public mischief (Section 505) and other related provisions under the Information Technology Act and the Disaster Management Act.Biswas got a stay on arrest from the Calcutta high court on June 5 on an undertaking that she would appear after the lockdown was lifted. The Kolkata Police issued her summons under Section 41A of the Criminal Procedure Code asking her to appear in Kolkata to be questioned in the case. She approached the Calcutta high court to quash the FIR. While this petition was still pending, the high court directed Biswas on September 29 to appear before the police. She challenged this order in the top court.Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani appearing for Biswas told the bench, “Where is a cognizable offence made out? Moreover, my client has denied that she has any connection with the objectionable post. ”The Kolkata Police have attributed to Biswas two posts on a Facebook page on the lockdown not being followed in Rajabazar, claiming that thousands had gathered there and that the state wasn’t doing anything. The FIR stated that the posts implied “the state administration was going soft on the violation of the lockdown at Rajabazar as the area is predominantly inhabited by a particular community”. The area has a majority Muslim population.The state police denied any attempt to harass the petitioner. Senior advocate R Basanth who represented the West Bengal government said, “In Section 41A proceedings, courts should not interfere. Why should the state be against her? She agreed before the HC to appear but did not do so. We only seek to question her and not harass her. Some persons cannot claim to be more equal than others.”The court did not agree.  “We will be the first institution in this country to tell citizens that if they have done wrong, they must answer to the law but not for this. We have to be here to ensure ordinary citizens are not harassed like this… We have strong reservations against people being called from one state to another just because they have criticised the government.”Striking a balance between the citizen’s right to free speech and police’s power to investigate, the court directed a stay on the HC direction asking the petitioner to appear. The court issued a notice on the petition and granted four weeks to the West Bengal government to respond. Meanwhile, it directed the HC to proceed with the petition to quash the FIR without being influenced by its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citizens-can-t-be-harassed-for-being-critical-of-govt-sc/story-iQSgU5qf0JSkzKn79GZVHI.html
28-10-2020||India||Local trains to resume soon in Maharashtra? Govt seeks permission from railways||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday wrote to Indian railways seeking permission to resume local train services for the general public. In the letter, the government proposed the opening in a staggered manner in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state relief and rehabilitation department proposed three slots for the general public, two slots for the workforce in essential services, and ladies special trains in the letter sent to the western and Central railways. It also suggested to run women-only trains on hourly basis.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAny persons with a valid ticket can travel from days’ first service to 7:30am, then between 11 am to 4:30pm, and from 8pm to the last local train of the day, as per the the proposal.However, it has not set any date to start the local train operations for the general public.The local train services for the general public has been shut since March when the lockdown was imposed to curb the Covid-19 spread in the country.Some services, however, resumed on July 15, with the state allowing only essential services workers, differently abled people and cancer patients to use the trains. On October 21, the government even let all women board the trains during non-peak hours.Meanwhile, Maharashtra, the worst affected state by the viral Covid-19 in the country, has total 1,32,069 active cases, as of Wednesday. However, 14,78,496 patients have been cured and discharged in the state. Furthermore, the 43,463 fatalities have been reported due to the disease so far from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-trains-to-resume-soon-in-maharashtra-govt-seeks-permission-from-railways/story-9PWsUSz92GxziCbI3FMlYO.html
28-10-2020||India||Covid-19 curbs take a back seat on Dusshera in West Bengal’s Kharagpur||Thousands of people gathered in a field on Dusshera to witness the burning of Ravan’s effigy violating Covid-19 restrictions at Kharagpur in West Midnapore district in West Bengal. The incident has shocked public health experts who criticized the local administration for allowing such a gathering at a time when the state is witnessing a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases. West Bengal added 4,121 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, which was the second highest number of cases in India after Kerala. While Kerala with 4,287 cases topped the list, Maharashtra with 3,645 cases ranked third. The top brass of the local administration including the district magistrate and senior Trinamool Congress leaders such as the local MLA attended the ritual organised around 140 km west of Kolkata. “As the event involves the sentiment of the people and is being organized for many years, we had made preparations so that it could be live streamed through a local cable television channel and on a video sharing platform. But people refused to stay at home and came out in large numbers. Nobody was prepared for this,” said Rashmi Kamal, district magistrate of West Midnapore, Thousands of people from Kharagpur and nearby villages gathered at the spot on Monday, to see the burning of the 54-feet effigy. While physical distancing between people took a back-seat many were not even wearing face masks raising the risk of transmission. The district administration, however, said that masks and sanitizers were distributed. “This involves people’s sentiment and the Ravan Dahan at Kharagpur has been going on for several years. It was once the biggest Ravan Dahan in the country. So it was not possible to stop the festival overnight,” said Ajit Maity, district president of the ruling TMC. “This was done keeping in mind the people’s sentiment. People also need to be aware and understand that Covid-19 restrictions need to be followed. The violations have come to our notice. The next time we organise any such gathering we will be better prepared,” said Pradip Sarkar, TMC MLA. The Durga Puja has been muted this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the restrictions imposed by the Calcutta High Court. The court had banned the entry of visitors inside puja pandals this time. “The way people had gathered at the spot was shocking. Even if there was one Covid-19 patient the disease will spread to many people. The administration should have been more careful” said Kajalkrishna Banik, public health expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-curbs-take-a-back-seat-on-dusshera-in-west-bengal-s-kharagpur/story-n0QzL4edDl5IYurjUKy3jO.html
28-10-2020||India||In Andhra, Jagan Reddy vs top poll officer over local body elections||The ongoing tussle between the YSR Congress Party in Andhra Pradesh and the State Election Commission (SEC) took a new turn on Wednesday with the latter setting in motion the process of conducting elections to the rural and urban local bodies in the state.State election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar held a meeting with representatives of all political parties in the state to seek their views on reviving the process of conducting elections to panchayat raj bodies and municipalities, which was stalled in March this year due to outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.In a statement later, Ramesh Kumar said he had held consultations with representatives of 11 recognised political parties. Two other parties had sent their opinions in writing while six others did not attend the meeting. “The consultations with each party representative were held separately keeping in view the Covid-19 guidelines,” he said.TDP state president K Atchan Naidu said he had requested that the SEC issue a fresh notification for the conduct of local body elections, as there were allegations of large scale irregularities against the ruling YSR Congress Party in the first phase.Several other opposition parties like BJP, BSP, the Congress, the CPI and CPI (M) also echoed the same view stating that fresh elections be conducted for the local bodies in the state.The ruling YSRCP boycotted the all-party meeting alleging that the SEC had held the all-party meeting in a bid to hurry through elections.“Ramesh Kumar postponed the elections to local bodies when there were not even three Covid-19 positive cases every day. How can he conduct the elections now, when the state is reporting around 3,000 cases a day?” YSRCP official spokesman and MLA Ambati Rambabu asked.He said as per the Supreme Court directions, the SEC should consult the government before holding the all-party meeting.“He should take the views of the health department officials and chief secretary to know whether the situation was conducive for elections or not,” Ambati Rambabu said.He reminded that Ramesh Kumar had written letters to the Centre in the past making wild allegations against chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and his party. “How can we expect the elections to be free and fair under his authority? He is clearly hand-in-glove with the TDP, led by N Chandrababu Naidu,” Rambabu said.However, the SEC refuted the allegations, saying he had already had a meeting with the officials of the health department on Tuesday afternoon and would be meeting the chief secretary later. He said he had invited representatives of all recognised political parties with reserved symbols. “The SEC is a Constitutional body and casting aspersions is best avoided as per the best democratic traditions. The exercise is being done as a prelude to a stand it has to adopt before the high court in a PIL related to conduct of elections,” Ramesh Kumar said.It may be mentioned that Ramesh Kumar had incurred the wrath of the Jagan government for abruptly postponing the process of elections to local bodies in March amid Covid-19 pandemic. The chief minister directly accused him of postponing the elections in collusion with Chandrababu Naidu because both belonged to the same caste. On April 10, the Jagan government removed Ramesh Kumar from the SEC post through an ordinance reducing the tenure of the SEC from five to three years and appointed a retired judge in his place.Ramesh Kumar challenged the ordinance in the high court, which struck down the same on May 29. The state government moved the SC challenging the high court order and after prolonged hearings, the SC upheld the high court judgment on July 31 and asked the government to reinstate Ramesh Kumar as the SEC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-andhra-jagan-reddy-vs-top-poll-officer-over-local-body-elections/story-YNJ9h1wlWD7Pu3vV1EoZXN.html
28-10-2020||India||‘Mantra of ‘me time’ does wonders in long run’||For actor, anchor and life coach Tannaz Irani, loving oneself earnestly plays a big part in life. “Being a life coach and a firm believer of living life to the fullest, I never miss a chance to spread positivity in my surroundings.“Being a certified life coach, I have supported the cause of mental wellness and holistic well-being through natural healing and I desperately want this to be added as a subject in school curricula. Of late, we have witnessed how misunderstood and underrated mental illness has been in our society,” said the ‘Kahao Naa Pyaar Hai’ actor.Tannaz has acted in multiple films and television shows and has spent over two decades in the industry, talking about balancing her multi-faceted life.“I love acting and I have been into theatre for years. But I’m such a person who believes in growing, so I shifted to TV and then films but never lost track of my personal well-being. I have always been vocal about all-round development to beat the stress in any profession. Our life should not be only about work or family. It should be you first then rest will follow perfectly. Trust me, the mantra of ‘me time’ does wonders in the long run,” she said.After films like ‘Hadh Kar Di Aapne,’ ‘36 China Town,’ and TV serials including ‘Ye Meri Life Hai,’ ‘Kahan Hum Kahan Tum’ and reality shows like ‘Nach Baliye,’ ‘Bigg Boss- 3’ as a couple with her celebrity husband Bakhtiyaar Irani, the beautiful actor refuses to slow down. “I love being on the go and challenging my acting skills: like my latest show ‘Apna Time Bhi Aayega’ where I got a chance to play a maharani, who is all about poise and principles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mantra-of-me-time-does-wonders-in-long-run/story-lHehjzyD5XYa0989scS8lN.html
28-10-2020||India||JEE Mains candidate in Assam, 4 more arrested for proxy exam writing: Police||A Joint Entrance Exam (Mains) candidate in Assam, his father and three employees of an agency which conducts the engineering entrance exam have been arrested for allegedly using a proxy to appear in the test, said police. Neel Nakshatra Das, who scored 99.8 percentile, his father Dr Jyotirmoy Das, a practising doctor in a prominent Guwahati hospital and employees of the test conducting agency - Hirulal Pathak, Pranjal Kalita and Hemendra Sharma - were arrested by the Guwahati police on Wednesday evening. “The five persons have been arrested based on investigation which revealed that Das and his father had used a proxy to appear on the candidate’s behalf with help of an agency,” MP Gupta, commissioner of police, Guwahati, said. According to an FIR filed by Mitradev Sharma at the Azara police station in Guwahati on October 23, the candidate allegedly didn’t appear for the test held on September 5. “We have constituted a special investigation team to probe the allegations. The FIR alleges the candidate used a proxy to appear in the test on his behalf,” said Suprotiv Lal Baruah, Additional DCP (West), Guwahati. It is alleged that the candidate was scheduled to appear for the test at a centre located at Borjhar in the city. But after completing the biometric attendance formalities, he came out of the exam hall with the help of the invigilator and someone else wrote the test on his behalf. “The matter came to light after the candidate reportedly admitted this during a phone call, which was recorded. As of now, we haven’t come across any other case of misrepresentation during the test,” said Baruah. The police have got in touch with the National Testing Agency, which conducts the test across the country, and sought data related to the JEE Mains to help them in their investigation. The complainant has alleged that the parents of the candidate, both doctors, had paid a sum of Rs 15-20 lakh to a private coaching institute in Guwahati to help the candidate in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jee-mains-candidate-in-assam-4-more-arrested-for-proxy-exam-writing-police/story-ayfr1Q5f3a301tKrNoxr6N.html
28-10-2020||India||Each Delhiite should encourage 5 people to take part in govt’s anti-pollution campaign: Gopal Rai||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday said each citizen of Delhi should encourage five people to participate in the city government’s anti-vehicular pollution campaign.The minister said the ‘Red light on, Gaadi off’ campaign now covers all the 70 assembly constituencies in the national capital. By November 2, it will cover all the 272 wards in the city, he said. “I appeal to every citizen of Delhi to encourage five people to participate in the campaign to curb vehicular pollution,” he told reporters.The minister had earlier invited opposition MLAs and MPs to join the campaign.Rai said switching vehicles off while waiting at traffic signals can reduce vehicular pollution by 15-20 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/each-delhiite-should-encourage-5-people-to-take-part-in-govt-s-anti-pollution-campaign-gopal-rai/story-mikLbEQepNzDrejHETQLTM.html
28-10-2020||India||Bombay HC orders BMC to pay lockdown salary dues of its physically challenged staff||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to pay the arrears to its physically challenged employees for the days they failed to report to work during the lockdown.The court said that the civic body’s decision to deduct salaries of such employees, who could not report to duty owing to the hardships imposed by the lockdown, was “illegal”.A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni held that the corporation was a statutory body that had specific obligations to discharge for the interest of the people.The bench said that the civic body was “not a private employer with a mindset of earning profits” and directed that it clears the pay arrears of its physically disabled employees in two instalments.The court said that the first of the two instalments must be paid before Diwali, and the other one must be paid within 45 days of the first.The court’s verdict came on a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the National Association of the Blind.It was filed through advocate Uday Warunjikar.According to the plea, the BMC initially exempted its physically disabled staff members from reporting to work, informing such employees that they were entitled to a special leave without loss of pay.However, in another circular issued on May 26, the BMC said that it was not a special leave, but a ‘permissible leave’ that needed to be sanctioned.Therefore, such physically challenged employees, who did not have any leaves left, or those who failed to get their leaves sanctioned, would have to forfeit the salary for the days that they missed work.The court noted that the central government, too, had exempted its physically disabled employees from reporting to work during the lockdown.And the BMC’s “change of heart” over the same was not backed by sound reason, it held.It stated that it was understandable that the physically disabled would have found it very difficult to report to work during the lockdown since most means of public transport remained suspended and there wasn’t any scope of help from other citizens due to the fear of spread of coronavirus.“If indeed the corporation was not inclined to offer financial benefits like pay to the physically disabled employees who do not report for duty, it was its duty as a model employer to make special arrangements for public transport or special measures to ensure hassle-free travel by such employees to their respective work places,” the HC said.The court also dismissed the BMC’s arguments of loss of revenue on account of paying such employees despite their absence of work.The HC said that such a notion was “misconceived”.“We declare the action of the corporation to withhold the monetary benefits to the physically disabled employees with retrospective effect, as assailed, to be illegal,” the HC said.“We also hold that such employees would be entitled to all normal monetary benefits, which ought not to have been withheld by the corporation during the period of pandemic,” it said.The BMC has around 1,150 physically disabled people, including 268 visually impaired employees on whose behalf the PIL had been filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-orders-bmc-to-pay-lockdown-salary-dues-of-its-physically-challenged-staff/story-clgZmsbYJmBBFHaoA9wzBO.html
28-10-2020||India||Sunni Waqf Board seeks implementation of Place of Worship Act amid calls to reclaim Kashi, Mathura||Expressing concern over Kashi and Mathura temples being dragged into legal dispute a year after the Supreme Court’s Ayodhya verdict, the Sunni Central Waqf Board has sought strict implementation of the Places of Worship Act. The Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 provides for maintaining the “religious character” of holy structures as it existed on August 15, 1947.A plea filed by a Hindu organisation in June had challenged Section 4 of the law in a bid to open the litigation route to reclaim disputed religious sites other than the Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya. The Vishwa Bhadra Pujari Purohit Mahasangh’s plea assumes significance in the case of Kashi and Mathura where two disputed mosques stand. Talking to PTI, chairman of Sunni Central Waqf Board, Zufar Farooqui, said, “The Places of Worship Act clearly prohibits the conversion of any place of worship and maintain its religious character as it existed on 15 August, 1947.” “The Supreme Court’s verdict which had cleared the construction of a Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya where the demolished Babri Masjid once stood has also reiterated the places of worship act,” he added. “The board will be dealing with the court cases but since the places of worship act in place, it must be implemented to stop such attacks on mosques in India,” he said. After a protracted legal tussle, the Supreme Court, on November 9 last year, ruled in favour of the construction of a Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a “prominent” place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh. Farooqui, who is also the president of the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), a trust, for the construction of the mosque in Ayodhya, said the new structure will be bigger than the Babri masjid. A museum, hospital and research centre which will also be built inside the complex.“We are working on war footing to kick start the construction of the mosque and other facilities in Ayodhya. We are taking the advice of International experts to construct a world-class facility,” he said. “The hospital of course will hold centre stage as it will serve humanity in the true spirit of Islam as taught by the prophet. It will be in sync with the architecture of the mosque, replete with calligraphy and Islamic symbols. It will house a 300-bed speciality unit, where doctors will work with missionary zeal to provide free treatment to the ailing,” he added.  The master plan will be designed to house an archive, museum and community kitchen in the mosque complex. The archive and museum will exhibit contribution of Muslims to nation building, Indian culture and freedom struggle and of course Sufi saints who spread love and harmony, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sunni-waqf-board-seeks-implementation-of-place-of-worship-act-amid-calls-to-reclaim-kashi-mathura/story-mA3BThhZ1Cbn7GmAIX62RP.html
28-10-2020||India||Bihar recorded 46.29 per cent turnout till 3 pm in 1st phase of assembly polls||Over 46 per cent voter turnout has been recorded till 3 pm in the first phase of Bihar assembly polls on Wednesday, the Election Commission said in its provisional data.A total of 71 assembly segments of the state’s 243 constituencies are voting in the first phase in which nearly 2.15 crore voters will decide the electoral fate of over 1,000 candidates.With the progress of time, voters turnout at booths has been increasing at several places notwithstanding raging coronavirus cases in the state.As per the provisional voter turnout data updated by the Election Commission at 3 pm, 46.29 per cent of the total electorates have exercised their franchise.The 71 constituencies are spread across 16 districts.The maximum 49.84 per cent turnout has been recorded in Lakhisarai, followed by Buxar (48.91 per cent), Kaimur (49.26 per cent), Banka (47.44 per cent), Patna (45.77 per cent) and Bhagalpur (45.51 per cent) among others.Only Sandesh and Barbigha assembly seats have seen less less than 40 per cent voting till 3 PM out of the total 71 constituencies in the first phase.Union minister and senior BJP leader Giriraj Singh cast his vote at a polling booth in Lakhisarai, while former Bihar chief minister and HAM president Jitan Ram Manjhi exercised his franchise at a booth in Gaya.State ministers and also candidates from different constituencies- Vijay Sinha and Krishnandan Verma- and commonwealth games gold medal winning shooter Shreyasi Singh, BJP nominee from Jamui seat, cast their vote.Enthusiasm of voters was seen at many a booth. In Nawada, a physically challenged voter reached booth on his tricycle to cast his vote.In Dinana assembly constituency, a group of women expressed happiness after exercising franchise.Voting will end at 6 PM. But, in the naxal-affected areas polling time has been curtailed.Out of the 71 constituencies, 35 are in naxal-affected areas where polling will be held in a staggered manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-recorded-46-29-per-cent-turnout-till-3-pm-in-1st-phase-of-assembly-polls/story-Al71XlTKQ9nKL1WssL5sRL.html
28-10-2020||India||Two Kerala ministers get bail in five-year old case related to violence in assembly||After the Kerala High Court refused to entertain their plea, two ministers in Pinarayi Vijayan’s cabinet appeared before the chief judicial magistrate’s (CJM) court in the state capital on Wednesday and took bail in a case relating to violent incidents in the assembly in 2015. The HC had rejected their plea on Tuesday to stay the case and exempt their personal appearance in court. On October 15, the CJM’s court had ordered the six accused in the case, including the two ministers, to appear before it. Later, both ministers had moved the High Court. The House witnessed violent incidents in March 2015 after opposition Left Democratic Front (LDF) legislators prevented then Finance Minister K M Mani from presenting the state budget alleging his role in a bar bribery case. Angry members snapped mikes, destroyed furniture and damaged lights in the melee and two legislators were later hospitalized. The session was live when violence unfolded in the House. Then Speaker N Sakthan later filed a police complaint against six LDF legislators, two of them EP Jayarajan and KT Jaleel are ministers in the Pinarayi Vijayan ministry now. The complaint said property worth Rs 2.5 lakh was damaged in the melee and they tried to manhandle treasury bench members. But the case failed to make any progress and when the LDF came to power in 2016 the public prosecutor had sought permission to withdraw it but the court declined. The government had invoked the privilege of legislators to justify its decision to withdraw the case but the court rejected it saying privilege was not a licence to carry out violent activities in the House. During a discussion in the assembly last year chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said assembly proceedings should not be dragged to courts. Interestingly the Kerala Congress (Mani) is in the left camp now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-kerala-ministers-get-bail-in-five-year-old-case-related-to-violence-in-assembly/story-b6OxgAh6LJ7RHtUQ5YzU1O.html
28-10-2020||India||Let it remain free country: SC after police summon woman over Facebook post||Ordinary citizens cannot be harassed for criticising the government, said the Supreme Court on Wednesday in a matter where a Delhi woman was summoned by the Kolkata police for an objectionable Facebook post. The woman had shared a crowded Raja Bazar area scene of Kolkata and questioned the Mamta Banerjee government’s seriousness to enforce the lockdown.Finding the post too innocuous to be converted into a first information report (FIR), the bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee shuddered to think that if police were to issue summons to ordinary citizens in this manner, it will set a dangerous trend forcing Courts to step in and protect the constitutionally guarded fundamental right of free speech under Article 19(1)(a).The bench remarked, “If some person writes something against the Government in some country, are you (state) going to make him appear, say in Kolkata or Chandigarh or Manipur and tell him that now we will teach you a lesson. This is a dangerous proposition. Let this remain a free country.”The apex court stayed the High Court order of September 29 asking her to appear in Kolkata while asking the petitioner to cooperate with the investigation. The investigating officer (I.O) was granted liberty to question the petitioner through video conferencing or even come to Delhi for confronting facts.What prompted such harsh words from the top court was a petition filed by one Roshni Biswas, a resident of Delhi, who faced a FIR registered at Ballygunje police station on May 13 for an objectionable post attributed to her on a Facebook page. The FIR was registered for offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) involving promoting enmity between religious groups (Section 153A), outraging religious feelings (Section 295A), defamation (Section 500), breach of peace (Section 504), public mischief (Section 505) and other related provisions under the Information Technology Act and Disaster Management Act.Roshni got a stay of arrest from the Calcutta High Court on June 5 on an undertaking that she will appear after lockdown is lifted. The Kolkata police issued her summons under Section 41A of the Criminal Procedure Code asking her to appear in Kolkata to be questioned in the case. She approached the Calcutta High Court to quash the FIR. While this petition was still pending, the HC directed Roshni on September 29 to appear before the police. She challenged this order in the top court.Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, appearing for Roshni, told the apex bench, “Where is a cognisable offence made out. Moreover, my client has denied that she has any connection with the objectionable post. They want to call me to Kolkata and put me under terror.”What was attributed to her by the police were two posts on a Facebook page where she said, “The lockdown is not being followed at Rajabazar….During lockdown, thousands of people have come together and raising concerns as to whether the State administration would do something about it.” The FIR stated that the posts implied “the State administration was going soft on the violation of the lock down at Rajabazar as the area is predominantly inhabited by a particular community.” This area has a majority of Muslim population.The FIR attached other web links to imply from the posts that “the State administration is complacent while dealing with lock down violations caused by a certain segment of the community”.The state police denied any attempt to harass the petitioner. Senior advocate R Basanth, who represented the West Bengal government, said, “In Section 41A proceedings, Courts should not interfere. Why should the state be against her? She agreed before the HC to appear but did not do so. We only seek to question her and not harass her. Some persons cannot claim to be more equal than others.”On a bare reading of the FIR, the bench remarked, “We will be the first institution in this country to tell citizens that if they have done wrong, they must answer to the law but not for this. We have to be here to ensure ordinary citizens are not harassed like this…We have strong reservations against people being called from one state to another just because they have criticised the government.”The court issued notice on the petition and granted four weeks to the Bengal government to respond. Meanwhile, it directed the HC to proceed with the petition to quash FIR without being influenced by the present order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-it-remain-free-country-sc-after-police-summon-woman-over-facebook-post/story-Add2MROByHU6iOMQ7hcCqK.html
28-10-2020||India||6 cops suspended for handcuffing Amaravati farmers during judicial remand||The Andhra Pradesh police on Wednesday suspended six head constables and served charge memos on a reserve inspector and a sub-inspector for handcuffing seven farmers from Amaravati in connection with their agitation against the formation of three capitals for the state. Guntur (rural) superintendent of police Vishal Gunni said the department took serious note of the farmers being handcuffed while being shifted from Narsaraopet sub-jail to Guntur prison on Monday. He also ordered a detailed probe by a committee headed by an additional superintendent of police. “It is unfortunate. There is no question of shielding any errant officer. Investigation is on,” he said. The arrested farmers from Krishanayapalem included five SCs and two OBCs and the police, ironically, booked them, along with four others, under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. They were charged with obstructing some Dalits from neighbouring villages, who had come to Amaravati last week to stage demonstrations in support of the three capitals plan. The Amaravati farmers alleged that the ruling YSR Congress party leaders had brought outsiders to launch a counter-agitation in support of the three capitals decision. “We did not abuse them or attack them. We only questioned their credentials. For that, the police foisted cases against us,” a farmer told reporters. On Monday, the police arrested six farmers and remanded them to judicial custody in Narsaraopet jail. On Tuesday, they were subjected to Covid-19 tests and later, shifted to Guntur jail in a bus. In the process, the police handcuffed the farmers. This triggered massive protests from farmers in Amaravati. Representatives of Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi and Joint Action Committee staged protests in Amaravati, demanding the release of the arrested villagers. Telugu Desam Party president N Chandrababu Naidu said the police had committed a serious human rights violation by handcuffing the farmers. He alleged that the Jagan Mohan Reddy government was harassing farmers for agitating and demanding that the capital city be retained at Amaravati. TDP politburo member Varla Ramaiah sought the National Human Rights Commission’s (NHRC) intervention in the matter. TDP general secretary Nara Lokesh called on the families of the arrested farmers at Krishnayapalem and extended solidarity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-cops-suspended-for-handcuffing-amaravati-farmers-during-judicial-remand/story-7KgMzFprCA2LvM7iy064mI.html
28-10-2020||India||Is Twitter down? Users complain unable to access website||Twitter, the microblogging site, faced an outage issue on Wednesday with users unable to access the website on Android and iOS apps. Besides India, the users in Malaysia, Indonesia, Nepal and Bangladesh faced the issue in creating new tweets and refreshing their newsfeed.According to DownDetector, users started facing the issue at around 8 pm and since then it has received over 2,600 complaints of the outage. Most of the complaints have been received from desktop users, as per the site.The cause of the outage is not known yet. There has been no reaction from Twitter yet on it as yet.This is the second time, the website is down for users. On October 16, Twitter faced an outage issue to “some trouble” with its internal systems.However, it ruled out any security breach behind the reason of outage.In July, the social media networking site had reported a breach where hackers accessed its internal systems to hijack some of the platform’s top voices, including US presidential candidate Joe Biden and reality TV star Kim Kardashian, and used them to solicit digital currency.This month as well, the website was at the centre of headlines, mainly for its drastic steps taken regarding the US elections.It even blocked posts from an adviser to President Donald Trump who downplayed the role of masks during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-twitter-down-users-complain-unable-to-access-website/story-DWU8Fwi3DfDzDPZcNMxgTI.html
28-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Parliament panel slams Twitter on Leh map fiasco and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Act of treason’: Parliament panel slams Twitter on Leh map fiascoThe Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) constituted to review the Data Protection Bill on Wednesday came down heavily upon representatives from Twitter for showing Leh as part of China, saying that it amounts to an act of treason.According to those who attended the meeting, legal issues regarding data protection were raised and written submissions from both Amazon and Twitter will follow. Read MoreBihar Assembly Election 2020: Polling in phase 1 concludes, 53.54% voter turnout recorded till 6pmPolling in the seventy-one assembly constituencies of Bihar continued beyond 6pm in the first phase of Bihar Assembly Election 2020. This was the first major election conducted amid Covid-19 pandemic. While polling remained peaceful without any major incident or EVM glitch, the state witnessed high-octane preparation for the second phase scheduled on November 3 — as both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi addressed rallies in the state on Wednesday. Read MoreDU Vice Chancellor Prof Yogesh Tyagi suspended, education ministry says ‘failed to discharge duties’Delhi University Vice Chancellor Prof Yogesh Tyagi has been placed under suspension on President’s orders, ministry of education officials said on Wednesday. Tyagi’s suspension by the President comes amid heated power tussle amid two sections in the university over recent decisions on crucial appointments taken by the VC and their compliance with varsity norms. Read MoreCongress seeks Uttarakhand CM’s resignation after HC orders CBI probe on bribery allegationsThe Opposition Congress has demanded the resignation of Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on moral grounds for fair investigation in a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation ordered by the high court on allegations of bribery.The Uttarakhand high court on Tuesday directed the CBI to register a case and investigate allegations against the chief minister. Read MorePak opposes changes to India’s land ownership laws in J&KPakistan on Wednesday said it “categorically rejects” amendments to Indian laws that allow outsiders to buy non-farm land in Kashmir, calling them “illegal”.In a gazette notification on Tuesday, the home ministry had omitted the phrase “permanent resident of the state” from Section 17 of the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act that deals with the disposal of land in the Union Territory. The new rules allow outsiders to buy non-agricultural land in Jammu & Kashmir. Read MoreImran Khan punched above his weight; snubbed by Saudi Arabia, IranSaudi Arabia and Iran, the Sunni and Shia shoulders of Islam, refused to allow Pakistan missions to hold public events to observe the 27 October anniversary of Jammu and Kashmir’s accession to India as a Black Day, a departure from previous years that signals Pakistan’s shifting equations in West Asia. Read MoreShane Warne slams Marlon Samuels for distasteful comment on Stokes and him, says the Windies all-rounder ‘has no friends’ and ‘needs serious help’Former Australian spin legend Shane Warne on Wednesday took to Twitter to slam West Indies cricketer Marlon Samuels, for the latter’s vicious attack on Warne and England all-rounder Ben Stokes in an Instagram story. Samuels in the Instagram story used foul language against both Stokes and Warne. He also made racist comments by saying that he had a superior skin tone. Samuels had also involved Stokes’ wife in his comments and this resulted in wide outrage over social media. Read MoreThe White Tiger trailer: Adarsh Gourav, Priyanka Chopra, Rajkummar Rao’s film fights ideals of subservience, classismThe first trailer for upcoming Netflix film The White Tiger was released on Wednesday evening. Introducing actor Adarsh Gourav, the film is based on Aravind Adiga’s Man Booker Prize-winning book.The White Tiger also stars Priyanka Chopra and Rajkummar Rao. Read More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-polling-in-phase-1-of-bihar-assembly-elections-concludes-53-54-voter-turnout-recorded-till-6pm-and-all-the-latest-news/story-GSodfN8EQcepnaoJ9OgOnJ.html
28-10-2020||India||With 5,673 new coronavirus cases, Delhi records its highest single-day spike||Delhi has crossed another grim landmark of recording over 5,000 new coronavirus cases in a single day. On Wednesday, 5,673 new cases of the viral infection were reported in the daily health bulletin. The 4,853 cases reported on Tuesday were highest so far. Before that, 4,473 new cases reported on September 16 had been the highest number of cases in the city during the second surge. The city had seen the first surge in cases in June-July, when the union home ministry had stepped in to control the spread of the infection. An expert committee headed by NITI Ayog member Dr VK Paul had said that the number of cases in Delhi could go up to 15,000 a day during the winter months. The positivity rate – proportion of samples that returned positive among those tested – also tipped over 9%. This happened for the first time since the first week of September when Delhi was conducting only about 20,000 tests a day. Once the government tripled it to about 60,000 a day, the positivity rate had dipped. However, when the testing was scaled up, most of the tests were done using the rapid antigen method which is cheap, easy to deploy in clinics, and gives results in 15 minutes. However, it is also more likely to throw false negatives for people who might actually have the infection. The number of cases in the city started increasing again in October as the government scaled up the more reliable RT-PCR tests. On Wednesday, over 17,000 RT-PCR tests were conducted in the city for the very first time. “We are now testing people in a targeted manner. If one person tests positive, we are looking for all his family members and contacts and getting them tested. This strategy is being closely monitored. What we have seen is that if one person tests positive, usually several members of the same family test positive. This is the reason that the positivity rate has gone up,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said on Tuesday during a media interaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-reports-5-673-coronavirus-cases-in-a-day-its-highest-so-far/story-OQdzkrbudgoG7K2yUuFqiN.html
28-10-2020||India||Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla to visit France, Germany and UK in November||Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla will visit France, Germany and the UK during October 29-November 4 – his first trip outside the neighbourhood amid the Covid-19 pandemic – to review bilateral relations and boost cooperation in trade and investment. The visit will provide India with an opportunity to brief the leadership of the three countries on the latest developments in the border standoff with China and discuss efforts to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Shringla will review bilateral relations and discuss matters of mutual interest and “share Indian perspectives with his counterparts and with other key interlocutors”, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. Besides discussing international cooperation in dealing with the pandemic and its consequences, Shringla will interact with businesspersons, academics, intellectuals and the media in the three countries, the statement said. “France, Germany and the UK are strategic partners of India and are nations with which India has close and well-established relations. Bilateral ties are multi-dimensional and have grown rapidly,” the ministry said. India’s relations with all three countries are built on a foundation of shared democratic values and “informed by a commonality of interest in issues such as sustainable development and climate change”. India also has very substantial trade and commercial ties and large investment flows with these countries, and works closely with them in multilateral and plurilateral platforms on different issues. “Indian priorities such as robust and reformed multilateralism, its expanded multilateral and plurilateral engagements, including its forthcoming non-permanent tenure in the UN Security Council, and its commitment to a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific will be discussed,” the statement said. Shringla’s visit to these countries is part of India’s continuing international engagement and diplomatic outreach in spite of limitations posed by the pandemic, officials said. Since the pandemic restricted diplomatic engagements, Shringla has travelled to only two countries in the neighbourhood. He travelled to Bangladesh in August to deliver a message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and to push forward connectivity and development projects. Shringla visited Myanmar with Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane earlier this month to boost security and development cooperation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-harsh-shringla-to-visit-france-germany-and-uk-in-november/story-xxgbktjkaNukSo0wjMe8WK.html
28-10-2020||India||Govt pulled up by RTI body over evasive reply on Aarogya Setu. It clarifies||The Central Information Commission issued a notice to the government and asked it to explain the evasive RTI response over the creation of the Aarogya Setu app, the contact tracing app that has crores of users’ data. The RTI body called the government response “extremely preposterous”.The RTI application, filed by Saurav Das, had sought information about the creation of the application in light of privacy concerns around it. Government officials from the National Informatics Centre (NIC) and National E-Governance Division (NeGD) and Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) declined to comment on the question raised by Das, prompting him to file an appeal with the CIC. The application has been particularly contentious as news reports and data privacy activists have alleged that the app collects information and stores it.“The CPIO (central public information officer), NIC’s submissions that the entire file related to creation of the App is not with NIC is understandable, but the same submissions if accepted from MeITY, NeGD and NIC in toto, then it becomes more relevant to now find out how an App was created and there is no information with any of the relevant public authorities,” the CIC said in its order dated October 26.It has further directed NIC, which manages the creation and maintenance of the government’s websites, to explain how the website was created with a gov.in extension if the ministry had no information about it.“The Commission observed that none of the CPIOs provided any information. Therefore, the Commission directs the CPIO, NIC to explain this matter in writing as to how the website https://aarogyasetu.gov.in/ was created with the domain name gov.in, if they do not have any information about it,” the CIC said.“None of the CPIOs were able to explain anything regarding who created the App, where are the files, and the same is extremely preposterous,” the order added.The order has taken cognizance of Supreme Court decisions in Namit Sharma v Union of India 2012 (8) SCALE 593 in which it was held that the “purpose and object for the enactment of the RTI Act was to make the government more transparent and accountable to the public and to ensure access to information to every citizen from the public authorities”.MeitY officials, however, said that the government will comply with the CIC’s orders.“As per the orders of the CIC, CPIOs of MeitY, NeGD and NIC have been directed to appear on 24th November 2020. MeitY is taking necessary steps to comply with the orders of the CIC,” MeitY said in a statement.The statement added that the app was developed in record time to combat the prevailing Covid-19 outbreak and its source code and the names of those associated with developing the app are available in the open domain.“With regard to the above, it is clarified that there should be no doubt with regard to the Aarogya Setu App and its role in helping contain Covid-19 pandemic in India. Aarogya Setu App was launched by Government of India in public private partnership mode to bring people of India together in its fight against Covid-19,” the ministry said.“Since 2nd April 2020, regular press releases and updates have been issued on Aarogya Setu App including making the source code available in Open domain on 26th May 2020. The names of all those associated with the development of the App and management of the App ecosystem at various stages was shared when the code was released in Open/Public Domain and the same was shared widely in media also,” the ministry added.The CIC has asked for a clarification about who created and maintained the application, especially considering the platform is designed, developed and hosted by NIC.“Furthermore, as per the website, it is mentioned that the content is owned, updated and maintained by the MyGov, MeitY. Therefore… directed to explain in writing who is the concerned CPIO to explain regarding MyGov, MeiTY maintaining the app. The platform is designed, developed and hosted by the National Informatics Centre, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India, then how is it that they do not have any information about creation of the App,” the Commission said in its order.The Commission has directed the CPIOs of the agencies to appear before the bench on November 24.“The Commission is constrained to issue a show cause notice to the concerned CPIOs,” it added. It has asked the three CPIOs to make written submissions detailing their role in creation of the website https://aarogyasetu.gov.in/ with the domain name gov.in. “The CPIO, NeGD shall also explain the delay of about 2 months in replying to the RTI application. The Commission directs the above-mentioned CPIOs to appear before the bench on 24.11.2020 at 01.15 pm to show cause as to why action should not be initiated against them under Section 20 of the RTI Act. The CPIOs are also directed to send a copy of all supporting documents upon which they choose to rely upon during the hearing,” the order said.It has also asked why a penalty under the RTI Act should not be imposed on them “for prima facie obstruction of information and providing an evasive reply”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-pulled-up-by-rti-body-over-evasive-reply-on-aarogya-setu-it-clarifies/story-C8KlA3tXrl7wCPvcv7fxSP.html
28-10-2020||India||Aarogya Setu developed by ‘best of minds’ from government, private, academia; NIC part of it, Centre clarifies||The Aarogya Setu app was developed by the government in collaboration with private enterprises, the Centre has clarified after the Chief Information Commission sought explanation from the National Informatics Centre for claiming that it did not have any data regarding who made the contact-tracing app. Clarification issued on Aarogya Setu App. Aarogya Setu App is a product of Government of India built in collaboration with the best of the minds of Industry & Academia. Worlds largest contact tracing App, appreciated by WHO also. #SetuMeraBodyguard #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/mbhQ4pTuZwIn a two-page clarification tweeted from the official handle of the application, the Centre said Aarogya Setu has been downloaded by more than 16.23 crore users and it has been strengthening India’s fight against Covid-19.Also Read: Ministry has no information on who created Aarogya Setu, RTI body issues showcause notice“It has helped identify bluetooth contacts of Covid-19 positive users and issued alerts for helping people to stay safe. These bluetooth contacts have been advised for caution, quarantine or testing depending on the ectent of the exposure to Covid-19 positive user,” it said.About 25 per cent of those who have been alerted tested positive, the clarification said. “This is much higher compared to the overall positivity rate of 7 to 8 per cent. Thus the efficiency of testing has gone up with Aarogya Setu,” it added.Dousing the controversy that was fuelled after the National Informatics Centre denied having any knowledge about the app, the Centre said there should be no doubt over this app. Giving details of how the app was developed, the Centre said the app was developed in a record time of around 21 days. It was a ‘Make in India’ effort for which the best of Indian minds from industry, academia and government worked round the clock. NIC has developed the app in collaboration with volunteers from industry and academia, it said.The Centre also mentioned how the World Health Organization praised the app for helping the state health departments identify Covid-19 clusters. “Aarogya Setu app from India has been downloaded by 150 million users and helped city public health departments to identify areas where clusters could be anticipated and expand testing in a targeted way,” WHO director-general Tedros Adhanon Ghebreyesus had earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aarogya-setu-developed-by-government-and-private-collaboration-centre-clarifies/story-iQyqZTZR4CKZVN5SCB3SLO.html
28-10-2020||India||In Telangana’s Warangal, man sentenced to death for killing 9 to hide earlier crime||A local court in Telangana’s Warangal district on Wednesday sentenced a 25-year old migrant worker from Bihar to death for allegedly murdering nine other migrant labourers in May this year in a bid to cover up another murder he had committed earlier. Warangal first additional district court judge Jaya Kumar delivered his judgement, awarding a death sentence to accused Sanjay Kumar Yadav for the gruesome killings, including six members of a family on May 20. The Warangal police booked Yadav under seven sections of the Indian Penal Code and filed the charge sheet within 25 days of the FIR being registered. Yadav confessed to the crime during the trial. In all, the court cross-examined 98 people, including 68 witnesses, before pronouncing the judgement. The mass murders that took place at Gorrekunta village of Geesugonda block on the outskirts of Warangal town created a sensation in Telangana. On May 20, the police recovered nine bodies from an abandoned well. Warangal city police commissioner V Ravinder said the deceased were identified as Md Maqsood (55), his wife Nisha (48), sons Shahabad Alam (21) and Sohail Alam (18), daughter Bushra (20) and her three-year-old son Shoaib (all from the same family from West Bengal), Sriram (21) and Shyam (22) from Bihar, besides Shakil (30) from Tripura. All the elders were working in a gunny bag manufacturing unit at Geesugonda and staying in the same company premises since the enforcement of lockdown in March. The police initially thought they had died by mass suicide owing to financial constraints or some other family reasons. Investigations later revealed that all the nine people were murdered by Yadav, also a migrant worker from Bihar, to cover up another murder he had committed in March – that of Rafiqa (37), a divorcee sister-in-law of Maqsood, with whom Yadav had an illicit affair. The police said Yadav had killed Rafiqa on their way to West Bengal at Nidubrolu in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district on March 6 and quietly returned to Warangal. When other family members of Maqsood grew suspicious about Rafiqa being missing even after two months, Yadav decided to eliminate them. He mixed sleeping pills in their food and after they fell asleep, bundled them in gunny bags and dumped them in an abandoned well, the police said. The prosecution produced all the evidence before the court, including footage from Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras showing Sanjay Kumar Yadav coming to the victims’ house at 5.30 pm on May 19 and leaving the next morning at 6.30 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-telangana-s-warangal-migrant-sentenced-to-death-for-killing-9-to-hide-earlier-crime/story-VT2KkX0nU1Ymwah6hTJ2KL.html
28-10-2020||India||Union minister Smriti Irani tests positive for Covid-19||Union minister Smriti Irani on Wednesday announced that she has tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and requested those who had come in contact with her to get tested at the earliest. “It is rare for me to search for words while making an announcement; hence here’s me keeping it simple — I’ve tested positive for #COVID and would request those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested at the earliest,” the Union minister tweeted. It is rare for me to search for words while making an announcement; hence here’s me keeping it simple — I’ve tested positive for #COVID and would request those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested at the earliest 🙏Also read: Smriti Irani visits Amethi, Congress calls it ‘political tourism’Irani is one of the prominent BJP leaders who have campaigned extensively in the Bihar state for the ongoing Assembly polls. The Union minister for Women and Child Development (WCD) had also travelled to her Lok Sabha (LS) constituency Amethi last week and announced several projects for her constituency, which used to be a Gandhi family’s pocket borough for years until she wrested the prestigious seat from Rahul Gandhi in last year’s parliamentary polls, during the festive season. It was also her first visit to Amethi since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from the end of March in a bid to keep the viral infection at bay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-smriti-irani-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-07vqcfiVKODvm9vE4oa6zH.html
28-10-2020||India||Delhi CM Kejriwal acquitted in defamation case filed in 2016||A Delhi court on Wednesday acquitted Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a criminal defamation complaint filed by BJP MP Ramesh Bidhuri in 2016.The complaint was filed against him by Bidhuri, MP from South Delhi parliamentary constituency, under section 500 (defamation) of the IPC.Bidhuri alleged that Kejriwal had defamed him in an interview to a news channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-acquitted-in-defamation-case-filed-in-2016/story-3YmXnywk37Wlclq3VARWiN.html
28-10-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty’s accusations against Sushant’s sisters ‘speculative’, says CBI||The CBI on Wednesday told the Bombay High Court that Rhea Chakraborty’s accusation that late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters obtained a fake medical prescription for him was “mostly speculative”.Such speculation cannot be the basis of an FIR, the Central agency said in response to Rajput’s sisters Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh’s petition seeking to quash the case lodged against them by Mumbai Police.Chakraborty, Rajput’s girlfriend, has alleged that a fabricated prescription was used to help him procure medicines banned under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act only a few days before his suicide in June 2020.“The allegations in the present FIR are mostly presumptive and speculative in nature,” the CBI said.The Central Bureau of Investigation also pointed out that it is probing the complaint filed by Rajput’s father K K Singh against Chakraborty and her family members for allegedly abetting the 34-year-old actor’s suicide.Rajput’s sisters filed the petition through advocate Madhav Thorat on October 6 seeking that the FIR filed against them by Bandra Police here be quashed.TheCBI said the police should have conducted preliminary enquiry before registering the First Information Report. “It is settled law that two FIRs cannot be registered on the same cause of action....the CBI is already investigating the causes relating to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput and all aspects surrounding the same.“In view of this, it was expected from the Mumbai police to forward the complaint received from Rhea Chakraborty to the CBI instead of registering FIR itself,” the CBI said. “Therefore, registration of FIR on the same facts and cause of action is both unwarranted and not allowed under law.Thus, this FIR is vitiated and bad in law,” the agency said.If Rhea Chakraborty was aware of the mobile phone chat between Rajput and his sister Priyanka in June 2020 during which Priyanka allegedly sent him a medical prescription, then Rhea should not have kept silent till September, the CBI said.It was conducting probe without being hindered by any external factors in an impartial manner, it said. The police’s FIR names Rajput’s two sisters and a doctor of the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Delhi, Tarun Kumar, who allegedly signed the medical prescription. The HC will hear the petition on November 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-s-accusations-against-sushant-s-sisters-speculative-says-cbi/story-sTL1QC5BHXitFAyoeQRT1O.html
28-10-2020||India||Committed to transparency, will share timely updates with govt: Twitter on geo-tagging issue||Microblogging platform Twitter on Wednesday said the company remains committed to openness and transparency, and will stay in regular touch with the government to share timely updates. The company’s statement comes in the backdrop of its appearance in front of the joint committee of parliament on Data Protection Bill, 2019, on Wednesday. Representatives of the social media company were also questioned by the members on showing Ladakh as part of China. Committee chairman Meenakshi Lekhi had told PTI that Twitter’s explanations to the panel on showing Ladakh as part of China were “inadequate” and that the act amounts to criminal offence attracting imprisonment of seven years. Representatives of Twitter had told the panel that the company respects the sensitivities of India. “The recent geo-tagging issue was swiftly resolved by our teams. We are committed to openness, transparency around our work and will remain in regular touch with the government to share timely updates,” a Twitter spokesperson said in an emailed statement. Twitter had come under heavy criticism and faced a backlash from social media users after its geo-tagging feature displayed “Jammu & Kashmir, People’s Republic of China” in a live broadcast from Leh’s Hall of Fame, a war memorial for fallen soldiers in the Union Territory of Ladakh. Twitter had called it a technical issue that had been swiftly resolved. Last week, the government had written to Twitter on the issue, saying any disrespect of the country’s sovereignty and integrity is totally unacceptable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-to-transparency-will-share-timely-updates-with-govt-twitter-on-geo-tagging-issue/story-ucTJ5WQq42BtANawOeDwiN.html
28-10-2020||India||15th Finance Commission on course to finalise report by end of this month||The 15th Finance Commission is on course to finalise its report by October 30, an official statement said on Wednesday. The Commission’s Chairman N K Singh along with its members on Wednesday held a virtual meeting with the Chairmen of two previous Finance Commissions -- C Rangarajan and Vijay Kelkar -- respectively. Rangarajan and Kelkar chaired the 12th and 13th Finance Commissions, respectively. “The Chairmen of the previous Finance Commissions appreciated the tough challenge faced by the 15th Finance Commission, given the background of the Covid-19 pandemic, the resultant loss of economic activity and its impact on fiscal parameters of the general government,” the statement said. The 15th Finance Commission is mandated to make their final report for 2021-26 available by October 30, 2020. The Commission remains on course to complete their task, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15th-finance-commission-on-course-to-finalise-report-by-end-of-this-month/story-IzGEXS7FdKqrWHdDNUdaeO.html
28-10-2020||India||India’s high use of antigen tests risks underestimating Covid-19 spread, says diagnostician||Fast but less accurate “rapid antigen tests” now account for 60% of all coronavirus tests in India, the head of a top diagnostic firm estimated on Wednesday, warning that such a high use could misrepresent the actual spread of the infection.Antigen devices return results in about 15 minutes compared with several hours for the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method, a laboratory based process which the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention(CDC) calls the “gold standard“ for Covid-19 detection.Whereas antigen tests typically detect the virus around 80% to 90% of the time, lab based tests detect the virus more than 95% of the time, say regulators and health experts in countries like the United States.As a consequence of the reduced accuracy, India’s high use of antigen tests compared with a global use of around 10%, risked underestimating the spread of coronavirus, according to the founder of Mumbai based Thyrocare Technologies Ltd , one of India’s top-three diagnostic chains.“It’s a wrong scale used to assess” the extent of the spread of the virus, Arokiaswamy Velumani told Reuters in a phone interview.Though the total number of coronavirus cases reached close to 8 million on Wednesday, India’s official tally shows daily new cases have dropped sharply since a mid-September peak.Velumani said Thyrocare’s centres are now receiving only about 2,500 samples a day for RT-PCR tests, down from a high of about 7,000 in September.The health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research(ICMR) did not immediately respond to emails from Reuters seeking comment on Velumani’s comments.RT-PCR dominates in the United States but authorities there are planning to increase the use of antigen tests to screen people.India’s federal health ministry has not provided a breakdown of the test methods deployed, but state and federal officials have repeatedly defended the use of antigen tests to quickly identify infections in the country of 1.3 billion people.It has also helped India quickly ramp up its testing capacity to 1.5 million samples a day.“There was a stigma that India was not doing enough tests,” Velumani said, noting at least that criticism was being addressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-high-use-of-antigen-tests-risks-underestimating-covid-19-spread-says-diagnostician/story-gRHmqbelk99zLaQwf1dBmL.html
28-10-2020||India||UP govt will bear all expenses of NEET topper Akansha Singh’s graduation studies, says CM Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday felicitated Akansha Singh, who scored 100 per cent marks in the recent NEET 2020 examination, terming her as a role model for all girls. While congratulating Akansha, who is a native of Kushinagar district of the state, the Chief Minister announced that the entire expenditure of her graduation level studies along with fooding and lodging would be borne by the state government, a government spokesman said. He also directed the chief secretary of the state to write a letter to the officials concerned for declaring Akansha Singh as the first-ranker jointly along with Soyeb Aftab of Odisha, who had also scored 100 per cent marks but was declared to be the first-ranker, as per the rules. The chief minister also asked officials to construct a road leading to her house besides assuring that the state government would extend all possible help to the brilliant student. Terming Akanksha as a role model for all girls, the CM congratulated her parents and members of the family. She has achieved her target through hard work and perseverance, the chief minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-will-bear-all-expenses-of-neet-topper-akansha-singh-s-graduation-studies-says-cm-adityanath/story-gdBibwok4suBadc5lAVzSI.html
28-10-2020||India||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to meet Amit Shah in Delhi tomorrow||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will meet Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday during a three-day trip to Delhi. Dhankhar was scheduled to leave for Delhi on Wednesday evening. The news of Dhankhar’s visit to the capital led to speculations in political circles that he might submit a report on the law and order situation to Shah. Raj Bhawan officials said they had no information on this. During their last meeting on July 20, Dhankhar told the Union home minister that the law and order situation in Bengal was “worrisome” and added that the state was on the “edge of a cliff”. He also talked of healthcare management, nepotism in cyclone relief distribution and general governance. The governor has been raising these issues on social media platforms and in his interactions with ministers and bureaucrats. The acrimonious relationship between Raj Bhawan and the government has touched a new low in recent weeks because of this. “Worrisome and dangerously deteriorating law and order situation, targeting political opponents and the highly partisan role of the police was also discussed. The role of police leaves much to be desired and that it was high time exemplary action was taken against senior police officials who act in disregard of the conduct rules,” the Governor House said in a statement in July after Dhankhar met Shah. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, who have met Dhankhar several times recently with complaints against the state, did not comment on his Delhi trip. Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha member and spokesperson Saugata Roy said, “All governors have to report to the Union home minister at regular intervals. Dhankhar is doing the same as he has to justify his job. This has no political significance.” Interestingly, the governor will spend the entire month of November at the picturesque Governor House in Darjeeling. “Many governors have done this in the past. He wants to enjoy the weather in the hills, which is very pleasant right now,” said Roy. Appointed governor in July last year, Dhankhar’s relationship with the TMC government and chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been marked by acrimony through a chain of events since September 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-jagdeep-dhankhar-to-meet-amit-shah-in-delhi-tomorrow/story-ZnD63BI8E7sBWlFohcaU1M.html
28-10-2020||India||Childless for years, Covid-19 patient delivers twins in Tamil Nadu||A 44-year-old pregnant woman, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19, successfully delivered twins at a government hospital here. Besides handling a Covid-19 patient, the doctors also encountered complications during the caesarean surgery as the woman started bleeding. A few months back, the childless woman consulted doctors who got her pregnant through artificial insemination and IVF method. Later, she contracted coronavirus and was admitted to the Perundurai IRT Government Medical College hospital here. On October 25, the woman went into labour and a team of doctors conducted the C-section. She was delivered of twins and both the mother and babies are in good condition, and healthy, hospital authorities said. The woman was affected with various gynaecological problems for 15 years and a surgery was performed for removal of fibroid from her uterus, they said. In a press statement, Erode district Collector C Kathiravan said a special team of doctors was attending to the woman and her twins round the clock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/childless-for-years-covid-19-patient-delivers-twins-in-tamil-nadu/story-gfkHjbEgQzSJlto0KCIykN.html
28-10-2020||India||27-year-old woman arrested for throwing acid on lover: Police||A 27-year-old woman was arrested on Tuesday, a week after she was charged with allegedly throwing acid on her lover, who refused to continue their relationship at Belcherra village, in Khowai district of Tripura, nearly 50 kilometres north from Agartala.A local court sent her to judicial custody for 14 days, said police.Police said that Beena Santhal and her 30-year-old lover Somen Santhal were in a live-in relationship for nine years in Pune since they left their homes in 2010. Beena and Somen were neighbours in Tripura, it added.During their stay in Pune, Beena worked as domestic help and did other daily wage jobs to support Somen in his studies, said police. After completing studies in college, Somen started working in a private company. Somen came back to Tripura in 2019 and allegedly stopped communication with Beena. She tried to find him but her search was in vain,the police said.Beena later spotted Somen at Khowai on October 19 and tried to talk to him, said police, adding that he refused to speak to her. Beena, out of anger, reportedly threw acid on him, said police.Somen received serious burn injuries on his face and upper body and was admitted at a local hospital. Later, he was shifted to Govind Ballabh Pant ( GBP) hospital in Agartala due to his serious condition.“We arrested the accused on Tuesday evening after the victim’s family members lodged a complaint at Khowai police station,” said Syed Uddin, the case investigating officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-throws-acid-on-lover-for-refusing-to-continue-relationship-police/story-Y195Hf7eiECZgbqlnUZJmO.html
28-10-2020||India||10 states, UTs responsible for 79 per cent new Covid-19 cases, more than 10 crore tests conducted: Health Ministry||The Union health ministry on Wednesday informed that 10 states and Union Territories (UTs) are contributing 79% to the country’s Covid-19 cases. While India is reporting a steady decline in active cases, Kerala, which had initially set a model in tackling Covid-19 cases, has overtaken Maharashtra and has the highest number of daily cases.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19According to the ministry, “Both, Maharashtra and Kerala are still contributing more than 5,000 new cases. The states which are reporting a spurt in cases are Delhi, West Bengal, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.”Maharashtra has reported the maximum new fatalities with 115 deaths. Currently, the total active cases in the country make up to 7.64% of the total positive cases of 6,10,803. Total recoveries in India amount to 72, 59,509. More than 7,000 single-day recoveries have been reported from Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala.The Centre also said that the proactive measures and comprehensive testing have helped India report only 87 deaths per million populations, lower than the global average of 148. The case fatality rate of the country stands at 1.50%.With 10,66,786 tests in the last 24 hours, the total number of tests conducted has surpassed 10.5 crore-mark (10,54,87,680).In the last 24 hours, the country recorded 43,893 cases with 58,439 new recovered cases. On Tuesday, India had reported 36,470 new cases, which was the lowest single-day spike in three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-states-uts-responsible-for-79-per-cent-new-covid-19-cases-more-than-10-crore-tests-conducted-health-ministry/story-qY00UzXwp2uiEt1tGJEXPI.html
28-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rising pollution at Agra reduces Taj Mahal’s visibility and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Rising air pollution in Agra reduces Taj visibilityConsistently rising air pollution in Agra has rendered the visibility of Taj Mahal poor in recent days.The air quality in Agra had been falling even before Dussehra but it deteriorated right after and the AQI (air quality index) rose above 312. On Sunday night, AQI was recorded at 367, and near the Taj, it was above 400. Read moreNarendra Modi terms Tejashwi Yadav the ‘yuvraj of jungle raj’ at public rally in Bihar’s MotipurPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday ridiculed the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) scion Tejashwi Pratap Yadav’s promises of providing a million jobs for youth in the state, if the Grand Alliance (GA), or the mahagathbandhan, comprising the RJD, the Congress and the Left parties, is voted to power. Read moreChina snaps at US, says LAC faceoff with India is a bilateral issueChina on Wednesday said the Sino-India boundary dispute is a bilateral matter under negotiation and described Washington’s efforts to push the Indo-Pacific policy as an “outdated cold war strategy”. Read moreMinistry has no information on who created Aarogya Setu, RTI body issues showcause noticeThe National Informatics Centre, which designs government websites, has said that it has no information about who has created the Aarogya Setu app and how it has been created. The Chief Information Commission has pulled up the NIC, which comes under the ministry of electronics, and issued a showcause notice to various chief public information officers asking them to provide a reply to an RTI application which questioned about the Covid-19 contact tracing up. The reply can’t be evasive, the CIC has said. Read moreADR seeks urgent hearing on electoral bonds case in Supreme CourtThe Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) has moved an application in the Supreme Court demanding urgent listing of public interest litigation (PIL) pending on the issue of electoral bonds. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Unfortunately, I won the toss,’ Shreyas Iyer on where Delhi Capitals lost to Sunrisers HyderabadShreyas Iyer admitted that Delhi Capitals lost the game in the powerplay when Sunrisers Hyderabad hammered 77 runs within the first six overs. David Warner and Wriddhiman Saha were striking the ball well and started scoring freely from the word go, their assault taking SRH to a strong total of 219/2. In reply, the Capitals were outplayed, getting bowled out for 131, giving Sunrisers a win by 88 runs. Read more‘Alia Bhatt is one of the finest actors to work with’: Jaydeep Ahlawat praises Raazi co-star, says media ignores favouritism in politicsJaydeep Ahlawat has weighed in on the debate over nepotism and favouritism in the film industry. The actor, who earned kudos for his exceptional performance in Amazon Prime’s Paatal Lok earlier this year, said Alia Bhatt is among the finest actors in the country. Read moreBigg Boss 14: Colors apologises for Jaan Kumar Sanu’s comment on Nikki Tamboli speaking Marathi, promises to remove itColors has issued an apology after Jaan Kumar Sanu’s comment on Nikki Tamboli speaking Marathi in Bigg Boss 14 irked Shiv Sena leader Pratap Sarnaik and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leader Ameya Khopkar. The channel, in a letter addressed to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, promised to remove the objectionable remark from future broadcasts of the episode. Read moreDelhi schools to remain closed until further orders, says Manish Sisodia: Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rising-pollution-at-agra-reduces-taj-mahal-s-visibility-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HqDN0OzGFvndjMt7rUVbxI.html
28-10-2020||India||Viacom 18 sorry for Jaan Kumar Sanu’s comments; MNS demands apology on show||Viacom 18 Media Private Limited has apologised for Bigg Boss contestant Jaan Kumar Sanu’s “objectionable comments” about Marathi on the reality show on one of its TV channels.The apology came after ruling Shiv Sena and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) threatened to stop filming of the show over the remarks. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh also said the state was contemplating legal action after receiving a complaint.Also Read: Shiv Sena, MNS demand apology from Kumar Sanu’s son for ‘anti-Marathi’ commentViacom 18 Media said it respects all languages and added it has taken note of objections and taken corrective measures of removing the objectionable part from all future broadcasts. In an apology letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, it added: “We hereby apologise if we have inadvertently hurt the feelings of the people of Maharashtra due to the broadcast of the same comment in relation to Marathi language.”Jaan, the son of Bollywood playback singer Kumar Sanu, reportedly asked his fellow contestants to not talk in Marathi on the show, prompting calls for action. He allegedly said he gets irritated with the language and asked a fellow contestant if she has the courage she should speak in Hindi.Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik said they have accepted the apology and shown both Jaan and their channel “their place”.MNS Film Workers Union chief Ameya Khopkar said he was not convinced and want them to apologise on their show. He said even after the apology Jaan will be shown his place. “We will ensure that Jaan does not get work in Mumbai. Anyone who hates Marathi language should get out of Maharashtra.”In 2008, superstar Amitabh Bachchan apologised to the MNS over his wife Jaya Bachchan’s alleged anti-Marathi comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/viacom-18-sorry-for-jaan-kumar-sanu-s-comments-mns-demands-apology-on-show/story-MTFCgXe5zC9J7GoxaLSLIO.html
28-10-2020||India||DU Vice Chancellor Prof Yogesh Tyagi suspended, education ministry says ‘failed to discharge duties’||Delhi University Vice Chancellor Prof Yogesh Tyagi has been placed under suspension on President’s orders, ministry of education officials said on Wednesday. Tyagi’s suspension by the President comes amid heated power tussle amid two sections in the university over recent decisions on crucial appointments taken by the VC and their compliance with varsity norms.Orders issued by now-suspended varsity’s VC Tyagi during his period of absence on medical ground will be treated as null and void, officials told news agency PTI. President Ram Nath Kovind, who is the Visitor of the university, had sent his approval for suspension of the VC on Tuesday.The order further states that Tyagi has been on leave since July 2 when he was admitted to AIIMS under emergency medical condition. The government had on July 17 given Pro-VC P C Joshi the charge of VC, until Tyagi resumes office. “The president has given his assent for a probe into issues of misgovernance. The Union education ministry has raised questions about the governance of the varsity and the consent has been received. The ministry will now set up a committee that will probe the issues,” said an education ministry official. The high-voltage drama has been unfolding at Delhi University since Tuesday with two factions of the university supporting two registrars, two pro-vice chancellors, and two directors of South Campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-university-vice-chancellor-suspended-education-ministry-says-failed-to-discharge-duties/story-20H00oNG4mtF7KnQnDSS3O.html
28-10-2020||India||Cong seeks Uttarakhand CM’s resignation after HC orders CBI probe on bribery allegations||The Opposition Congress has demanded the resignation of Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on moral grounds for fair investigation in a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation ordered by the high court on allegations of bribery.The Uttarakhand high court on Tuesday directed the CBI to register a case and investigate allegations against the chief minister. The HC in its 83-page order, while hearing writ petitions filed by Umesh Kumar and Shiv Prasad Semwal, said “...In view of the nature of the allegations, this Court is of the view that the CBI should be directed to lodge an FIR on the basis of allegations levelled...and investigate the case.” Umesh Kumar, a journalist, had alleged in a social media post that a man from Jharkhand deposited money after demonetisation into the bank account of a couple related to the chief minister for the latter’s benefit. The judge directed that a CBI inquiry be conducted into the matter and said all documents related to the case be submitted to the court. The government had filed an FIR against Umesh Kumar for his social media post . On Tuesday the HC quashed the FIR.It has been alleged that one A S Chauhan based in Jharkhand had claimed that he knew TS Rawat who was the state in-charge of BJP of Jharkhand. In 2016, Chauhan allegedly struck a deal worth Rs 25 lakh with Rawat for his appointment as chairman Jharkhand Gau Sewa Aayog. Rawat became the CM in 2017.Senior Congress leader and former chief minister Harish Rawat said the HC has taken the matter very seriously and instead of police, it has asked CBI to file FIR and investigate the allegations against CM. “Against this scenario, the chief minister has no option but to resign, one on moral grounds and second that he is heading the state and his continuation as CM can influence the investigation”, he said Rawat said the chief minister and the BJP government had been harping on the zero-tolerance towards corruption. “Now we want to see how they will deal with such serious allegations,” he said Pritam Singh, state Congress president said chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has always been talking about zero tolerance to corruption in his government. “Now the HC has directed CBI to file an FIR and investigate the allegation against the CM, he should resign on moral grounds. Also, he should resign so that there is fair investigation into this matter”, he said. Singh said they would be meeting Governor Baby Rani Maurya to talk about this serious issue. “Governor being the custodian of the constitution in the state, we will urge her to look into this issue and take a stand”. The BJP appeared unfazed by the Congress’ attacks. Devendra Bhasin, state BJP spokesperson said they honour the directions of the high court in the matter. “Let this matter be investigated properly so that people come to know about the truth,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-seeks-uttarakhand-cm-s-resignation-after-hc-orders-cbi-probe-on-bribery-allegations/story-hRAde98l78hECD4xGcnzMJ.html
28-10-2020||India||2 Army personnel injured in mine blast along LoC in J-K’s Poonch||Two Army personnel were injured in a mine blast along the Line of control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Wednesday, official sources said. The two personnel stepped on an anti-personnel mine triggering a blast during patrolling along the LoC in the Balakote sector. They have been moved to a hospital for treatment, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-army-personnel-injured-in-mine-blast-along-loc-in-j-k-s-poonch/story-SoSuvamWChuGVrkqBRwVfK.html
28-10-2020||India||Nitishji will talk about Tejashwi’s family, PM Modi will talk about my family: Rahul Gandhi in Darbhanga||Upping the ante against Prime Minister Modi in his second rally in Darbhanga on Wednesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said neither Narendra Modi nor Nitish Kumar will talk about the issues that matter. “Nitish Kumar will talk about Tejashwi’s family. Narendra Modi will talk about my family. But neither of them will speak about unemployment, poverty in the state,” Rahul Gandhi said adding that this election is not about families. “The Mahagathbandhan government is Bihar will belong to all. We will talk about jobs, health education. We will not speak about Narendra Modi’s family or Nitish Kumar’s family. This election is significant as on one hand there is Tejashwi, me in this new force, on the other hand, there is those who represent the past,” the Congress leader said.Referring to the farmers’ protests against the three farm laws, Rahul Gandhi reiterated that he was shocked to find that the prime minister’s effigies were set on fire this Dussehra in Punjab. “There is no job in Bihar. Biharis can’t see dreams. For that, they have to migrate. And then suddenly one day, PM Modi will appear on television and say he is not liking Rs 500 notes. Or, he will say there would be a nationwide lockdown from tomorrow. PM said it would be a 21-day battle. But his battle was with the poor who died of hunger, not of coronavirus,” he said.In a veiled attack to Lalu Prasad Yadav, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar recently said that development can not be expected from people producing eight or nine kids for a son. “They produce 8-9 kids. They have no faith on daughters. They had 7-8 daughters before a son. What kind of Bihar they want to make? If this is their ideal, what will happen to Bihar?” Nitish Kumar said without naming the RJD chief.Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi have nine children.Mahagathbandhan’s chief ministerial face Tejashwi Yadav reacted to the attack and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi too has six siblings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitishji-will-talk-about-tejashwi-s-family-pm-modi-will-talk-about-my-family-rahul-gandhi-in-darbhanga/story-cBSzq4d7bx8SHQSTw0iU7N.html
28-10-2020||India||Twitter’s explanation on showing Ladakh as part of China inadequate: Joint par panel chairperson||Microblogging site Twitter’s explanations to a parliamentary panel on showing Ladakh as part of China are inadequate and the act amounts to criminal offence attracting imprisonment of seven years, committee chairman Meenakshi Lekhi said on Wednesday.  Representatives of Twitter appeared before the joint committee of parliament on Data Protection Bill, 2019 and were questioned by the members on showing Ladakh as part of China, Lekhi said. “The committee was unanimous in its opinion that Twitter’s explanation on showing Ladakh as part of China was inadequate,” Lekhi told PTI. However, representatives of Twitter told the panel that the social media company respects the sensitivities of India. “It is not a question of sensitivities only, it is a matter of India’s sovereignty and integrity, showing Ladakh as part of China amounts to criminal offence which attracts imprisonment of seven years,” Lekhi said.Officials who deposed before the panel on behalf of Twitter India included Shagufta Kamran, senior manager, public policy, Ayushi Kapoor, legal counsel, Pallavi Walia, policy communications, and Manvinder Bali, corporate security.Officials from the Ministry of Electronics, Information and Technology, and Ministry of Law and Justice also deposed before the panel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-s-explanation-on-showing-ladakh-as-part-of-china-inadequate-joint-par-panel-chairperson/story-Jl4HLQ38PGdFKjiGP37h1H.html
28-10-2020||India||ADR seeks urgent hearing on electoral bonds case in Supreme Court||The Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) has moved an application in the Supreme Court demanding urgent listing of public interest litigation (PIL) pending on the issue of electoral bonds.The application on Monday has sought listing of its PIL pending with the Supreme Court since September 2017. The matter was last heard on January 20 this year and has not come up for hearing since then.Advocate Prashant Bhushan, who has filed the plea for ADR informed the Court that just before the Bihar Assembly elections, the State Bank of India has been authorized to issue and encash Electoral Bonds through its 29 authorized branches between October 19 and 28.The application said, “Even though a notification, dated January 2, 2018 stipulates sale of electoral bonds in January, April, July and October months of each year; the window was not opened in April and July, but has been opened in October, right before the Bihar legislative election.”The ADR in its PIL had sought that the amendments carried out to the Finance Act that were passed as Money Bills which provided an anonymous route for political parties to receive corporate funding through electoral bonds be struck down. This lack of transparency in the accounts of all political parties was cited as the ground by ADR to oppose this scheme. These donations enjoy 100 per cent tax exemption as they need not be reported to the Income Tax Department either, the petition added.“The Electoral Bonds Scheme has opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate donations to political parties and anonymous financing by Indian as well as foreign companies which can have serious repercussions on the Indian democracy,” the application stated, adding that the Finance Act of 2017 exempts use of electoral bonds from disclosure under the Representation of Peoples Act.The ADR moved applications in March 2019 and again in November 2019 to stay the implementation of the Electoral Bond Scheme but the same was not granted. In April 2019, an interim order was issued by the Supreme Court asking political parties to disclose to the Election Commission in a sealed cover details of donations received by way of electoral bonds. In the same order, the top court had observed that the issue with regard to electoral bonds gives rise to “weighty issues which have a tremendous bearing on the sanctity of the electoral process in the country” which require an in-depth hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adr-seeks-urgent-hearing-on-electoral-bonds-case-in-supreme-court/story-5NW4GUJseeDqN77twZfqjM.html
28-10-2020||India||Channel apologises to Maharashtra government for ‘anti-Marathi’ comment, objectionable portions to be removed||After the Shiv Sena and the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena threatened to stop the filming of reality show Bigg Boss, the channel authorities apologised for contestant Jaan Kumar Sanu’s “anti-marathi” comment aired on the show. The episode was broadcast on October 27. “We have taken note of these objections and have taken corrective measures of removing the said part from all future broadcasts of the episode,” Colors channel authorities said.Jaan Kumar Sanu, son of singer Kumar Sanu, reportedly asked his fellow contestants to not talk in Marathi on the show. He also said he gets irritated with the language and if she (the fellow participant) has the courage, she should speak in Hindi.Also Read: Shiv Sena, MNS demand apology from Kumar Sanu’s son for ‘anti-Marathi’ comment“We hereby apologise if we have inadvertently hurt the feelings of the people of Maharashtra due to the broadcast of the said comment in relation to Marathi language. We value the audience and the patronage of the Marathi speaking audience and respect all languages of India in the same manner,” it said.MNS film workers’ union chief Ameya Khopkar earlier warmed that the MNS will not allow Bigg Boss to be filmed if both Jaan and Colors Channel do not apologise within 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/channel-apologises-to-maharashtra-government-for-anti-marathi-comment-objectionable-portions-to-be-removed/story-6ipEBlcIUtdo4ReCbSjdxJ.html
28-10-2020||India||In freak accident, Uttarakhand bank guard dies after gun goes off as bike rams him||In a freak accident, a bank security guard died after his gun went off as he fell following a collision with a bike while crossing a road on Tuesday, police said.The bullet hit his leg. He was rushed to a hospital where he died late in the evening. CM Rawat, inspector of Kashipur police station in US Nagar said the security guard of Central Bank of India was injured in an accidental firing from his own gun following an accident while crossing the road on Tuesday. Rawat said the guard was identified as Virendra Rawat resident of Ramnagar in Nainital district. He was rushed to the government hospital by bank staff members. “The guard was crossing the road in front of the bank when he was hit by a speeding bike. As he fell, his double-barrel gun hit the road and its strap entangled with the trigger and a bullet was fired. The bullet hit his leg,” Rawat said.“We have apprehended three persons, who were on the bike that hit the guard,” he said.Rajesh Bhatt, additional superintendent of police said the security guard died due to excessive bleeding at the hospital late Tuesday evening. “His body has been sent for post-mortem,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-freak-accident-uttarakhand-bank-guard-dies-after-gun-goes-off-as-bike-rams-him/story-DOK7ighwZCkadZbdRwpSJJ.html
28-10-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh bypolls: Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh are ‘traitors,’ says Jyotiraditya Scindia||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Jyotiraditya Scindia slammed Madhya Pradesh’s former Chief Ministers Kamal Nath and Digvijay Singh for running a “corruption-ridden” government and playing the role of “traitor” to the democracy.Scindia was responding to Congress campaign in the state by-polls necessitated by the resignation of 22 Congress MLAs considered close to the scion of the erstwhile Gwalior royal family.Speaking to ANI, Scindia said, “If there is any Jaichand or traitor in Madhya Pradesh, it is the duo of Kamal Nath and Digvijay Singh.” Congress has centred its election campaign in Madhya Pradesh targeting the ‘Jaichands’ who have betrayed ‘Janadhar’ (people’s verdict), a reference to MLAs who have left Congress resulting in the fall of the Kamal Nath-led government.“This duo is the real traitor who had trampled upon the desires, ambitions and aspirations of seven and a half crore people of Madhya Pradesh, who made promises and claimed to fulfill them. I cannot be a bystander and neither can these legislators to people who are a threat to democracy and to these 7.5 crore people,” stated Scindia while adding that the Congress ran a government riddled with corruption.Calling 22 MLAs resigning together a first of its kind of ‘historical event’ of independent India, the BJP leader said no political party had in the history of independent India has lost the faith of so many elected representatives in a short span of time that too after 15 years after staying out of power.“I don’t think that any political party has ever seen such a scenario in the history of the country. Kamal Nath government is the first one who has lost 22 MLAs in just a couple of months into power followed by four more. He is the first one to experience this in the 70 years of democratic India. Out of the strength of 114, he has lost 26 MLAs which is close to 28 per cent of the strength. It talks volumes about Kamal Nath’s attitude towards his legislators,” he stated.Scindia, the BJP leader who has crossed over from Congress in March said, the reason the Kamal Nath-led government fell is that it trampled upon the rights of its elected representatives.“A government riddled with corruption that throws its manifesto into the wastebasket. It disallows any development project in any of the regions, disrespects the lawmakers who are supposed to be your colleague should have seen it coming,” stated the leader. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-kamal-nath-and-digvijaya-singh-are-traitors-says-jyotiraditya-scindia/story-kLrCKSwQ4FWhKd5DCidEIL.html
28-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi asked for votes in tweet on day one of Bihar polls, BJP complains to EC||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday complained to the Election Commission against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for allegedly seeking votes on the first day of phase one of Bihar Assembly elections. The BJP, in its letter, has accused Gandhi of seeking votes for the Grand Alliance in his tweet.  Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) files complaint to Election Commission (EC) against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his tweet posted today asking for votes in the first phase of #BiharElections from voters today. pic.twitter.com/5XUg8NHAFGThe complain to the Commission stated that the leader of the Congress Party has issued a statement on Twitter asking for votes in the first phase of election from voters. “The time for making the appeal for the first phase of polls was over 28 hours earlier, however, even then, on the Twitter post an appeal has been made by Shri Rahul Gandhi, in utter violation the Model Code of Conduct, warranting action against him,” read the complain made by BJP. “This time for justice, employment, farmers-workers, your vote should be only for ‘Mahagathbandhan’ (grand alliance),” Gandhi had said in a tweet in Hindi, soon after polling began in the morning. “Good wishes to all of you on the first phase of Bihar elections,” he tweeted with the hashtag in Hindi ‘Aaj Badlega Bihar’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-asked-for-votes-in-tweet-on-day-one-of-bihar-polls-bjp-complains-to-ec/story-wlvbAqM0Eim5vukRDxtbsM.html
28-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt dismisses suspended judge for torturing minor girl||The Uttarakhand government has dismissed a civil judge from service for allegedly torturing a minor girl who worked as a domestic help at her residence in Haridwar.The government issued a notification for termination of services of suspended Deepali Sharma, civil judge (senior division), while accepting the decision of Uttarakhand high court regarding the same. The government’s notification was uploaded on the high court’s website on Monday.According to the notification issued by additional chief secretary Radha Raturi, the full bench of the high court on October 14 passed a resolution recommending Sharma’s removal from services and sent the same to the state government. The notification stated that Governor Baby Rani Maurya had granted permission for the dismissal.Deepali Sharma, the then civil judge in Haridwar is accused of physically and mentally abusing a minor girl and keeping the girl at her residence as a domestic help. The girl was rescued by police and a case was registered at Sidkul police station in Haridwar. In January 2018, the Uttarakhand HC had suspended Sharma, after police rescued the 14-year-old girl from her residence in Haridwar. Taking cognisance of the matter, the HC had then directed Haridwar district judge to look into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-dismisses-suspended-judge-for-torturing-minor-girl/story-3YincGl9yFOQqMNc5oZryN.html
28-10-2020||India||Biker killed, pillion rider injured as dumper truck rams bike in Panvel||A 35-year-old biker was killed while his friend was grievously injured after a dumper truck rammed into them from behind on the old Uran-Panvel road on Monday evening, police said. The Panvel police are still on the lookout for the accused driver.The incident took place around 5.45 pm in Panvel. The victim Balasaheb Chavhan was riding his bike while his friend Gyaneshwar Ingle was riding pillion. As the duo reached Gavhanpatha, the dumper hit them while they were taking a left turn.Chavhan and Ingle sustained grievous injuries. Police said the accused driver abandoned the dumper at the spot and fled without informing anyone or helping the victims. Officials said Chavhan who worked as a dumper mechanic with an infrastructure and construction company was returning home from work when the dumper hit his bike.“The men were lying injured on the road when traffic police patrol spotted them. The duo was rushed to the MGM hospital in Kamothe where Chavhan was declared dead,” said assistant inspector N Dhanawade at Panvel city police station.Following the road crash, Chavhan’s younger brother Laxman was informed about the mishap. The police then registered a case of causing death due to negligence and rash driving against the unidentified dumper driver.Police said they have seized the dumper and are on the lookout for the driver, who continues to be on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biker-killed-pillion-rider-injured-as-dumper-truck-rams-bike-in-panvel/story-zqaeowR71dPT5WrxdKrtUN.html
28-10-2020||India||India continues to be among countries with lowest per million Covid-19 cases, deaths||With calibrated measures and focussed strategy of the Centre along with the states and UTs, India has sustained its global position of recording one of the lowest Covid-19 cases as well as deaths per million population, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday.While the global figure for Covid-19 cases per million is 5,552, India is reporting 5,790 cases per million population. USA, Brazil, France, UK, Russia and South Africa are witnessing much higher numbers.The Covid-19 deaths per million population in India is 87, substantially lower than the world average of 148. India’s targeted strategies in Covid-19 management and the proactive as well as calibrated public health response over the last several months have resulted in such encouraging outcomes, the ministry underlined.“In the matter of total tests conducted, India is one of the topmost countries. With 10,66,786 tests in a span of 24 hours, the cumulative number of tests conducted has crossed 10.5 crore,” the ministry said.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayWidespread and comprehensive testing on a sustained basis have aided the early identification and timely effective treatment which has resulted in higher recoveries and lower fatality rate, it said. The country’s Case Fatality Rate at present is 1.50 per cent.India continues to report a trend of steadily decreasing active cases. Presently, the active cases (6,10,803) comprise merely 7.64 per cent of the total cases in the country. The total number of recovered cases are 72,59,509. A total of 43,893 new cases have been registered in a span 24 hours in the country, whereas 58,439 recoveries were reported during the same period, with 77 per cent of the recovered cases reported from 10 states and Union territories (UTs), the ministry said. Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala have contributed more than 7,000 cases to the single-day recoveries.“Seventy-nine per cent of the new infections are from 10 states and UTs. Kerala has overtaken Maharashtra with the highest number of fresh cases. Both states, however, are still contributing more than 5,000 new cases,” the ministry said.The states which are reporting a spurt in cases are Delhi, West Bengal, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.A total of 508 case fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours in the country. Of these, nearly 79 per cent are concentrated in 10 states and UTs, it said. Maharashtra has contributed the maximum to the latest fatalities with 115 deaths. India’s Covid-19 caseload mounted to 79,90,322, with 43,893 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,20,010 with 508 new fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am on Wednesday showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-continues-to-be-among-countries-with-lowest-per-million-covid-19-cases-deaths/story-K6XJIM7lp31thCI00uQDLL.html
28-10-2020||India||Goa casinos to reopen on November 1, operators say it will take weeks go full steam||The Goa government has given the go-ahead to casinos in the state to restart operations which have been shut since March when the Covid-19 pandemic broke out in the country.Announcing the decision, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said Wednesday that the decision was taken with a view to “promote tourism activity in the state.” “From November 1, we have given the casinos permissions to start. They will have to follow all the SOPs as will be issued to them by the Home Department and with 50% capacity they can start. We need to promote tourism activity,” Sawant said. The casinos, which are a significant contributor to the state’s revenue, have been urging the government to allow the restart of operations, which they said would help boost the tourism arrivals in the state and provide an added attraction to tourists visiting the state. Sawant also said that the casinos operators who would earlier pay their annual fees at a single time can now do so on a monthly basis. There are six offshore casinos in Goa, boats anchored in the Mandovi river that flows by the capital city. Other casinos are located inside five star hotels. The 19-year-old industry isn’t just a big draw for thousands of tourists but contributes around ₹300 crore to the state coffers in licence fees and around ₹90 crore per year as State GST. From one offshore vessel which began operations in the year 1999, the state today has six gaming vessels that all float within a one-kilometre stretch of the Mandovi. Industry insiders reveal that each venue used to make a turnover of around Rs 120-crore per year and drew 600-800 people per vessel, especially on weekends, before the lockdown threw a spanner in the works.The casinos were shut earlier than other activity on account of crowding in closed spaces which is a significant risk of superspreading coronavirus. Since the industry has been closed since March, many of the staff have gone back home. Operators believe that they will not be able to restart with only a few days’ notice and will take some weeks to be up and running.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-casinos-to-reopen-on-november-1-operators-say-it-will-take-weeks-go-full-steam/story-5tyWMZlQg94j7NDLrWkz4I.html
28-10-2020||India||Did PM Modi have tea with you all? Rahul Gandhi asks at Champaran rally as Bihar votes for 1st phase||Addressing his election rally at Champaran, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday doubled down on BJP-JD(U) for “destroying” Bihar as polling is underway in 71 constituencies of the state in the first phase of Bihar Assembly Election 2020. “When Prime Minister Narendra Modi came here last time he promised that a sugar factory will be set up here and he will have tea with you all. Do you remember? Did he have tea with you?” Rahul Gandhi said. The Congress leader said he was surprised to see Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s effigies getting burnt in Dussehra in Punjab. This is sad and should not happen as he is the prime minister of the country, but this how Punjab farmers feel about him, Rahul Gandhi added.Click here for full coverage of Bihar Assembly Election 2020WATCH: ‘Did PM Modi have tea with you?’: Rahul Gandhi’s jibe in Bihar“What Nitish Kumar did to Bihar in 2006, PM Modi is doing the same to Punjab and to the rest of the country,” Rahul Gandhi said referring to the three farm laws recently passed by Parliament.Talking about Bihar’s unemployment, Rahul Gandhi said, “ Nowadays, PM Modi does not talk about jobs. Because Bihar people won’t believe in his lies anymore. Congress has been in Centre for decades. We know how to rule. But of course, we have some shortcomings. We can’t lie through our teeth.”Also Read: ‘Our motto is to fulfil all promises made in manifesto’: PM Modi at election rally in Bihar’s Darbhanga“Why do Bihar people have to go to other states for jobs? Do our Bihar brothers and sisters lack in anything? No, your CM and PM lack,” Rahul Gandhi said.On Covid-19-induced lockdown, the Congress leader said, “Noteban and lockdown followed similar trends. PM Modi announced both at the last moment. Middle class and lower middle class people suffered the most, while the industrialists were cushioned.”Rahul Gandhi will address another rally on Wednesday at Kuseshwar Sthan in Darbhanga. Earlier, he addressed two election rallies, at Hisua in Nawada and Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur, to boost the electioneering for the first phase polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-pm-modi-have-tea-with-you-all-rahul-gandhi-asks-at-champaran-rally-bihar-votes-in-1st-phase/story-8Ny8sW0v18AnwzsybmzvAI.html
28-10-2020||India||Everyone is free to decide which party they want to join: Sachin Pilot on Scindia being called ‘Gaddar’||Reacting to Congress leaders terming BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia as ‘Gadda’ (traitor), Congress leader and former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot on Wednesday said that everyone is free to decide which party they want to be in and the public ultimately decides who is wrong or right. “I believe everyone is free to decide which party they want to be in and the public ultimately decides who is wrong or right,” said Pilot on being asked about his party leaders terming Jyotiraditya Scindia ‘gaddar’. Scindia had quit Congress to join BJP earlier this year. “The public voted for the government that was formed here and now Shivraj Singh Chouhan has become the Chief Minister but the public is not accepting this. Congress holds a strong place in the 28 places (assembly seats) where elections will be held in Madhya Pradesh,” said Pilot. “Our candidate will win with a good majority. The public watches every action of their representative. Not only in Madhya Pradesh but in other places like Bihar, Congress candidates will win,” he added. Voting on 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh by-polls will take place on November 3 and the results will be declared on November 10.By-elections are due on 28 seats following the resignation of 25 MLAs and the death of three legislators earlier.In the 230-member assembly, the BJP currently has 107 MLAs and Congress 88. There are 4 independent MLAs, 2 from BSP and a lone Samajwadi Party MLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/everyone-is-free-to-decide-which-party-they-want-to-join-sachin-pilot-on-scindia-being-called-gaddar/story-F1X8AUJA0A2XZOerNzpUnM.html
28-10-2020||India||Andhra police rescue kidnapped Hyderabad dentist, 3 kidnappers escape||Police in Andhra Pradesh’s Anantapur district rescued a Hyderabad-based dentist from kidnappers while they were taking him to Karnataka in a vehicle in the early hours of Wednesday. Anantapur’s superintendent of police Dr Satya Yesubabu said when the kidnappers’ vehicle was intercepted at Rapthadu village the driver tried to divert the vehicle towards Kanaganapalli. “But the police surrounded it from all sides. While they overpowered Sanjay, who was driving the vehicle, three others managed to escape into the fields. They could rescue the doctor – B Hussain (57), who was lying in the back seat with his hands and legs tied,” the SP said. Hussain was kidnapped by five burqa-clad men from his clinic at Bandlaguda Jagir under Rajendranagar police station limits on the outskirts of Hyderabad on Tuesday afternoon when he was getting ready to go home for lunch. The kidnappers, who were conversing in Marathi, beat up Hussain’s assistant Syed Salman and dumped him in the washroom. They later dragged the doctor into his Toyota Innova vehicle and proceeded towards Shankarpalli. The SP said the kidnappers first detained Hussain in an undisclosed place till evening. Later, the gang leader handed him to four members of the gang and asked them to take him to Shimoga or Bengaluru in a Mahindra Bolero vehicle. Meanwhile, Salman, who managed to escape from the clinic, informed Hussain’s family. The dentist’s wife then complained to Rajendranagar police. “Since Hussain is also into real estate business and made big money, the kidnappers targeted him. They reportedly demanded a ransom of Rs 10 crore through Bitcoins,” Yesubabu said. Based on the evidence collected, the Rajendranagar police came to the conclusion that the kidnappers had taken Hussain towards Bengaluru. They immediately alerted Anantapur police. “We deployed special police teams on the national highway and kept a watch on the movements of vehicles coming from Hyderabad. In the early hours, Rapthadu police managed to intercept the vehicle and take it into their possession,” the SP said. He said Hussain was rescued and was safe. “We have seized the vehicle and a pistol from the accused. We have launched a manhunt for other kidnappers. Investigation is on,” he said. Andhra Pradesh Director General of Police Gautam Sawang complimented the Anantapur police for their quick action in rescuing the dentist from the kidnappers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-police-rescue-kidnapped-hyderabad-dentist-3-kidnappers-escape/story-fCXaDA5fkTYYn9HHrGDvhO.html
28-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: NIA raids multiple locations in Kashmir in terror-funding case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.NIA raids multiple locations in Kashmir in terror-funding caseThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday conducted raids at multiple locations in Srinagar, including the office of Greater Kashmir newspaper and the residence of human rights activist Khurram Parvaiz in Sonwar in connection with ‘unaccounted funding’. The offices of NGO Athrout are also being raided. Read moreYogi Adityanath says he will send cow killers to jail after Allahabad HC rapUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has reiterated his pledge to deal firmly with those accused of slaughtering cows within the parameters of the law. Speaking on Tuesday at a rally ahead of the November 3 by-polls in the state, he called cow slaughter unacceptable. Read moreKerala gold smuggling case: ED takes suspended IAS officer M Sivasankar into custodyThe Kerala high court on Wednesday rejected the anticipatory bail plea moved by suspended IAS officer, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former secretary M Sivasankar in connection with the gold smuggling case. Customs and the Enforcement Directorate opposed his bail plea saying that he was aware of the smuggling activities of Swapna Suresh. Soon after his bail plea was rejected, the ED detained him. Read moreBCCI President Sourav Ganguly lists why this season of the IPL has been a massive successIt faced plenty of hurdles due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but the BCCI and Star finally worked out a way to ensure that the year 2020 did not go by without the IPL. The 2020 Indian Premier League has been a success and board president Sourav Ganguly couldn’t be prouder of what the current season has had to offer. Read more  Amitabh Bacchan agreed to host KBC on return flight from London after watching Who Wants To Be A MillionaireFor the most popular film star the country to jump into the world of television was a risky proposition in 2000. But that’s what Amitabh Bachchan did when he signed onto Kaun Banega Crorepati. As the show completes 20 years, the actor reflected on his experience, and said that he is just as excited to interact with contestants now as he was two decades ago. Read moreJaguar E-Pace upgraded with new powertrain, refreshed looks and new featuresJaguar Land Rover has taken the covers off the new 2021 E-Pace SUV with new hybrid powertrain, refreshed interior design and an all-new 11.4-inch touchscreen infotainment system. After discontinuing with the XE, the E-Pace has become the cheapest vehicle from the JLR stable. Read moreWill welcome back youth who have joined militancy, says top army commander: Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-nia-raids-multiple-locations-in-kashmir-in-terror-funding-case-and-all-the-latest-news/story-RznQB8SPLXVTz4PhzLYMnK.html
28-10-2020||India||‘Wherever schools reopened, cases spiked’: Manish Sisodia announces Delhi schools won’t reopen for now||The Delhi government on Wednesday announced all government and private schools in Delhi will continue to remain closed till further orders, in view of the national capital’s novel coronavirus (Covid-19) situation.(Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)Addressing a virtual press conference, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said most parents were not in favour of reopening schools. “We keep getting feedback from parents that they are really concerned about whether it is safe to reopen schools. It is not. Wherever schools have reopened, Covid-19 cases among children have risen. So we have decided that as of now schools in the national capital will not reopen. They will continue to be closed till further orders,” Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, said.Sisodia’s announcement comes just days after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, on October 24, ruled out reopening of schools in the capital. “Schools are not reopening for now,” Kejriwal had told reporters on the sidelines of an event.(Read: Schools in Delhi not opening for now, says Arvind Kejriwal)Earlier, the Delhi government had announced schools here will remain closed till October 31 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.On Tuesday, Delhi logged its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, with 4,853 cases taking the capital’s tally to 364,341.Schools in several parts of the country have reopened, or will reopen in the next few days, for the first time since March. However, in most cases, only senior students (from class 9-12) can attend schools, that too, after written consent from their parents.Also, attendance is to be voluntary and schools have been directed to encourage online classes.Most states have opted not to reopen schools for now and are likely to do so only after the festival of Diwali.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wherever-schools-reopened-cases-spiked-manish-sisodia-announces-delhi-schools-won-t-reopen-for-now/story-oZJyqjPKkyBtbez1Yh3i0N.html
28-10-2020||India||Adityanath responsible for crimes against women in UP, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said the 2022 UP assembly polls will decide the country’s future course of politics and expressed confidence that his party will win the polls while targeting the Adityanath government on the law and front. “Our target is the 2022 assembly polls. We are beginning with the by-polls, in which we will do very well,” he said at a press conference.Akhilesh held the press conference to announce the entry of several senior BSP leaders and Congress leader and former union minister Salim Shervani into his party. This was the SP chief’s first formal press conference in Lucknow since the outbreak of Covid pandemic. Akhilesh said it would be his party’s endeavour to connect more and more people (from other parties) and accommodate them in his party as it prepares for the 2022 polls. When told that BJP leaders were holding rallies in UP by-poll constituencies while SP leaders were not going out, Akhilesh said: “Our people did work on the ground. You will see it in the results.” Attacking the BJP government over crime against women, Akhilesh said: “In UP law and order has completely collapsed. I remember the apex court had once said all states should emulate the 1090 (women helpline)-like system.” He further said if all states had a response system like 1090, Dail 100 (which now is called 112) and if society was sensitised about women safety then the kind of crimes against women that have happened wouldn’t have happened. “I hold the government and chief minister responsible for all the crimes against women. What would you expect from the government that hides figures? There are innumerable incidents where the government did not do what it should have done. What you expect if the state’s chief minister says ‘Thok do (kill them)’,” Akhilesh said. He also accused the government of failing to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.“UP government decided that the disease would be less visible if tests were lesser. Cabinet ministers, members of assembly died, officers died, journalists died. And now the government is saying that we will have to live with Covid. If you and I have to live with Covid then why are our hospitals not proper?” he said. The former chief minister also blamed BJP for the new farm laws that have sparked unrest.“Just like the way people are distressed with Covid, farmers are distressed about their produce. This is the same BJP that had said that it would double farmers’ income. Today, paddy is being looted (purchased at low prices), whatever the farmer is producing is being looted. Everything is just slogans for BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adityanath-responsible-for-crimes-against-women-in-up-says-akhilesh-yadav/story-J3NxrNqj2lWAoYYudv09iM.html
28-10-2020||India||India’s Global Himalayan Expedition wins UN award for efforts to fight climate change amid Covid-19||An Indian organisation that leverages tourism and technology to help remote communities access solar energy has won a prestigious UN award for its efforts to combat climate change amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The Global Himalayan Expedition (GHE) is among the winners of the 2020 UN Global Climate Action Award. GHE is one of the world’s first organisations using tourism and technology to bring solar energy to remote communities. The recipients of the 2020 United Nations Global Climate Action Awards, announced Tuesday, bring focus to the best examples of what people across the globe are doing “to combat climate change in a year that has cast darkness upon so many.” According to a statement on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) website, GHE is the one of the world’s first outfit using tourism and technology to bring solar energy to remote communities as recognised by the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) and the United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO). In the Hindu Kush Region, there are more than 16 million people without access to basic energy mainly due to their geographic remoteness. GHE conducts “Impact Expeditions” to remote Himalayan villages and uses a portion of the expedition fee to fund the capital cost of the hardware, transportation, installation and training of village-scale solar micro-grids. The micro-grid infrastructure set up by GHE is owned and operated by the community. To date, the GHE has solar electrified more than 131 villages in three regions of India, directly impacting the lives of more than 60,000 villagers. More than 1,300 travellers from 60 different countries have been a part of these expeditions. Enabling livelihood through homestay tourism has generated over USD 114,000 in income for the villages, which represents a 45 per cent increase in the annual household income, the statement said. UNFCCC said this year’s award-winning projects demonstrate leadership on climate change by nations, businesses, investors, cities, regions and civil societies as a whole. They range from the Caribbean’s only carbon-neutral hotel to the world’s first platform fully dedicated to green bonds to the first all-women solar team in Lebanon. Congratulating the winners of the 2020 UN Global Climate Action Awards, UN Secretary-General António Guterres said the winners provide tangible proof that climate action is underway around the world. “It is exciting to see these climate solutions, which reinforce my call for decisive leadership on climate change by governments, businesses and cities, and for a green recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic. Let us keep pressing ahead to build a more sustainable and equitable future for all,” he said. UN Climate Change Executive Secretary Patricia Espinosa said the last eight months have been a nightmare for many throughout the world. “Covid-19 has altered lives, economies and the nature of business on every continent -- from the largest cities to the smallest villages. It is the most urgent threat facing humanity today, but we cannot forget that climate change is the biggest threat facing humanity over the long term,” said Espinosa. Espinosa said the convergence of these two crisis has opened a window of opportunity to build forward, to build cities and communities that are safe, healthy, green and sustainable. “Nothing exemplifies this better than the efforts of our 2020 award-winning activities to address climate change.” The award announcement is part of the wider effort to mobilise action and ambition as national governments work toward implementing the Paris Climate Change Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals. The UN Global Climate Action Awards are spearheaded by the Momentum for Change initiative at UN Climate Change. The projects are recognised as innovative solutions that not only address climate change but also help drive progress on many other sustainable development goals. The 2020 winning activities were selected by an international advisory panel as part of the UN Climate Change’s Momentum for Change initiative. “It is crucial we celebrate all actors who are leading the way,” said Gabrielle Ginér, Chair of the Advisory Panel. “The recipients of the UN Global Climate Action Awards send a strong political signal to all nations, and through their leadership and creativity, we see essential change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-global-himalayan-expedition-wins-un-award-for-efforts-to-fight-climate-change-amid-covid-19/story-OKgkBK1D69tdQdU4qnAOqL.html
28-10-2020||India||Assam women top list of alcohol consumers in India, says health ministry survey||Women from Assam consume much more alcohol than their counterparts across the country, according to the findings of a recent survey released by the Union Ministry for Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW). The ministry’s 2019-20 data showed that 26.3% women in Assam, who are in the 15-49 years’ age category, consume alcohol, which is the highest among all states and union territories (UTs). The corresponding national figure in that category is 1.2%. Meghalaya is at 8.7%. All figures for all other states and union territories are under 10%. The figures included in the report are from the National Family Health Survey-4 (NFHS-4), which was conducted in 2015-16. However, the NFHS-5 report for 2018-19 is yet to be released. The data for NFHS-3, which was conducted in 2005-06, had revealed 7.5% women in Assam in the 15-49 years’ age category had reported to have consumed alcohol. Five states were ahead of Assam in that list, headed by women from Arunachal Pradesh (33.6%), Sikkim (19.1%), Chhattisgarh (11.4%), Jharkhand (9.9%) and Tripura (9.6%). The corresponding figure for Assam had jumped from 7.5% in NFHS-3 to 26.3% in NFHS-4. But there was a dip in alcohol consumption in the similar category in Arunachal Pradesh to 3.3%, Sikkim (0.3%), Chhattisgarh (0.2%), Jharkhand (0.3%) and Tripura (0.8%). Around 35.6% men in Assam in the 15-49 years’ age category consume alcohol, as compared to the national figure of 29.2%. Men from Arunachal Pradesh are found to be most partial towards alcohol at 59%. The report cited that 44.8% women in Assam consume alcohol around once a week, as compared to the national figure of 35%. Similarly, 51.9% of men from Assam consume alcohol once a week, while the pan-India statistics is 40.7%. Prevalence of tobacco use among men and women in the 15-49 years’ age category in Assam was recorded at 17.7% and 60%, respectively, as compared to 6.8% and 44.5%, respectively, in the rest of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-women-top-list-of-alcohol-consumers-in-india-says-health-ministry-survey/story-rQhdBLjCQGREaig7C7hhDI.html
28-10-2020||India||Bihar election: 18.31% turnout till 11 am, Lakhisarai records highest at 26.28%||Voting for the phase-1 of Bihar Assembly elections began at 7 am on Wednesday and the voter turnout has been recorded at 18.31 per cent till 11.30 am.As the day proceeds, the voter turnout has seen an increase from the mere 5 per cent recorded till 8 am.The districts that are witnessing higher voter turnout include Lakhisarai with 26.28 per cent and Nawada with 23.87 per cent till 11.20 am, as per the Election Commission of India. Patna with 5.96 per cent along with Bhagalpur with 6.84 per cent has recorded the lowest voter turnout till now.Bihar is witnessing a triangular contest with the ruling JDU-BJP alliance and grand alliance (RJD, Congress and others) and Chirag Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which is eying the role of a kingmaker in case of a hung Assembly. Elections will decide if Nitish Kumar will win a fourth term as Chief Minister.Voting began in 71 constituencies spread across 16 districts in the first phase of the Bihar Assembly elections on Wednesday at 7 am.This is the first election that is being held amid Covid-19 pandemic.The Election Commission has extended the period of voting by one hour until 6 pm, except in the Naxal affected areas, so that Covid-19 patients can vote in the last hour of the day. Results of the 3-phase Bihar election will be announced on November 10.The Election Commission has issued detailed guidelines that include lowering the cap on voters for a polling booth from 1,600 to 1,000, staggering of polling hours and postal ballot facility for those aged above 80 or those infected.All precautionary measures have been taken considering the Covid-19 pandemic as Electronic Voting Machines have been sanitised. Thermal scanners, hand sanitiser, soap and water have been made available for voters. Officials deployed on polling duties in Gaya were seen wearing masks and gloves. Temperature of voters was measured at polling stations before they cast their vote.Meanwhile, voting at polling booth no. 170 in Jehanabad got delayed after a glitch was detected in the Electronic Voting Machine (EVM).On the other hand, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawans were seen helping differently-abled and elderly voters at Booth number 10 in the Chakarbandha area.Sanitization work was also carried out at various booths including booth number 56 and 57 in Munger and in Gaya in view of Covid-19. People queue up at the polling booth while maintaining social distancing at the polling stations.As many as 1,066 candidates are in the fray including 42 from Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), 35 from Janata Dal (United), 29 from BJP, 21 from Congress and 8 from Left parties.On one side is the NDA which includes JD-U (contesting 115 seats), BJP (110 seats), Vikassheel Insaan Party (11 seats) and Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha (7 seats).Mahagathbandhan which picked Tejashwi Yadav as chief ministerial candidate constitutes RJD (144 seats) and the Congress with 70 seats. Other alliance partners include the CPI-ML (19 seats), CPI (6 seats), and the CPIM (4 seats).LJP is contesting 136 seats on its own and fielded candidates against all JD-U nominees and only a few against BJP.Polling for the second phase to take place on November 3 and for the third phase on November 7. The counting of votes will be done on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-election-18-31-turnout-till-11-am-lakhisarai-records-highest-at-26-28/story-EZWUMV0xe07shnDdMI6oDN.html
28-10-2020||India||BJP preps for Uttarakhand polls, asks ministers to spend time in their areas||With just over a year left for the assembly election in Uttarakhand, BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat has asked ministers in-charge of different districts to spend time in their constituencies and meet people. Bhagat said a decision in this regard was taken at the core committee meeting of the party recently. He said letters have also been sent in this regard to all the ministers and they have also been communicated about the same on phone. The election has to be held before March 2022.“I have asked ministers to spend at least one night in their respective areas, meet district officials, party workers and the people. I expect them to interact with the people and workers to know about the issues they are facing and seek their feedback. I have also asked the ministers to have meals at the homes of the workers and boost their morale”, said Bhagat. This decision comes at a time when chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has announced that he will be reviewing the departments under all ministers by November 18.The chief minister will hold departmental review meetings of all the ministers between October 29 and November 18, the government said in a statement.The ministers will also make presentations regarding the progress of different schemes, projects and initiatives undertaken by their respective departments during the review meetings. After the review meetings, Rawat will tour various districts of the state to take stock of the development works at the ground level. Meanwhile, the BJP has started training 20,000 party workers from Wednesday on various aspects of the party’s functioning and how they need to publicise the achievements of the Central and the state government in their respective areas and seek the feedback of the people with regard to the government and the party and the issues they are facing. These training sessions will be held in two phases. The first which began on Wednesday will end on November 4 while the second one will be from November 6 to November 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-preps-for-uttarakhand-polls-asks-ministers-to-spend-time-in-their-areas/story-Hu3a8vWHMzauzWnDt1s58N.html
28-10-2020||India||‘NIA is BJP’s pet agency’, tweets Mehbooba Mufti after NIA raid at Greater Kashmir office||Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday attacked the Centre after the National Investigation Agency conducted raids at 10 locations across Kashmir in connection with a new case the agency has registered to probe hawala transactions, terror funding etc. Terming NIA as BJP’s pet, Mufti wrote it is sad that the national agency has become BJP’s “pet” which is being used to “intimidate and browbeat those who refuse to fall in line”.“NIA raids on human rights activist Khurram Parvez and Greater Kashmir office in Srinagar is yet another example of GOIs vicious crackdown on freedom of expression and dissent. Sadly, NIA has become BJPs pet agency to intimidate and browbeat those who refuse to fall in line,” Mehbooba wrote. Also Read: NIA raids several locations across Kashmir in terror-funding caseThe office of newspaper Greater Kashmir was one of the 10 locations raided by the agency on Wednesday morning. Slamming the move that throttles freedom, Mufti wrote, “At a time when J&K’s land & resources are being plundered, GOI wants media publications to write op-eds about diabetes & yoga. In BJP’s ‘all is well’ charade, truth is the biggest casualty. Any journalist unwilling to become a part of Godi media is targeted.” At a time when J&K’s land & resources are being plundered, GOI wants media publications to write op-eds about diabetes & yoga. In BJP’s ‘all is well’ charade, truth is the biggest casualty. Any journalist unwilling to become a part of Godi media is targetedNIA raids on human rights activist Khurram Parvez & Greater Kashmir office in Srinagar is yet another example of GOIs vicious crackdown on freedom of expression & dissent. Sadly, NIA has become BJPs pet agency to intimidate & browbeat those who refuse to fall in lineOn Tuesday, the Centre issued the gazette notification, omitting the phrase “permanent” resident of the state from Section 17 of the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act. This makes any Indian eligible to buy any immovable property in the Union territory.Following her release after 14 months of detention, Mehbooba Mufti has upped the ante against the Centre. Her recent comment over the national flag has stoked controversy and three PDP leaders have left the party. “We will raise the national flag only once our state flag is back. The national flag is here only because of this (the Jammu and Kashmir) flag and constitution. We are linked to the rest of the country because of this flag,” Mehbooba, who is also the vice-president of Gupkar alliance, had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-is-bjp-s-pet-agency-tweets-mehbooba-mufti-after-nia-raid-at-greater-kashmir-office/story-4pRQgBmHQVpJ644YQSglcJ.html
28-10-2020||India||Alka Rai writes to Priyanka Gandhi, accuses Punjab govt. of protecting husband’s killer||Alka Rai, wife of late BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai who was murdered in Ghazipur in 2005, wrote an emotional letter to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and accused the Punjab government of giving protection to accused Mukhtar Ansari.“Your party and your government in Punjab is giving protection to Mukhtar Ansari. He is being summoned by various courts in Uttar Pradesh but Punjab government is not ready to send him. No one would believe that it is being done without your information and Rahul. Mukhtar Ansari is a criminal,” Rai, who is BJP MLA from Ghazipur stated.Citing media reports, she said that when Uttar Pradesh Police vehicles went to take him then Punjab government gave him 3-month bed rest to save him.Rai said that she has been fighting for justice for the past 14 years. She further asked that she is waiting for Ansari to be punished for his crimes As per the media reports, the BSP MLA has been lodged in different jails of Punjab since January 2019 when he was produced there in a local court on production on a complaint of extortion lodged by a local builder.In 2019, a special CBI court acquitted former BSP legislator Mukhtar Ansari and several others in the murder case. Krishnanand Rai was gunned down in 2005, along with six other party workers in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alka-rai-writes-to-priyanka-gandhi-accuses-punjab-govt-of-protecting-husband-s-killer/story-lf2hugr84UVJKkYgr5JFvO.html
28-10-2020||India||China says border standoff is bilateral issue, criticises Mike Pompeo’s remarks||China on Wednesday reacted sharply to US secretary of state Mike Pompeo’s remarks targeting the Chinese government and backing India in facing challenges to its sovereignty, saying the comments “instigated China’s relations with other countries”. Describing the boundary issue as a “bilateral matter between China and India”, the Chinese embassy said in a statement that there is “no space for a third party to intervene” in the matter. Pompeo told the media after the India-US 2+2 dialogue on Tuesday that Washington will stand by New Delhi in confronting threats to India’s sovereignty. He also referred to the “pandemic that came from Wuhan” and described the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) as “no friend to democracy [and] the rule of law”. Also Read: 2+2 meeting: Pompeo says US will stand with India to face threats to sovereignty, libertyThe Chinese embassy expressed its “firm opposition” to the remarks by Pompeo and US defence secretary Mark Esper, and said they had “repeated old lies, attacked and made allegations against China, violated the norms of international relations and basic principles of diplomacy, [and] instigated China’s relations with other countries in the region”. The remarks, the statement saiadded, “again exposed their Cold War mentality and ideological bias”. The Chinese embassy stopped short of criticising India directly in any way. During the media interaction after the 2+2 meeting, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh hadn’t mentioned China in their remarks. The statement said the “boundary question is a bilateral matter between China and India”, and the two sides had been discussing disengagement and de-escalation in the border areas through diplomatic and military channels. “China and India have the wisdom and ability to handle their differences properly. There’s no space for a third party to intervene,” it said. Pompeo’s remarks came against the backdrop of the India-China military standoff in Ladakh region, which is set to enter its seventh month. Both sides have arrayed more than 50,000 troops each at friction points along the Line of Actual Control, and the forces are expected to remain deployed at the disputed border through the harsh winter. Pompeo also made a pointed reference to the 20 Indian soldiers “killed by PLA forces in Galwan Valley in June”, and said the US and India are “taking steps to strengthen our cooperation against all manner of threats”. Also Read: BECA done, fighters and armed drones next as India turns US positiveThe Chinese statement, however, contended Beijing has been “unswervingly committed to peaceful development and developed friendly cooperation with our neighbours based on mutual respect”. “China has always upheld multilateralism and remained committed to maintaining an international system with the United Nations at its core and an international order based on international law. China resolutely opposes behaviour of engaging in unilateralism and bullying,” it added. By “hyping up the so-called ‘China threat’”, the statement said, the US is “making pretexts for maintaining its global hegemony and containing China’s development”. The statement further contended that the Indo-Pacific strategy proposed by the US is meant to “stir up confrontation among different groups and blocs and to stoke geopolitical competition” to maintain the dominance of Washington and organise “closed and exclusive ideological cliques”. The statement said the CPC’s leadership is a choice of the people, who had “achieved strategic victory in fighting the [Coronavirus]”. It cited surveys conducted by international institutions to say the Chinese people’s satisfaction and trust towards the CPC-led government “exceed 90 percent”. “Anyone who turns a blind eye to the fact that the CPC is endorsed and supported by the Chinese people or wantonly slanders the CPC is openly standing on the opposite side of the Chinese people,” the statement said. China accused the US of again trying to “shift the blame onto China on Covid-19” and expressed the hope that US politicians would focus on “their own epidemic response and saving lives”. “We urge the US side to respect facts and truth, abandon the Cold War and the zero-sum mentality, stop hyping up the so-called ‘China threat’, and stop the wrong actions that undermine regional peace and stability,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-says-border-standoff-is-bilateral-issue-criticises-mike-pompeo-s-remarks/story-D22Xc7OoWEVPpGigjUnVAM.html
28-10-2020||India||Accused in human trafficking case dies by suicide on last day of parole in Indore||A 58-year-old man accused in a human trafficking case allegedly died by suicide on the last day of his parole in Indore on Tuesday, police said.According to the police, the man was a partner in the criminal activities of a tabloid owner who was arrested in June on charges of human trafficking and rape. The tabloid owner also owned a hotel in Indore from where 67 women were rescued in November last year that blew the lid off a trafficking racket.The family of the deceased claimed that he blamed the police and district administration for his death in a suicide note. “The 58-year-old man, a resident Indore, was arrested in December last year for human trafficking and fraud. He was in jail for nine months and came outside on parole two months ago to take care of his ailing father. His parole period was ending on Tuesday but he went to his father’s house on Tuesday and hanged himself from a ceiling fan of his room,” said Neelmani Thakur, sub-inspector, Anupurna police station. The family members shared a suicide note, which they claimed was recovered from possession of the deceased in which he had blamed police and administration for pushing him to suicide. “The action taken by the police and administration has maligned my image and I am ending my life due to this reason,” the purported suicide note read. The deceased also wrote that his eyes, heart, kidney and liver should be donated to a needy person. The deceased’s son said, “My father was innocent and was just a friend of the tabloid owner. He was unnecessarily trapped in the case by the police. He was in depression because of the case.” The man was arrested last December from the same hotel from where after the police rescued the 67 women a month earlier. The women rescued had been trafficked from different places. Later, police booked the tabloid owner in about 60 different cases including Prevention of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, rape, fraud, and others. Deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Indore, HN Mishra said police are investigating the matter and trying to know the reason behind death of the accused. Police are also verifying the suicide note, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accused-in-human-trafficking-case-dies-by-suicide-on-last-day-of-parole-in-indore/story-hxwp0jRrihlHUuIqTHpnEO.html
28-10-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: ED takes suspended IAS officer M Sivasankar into custody soon after court rejects anticipatory bail plea||The Kerala high court on Wednesday rejected the anticipatory bail plea moved by suspended IAS officer, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former secretary M Sivasankar in connection with the gold smuggling case. Customs and the Enforcement Directorate opposed his bail plea saying that he was aware of the smuggling activities of Swapna Suresh. Soon after his bail plea was rejected, the ED detained him.Once a very powerful bureaucrat, Sivasankar fell from grace after his name got linked to the gold smuggling case. On Wednesday, he was detained from the Ayurveda hospital where he was admitted for treatment. When Sivasankar got hospitalised, the customs said he was pretending illness to escape grilling by the agencies.Also Read: Kerala CM’s former secretary’s arrest barred till October 28 in gold smuggling caseEarlier, the ED had claimed that there were attempts to bail Swapna Suresh out after the seizure of gold hidden in a bag camouflaged as a diplomatic baggage that came to the UAE consulate in the state capital. The agency has also accused Sivasankar of helping the main accused in money laundering. But Sivasankar told the court that he had been grilled for more than 90 hours and none of the agencies could implicate him in the case.The sensational gold smuggling case surfaced on July 5 after 30 kg of yellow metal was seized by the customs from a package camouflaged as diplomatic consignment addressed to the UAE consulate.Later P Sarith Kumar, a former public relations officer of the consulate who came to receive the luggage, was arrested by the customs. Two other suspects, Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Sandip Nair, were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru five days later. Sivasankar was suspended after his alleged links with Suresh surfaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-suspended-ias-officer-m-sivasankar-s-anticipatory-bail-plea-rejected/story-uO0tho3ESbDBOlp5AT3xVP.html
28-10-2020||India||NIA raids several locations across Kashmir in terror-funding case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday conducted raids at multiple locations in Srinagar, including the office of Greater Kashmir newspaper and the residence of human rights activist Khurram Parvaiz in Sonwar in connection with ‘unaccounted funding’. The offices of NGO Athrout are also being raided. The NIA has registered a new case to probe into the fund-raising activities of the NGO — who are funding them and where the funds are being channelised to. Hawala racket, misappropriation of funds and terror funding are some of the allegations against these NGOs, officials said. “This case was registered by NIA on 8/10/2020 u/s 120B, 124 A IPC and sections 17, 18, 22A, 22C, 38, 39 and 40 UA(P)A, 1967 on receipt of credible information that certain NGOs and Trusts are collecting funds domestically and abroad through so-called donations and business contributions etc. and are then utilizing these funds for secessionist and terrorist activities in J&K,” the agency said. It also raided a location in Bengaluru in this connection.Several incriminating documents and electronic devices have been seized., the agency said.In 2016, Khurram Parvez was arrested from his home in Srinagar which stoked a controversy as it was alleged that he was detained without any formal arrest warrant. He was detained for 76 days even after a sessions court ordered his release as he was re-arrested under Public Safety Act.In 2019, NIA interrogated Greater Kashmir editor-in-chief Fayaz Kaloo over a few articles that appeared on the paper after Burhan Wani was killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-raids-several-locations-across-kashmir-in-terror-funding-case/story-oxZsathzc7XmLBMUIT5quJ.html
28-10-2020||India||India registers 43,893 new Covid-19 cases as tally nears 8 million; 508 deaths in last 24 hours||A day after India reported its lowest daily novel coronavirus (Covid-19) count since July, the country logged nearly 44,000 fresh infections, taking its overall tally closer to the eight million mark, the Union health ministry’s dashboard showed on Wednesday.With 43,893 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, India’s overall caseload has reached 7,990,322. This comes a day after the country saw 36,370 infections, its lowest single-day tally since July 18, when 34,884 cases were recorded.(Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)Continuing with the recent trend of more single-day recoveries than new cases, 58,439 recoveries were registered in the last 24 hours, taking the total recovered cases to 7,259,509. Death toll, meanwhile, reached 1.2 lakh mark with 508 new fatalities.Active cases remain below the seven lakh mark, at 610,803. Recoveries, active cases and deaths constitute 90.62%, 7.88% and 1.50% respectively of India’s total number of Covid-19 cases.Also on Wednesday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said it had tested a total of 105,487,680 samples for the virus thus far. Of these, it said, 1,066,786 samples were tested on October 26. Total 10,54,87,680 samples tested for #COVID19 up to 27th October. Of these 10,66,786 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) pic.twitter.com/69L86L9F9MEarlier on Tuesday, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), announced that the guidelines issued on September 30, for October’s fifth phase of the nationwide unlock, shall remain in effect till November 30. The guidelines had allowed reopening of cinema halls, multiplexes, swimming pools for sports training, entertainment parks etc. from October 15 with strict Covid-19 restrictions in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-43-893-new-covid-19-cases-as-tally-nears-eight-million-508-deaths-in-last-24-hours/story-AfIDQUdBNuYxU9huaQtC6O.html
28-10-2020||India||RS polls: 8 BJP candidates file nomination in UP; Varanasi lawyer springs surprise by filing papers at last minute||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) eight candidates filed their nomination papers for the upcoming Rajya Sabha (RS) polls from Uttar Pradesh (UP) on Tuesday.However, the buzz around the party fielding a ninth candidate at the last minute turned out to be a damp squib. The dramatic last-minute filing of nomination papers of a lawyer from Varanasi – only 10 minutes before the process drew to a close – has set up the contest for the 10th RS seat from UP.The elections are slated to be held on November 9 amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the results will be declared on the same day. Also read | RS polls set to push up BJP tally in HouseLawyer Prakash Bajaj filed his nomination papers at 2.50 pm on Tuesday and his candidature was supported by 10 lawmakers from the Samajwadi Party (SP).The move implies that there will be a contest for the 10th vacant RS seat from UP. The Bahujan Samaj Party’s (BSP) Ramji Gautam, the party’s national coordinator and Bihar in-charge, is the other contender for the 10th RS seat. “Now, unless a candidate pulls out by November 3, the last date for withdrawal of nominations, or is disqualified, 11 aspirants will fight for 10 (RS) seats,” said Pradeep Dubey, principal secretary, UP Vidhan Sabha. Each candidate will require around 37 votes for an outright win. The BJP and the SP have 304 and 48 members in the UP legislative assembly (MLAs), respectively, and can ensure the victory of their candidates on their own strength.Gautam will contest against Bajaj, who is fighting as an independent candidate and enjoys the support of at least 10 SP lawmakers. “Bajaj has exposed the tacit understanding between the BJP and the BSP,” said IP Singh, who belongs to the SP. Gautam is likely to find the going tough, as the BSP has only 18 lawmakers in the 403-member UP assembly. At present, the assembly’s strength is 395.The BJP, which did not field a ninth candidate despite a few surplus votes and was purportedly assured the support of some opposition lawmakers, had bolstered Gautam’s chances.However, the electoral arithmetic was drastically altered because of Bajaj’s entry on Tuesday.“The move suits the BJP. It can always market its decision to not field a candidate against BSP’s Dalit candidate, while targeting the SP as an anti-Dalit party. The new political formations make it abundantly clear that in the 2022 UP assembly polls, the SP and BSP will contest against each other unlike in 2017. The BJP will relish the prospect, as it seeks to reap benefits owing to a lack of opposition unity,” said Irshad Ilmi, a veteran journalist. A few SP and BSP MLAs are also in cahoots with the BJP such as Nitin Agarwal and Ramvir Upadhaya, who belong to SP and the BSP, respectively. Ramvir’s son Chiragvir and Nitin Agarwal’s father Naresh Agarwal have also switched to the BJP. BSP MLA Anil Singh has also rebelled against his party. Another BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari has been languishing in a Punjab jail for the past 22 months over multiple criminal charges. The Congress, too, has a couple of lawmakers, who have defied the party line in the past. Political observers feel that BJP holds the edge in peddling influence over the outcome of the 10th RS seat from UP. Apna Dal (Sonelal), which has nine lawmakers, followed by the Congress (7), Om Prakash Rajbhar’s Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) (4), Independents (3), Rashtriya Lok Dal (1) and Nishad Party (1) make up the representations of the other parties in the UP assembly. Earlier on Tuesday, the eight BJP candidates, including three sitting RS members from UP such as Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri, former Ballia Member of Parliament (MP) Neeraj Shekhar, the son of late Prime Minister Chandrashekhar, and party’s general secretary Arun Singh, whose term had expired on November 25, filed their nomination papers in the presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy CMs Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma among others.UP minister Haridwar Dubey, three-time MLA Seema Dwivedi, both Brahmins, and former director-general of police (DGP) Brij Lal, a Dalit, are the new BJP nominees for the vacant RS seats from the state. Two other backward caste (OBC) candidates such as the party’s former Auraiya district chief Geeta Shakya and BL Verma have also been nominated to the Upper House of Parliament. Verma is the UP BJP vice-president and also the chairman of UP State Construction and Infrastructure Development Corporation (UPSCIDC) Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-polls-8-bjp-candidates-file-nomination-in-up-varanasi-lawyer-springs-surprise-by-filing-papers-at-last-minute/story-ZTLjvRWmtnj81MvywC9g6L.html
28-10-2020||India||2 terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in J-K’s Badgam: Police||Two unidentified terrorists were killed by security forces in an encounter on Tuesday night in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said.Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and J-K police launched a joint cordon-and-search operation at Machama in Chadoora area of Budgam district around 7pm on Tuesday following a tip-off about the presence of terrorists there, a police official said.The operation turned into an encounter around after militants opened fire at security forces positions, he added.The terrorists were killed in the gunbattle which lasted nearly four hours. They were associated with the terrorist organisation Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), the official said, adding that there was a possibility that one of them was local.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-killed-in-j-k-s-badgam-in-encounter-with-security-forces-police/story-wLKJ50uDMCtLNxqRW2kT4I.html
28-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Shivraj Singh Chouhan announces memorial for Padmavati ahead of MP assembly bypolls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ahead of MP assembly bypolls, Shivraj Singh Chouhan announces memorial for PadmavatiMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday announced a memorial to be built in Bhopal to commemorate legendary queen Padmavati. Read more Indian Air Force to get a big Rafale boost, 16 fighters to land by AprilThe Indian Air Force’s strike capability is set for a boost with 16 omni-role Rafale jet fighters to be inducted into the Golden Arrows squadron by April 2021 and with France’s biggest jet engine maker Safran ready to make fighter engines and ancillaries in India, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. Read moreFacebook India policy head quits after row over contentFacebook’s South Asia public policy director Ankhi Das resigned from her post on Tuesday, the social media company said, weeks after the executive emerged at the centre of a controversy for purportedly acting in a politically partisan manner to aid BJP. Read moreAir quality improves marginally in NW India, shifts to ‘poor’ categoryAir pollution levels have fallen marginally in most parts of north-west India on Wednesday, as moderate winds helped with dispersion the previous day. On Wednesday morning, Delhi, Baghpat, Ambala, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Gurugram, Karnal, Kurukshetra, etc;, which had recorded “very poor” air on Tuesday, showed a marginal improvement and graduated to “poor” category, despite stubble burning in Punjab. Read moreIndia vs Australia: Adelaide to host Day-Night Test, ODIs and T20Is in Sydney and CanberraThe fixtures for the much-anticipated India’s tour of Australia have been announced with Cricket Australia confirming that the Adelaide Cricket Ground will host the first Day-Night Test between the two teams starting December 17. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s sisters, fearing arrest by CBI, request Bombay HC for early hearingLate actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters -- Priyanka and Meetu Singh -- who’ve been named in an FIR by Rhea Chakraborty, have requested the Bombay High Court for an early hearing of their petition, fearing arrest. Read moreTrump’s website briefly defaced, promoted crypto scamOne of Donald Trump’s campaign websites, donaldjtrump.com, was briefly made to look like it had been seized by law enforcement Tuesday, an effort that appeared to be part of a cryptocurrency scam. Read moreHow growing India-US proximity is spooking China: Military, diplomatic aspectsAfter signing the crucial BECA pact with India, Mike Pompeo & Mark Esper said that they stand with India against as it confronts threats to their sovereignty and liberty from China. The pact will provide Indian forces sensitive data from American military satellites. Watch Here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-shivraj-singh-chouhan-announces-memorial-for-padmavati-ahead-of-mp-assembly-bypolls-and-all-the-latest-news/story-YFjYDVBvY0foH9XhYvh7EJ.html
28-10-2020||India||Moin Qureshi case: Delhi court summons CBI joint director, investigating officer to explain slow progress||A Delhi court on Tuesday summoned the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) joint director supervising the probe against meat exporter Moin Qureshi to appear before it on November 17 to answer its queries about the role of former agency directors AP Singh and Ranjit Sinha in the case. The court has also summoned the Investigating Officer (IO) in the case for an explanation. Special CBI judge Sanjeev Aggarwal, in his order on in September 26, had posed a series of questions to the agency regarding its slow pace of investigation in the high profile case, while asking it to file a status report on the probe which has been lingering on for over three years. The judge had asked CBI why it was dragging its feet in a case involving the roles of two of its ex-directors, which may lead to an inference that it was not very keen to investigate them.Also Read: Court asks why three former CBI chiefs not questioned in graft case“….it is apparent that in fact in this case, role of two of its ex-directors is under scanner i.e. AP Singh and Ranjit Sinha, along with alleged middleman Moin Akhtar Qureshi, which needs upfront i.e. frank and honest investigations,” the judge said on September 26. On Tuesday, CBI sought more time to file the status report. The judge in his order summoning the IO and JD, on Tuesday, said that, “...it is expected from the premier investigating agency/CBI that they would candidly answer the queries/issues raised by this court provisionally on the last date of hearing, considering the fact that some of the queries pertain to the role of two of its ex-directors—AP Singh and Ranjit Sinha—along with alleged middleman Moin Akhtar Qureshi”. “However, considering the peculiar circumstances, let the IO along with the concerned JD, CBI, who is supervising the investigations of this case, be summoned for the next date of hearing for answering the queries raise in order dated September 26,” the order said on Tuesday. Qureshi used to collect money from individuals directly or through Hyderabad-based businessman Sathish Sana Babu and used the funds “for influencing probes” by the Central Bureau of Investigation, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said after a probe in 2019. Qureshi was arrested in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moin-qureshi-case-cbi-joint-director-investigating-officer-asked-to-explain-slow-progress/story-TOa5ISVfnrvCpyIBPl3y5N.html
28-10-2020||India||Defence minister Rajnath Singh to address top brass at army commanders’ conference||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will address the top brass at the ongoing army commanders’ conference, officials said. The minister’s address is expected to touch on different aspects such as the security situation along the borders, modernisation of the armed forces and achieving self-reliance in the defence sector. The four-day conference, chaired by army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, began on October 26. The country is currently locked in a border dispute with China in the Ladakh theatre and the next round of military talks to reduce friction is expected soon.The situation in the eastern Ladakh theatre, where the army is preparing for a long haul, will be discussed during the conference. The border row is in its sixth month and efforts to disengage and de-escalate have yielded no results. The eighth round of military talks between corps commander-ranked officers to reduce border tensions is expected to be held shortly. Also Read: Indian Air Force to get a big Rafale boost, 16 fighters to land by AprilIndian and Chinese military commanders met for the seventh time on October 12 in their latest attempt to defuse tensions. The Indian side demanded comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of the status quo ante of early April during the talks. The two sides agreed to continue with the dialogue process to arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for early disengagement in the eastern Ladakh theatre, said a joint press statement issued a day after the talks. “The first day of the conference was spent deliberating on matters related to human resource management…And today’s [Wednesday’s] schedule includes in-depth discussions on the various agenda points projected by the various army commanders, including an update by CINCAN (Commander-in-Chief of Andaman and Nicobar Command),” the officials said. The officials said the top brass will get an update from the Director General of Border Roads (DGBR) on the various infrastructure development projects being undertaken by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and allied formations in the forward areas. The BRO has been working on a war footing to execute key projects despite the ongoing border row with China and the Covid-19 pandemic.As India remains focused on scaling up its border infrastructure despite the ongoing border tensions, Singh, earlier this month, dedicated 44 bridges in forward areas to the country, including 10 in Jammu and Kashmir, eight each in Ladakh, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh, two in Himachal Pradesh and four in Sikkim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-to-address-top-brass-at-army-commanders-conference/story-qkcnV3vjdUUtvMscoya1PJ.html
28-10-2020||India||Air quality improves marginally in NW India, shifts to ‘poor’ category||Air pollution levels have fallen marginally in most parts of north-west India on Wednesday, as moderate winds helped with dispersion the previous day.On Wednesday morning, Delhi, Baghpat, Ambala, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Gurugram, Karnal, Kurukshetra, etc;, which had recorded “very poor” air on Tuesday, showed a marginal improvement and graduated to “poor” category, despite stubble burning in Punjab. Air quality index (AQI) between 201-300 and 301-400 are considered poor and very poor category, respectively.Stubble fires contributed to 23% of Delhi’s particulate matter (PM) 2.5 load on Wednesday, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research under the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM).But wind speed is likely to reduce from Wednesday, while the wind direction will continue to remain north-westerly.“Wind speed increased to about 18 kilometres per hour (kmph) on Tuesday ,the Safdarjung weather bureau showed. and, as a result, the impact of stubble fires was not felt as much. Wind speed will reduce from Wednesday, but wind direction will remain north-westerly. Consequently, air quality is likely to worsen,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Conditions are becoming favourable for withdrawal of monsoon from the country and for commencement of north-east monsoon rainfall over parts of extreme southern peninsula on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).A cyclonic circulation lies over the south-west Bay of Bengal off north Tamil Nadu (TN) coast. Under its influence widespread and heavy rainfall and moderate thunderstorm and lightning is likely to occur over Kerala, Mahe, TN and Puducherry during the next five days. Normally, monsoon withdraws from the country by October 15.Meanwhile, night temperatures in most parts of north-west India were recorded 1 to 2 degrees Celsius (C) below normal. Tuesday’s minimum temperature in Karnal was 12.6 degrees C, 2 degrees below normal. Delhi recorded 14.4 degrees C, 2 degrees below normal; and Amritsar reported 12.1 degrees C, 1 degree below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-improves-marginally-in-nw-india-shifts-to-poor-category/story-ZPFBJmiOPXfwsffr14xwtN.html
28-10-2020||India||Piyush Goyal calls upon global community to ensure timely, equitable availability of Covid-19 vaccines||The Union Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal has called upon the global community to ensure timely and equitable availability of vaccines and medicines for Covid-19, in sufficient quantities and affordable prices.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19In his intervention at the virtual informal meeting of WTO Ministers held on Tuesday, he said that India and South Africa have proposed TRIPS waiver to address the challenges that countries with limited manufacturing capacity will face, in accessing these medical supplies. He called upon all Members to support the proposal, in order to have a decision on it by Ministerial Conference 12 (MC), if not earlier.Goyal said that the Covid-19 pandemic has brought out the inherent weaknesses and inequalities in the global economic & trading system. “The need of the hour is to take effective measures to address the immediate challenges, and also prepare a long-term roadmap on how to reform an ailing and imbalanced global trading system,” he said.Goyal said that India believes that every crisis presents big opportunities for new and innovative pathways to progress. He said that meaningful and equitable reform requires us to re-imagine the multilateral trading system and fix what has not worked in the last 25 years.“We are always ready to engage constructively with other WTO Members to protect human life and work towards restoring inclusive and sustainable global economic growth,” Union Minister added.Goyal said that the pandemic has also highlighted the need for easier cross-border movement of health care professionals. “A multilateral initiative that provides for easier access to medical services under mode-4 needs to be launched immediately and we should aim to deliver this outcome by MC12,” he said.On the issue of ongoing fisheries subsidy negotiations, the Minister stated that the negotiations should address the problem of industrial fishing by some nations that has led to a major depletion of the global fish stock.Goyal said that members, who have provided and continue to provide large subsidies, must make the highest contributions in line with the ‘Polluter Pays” principle. “We should not repeat the mistakes made during the Uruguay Round negotiations, that allowed unequal and trade-distorting entitlements for select members, while unfairly constraining the less developed member countries who did not have the capacity to support their farmers at that point of time,” he said.He said that India will not accept any attempts to restrict the flexibilities and policy space that developing countries need to better integrate with the global trading system.“In fact, we should open more opportunities for the less developed and developing countries, taking into account the contrasting levels of prosperity, unequal levels of economic development and vast disparity in human development indicators amongst nations, so that global trade is fair and sustainable,” the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/piyush-goyal-calls-upon-global-community-to-ensure-timely-equitable-availability-of-covid-19-vaccines/story-A5Do7xT3YkKJiIlY8JoFbK.html
28-10-2020||India||Ahead of MP assembly bypolls, Shivraj Singh Chouhan announces memorial for Padmavati||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday announced a memorial to be built in Bhopal to commemorate legendary queen Padmavati. Chouhan’s announcement on the memorial during a ‘shastra pooja’ (worship of weapon) programme organised by the Rajput community in Indore on Tuesday came almost three years after he announced a ban on the Bollywood film Padmaavat and a memorial for Padmavati. He had also announced that a chapter on the legendary queen will be included in the school syllabus in the state. “I have reserved a piece of land at Manuabhan ki Tekari in Bhopal for the memorial on Maharani Padmavati. A grand memorial will be built over there,” Chouhan said.Reiterating his announcement to include a chapter on Padmavati in the school syllabus from the next session Chouhan said, “Besides, two prizes carrying Rs 2 lakh cash and a citation each to be named after legendary warrior Maharana Pratap and Rani Padmavati as ‘Maharana Shourya Puruskar’ and ‘Padmini Puruskar’ will be instituted.” Chouhan also attacked filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali and said the film was “a blow to the society’s honour”. The CM also announced withdrawal of criminal cases lodged against protesters in 2018 for protesting against the movie. Bhansali’s film on Padmavati had faced stiff resistance from Rajput organizations which alleged that it distorted history.While Chouhan was making the announcements some members of the gathering including women shouted slogans against caste-based reservations. They also said, “Mamaji (As Chouhan calls himself Mama of children of the state) we want jobs.” Chouhan during a programme organised by SC/ST government employees in 2016 had announced that “duniya ki koi taqat, koi mai ka laal aarakshan khatam nahi kar sakta (no one in the world can do away with reservation). That statement which agitated mainly upper castes people particularly in Gwalior-Chambal region cost the BJP dear in 2018 assembly elections as the video clip containing the speech did the rounds ahead of polls. The party suffered a major setback in the region having managed to win only 7 seats against the Congress’ 26 whereas it had won 20 seats against the Congress’ 12 in 2013 assembly elections. Out of the 28 assembly seats where bypolls are going to be held, 16 of the constituencies fall under the same region. The opposition Congress dismissed Chouhan’s announcement as a publicity stunt to woo a particular section of voters ahead of bypolls.“Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan should also make it clear as to what stopped him from implementing his own announcements on Rani Padmavati when he himself was the chief minister in 2017 and 2018 as well. What can be more unfortunate than playing politics in the name of legendary warriors of our country? He should at least spare the great personalities of the country and not use them as means to garner votes,” Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-mp-assembly-bypolls-shivraj-singh-chouhan-announces-memorial-for-padmavati/story-Rjd71hBNkECl3UC6BraCGP.html
28-10-2020||India||Indian Air Force to get a big Rafale boost, 16 fighters to land by April||The Indian Air Force’s strike capability is set for a boost with 16 omni-role Rafale jet fighters to be inducted into the Golden Arrows squadron by April 2021 and with France’s biggest jet engine maker Safran ready to make fighter engines and ancillaries in India, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. Five Rafale jets flew to the Ambala airbase via Abu Dhabi on July 29 and have already been inducted into the IAF’s Squadron 17. The next batch of three Rafales will arrive in Ambala on November 5 directly from the Bordeaux-Merignac facility (there will be no stop as they will be fuelled mid-air), according to senior government officials. Seven Rafale fighters are already being used for IAF fighter pilot training in France.Three more Rafales will arrive in January, another three in March and seven in April, taking the total number of fighters handed over to the IAF to 21 single-seat fighters and seven twin-seat trainer fighters. This means that by April next year, the Golden Arrows squadron will be complete with 18 fighters and the remaining three can be sent to the Hashimara airbase in north Bengal’s Alipurduar to counter the threat posed by China on the eastern front. All the fighters are equipped with Mica and Meteor air-to-air missiles along with Scalp air-to-ground cruise missiles. India has now requested Safran for the air-to-ground modular weapon known as Hammer with a 250kg warhead.While France is willing to offer more Rafale fighters to India, Safran’s offer of making the Snecma M88 engines in India, four years from the day the contract is signed, is a welcome proposal, said the officials cited above. Also Watch l How Rafale jets will impact India-China LAC tussle: Lt Gen DS Hooda explainsNot only will the M-88 engines be used by Rafale fighters but these can also be deployed to power Light Combat Aircraft Mark II and twin-engine advanced multi-role combat aircraft developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The IAF plans to buy 83 LCA Mark I A jets, taking the total number of Tejas variants ordered to 123. Safran is said to be willing to offer engines with no third-country spare parts so that no additional approvals are needed, and with 100% indigenisation. The French offer may come up for discussion during foreign secretary Harsh Shringla’s visit to France, the UK and Germany, starting from Paris this Thursday. While DRDO can continue developing its own fighter engine, the Safran engine will fill the gap between development and manufacture. Only the US, Russia and France have the capacity to produce fighter jet engines, with China still using the Russian RD-93 and RD-33 engines to power its jet fighters such as the J-31 and the JF-17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-air-force-to-get-a-big-rafale-boost-16-fighters-to-land-by-april/story-Ezh1Pt1Co5frHnWI89LK7M.html
28-10-2020||India||PMO seeks ideas to boost self-reliance||The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has sent a questionnaire to all ministries and departments seeking inputs and ideas on the “meaning of Atmanirbharta (self-reliance)” . The Prime Minister’s Office has also sought inputs on steps to improve governance, addressing the issue of regional imbalance as a “challenge to Atmanirbharta” and ways to promote the government’s call for “vocal for local” and “local for global.” It has also sought ideas on expanding the MSME sectors and addressing issues of “quality of policies, products and processes.” The questionnaire sent by the PMO, a copy of which has been reviewed by Hindustan Times has to be submitted by all ministries by October 28, according to officials aware of the development. “India’s GDP is concentrated in major industrial hubs in West and South India and hence there are vast inter regional and intra-regional development gaps. Under Aatmanirbhar Bharat scheme the government aims to bridge the gap and set up new industries in these underdeveloped areas,” a senior official said. “The government has decided to be more aggressive to address the issue of significant trade imbalance and the strategic implications of the same. Therefore, the government should look at two things; ending imports of lower end products like pens, mouse pads etc, which we are being imported from China. Domestic production can easily take over such products. The second should be to focus on high-end products such as laptops and smartphones manufacturing with strategies such as Phased Manufacturing plan, which was highly successful in building India’s auto industry,” said Jaijit Bhattacharya, president of the Centre for Digital Economy Policy Research (CDEP), a think tank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmo-seeks-ideas-to-boost-self-reliance/story-KEWK0iP4n80kYGMoVwmI7O.html
28-10-2020||India||PM Modi, Sitharaman take stock of economy as centre||The economy is steadily recovering from the devastating impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, but it requires more calibrated fiscal and monetary policy measures to accelerate the growth momentum in sync with the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India Initiative), according to a review conducted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday, two people aware of the development said.During discussions on the current economic scenario with senior bureaucrats on Tuesday, the Prime Minister assessed the impact of the two stimulus packages already announced by the Centre and considered the contours of a third stimulus that will be required to build on the gains so far, they officials cited above said, requesting anonymity.They said the PM and the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) is regularly in touch with key ministers and officials on economic matters and the Tuesday meeting is the part of it. “The government is confident of a V-shape recovery as the worst is over,” one person said. A second official said the government’s focus is now to incentivise ‘Make in India’ and make India a global manufacturing hub for those who want to shift their base from China with a prime focus on employment generation.PM has been briefed about a proposal to extend production-linked incentive (PLI) to six-seven manufacturing sectors and contours of another stimulus to boost demand, the official said. Proposals for PLI schemes are ready for sectors such as automobiles, electronics, telecommunications, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, textiles, food processing, white goods and speciality steel, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-sitharaman-take-stock-of-economy-as-centre/story-cXLqWTtYVWnO1gz5NaIZGM.html
28-10-2020||India||‘17% Covid deaths linked to pollution’||Around 17% of deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India could be linked to long-term exposure to air pollution, higher than the 15% seen on average across the world, according to a study published in the journal Cardiovascular Research on Tuesday. The analysis was based on study of air quality data and distribution of fatalities across the world till the third week of June, which the researchers used to calculate a Covid-19 mortality rate attributable to pollution. The highest proportion of these was in Czech Republic (29%), Poland (28%), and China (27%).In terms of global regions, East Asia had the highest proportion of such deaths at 27%, followed by Central Europe and America where nearly 25% of the deaths in each of the regions were attributed to air pollution by the study. The authors say that these are proportion of deaths that could have been avoided if the populations had been exposed to lower levels of air pollution. “...Attributable fraction does not imply a direct cause-effect relationship between air pollution and Covid-19 mortality (although it is possible). Instead it refers to relationships between two, direct and indirect, i.e. by aggravating co-morbidities [other health conditions] that could lead to fatal health outcomes of the virus infection.” “When people inhale polluted air, the very small polluting particles, the PM2.5, migrate from the lungs to the blood and blood vessels, causing inflammation and severe oxidative stress... This causes damage to the inner lining of arteries, the endothelium, and leads to the narrowing and stiffening of the arteries. The Covid-19 virus also enters the body via the lungs, causing similar damage to blood vessels, and it is now considered to be an endothelial disease,” said Professor Thomas Münzel one of the authors of the paper from the University Medical Center of the Johannes Gutenberg University, Mainz, Germany in a release. In India, experts have warned of air pollution leading to such outcomes, Covid-19 infections severe. “This will be the first winter we will see Covid-19 in India, we still do not know how it will play out. However, like every other year, we will see an aggravation of symptoms in people with existing respiratory or cardiovascular diseases with the dip in temperature and increase in pollution levels. And, a person with compromised lung function is much more likely to have a severe course of Covid-19 infection as compared to a healthy person,” said Dr Anant Mohan, head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-covid-deaths-linked-to-pollution/story-Qzy3z5rn54OH3hCHIUlQ6O.html
28-10-2020||India||EC pulls up Kamal Nath over remark||The Election Commission of India (EC) has told senior Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath not to use words such as “item” to address a woman during campaigning for the bye-elections while the Model Code of Conduct is in effect. “ ... the Commission, hereby advises Kamal Nath, ex-chief minister Madhya Pradesh that while making public utterances he should not use any such word or statement during the period of Model Code of Conduct,” the order said.Addressing an election meeting on Sunday for the November 3 bypoll in Gwalior’s Dabra town, where the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has fielded Imarti Devi, Nath had said the Congress candidate (Suresh Raje) was a “simple person” unlike his opponent who was an “item”. The EC told Nath that the use of the word “item” to address a woman “constitutes a violation” of the advisory issued by the poll body relating to the model code of conduct. Nath’s remark had triggered outrage, with BJP leaders, led by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, staging protests against the Congress leader. Meanwhile, the EC also issued a notice to BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya to explain his “chunnu-munnu” remark (a term used to refer to children) for Congress leaders Nath and Digvijaya Singh during an election rally in Indore’s Sanwer, where he also called them “gaddar” (traitors).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-pulls-up-kamal-nath-over-remark/story-I9DqIKI0VlRQ5fRSNmrm4N.html
28-10-2020||India||PM Modi hails street vendors, slams Oppn||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said his government has acknowledged the honesty and hard work of street vendors by offering them loans that were inaccessible to the poor in the past even as he sharpened his criticism of the opposition.“…they (opposition) have indulged in scams, accepted commissions and have tried to blame the poor for all the corruption. The poor of our country will never compromise on honesty and self-respect. With PM SVANidhi, the poor have set an example of honesty before the nation,” Modi said in a video message, addressing beneficiaries of the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi scheme at 651 locations in Uttar Pradesh. His comments came a day before the first round of the three-phase Bihar elections beginning Tuesday.Modi used the occasion to urge people to follow social distancing norms and use masks in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. “When Covid-19 attacked, there were apprehensions around the world. All efforts of the government focused on how to minimise people’s hardships…the Garib Kalyan Yojna involving ₹1.70 lakh crore was launched. The focus of the scheme was that no one should sleep hungry. Subsequently, an economic package of ₹20 lakh crore was also launched. The common man has proved that s/he has the strength to overcome big problems,” he added. Modi said the poor have been linked to the banking system and loans have been given to street vendors who are repaying them in time. “…Uttar Pradesh is number one in the country in benefitting people under the PM SVANidhi scheme. The largest number of street vendors has applied from this state,” he said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who was present at the programme, praised the PM for his guidance in the “successful” fight against Covid-19. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee spokesman Ashok Singh said the PM was only trying to divert attention of people ahead of elections. He accused the Modi government of not doing enough to generate employment opportunities for the youth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-hails-street-vendors-slams-oppn/story-m2M6RrmAUu2yIIyU52o1dK.html
28-10-2020||India||Bihar is in distress, govt arrogant, time for change: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday said “change is in the air” in Bihar, and attacked the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the state for its “dictatorial governance” that “has plunged the state into deep distress”. In a four-and-a-half-minute-long video message released a day ahead of the polling for the first phase of the assembly elections, Gandhi appealed to the people of Bihar to vote for the Mahagathbandhan, or Grand Alliance . “The government in Bihar is steeped in power and arrogance and has strayed from its path. Neither its words nor its actions are good. Workers are helpless, farmers are distressed and young people are disappointed. The fragile state of the economy is impacting the lives of the people. Dalits, Mahadalits and backward sections of the society have been left on the brink of destitution,” she said in the message. “The voice of the people of Bihar is with the grand alliance of the Congress. This is the call of Bihar today,” Gandhi added. Attacking the Centre and the Bihar government, Gandhi said all sections of the society, and especially young people, farmers and traders, are suffering due to decisions such as demonetisation,and a prolonged Covid lockdown. “The people of Bihar are ready to create a new Bihar for the next generation,” she said. The Grand Alliances comprises the Rashtriya Janata Dal, the Congress, and the Left parties.Voting will take place on Wednesday in seventy-one of the 243 seats in the state. The second phase of polling is on November 3, and the third phase on November 7. The results will be declared on November 10. “Bihar has the skill, talent and capabilities but unemployment, migration, inflation and starvation have given the people only tears and blisters on their feet. Words that cannot be spoken are said with tears. Policies and governments cannot be formed on the basis of fear,” Gandhi said. “Bihar is a mirror of India. It is also a hope and pride of India. Today, Bihar is getting ready for a change for its glory and future. That is why I said that change is in the air in Bihar,” she added. BJP’s national spokesperson Guruprakash said the Congress as no locus standi to comment on Bihar as the state saw the worst years under its rule. “For 55 of the last 73 years, the state has seen the misrule of the Congress and its allies. When we (NDA) inherited Bihar the rate of crime was at an all-time high and today the data from the national crime records bureau has put Bihar at the 23rd position. There has been a huge change in the situation, people are no long scared to step out after 6 p.m. as was the case during the Congress-RJD years.”Guruprakash also criticised Gandhi’s allegation that the Dalits and the Mahadalits are oppressed in Bihar. “For her the Dalits of Punjab and Rajasthan are not Dalits. When a six-year old Dalit girl from Bihar was allegedly raped and burnt alive in Punjab where was the selective outrage brigade of the Congress,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-is-in-distress-govt-arrogant-time-for-change-sonia-gandhi/story-ees3fmBCzWzPWHbFHiV5YO.html
28-10-2020||India||Judges shocked as SC lawyer appears shirtless at hearing||A lawyer on Tuesday appeared at a virtual hearing before a Supreme Court bench without his shirt on, prompting the surprised justices to bemoan the lack of decorum, and India’s second most senior law officer to describe the incident as “unpardonable”.The image of the lawyer, Suvidutt, an advocate on record who was appearing for website OpIndia in a public interest limitation matter involving news channel Sudarshan TV, flashed for a few seconds when the hearing began on Monday before a bench of justices DY Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee. Surprised by his appearance, justice Chandrachud asked: “Who is this lawyer?”The lawyer appeared to realise his mistake, and put on a shirt, but logged out soon after without offering an explanation to the bench.Justice Chandrachud told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was appearing in the case for the Union government, that it was important that caution be exercised when coming before the court. “I am not one who takes action against lawyers but this is a Court for all purposes. Some decorum has to be maintained by lawyers while appearing before us. Caution must be taken in future,” justice Chandrachud said.Mehta described the episode as “unpardonable”.When contacted, Suvidutt declined to comment. He wrote to Solicitor General offering an explanation for his conduct and expressed a sincere apology for what had happened.Advocate Shivaji Jadhav, president of the Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association, said no complaint was sent to them in this regard. “It appears to be a mistake by the lawyer for which he should offer apology. At the same time, we must understand that such things can happen during a virtual court proceeding,” he said.Ever since proceedings of the Supreme Court and several high courts have switched to videoconferencing because of the Covid pandemic, there have been instances of lack of decorum during hearings, with some lawyers seen eating food, smoking, chewing gutkha, dressed casually, or lying on a bed. The Rajasthan high court in April this year reprimanded a lawyer who appeared to argue a bail matter in a vest. On September 24, a lawyer found smoking in a car during a Gujarat high court virtual hearing was slapped with a cost of Rs 10,000.In May, the Supreme Court secretary general Sanjeev S Kalgaonkar issued a notification allowing lawyers to shun their long robes and coats while appearing before the court through videoconferencing. While lawyers agreed that the need to maintain decorum during virtual court hearings was paramount, they pointed out that sometimes there is no advance notice of when they will become visible to the judges. Advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain said: “The lawyers appearing before a court log in since morning and have to wait for hours before their case comes up. When the matter reaches, the Control Room of the Supreme Court un-mutes the mic and camera that makes the lawyer visible to the Court. Mistakes do happen in such a scenario.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judges-shocked-as-sc-lawyer-appears-shirtless-at-hearing/story-4v6fynivnXnPUQyueQyacM.html
28-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On June 21 (Dispatch 87), I wrote: “So, bored, tired, lonely perhaps, and physically, mentally, and emotionally weary, we let things slip. And the virus wins.”There’s a term for this,pandemic fatigue , and as the second wave roils Europe, and the third the US, everyone is talking about it.“Pandemic fatigue is real — and it’s spreading.” That’s in Tuesday’s Wall Street Journal. “Sick of Covid-19? Here’s why you might have pandemic fatigue.” That’s in the conversation.com from October 23. “As the Coronavirus surges, a new culprit emerges: Pandemic fatigue.” That’s from October 17’s New York Times.And on Monday, World Health Organization (WHO) director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus spoke of pandemic fatigue. “Working from home, children being schooled remotely, not being able to celebrate milestones with friends and family or not being there to mourn loved ones — it’s tough and the fatigue is real,” he said. The problem has become serious enough for WHO to, earlier in October, release a document titled “Pandemic fatigue: Reinvigorating the public to prevent Covid-19”. In the document, WHO actually defined pandemic fatigue.“Pandemic fatigue is... demotivation to follow recommended protective behaviours, emerging gradually over time and affected by a number of emotions, experiences and perceptions,” the document said.It “is expressed through an increasing number of people not sufficiently following recommendations and restrictions, decreasing their effort to keep themselves informed about the pandemic, and having lower risk perceptions related to Covid-19,” the document added.It would be alright if Covid fatigue involved merely how people feel; unfortunately, this also extends to how people behave, and it is behaviour that puts them and others at risk. Still worse, because their behaviour is directly correlated with a rise in infections, governments may be forced to react by imposing restrictions on movement and activities, even a partial lockdown (most countries are very averse to going down the total or hard lockdown path again). And when this happens, a population that is already in the grip of pandemic fatigue is unlikely to listen. That’s happening in Europe and the US, and it is happening in India too.So, what should governments and administrators do? As WHO’s DG put it on Monday: “We cannot give up… Leaders must balance the disruption to lives and livelihoods with the need to protect health workers and health systems as intensive care fills up.”Enforcement may not work in all cases and may end up being counterproductive.The problem will be familiar to behavioral economists, though. In 2012, Niranjan Rajadhyaksha, then Mint’s executive editor, wrote an article titled “How behavioural science can reduce deaths on railway tracks”.In the article, Rajadhyaksha detailed how Final Mile Consulting, a firm headed by Biju Dominic that used behavioural economics, cognitive neurology and anthropology to shape people’s behaviour, did this in one part of Mumbai – “The Final Mile team hung around the most lethal crossings for several weeks, melting into the crowd,” says Dominic, “like method actors living the character.” “They quickly noticed that the people crossing the tracks were overconfident, one of the biases that behavioural scientists say are hard-wired into our brains, the same bias that ensures that equity analysts overestimate corporate earnings or cigarette smokers refuse to believe they can be struck down by cancer” Rajadhyaksha wrote. It’s the same overconfidence that makes people believe that they are unlikely to contract Covid-19, or assume that they are safe because most people who do get infected are either asymptomatic or experience only mild symptoms.I won’t tell you how Final Mile solved the rail crossing problem. You can read about it yourself by scanning the QR code with this column.The WHO document actually has some interesting pointers for administrators on how to “allow people to live their lives, but reduce the risk” — for it is the disruption to their lives that is perhaps the biggest contributor to pandemic fatigue. This involves: differentiating “between lower-risk and higher-risk activities”; guidelines on carrying “on with life while reducing the risk of transmission”; proactively planning for “end-of-the-year celebrations”; avoid cancelling all cultural events and find “creative solutions” to host them; and “avoid judgment and blame.” It’s always toughest to protect people from themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-uQzsTZtcZjkFsUKqmfHmQM.html
28-10-2020||India||Outsiders can now buy non-farm land in J&K||The Union home ministry on Tuesday notified rules allowing outsiders to buy non-agricultural land in Jammu & Kashmir more than a year after the region’s special status under Articles 370 and 35A was scrapped, and it was split into two Union territories.People from outside the state were barred from buying or owning immovable property there, settle permanently, or avail themselves of state-sponsored scholarship schemes before the nullification of Article 35A, which gave special rights to the Jammu & Kashmir’s permanent residents.Issuing a gazette notification, the government has omitted the phrase “permanent resident of the state” from Section 17 of the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act that deals with the disposal of land in the Union territory.In subsection 2, the notification substitutes the “whole of the State” with the “whole of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir”. It also notifies to omit “being permanent resident of the State”, paving the way for everyone to buy land.Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said that agricultural land has been reserved for farmers.“Agricultural land has been reserved for farmers and no outsider is going to come into that. We are identifying industrial areas and we surely want that industries come here like other states of the country, so that this place is developed and youths get jobs,” Sinha said at a press conference.The notification evoked strong reactions from mainstream politicians of the region who said they would fight it as the order was aimed to disempower the people of J&K.“Unacceptable amendments to the land ownership laws of J&K. Even the tokenism of domicile has been done away with when purchasing non-agricultural land & transfer of agricultural land has been made easier. J&K is now up for sale & the poorer small land holding owners will suffer,” tweeted National Conference vice-president and former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah.“Interesting that the Centre waited till the elections to LAHDC had concluded & the BJP had won a majority before putting Ladakh up for sale. This is what Ladakhis got for trusting the assurances of the BJP,” Omar tweeted.The Bharatiya Janata Party won 15 out of 26 seats in the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council on Monday.Peoples Democratic Party president and vice-president of the People’s Alliance for the Gupkar declaration, Mehbooba Mufti, said the order was aimed at disempowering local people.“Yet another step that’s part of GOI’s nefarious designs to disempower & disenfranchise people of J&K. From the unconstitutional scrapping of Article 370 to facilitating loot of our natural resources & finally putting land in J&K up for sale,” she tweeted.“After failing on all fronts to provide roti & rozgar to people, BJP is creating such laws to whet the appetite of a gullible electorate. Such brazen measures reinforces the need of people of all three provinces of J&K to fight unitedly,” she tweeted further.The J&K unit of the BJP said the move would bring about development in the region. The J&K Peoples Conference said, “We are awaiting a collective response on this matter.”Earlier this year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah had assured former legislators of J&K who met them under the leadership of Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari that concerns of the people vis-a-vis land and jobs would be taken seriously.Bukhari on Tuesday reiterated his party’s position vis-à-vis the restoration of statehood to J&K along with comprehensive domicile rights on land and jobs for its residents.“The party will go through the gazette notification issued by the Union government today with regard to land rights in J&K and would take up its reservations before the top leadership in the country,” he said, adding that any laws that do not safeguard the interests and rights of people of J&K would be unacceptable to the party. “Better would have been such laws of urgent nature should have been left to or dealt with in consultation with the duly elected government in Jammu & Kashmir,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outsiders-can-now-buy-non-farm-land-in-j-k/story-ue4rl9dDSVYgVLkbQP5vvL.html
28-10-2020||India||Some evidence shows children could be Covid spreaders: ICMR||There is some evidence which shows that children who were earlier thought to be protected against coronavirus infection can be “spreaders, rather than super-spreaders”, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said on Tuesday.Speaking on the coronavirus infection spread in the country among children, Bhargava said tat overall the figure in India is that below the age of 17 years, only 8 per cent are Covid-19 positive.“Below five years, the figure would probably be less than a per cent but then we can come back with a figure for this,” he said.  In response to a question over surge in cases among children in Mizoram,  there are 315 active coronavirus cases in the state as on date.  Over Kawasaki disease and presumably a link with Covid-19, Bhargava said India so far has not reported any cases of Kawasaki disease among Covid-19 patients.Kawasaki is an auto-immune disease that affects children who are less than five years of age and presents with fever, Thrombocytosis and a condition in which the arteries of the heart become dilated and aneurysm. So this is a rare condition which affects more males than females. The disease is more common in the US and less common in India, Bhargava said at a press briefing.“This has been described with Covid-19 in different parts of the world. I don’t think we have had any experience of Kawasaki with Covid-19 in India so far. It is a very rare condition. “Having said that we have to remember that it affects small children and the arteries of the heart get dilated and clots can form in that and it can lead to heart attacks and can also be harmful for the child,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-evidence-shows-children-could-be-covid-spreaders-icmr/story-s3LOFhGpHaomc7nnwLIslI.html
28-10-2020||India||Six more Covid-19 patients die in Uttarakhand, state tally touches 60,957 with 213 new infections||With 213 new Covid-19 cases reported on Tuesday, Uttarakhand’s tally of total infections climbed to 60,957. The state also reported the death of six Covid-19 patients. Before this, the state had reported the lowest number of cases on October 20, with 241 viral infections. Out of 60,957 people, who have tested positive so far, a total of 55,610 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in Uttarakhand to 91.23%. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 6.26%. Also, 422 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Tuesday with a maximum of 115 from Dehradun district. According to the bulletin released by the state health department on Tuesday evening, of the 213 fresh cases, a maximum of 58 cases were reported from Dehradun district. The new Covid-19 cases reported from other districts included Almora (1), Bageshwar (8), Chamoli (6), Champawat (6), Haridwar (16), Nainital (24), Pauri Garhwal (21), Pithoragarh (7), Rudraprayag (9), Tehri Garhwal (29), US Nagar (12) and Uttarkashi (16). Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum of 16,919 Covid-19 positive cases followed by Haridwar (10,880), US Nagar (9406) and Nainital (7166). Out of the total 1007 Covid-19 positive deaths reported from Uttarakhand, 267 are due to coronavirus, while others have died due to co-morbidities. Dehradun district has reported a maximum of 577 deaths so far, over half of the total deaths, followed by 142 deaths in Nainital district, and 121 deaths in Haridwar district. The state has so far tested over 10.08 lakh samples of which results of over 16,700 are awaited. Uttarakhand, currently has 21 containment zones in five districts including a maximum of 10 in Dehradun district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-more-covid-19-patients-die-in-uttarakhand-state-tally-touches-60-957-with-213-new-infections/story-AZBvtijrkBskm73eEAf9NJ.html
28-10-2020||India||Four construction workers die in Odisha after consuming spurious liquor||Four people in the age group of 22 to 44 died in Angul district over a span of 2 days after consuming spurious liquor while working on the construction of a house.Officials said around 20 daily wage labourers engaged in the construction of a person’s house in Patharagada village of Angul district’s Saradhapur gram panchayat had consumed a brew made out of Mahula flower. On Sunday, after a portion of construction work of the house was over, six of the workers had consumed the brew prepared by building contractor Kalia Dehury in the forests of Pathargada village.“After consuming the liquor, all of them fell sick. Soon after labourers Kaira Pradhan (20) and Tukuna Pradhan (30) died. Later, head mason Sashi Kanta Dehury, too passed away in Angul district hospital on late Monday evening. On Tuesday, another labourer named Pramod Sahu too passed away,” said excise commissioner Anjan Manik.Angul Superintendent of Police Jagmohan Meena said building contractor Kalia Dehury has been arrested in the case while another accused Basant Dehury has been admitted to hospital in a critical condition. “Post-mortem of two bodies has been conducted and their viscera have been preserved and blood samples of the victims have been collected to ascertain the cause of death,” he said. Two others who had consumed the brew have been admitted to a government hospital in Angul in a critical condition.Meanwhile, district excise officials along with local police visited the village and have started an inquiry into the matter. A case in this regard has been lodged at Purunakote police station under Sections 272, 273, 304, 323 and 325 of IPCThis is the first liquor tragedy in Odisha this year. Last year, four people in Bhadrak district had died after consuming spurious liquor during the assembly and Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-construction-workers-die-in-odisha-after-consuming-spurious-liquor/story-m0ZlTmQo8b0CIGadu6U1TN.html
28-10-2020||India||Before PM’s visit, Tejashwi asks key questions on Bihar’s development, migration woes||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s second leg of campaigning in Patna and north Bihar districts, leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday put forth questions in the public domain on various issues regarding the state’s development and promises made by the BJP-JD (U) led NDA government. In the first question, he asked, the PM should answer why the announcement of construction of AIIMS, Darbhanga was made just before the election even though the project was announced way back in 2015. The opposition leader wondered whether the PM would talk on the Muzaffarpur shelter home sex abuse case and also sought to know why the construction of a super specialty hospital at Darbhanga and Muzaffarpur was not fulfilled and appointment of doctors not made. He also put forth a question to the PM about why migrants were stopped from coming to Bihar during the Covid-19 induced lockdown and why migration has remained unabated in the state in the last 15 years of NDA rule. Besides, he also said the PM should give a reply as to why Bihar continues to have such a huge unemployed workforce and how many jobs had been generated in Bihar during the six year tenure of the NDA government at the Centre and 15 years of rule in Bihar. Later in the evening, Tejashwi took potshots at the state government accusing Chief Minister Nitish Kumar of not setting up good schools and ignoring higher education facility citing it as a reason for the migration of students to other states and flight of capital from Bihar in the education sector. “If Bihar had good education facilities, why would students go out of the state? People of the state are spending big money for education of their wards in other states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/before-pm-s-visit-tejashwi-asks-key-questions-on-bihar-s-development-migration-woes/story-wB3I24wGbBVcj8wby5IaYM.html
28-10-2020||India||Lok Sabha evaluates how many of House panel ideas adopted||New Delhi The Lok Sabha has decided to examine the “strike rate” of parliamentary committees, and see how many recommendations by these panels have been accepted by the government — an exercise undertaken by Speaker Om Birla at a time when the Opposition is up in arms against the Union government for allegedly attempting to push through legislation without in-depth scrutiny. An internal circular seeking data from different panels that has been seen by HT said: “Committee coordination branch should ascertain committee-wise percentage of implementation of the recommendations by the respective ministries/ departments and submit a report on the same.” The circular added that reports “presented during the 16th Lok Sabha (2014-2019) and so far during 17th Lok Sabha (2019-2020) from parliamentary committees” will be taken up. Parliament has 24 standing committees, out of which 16 come under the purview of the Lower House and the rest under the authority of the Rajya Sabha. Each panel has MPs from both Houses.Apart from the standing committees, there are three financial panels of the Lok Sabha, and several ad-hoc panels of both Houses. To be sure, the reports of the committees are not binding on the government. The Centre is free to reject the entire report, partially accept the recommendations, or in rare cases, accept all the suggestions of the panels which usually work outside the purview of partisan political lines. Officials argued that the exercise by the Speaker will help ascertain the work done, and strengthen the supervisory role of Parliament over the Executive.Last month, during the debate on the three labour reform bills, the Union labour minister informed the House that out of the 233 recommendations of the Standing Committee, the government accepted nearly 75%, underlining the importance of the panels. According to data available with PRS Legislative Research, 25% of the bills introduced in the first term of the Modi government were referred to committees. “The figure, however, is much lower than 71% and 60% in the 15th and 14th Lok Sabha respectively,” said a PRS note. The Opposition was up in arms against the government in the Monsoon session over the passage of three farm bills that were not referred to the panels for scrutiny in a session that was shortened due to the Covid pandemic. The confrontation led to an intense protest in Parliament, and eight Opposition MPs were suspended from the Rajya Sabha. Former Lok Sabha secretary general P Sreedharan said that assessment of the rate of implementation of the panels’ suggestions “will give a clear and better insight into the extent of quality of recommendations and how the government has reacted to them”. “It will also serve the basic purpose of parliamentary oversight of the executive; MPs, people, and Parliament itself, must know how far the government is accepting recommendations of multi-party panels,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ls-evaluates-how-many-of-house-panel-ideas-adopted/story-4lRJarSlXCJoigeH4Pp1BK.html
28-10-2020||India||RS polls set to push up BJP tally in House||The upcoming biennial elections in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are set to help the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) take its Rajya Sabha tally to 92 members and offset losses due to the exit of two key allies — the Shiv Sena and the Akali Dal. The Congress-led Opposition’s tally is likely to go down below 100 for the first time in the recent past, creating more space for the Narendra Modi government to push legislations in the Upper House. The BJP is set to win eight out of the 10 Uttar Pradesh seats and also bag the only Uttarakhand seat that go to poll on November 9. Eleven Rajya Sabha members will retire next month, necessitating this year’s last round of biennial polls. Out of these 11 seats, the ruling BJP currently holds just three from Uttar Prdesh. The rest are occupied by the Samajwadi Party, Congress and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). The BJP’s net gain would be six seats — five from UP and one from Uttarakhand—and its tally would increase to 92 from the present 86. This will be just enough to compensate for the three seats each of the Shiv Sena and the Akali Dal, the two key allies who left the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Sena quit the NDA after the Maharashtra assembly polls last year and joined the NCP and the Congress to form the state government. The Akalis, another trusted ally of the BJP, left the NDA last month over farm bills. Even as the NDA would not be able to breach the majority mark in this round of election, it will improve its tally to 118 from 112 in the 245-member House. The Opposition tally, on the other hand, will go down from 101 to 95. The majority mark is 123.While Lok Sabha members are elected directly by voters, Rajya Sabha members come through a complex process of proportional representation and by votes of MLAs of their respective state. The calculation is: (total number of MLAs of the state ÷ number of seats going to poll in the state +1) +1. Simply put, more MLAs of a party in an assembly means more seats for the party in the Rajya Sabha. Each MLA will give ranking of candidates according to his or her preference. If a candidate gets the minimum requisite votes, he or she would be elected. But if a candidate fails to get the requisite votes from the first preference of voters in a contest, the second preference votes would be counted. Even as it is in numerical minority, the NDA’s political clout has helped it gain support from regional outfits such as Tamil Nadu’s All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), Odisha’s Biju Janata Dal, Andhra Pradesh’s YSR Congress Party and pass key bills such as those on triple talaq and bifurcating the state of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories. During its initial days in power, the Modi government faced the Opposition heat in the Upper House, where bills would be regularly stalled. On one occasion, amendments to the President’s speech was approved in the Opposition-dominated Rajya Sabha in an embarrassment for the government.“You will notice that in last two years the BJP has managed to get its way in the Rajya Sabha with the support of other parties,” said political analyst Sandeep Shastri. “What will change now is that the BJP will assert itself more without the support of other parties. It is the same difference you see in the NDA of 2014 and NDA of 2020 (when it won more seats in the national elections). There is no non-BJP minister in the cabinet. A consolidation of the BJP is likely to be witnessed in the Rajya Sabha as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-polls-set-to-push-up-bjp-tally-in-house/story-myIBX5Ha2SMeVF3MONCKlI.html
28-10-2020||India||Covid-19 to ‘significantly’ impact state finances: RBI||The double whammy of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic — a collapse in revenue and rise in health-related and other costs — is likely to have a significant impact on state government finances and the challenges from the economic shock will persist for the new few years over which states will play a crucial role in India’s recovery, according to the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) annual report on state finances released on Tuesday. As most states presented their budgets before the onset of the pandemic, their budget estimates of deficits are unlikely to capture the true picture of the ongoing fiscal year, the report says. The average value of gross fiscal deficit as a share of gross state domestic product (GSDP) for the states which presented their budget before the outbreak of the pandemic is 2.4%, while the average for the remaining states that made post-outbreak budget presentations is 4.6%. The report expects capital spending by the states to be lower than budgeted levels this year. While part of this is likely to be a result of states not being able to start a lot of projects due to the lockdown in the first quarter and monsoon in the second quarter, the report also says that states have a tendency to treat capital expenditure as a residual element. “Capital expenditure undertaken by states, which accounts for more than 60 per cent of general government capital expenditure is generally treated as a residual and is prone to adjustment, conditional upon revenue generation. In 2017-18 and 2018-19 as well, capital spending was reduced from budgeted levels,” it says. The economic impact of the pandemic is likely to have a major revenue impact on state finances. The RBI report says that the implied tax buoyancy for 2020-21 (based on 2019-20 provisional accounts) is higher than budgeted on the basis of 2019-20 revised estimates and much higher than the previous year average. Tax buoyancy is the ratio of change in taxes and GSDP. Higher tax buoyancy implies that tax collection would rise at a faster pace for the same rise in incomes.SGST, the component of the Goods and Service Tax (GST) which accrues directly to the states, would suffer the biggest hit, the report says. SGST collections fell by 47.2% during the April-June quarter of the current fiscal year, the report says. To be sure, the decline moderated to 6.4% in the July-September quarter. State receipts will also suffer because of a fall in divisible pool of the Centre’s tax revenue, it adds. The report also notes that state governments have taken their own set of measures to give a boost to aggregate demand. A conservative estimate — not all states have explicitly quantified their support measures — puts the fiscal outlay on such policies at 0.3% of GDP. Additional spending on such items has been compensated by cutting back on other kinds of expenditure. These include deferment and deduction of salaries and allowances and rationalisation of travel and establishment expenses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-to-significantly-impact-state-finances-rbi/story-sfzIL2Xliskw6twVwgr5DP.html
28-10-2020||India||More poll code violations in Madhya Pradesh than Bihar||There have been more violations of the model code of conduct in Madhya Pradesh, the state where by-polls to 28 assembly constituencies are scheduled to be held on November 3 , as compared to Bihar, which will vote to elect its 243-member assembly  in three phases starting 28 October, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.The Election Commission of India (ECI) has issued nearly seven notices for serious poll violations in Madhya Pradesh, including to former chief minister Kamal Nath, BJP state minister Imarti Devi and BJP leader Kailash Vijayvarghia . No such notices have been issued so far in Bihar. According to people familiar with the matter, nearly a 1000 cases of model code violations have been found in MP, whereas in Bihar cases are in the hundreds. The violations include serious ones and other inconsequential ones. “It is surprising and unusual that so many cases would come from Madhya Pradesh,” said one person familiar with the matte. “So many weren’t expected; it is highly irregular.”The person added that the last they saw such a trend was in West Bengal ahead of the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. “That was also unorthodox considering normally a fight between a national party and a local one doesn’t make national polls so murky.” The Madhya Pradesh by-poll is particularly contentious as the erstwhile Congress government was brought down after Jyotiraditya Scindia and his loyalists resigned from the Congress to join the Bhartiya Party. BJP enjoys a wafer-thin majority in the state, and has to win nine seats to ensure the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led government stays in power. The Election Commission of India on Monday advised former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath to not use words like “item” during the period of the Model Code of Conduct. “ ... the Commission, hereby advises Kamal Nath, ex-chief minister Madhya Pradesh that while making public utterances he should not use any such word or statement during the period of Model Code of Conduct,” the order said, referring to his use of the term to describe Imarti Devi. It added that Nath’s use of the word “item” for a lady was a violation of the advisory issued by the commission relating to the model code.The Commission has also issued a notice against BJP leader Kailash Vijayvarghia asking him to explain his ”chunnu-munnu“ remark. The BJP leader referred to Congress leaders Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh as ”chunnu-munnu” at an election rally. He had also called them “gaddar” (traitors). The notice said the statement was found to be in violation of the provisions of the model code.The Commission has given Vijayvarghia 48 hours to explain his comments. It has also given Devi 48 hours to explain her remarks that Nath went “mad after he lost the post of chief minister.” The violations include serious ones and other inconsequential ones, ones made over the phone, C-Vigil and to the officials in state. The Commission has also held a meeting with senior Madhya Pradesh leaders to discuss the matter.A second person familiar with the matter said that the increase in violations seems to be because both parties are invested in bringing their government back to power. “It is a make or break situation, so the stakes are higher in Madhya Pradesh,” the person said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-poll-code-violations-in-mp-than-bihar/story-Gu0y45gatNF78djC3atXaL.html
28-10-2020||India||Jyotiraditya Scindia hails Shivraj govt’s achievements in final leg||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia held several rallies in the Gwalior-Chambal belt on Tuesday ahead of assembly bypolls in the region, saying that Madhya Pradesh has a tradition of welcoming guests on its soil in response to election events held by former Rajasthan deputy chief minister and senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot in the state.Just five days are left for the election campaign to 28 legislative assembly constituencies to end ahead of polling on November 3, and all political parties have stepped up their campaigns to woo more than 6.35 million voters. Talking to the media on Pilot’s campaign in the state, Scindia said, “Madhya Pradesh has a rich tradition of welcoming guests on its soil. In democracy everyone has a right to campaign during elections.” Addressing election meetings in Biora assembly constituency in Rajgarh district, Pohari in Shivpuri and Badnawar in Dhar district in support of the BJP candidates, Scindia said, “During the then Congress government neither were farm loans of farmers waived nor was unemployment allowance given to the youth despite promises by the government. In fact, the then Kamal Nath government betrayed every section of society in its 15-month rule, whether it’s farmers, the youth, women, weaker sections of society, or others.” The Gwalior-Chambal region is geographically close to Rajasthan and has a large number of Gurjar voters, the community to which Pilot belongs — a fact he sought to capitalise on.Addressing election meetings in Shivpuri and Morena districts, Pilot said, “This region (Gwalior-Chambal) has a deep relationship with Rajasthan (roti-beti ka rishta) and we are all brothers.” Pilot targeted the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government in Madhya Pradesh. “The farm bills introduced by the central government are a massive blow to the farmers in the country whereas it’s the then UPA government’s schemes like MNREGA which proved a big support to migrant labourers during the lockdown. In Madhya Pradesh, the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government came from the back door whereas it was known for one of the biggest scams in the country: Vyapam,” he said.Meanwhile, addressing election meetings in Nepanangar assembly constituency in Burhanpur district and Mandhata constituency in Khandwa district, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “Congress pushed Madhya Pradesh back into a ditch in just 15 months of its rule. But in its six-month rule, the BJP government has not only controlled the Covid situation to give relief to people but also disbursed benefits of more than ₹23,000 crore under various government schemes.” Earlier, taking part in a meeting of the Rajput community in Indore, Chouhan announced the building of a memorial in the name of Rani Padmavati and withdrawal of cases against those who had protested against the film Padmaavat before its release in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scindia-hails-shivraj-govt-s-achievements-in-final-leg/story-QFlMpd275ooqMewdtsgpzI.html
28-10-2020||India||Odisha launches web portal for inter-caste marriages, raises incentive to Rs 2.5 lakh||To promote inter-caste marriages Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday launched a web portal that would help inter-caste couples get an incentive within 60 days of application.Launching the Sumangal portal, developed by ST & SC Development, Minorities & Backward Classes Welfare Department, CM Patnaik also announced hike in the incentive from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh. Patnaik said such kind of marriages would lead to social harmony.Also read: Covid-19 fear looms large among officials as Bihar readies to go to pollsTo get the one-time incentive, the marriage should be between upper-caste Hindus and Hindu of scheduled castes. The marriage should be valid as per the law and duly registered under the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955. One of the spouses should belong to the scheduled castes as defined under Article 341 of the Constitution of India.The grant would be given only to people marrying for the first time. However in case, the bride is a widow or the bride-groom a widower, they would be eligible for the incentive. Incentive would also be given for the purchase of lands/essential articles for house-hold or for starting a business.Odisha had last hiked the incentive for inter-caste marriage in August 2017 when it raised it had it from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh. At least 17 percent of Odisha’s population are Dalits. Last year, 658 inter-caste marriages had taken place in Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-launches-web-portal-for-inter-caste-marriages-raises-incentive-to-2-5-lakh/story-hXPxzUMCRweKle8Y0ScpCL.html
28-10-2020||India||2+2 meeting: Pompeo says US will stand with India to face threats to sovereignty, liberty||Against the backdrop of the border standoff with China, the US on Tuesday said it will stand by India in confronting threats to its sovereignty, even as the two sides inked an agreement for sharing classified satellite imagery and aeronautical data during their 2+2 ministerial dialogue. Security challenges and threats emanating from China’s belligerent actions across the region, including the standoff in Ladakh, figured prominently in the 2+2 meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh and their US counterparts Mike Pomeo and Mark Esper, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The focus of discussions was on ways to jointly deal with these challenges and to boost defence and security cooperation to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific, the people said. “The two countries are standing firm in meeting these challenges,” one of the people cited above said. Terrorism originating from Pakistan and the related security situation in Afghanistan too figured in the talks, and the Indian side made it clear cross-border terror is “completely unacceptable”.  “The US will stand with the people of India as they confront threats to their sovereignty and to their liberty,” Pompeo said during a media interaction after the meeting, making a pointed reference to a visit by him and Esper to the National War Memorial to honour Indian military personnel who died during conflicts, “including the 20 killed by PLA forces in Galwan Valley in June”. Pompeo juxtaposed joint efforts to fight Covid-19, which he described as the “pandemic that came from Wuhan”, with measures to counter China’s actions jeopardising democracy and a rules-based order. “The challenge of defeating the pandemic that came from Wuhan also fed into our robust discussions about the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Our leaders and our citizens see with increasing clarity that the CCP is no friend to democracy, the rule of law, transparency, nor to freedom of navigation, the foundation of a free and open and prosperous Indo-Pacific,” he said. “I’m glad to say that the US and India are taking steps to strengthen our cooperation against all manner of threats, and not just those posed by the CCP.” Jaishankar and Singh didn’t name China in their remarks at the media interaction, and said the two countries are committed to bilateral and multilateral cooperation for post-pandemic economic recovery and creating more trusted supply chains, while also ensuring peace and stability for all countries in the Indo-Pacific. Singh referred to growing information-sharing and interaction between India’s armed forces and various US military commands through the exchange of liaison officers, and called on America’s defence industry to join India’s Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative by taking advantage of the liberalised FDI regime. “Our national security convergences have obviously grown in a more multi-polar world,” Jaishankar said, noting that peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific depend on upholding the rules-based order, ensuring freedom of navigation, promoting open connectivity and “respecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states”. He added, “A multi-polar world must have a multi-polar Asia as its basis.” The Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA), one of five agreements signed by the two sides on Tuesday, will allow India to get access to classified US satellite imagery, maps and critical aeronautical data that will help the military strike targets with greater accuracy using platforms such as long-range missiles. BECA is the last of four foundational agreements between India and the US for sharing sensitive information and facilitating sales of advanced weapons systems. The two sides have been sharing real time intelligence under the Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA) signed in 2018, and they signed the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 for reciprocal access to logistics. The General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) was inked in 2002. Previous Congress-led governments had held off on signing all the agreements because of thinking in certain quarters that they would tie India militarily with the US. The people cited above said there were adequate safeguards in the pacts to protect India’s autonomy and sovereignty. Chaitanya Giri, fellow for space and ocean studies at Gateway House, said BECA can help the two sides coordinate intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) during joint exercises and operations. “The India-specificity of these agreements demonstrates the US’s recognition of India’s doctrine of strategic autonomy,” he said. Technology-specific cooperation made possible by these agreements can help co-development and co-production of technologies under the India-US Defence Technology and Trade Initiative (DTTI), Giri added. Former Northern Army commander, Lt Gen (retired) DS Hooda, described Pompeo’s remarks on US backing for India as part of efforts to build a closer alliance. “I think the larger message is the attempt by the US to get India into a closer alliance to counter what is clearly greater assertiveness by China in Asia. Both India and the US have some common cause in resisting Chinese actions. However, India will be conscious that China is an immediate neighbour, with whom we have an unsettled boundary. Therefore there are some issues that will have to be handled bilaterally, and a strategic balance has to be maintained.” The Indian and American ministers welcomed New Delhi’s decision to include Australia in this year’s edition of the Malabar exercise, which brings together the navies of India, Japan and the US. This will be the first military manoeuvres in 13 years to feature all members of the Quad. Singh said the 2+2 meeting also explored capacity building and other joint cooperation activities in third countries, including in India’s neighbourhood and beyond. “We have convergence of views on a number of such proposals and will take those forward,” he said. The US accepted India’s request for cooperation in maritime domain awareness and both sides will take steps for joint development of systems and expertise, Singh said. Besides strengthening Covid-19-related cooperation to develop vaccines, therapeutics, and equipment, the two sides are working on a MoU between health authorities to enhance cooperation on health emergencies, pandemics, and biomedical research. The two sides also intend to sign a MoU between the Indian Council of Medical Research and the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases to collaborate on infectious diseases, including Covid-19 and other emerging threats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-2-meeting-pompeo-says-us-will-stand-with-india-to-face-threats-to-sovereignty-liberty/story-SgG2lXLwaNRG3RlsW6YZbK.html
