29-10-2020||India||MEA was issuing 10 lakh passports per month before Covid-19: MoS||The ministry of external affairs was issuing approximately 10 lakh passports per month on an average before the Covid-19 pandemic struck, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said on Thursday.He also underlined that they are hopeful of resuming the work in full steam and reach the pre-pandemic level in due course as the economy reopens.Speaking at the inauguration of the renovated premises of Regional Passport Office, Hyderabad, Muraleedharan said 517 passport seva kendras, including 424 Post Office Passport, across the country provide passport services.“As a result of the increased capacity, the MEA had been issuing on an average, approximately 10 lakh passports per month before the pandemic struck. We are hopeful of resuming our work in full steam and reach the pre-pandemic level in due course as our economy reopens,” he said in a statement.He said many anachronistic provisions were done away with and the complex documentation requirements were either removed or simplified to ease the difficulties faced by passport applicants. “Thanks to these reforms, today, single parents, orphan and destitute children can easily apply and get passports, which was so difficult if not unthinkable for them before,” Muraleedharan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mea-was-issuing-10-lakh-passports-per-month-before-covid-19-mos/story-tCN8xCwXX3G2le302v3WZO.html
29-10-2020||India||Onion auctions to resume after Maharashtra chief minister’s assurance||Following an appeal by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, traders in Nashik district have agreed to restart onion auctions from Friday, APMC sources said here late Thursday evening.Earlier in the day, the chief minister met a delegation of onion farmers and traders in Mumbai. The state government will follow up with the Centre the farmers’ demand that onion stock holding limits be increased, Thackeray assured them and requested traders to restart auctions. To contain onion prices, the Centre last week imposed stock holding limits till December 31. Retailers can stock up onion up to 2 tonnes, whereas wholesaler are allowed to keep up to 25 tonnes.In protest against the Centre’s move, traders called off onion auctions in all 15 Agriculture Produce Market Committees (mandis) in Nashik, including at Lasalgaon APMC, Asia’s biggest onion market. Maharashtra cultivates as much as 60 per cent of the total onion crop in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/onion-auctions-to-resume-after-maha-cm-s-assurance/story-ZQJ4ZVqZiZYaHuXTq2w9QN.html
29-10-2020||India||India conveys concern to Saudi Arabia over depiction of Jammu and Kashmir in bank note||India said on Thursday it has conveyed its “serious concern” to Saudi Arabia over the incorrect depiction of the country’s borders on a new Saudi currency note, which shows almost the whole of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir as a separate entity. The twenty-riyal bank note was issued by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority on October 24 to commemorate the country’s presidency of the G20 ahead of the grouping’s virtual summit during November 21-22. “We have seen the banknote which gives an incorrect depiction of India’s external territorial boundaries,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. “We have conveyed our serious concern to Saudi Arabia, both through their ambassador in New Delhi as well as in Riyadh, for this gross misrepresentation of India’s external territorial boundaries on an official and legal banknote of Saudi Arabia and asked the Saudi side to take urgent corrective steps in this regard,” he said. Srivastava reiterated that the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, which were created after the special status of the region was scrapped by the government in August last year, are “integral parts of India”. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the Indian side is yet to hear from Saudi authorities on how they intend to handle the issue. New Delhi is keen that Riyadh should take some action in the matter before the holding of the G20 Summit, the people said. The Saudi bank note has also irked Pakistan because it depicts Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and Gilgit-Baltistan as part of the separate entity. One side of the note features Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz and the G20 logo while the other features a world map showing the members of the G20 in a darker shade. Islamabad had marked the first anniversary of New Delhi’s changes in Jammu and Kashmir on August 5 by issuing a new political map that showed several Indian territories as part of Pakistan. India had responded by describing the map as a “political absurdity”. It has also started featuring weather forecasts for Gilgit-Baltistan and PoK on state-run media. The Narendra Modi government has worked to improve India’s ties with Saudi Arabia in areas ranging from counter-terrorism to energy security in recent years. On the other hand, the traditionally strong ties between Pakistan and Saudi Arabia are at an all-time low, especially after Riyadh cut back on financial support for Islamabad. Pakistan has also attempted to create a new bloc of Muslim countries, including Turkey and Malaysia, but without much success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-conveys-concern-to-saudi-arabia-over-depiction-of-jammu-and-kashmir-in-bank-note/story-9qFkX6HivqRIum1JglseCM.html
29-10-2020||India||Efforts to assist Afghanistan through Chabahar port appreciated by US: MEA||Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Thursday said that India’s efforts to assist Afghanistan through the Chabahar port were appreciated by the United States during the recently concluded 2+2 Ministerial dialogue.Speaking at the weekly media briefing, Srivastava said: “Our development assistance and multi-modal connectivity infrastructure and trade linkages that have been built and our efforts in this regard through our development assistance to Afghanistan to sustain the growth and development there over the long term was something which was appreciated by the US side.”The MEA Spokesperson was replying to a question -- whether the US had given a green signal to the developments on Chabahar port in Iran.In 2018, Iran and India had signed an agreement worth USD 85 million to develop the Chabahar Port in south-eastern Iran.The Chabahar Port, which provides an alternative route for trade between India and Afghanistan, is located in the Gulf of Oman.The United States has provided a “narrow exemption” to India from sanctions on the Chabahar project in Iran as it plays a vital role in transporting India’s humanitarian supplies to war-torn Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/efforts-to-assist-afghanistan-through-chabahar-port-appreciated-by-us-mea/story-dSB89vtDh63Wq5CLEuN0ZP.html
29-10-2020||India||‘It’s time to take out bicycles and stop using cars’, says Supreme Court||It is time to take out bicycles and stop using “beautiful cars”, the Supreme Court said on Thursday while hearing the matter related to pollution caused in Delhi National Capital Region (NCR) due to stubble burning in neighbouring states.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India(CJI) S A Bobde said that some experts have informed that stubble burning is not the only source of pollution. “We would like you to stop using your beautiful cars. Which you won’t. We should all go about on bikes, not motorbikes but bicycles,” the CJI observed.“Some experts have informed us informally that it is not only stubble burning that creates pollution,” said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. “It is time to take out your bicycles”.The apex court was informed by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that the Centre has come out with an Ordinance on curbing pollution and it has been promulgated already.“Nobody should fall sick because of this pollution and if anybody falls sick we will make you responsible,” the bench told Mehta in a lighter vein.The apex court has posted the matter for hearing on November 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-s-time-to-take-out-bicycles-and-stop-using-cars-says-supreme-court/story-WVyzpAUvuh8SjPQwKTp6xL.html
29-10-2020||India||India proposes IFS officer Suresh Kumar as Charge d affaires to Pakistan||India has proposed the name of IFS officer Suresh Kumar as the new Charge d’ Affaires to Pakistan according to sources who said that the bureaucrat has applied for a visa.Suresh is a 2006 batch IFS and has worked as deputy secretary at the Pakistan desk in the Ministry of External Affairs.Earlier, India had proposed name of Jayant Khobragade and it is learnt that Pakistan had denied visa at that time.In June, India and Pakistan downsized by fifty per cent staff at missions both in New Delhi and Islamabad after some members of the Pakistan High Commission were caught spying.India’s top diplomat Acting Charge d’ affaires in Pakistan Gaurav Ahluwalia had also complained about harassment and in a video was seen allegedly being chased by ISI agents.India has rejected any offer of talks with Pakistan maintaining that talks and terror cannot go hand in hand, both countries are witnessing tension and strain in diplomatic relations, it remains to be seen whether or not Pakistan accepts IFS Suresh Kumar and grants him a visa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-proposes-ifs-officer-suresh-kumar-as-charge-d-affaires-to-pakistan/story-9jnqe0a2Sxg65C3aeFHREJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Sushant Singh’s friend seeks CBI probe into Disha Salian’s death||Late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s friend and gym partner Sunil Shukla on Thursday approached the Bombay High Court, seeking a CBI probe into the the actor’s former manager Disha Salian, who died in “suspicious circumstances”.Salian, 28, died on June 8 after falling off the 14th floor of a residential building in suburban Malad.Six days later, on June 14, 34-year-old Rajput was found hanging in his Bandra home.In the petition, Shukla claimed that both Salian and Rajput died in “suspicious circumstances” and that the Mumbai police has not considered several aspects while probing Salian’s death.“The petitioner (Shukla) has documentary evidence to prove that Disha Salian and Sushant Singh Rajput were in touch from March to April 2020,” the petition said.It added that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is already probing the death of Rajput and hence even Salian’s death case should be handed over to the central probe agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-s-friend-seeks-cbi-probe-into-disha-salian-s-death/story-xMJeS3Duz2swcYrNTYlaSK.html
29-10-2020||India||Border talks with China have no link with issues such as 2+2 dialogue: India||India on Thursday said its ongoing dialogue with China to resolve the border standoff in Ladakh has “no connection” with extraneous issues such as the recent 2+2 ministerial dialogue with the US. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava offered the clarification against the backdrop of reports that China is dragging its feet on finalising a date for the next round of talks of senior military commanders of the two sides as it was irked by US secretary of state Mike Pompeo’s stinging criticism of the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) actions across the region. “As regards the next round of talks, we will let you know when we have further information to share. Let me make it clear that there is no connection between this and any extraneous issue,” Srivastava said when he was asked about the matter at the weekly news briefing. Following the 2+2 talks between the foreign and defence ministers of India and the US on Tuesday, Pompeo told the media that Washington will stand by New Delhi in confronting threats to India’s sovereignty. He also described the CCP as “no friend to democracy [and] the rule of law”. China reacted sharply to Pompeo’s remarks on Wednesday, saying the Sino-India boundary dispute is a bilateral matter. Beijing also said Pompeo’s comments had “instigated China’s relations with other countries in the region”. Srivastava said external affairs minister S Jaishankar had made it clear that the Indo-Pacific region was a “particular focus” of the 2+2 talks, and India had reiterated the importance of peace, stability and prosperity for all countries in this region. “This is possible only by upholding the rules-based international order, ensuring the freedom of navigation in the international seas, promoting open connectivity and respecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states,” he added. The disengagement and de-escalation process in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) remains stalled despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks between India and China. The tens of thousands of troops mobilised by the two sides since the standoff began in May are now preparing to remain deployed along the LAC through the harsh winter. Srivastava said the last meeting between the senior military commanders on October 12 had “enabled in-depth discussions between the two sides, resulting in enhanced understanding of each other’s positions”. “The two sides had agreed to maintain dialogue through military and diplomatic channels, and arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for disengagement as early as possible. They had also agreed to implement the understandings reached by the leaders of the two countries, not to turn differences into disputes, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” he said. In line with these decisions, India has maintained communications with the Chinese side to “arrive at a mutually acceptable solution to the situation along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and restore full peace and tranquillity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/border-talks-with-china-have-no-link-with-issues-such-as-2-2-dialogue-india/story-3Ryg36Gx3aqTiOIDB7v29L.html
29-10-2020||India||Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh provided high-tech gear to manage heavy winter||Thousands of Chinese military personnel deployed at the India-China border in eastern Ladakh have been provided with high-tech equipment to help manage the heavy winter, the Chinese Defence Ministry said on Thursday.At an online briefing of the Chinese Defence Ministry here, spokesman Senior Colonel Wu Quan said that in terms of accommodation, the troops were provided with a new dismountable self-energised insulated cabin, which can be built by service members themselves. In areas where the outdoor temperature is -40 degrees centigrade with an elevation of above 5000m, the indoor temperature can be kept at higher than 15 degrees centigrade, he said while replying to a question.The newly developed outfits, such as the new individual sleeping bags, down training coats, and cold-proof boots, are characterised by cold prevention and heat retention, portability and higher comfortableness, which have been specifically designed for alpine cold areas, he said.Wu said the new thermal insulation devices for food storage are also equipped, and a new type of outdoor instant foods for alpine cold areas are under trial.The military was also using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles(UAVs) to deliver fresh fruits and vegetables to duty posts, he added.The application of high-tech means will facilitate the construction of logistic support capacity and promote the troops’ war preparation work, Wu said. China has deployed thousands of soldiers along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero conditions following the escalation of the five-month-long military standoff with India that began in early May. Though the two sides have held a series of diplomatic and military level talks, there was no breakthrough on the disengagement of troops from the friction points so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-soldiers-in-eastern-ladakh-provided-high-tech-gear-to-manage-heavy-winter/story-uzNwf0ZHNJ8q7hSAhm5gkL.html
29-10-2020||India||3 BJP politicians killed in terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district||Three Bharatiya Janata Party functionaries in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district were shot dead by terrorists late on Thursday evening. The three include the district general secretary of the party’s youth wing.A police officer said The Resistance Front, a terror group propped up last year by Pakistan’s intelligence agency had taken responsibility for the attack. “It has also warned of more attacks targeting politicians,” the officer said.A Jammu and Kashmir police statement identified the three as Fida Hussain Yatoo, Umer Rashid Beigh and Umer Ramzan Hajam. The incident took place in YK Pora locality of Kulgam.“They were shifted to a nearby hospital for treatment where they were declared as brought dead,” the police said.“Today (Thursday), at about 2020 hours, Kulgam Police received information about a terror crime incident at village YK Pora where terrorists fired upon three BJP workers. Senior police officers reached at the terror crime spot,” a police spokesperson said.The BJP’s Jammu and Kashmir unit tweeted condemnation of the terror attack.“J&K BJP strongly condemned this barbaric terror attack on BJP Leaders Fida Hussain Itoo (BJYM District Gen Secy Kulgam), Umer Rashid Beigh (BJYM District Executive Member Kulgam), Umer Hanan (BJYM District Gen Secy Kulgam), those who are responsible for this will not be spared,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-bjp-politicians-killed-in-terrorist-attack-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-kulgam-district/story-uD7xYpxN9EBZPcx1rBnyYP.html
29-10-2020||India||Is there anything left to be said: Priyanka Gandhi’s dig at Mayawati’s ‘will even vote for BJP’ remark||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday responded to Bahujan Samaj Party(BSP) Chief Mayawati’s remarks that in order to defeat any candidate of the Samajwadi Party(SP) her party is ready to vote even for the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP), asking if there is anything left to be said. Amid speculation that some of her party’s Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs) could switch sides in Uttar Pradesh(UP), Mayawati said her party will leave no stone unturned to defeat Samajwadi Party candidates, even if it means voting for candidates of the BJP or any other party. Any candidate who dominates over SP’s second candidate will get BSP MLAs’ vote, she said in a statement.Tagging the video statement of Mayawati, Congress General Secretary in-charge UP Priyanka Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, “Is there anything left (to be said) after this?” In a jolt to the BSP on Wednesday, six party MLAs reportedly met SP chief Akhilesh Yadav hinting that they may switch sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-there-anything-left-to-be-said-priyanka-gandhi-s-dig-at-mayawati-s-will-even-vote-for-bjp-remark/story-ssiQvVPlRqf8bUShoQ8uoI.html
29-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Pak military on damage control after MP says IAF pilot was released out of panic and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pak military on damage control after MP says IAF pilot was released out of panicA Pakistani politician and the country’s military on Thursday tried to control damage caused by his remarks in parliament that Indian Air Force Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman had been released last year by Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government after it panicked. Read more‘Guss ke maara’: Minister admits Pakistan’s role in Pulwama attackA Pakistani minister on Thursday admitted its role in the Pulwama terror attack, bragging on the floor of parliament that his country had entered India and beaten it on its own soil. Read more‘India stands with France in fight against terrorism’, PM Modi condemns Nice knife attackPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday condemned the attacks in France, including one in Nice where three people were killed inside a church. A man armed with a knife attacked two women and a man at the Notre Dame Basilica in the southern city of Nice on Thursday morning before he was shot by police. Read moreIPL 2020: KL Rahul reacts to being named India’s limited overs vice-captain for Australia tourIPL 2020 has been quite a tournament for KL Rahul. While he has dominated the run charts, leading the Orange Cap race from the beginning, his role as captain of Kings XI Punjab has taken him through a roller-coaster ride. Read moreKangana Ranaut reacts to BMC shelling out Rs 82 lakh to fight case against her: ‘Spending public money to tease a girl’Actor Kangana Ranaut has reacted to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shelling out Rs 82 lakh to fight their lawsuit against her. Kangana had sued the BMC for ‘illegally’ demolishing part of her office building in Mumbai. Read moreDaisy safe: Tamannaah Bhatia looks radiant post Covid recovery in yellow Summer Plaid dress by Pink PorcupinesSouth starlet and Baahubali fame actor Tamannaah Bhatia has recently recovered from the Covid-19 infection and is back to work shooting for adverts and walking in fashion weeks looking in the pink of health. Read more23-year-olds meet for 30 minutes, decide to tie the knot. Their love story after 58 years of marriage will win you overIf you’re searching for something to brighten up a gloomy day, this story of a couple who decided within 30 minutes of meeting that they want to spend the rest of their lives together may be just what the doctor ordered. Read more‘J&K turned into jail’: Mehbooba Mufti as cops detain protesting PDP leadersSeveral PDP leaders were on Thursday detained by police as they tried to stage a protest against the new land laws notified by the Centre for Jammu and Kashmir.  Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pak-military-on-damage-control-after-mp-says-iaf-pilot-was-released-out-of-panic-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZAbd7Qc2JUwVHvUXfj66ZO.html
29-10-2020||India||India backs Macron after attacks by Pakistan, Turkey; says no justification for terror||India on Thursday came out strongly in support of French President Emmanuel Macron’s stance on radical Islam in the wake of the beheading of a teacher in Paris and deplored personal attacks on him by countries such as Turkey and Pakistan. New Delhi’s opposition to criticism of Macron came against the backdrop of foreign secretary Harsh Shringla beginning a two-day visit to France and another terror attack in the French city of Nice, where a knife-wielding man killed three people in a church. Macron has pledged to crack down on radical Islam in France after the October 16 beheading of Samuel Paty, a professor who used controversial caricatures of Prophet Mohammed from the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in a class on freedom of expression. Paty’s killing by a suspected terrorist triggered a heated debate on secularism and Islamophobia in France. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said last week that Macron needs “some sort of mental treatment” for his attitude towards Muslims, while Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan accused the French president of encouraging Islamophobia. Asked about such criticism of Macron at the external affairs ministry’s weekly news briefing, spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said without naming any countries: “We have strongly deplored the personal attacks in unacceptable language on President Emmanuel Macron and we have also condemned the brutal terrorist attack that took the life of a French teacher.” He added, “We believe there is no justification for terrorism for any reason or under any circumstance.” The external affairs ministry also said in a statement that the attacks on Macron violate the “most basic standards of international discourse”. It added that Paty’s murder has “shocked the world”. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condemned recent terror attacks in France, including the one in Nice, in a tweet, saying: “Our deepest and heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims and the people of France. India stands with France in the fight against terrorism.” Shringla tweeted that he had reiterated the “PM’s message to our #French interlocutors and at the public event at the Institute of French International Relations (IFFRI)”. French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain responded to the external affairs ministry’s expression of support by tweeting: “Thank you @MEAIndia. France and India can always count on each other in the fight against terrorism.” Amid protests in some Muslim countries over Macron’s defence of the publication of the caricatures of Prophet Mohammed, there was support for the French president from European states such as the UK. Foreign secretary Dominic Raab said the UK stands with France “in sorrow, shock and solidarity at the horrifying events in Nice” and he offered “every support to the French people in pursuing those responsible for this appalling attack”. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted: “I am appalled to hear the news from Nice...of a barbaric attack at the Notre-Dame Basilica. Our thoughts are with the victims and their families, and the UK stands steadfastly with France against terror and intolerance.” France has emerged as one of India’s strongest allies in Europe and has taken a strong position on security challenges facing the country, especially at the UN Security Council. It has consistently criticised cross-border terrorism targeting India and was also one of the first countries to offer support amid the border standoff with China and the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in a clash in June. French defence minister Florence Parly expressed “deep solidarity” over the death of the Indian soldiers in a violent face-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and conveyed her country’s “steadfast and friendly support” in a letter sent to her Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh. India’s support for Macron also comes at a time when New Delhi’s relations with Islamabad and Ankara are at a low. Pakistani and Turkish leaders have earned India’s ire by repeatedly raising the issue of Kashmir and treatment of minorities at international forums such as the UN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-backs-macron-after-attacks-by-pakistan-turkey-says-no-justification-for-terror/story-96JQ8PiCMemPAuc8eIZnIL.html
29-10-2020||India||Cong ‘misleading’ farmers on farm laws, will quit politics if MSP system dismantled: Haryana CM Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday accused the Congress of “misleading” farmers by telling them the Centre’s new farm laws will lead to dismantling of the Minimum Support Price( MSP) system, and added that he will quit politics if that were to happen.On a whirlwind tour of Baroda assembly constituency, where bypolls will be held on November 3 due to the demise of Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda in April, the chief minister said MSP will continue and these laws will only give farmers a greater choice in selling their produce.Addressing a series of public gatherings in different villages, he also touched upon several steps taken by his government for farmers’ welfare.Khattar said the Congress is “misleading” farmers by telling them that the new laws will “ruin” them, and lead to dismantling of mandis and MSP system.“These mandis will continue, MSP will continue. These laws give a greater choice to farmers to sell their produce anywhere,” he said.“MSP is guaranteed in mandis. I announce that if MSP will end, I will quit politics,” he said while addressing a gathering in Kathura village.Khattar was accompanied by wrestler-turned-politician and Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) candidate from Baroda Yogeshwar Dutt, Haryana Minister and Independent MLA Ranjit Singh Chautala, Jannayak Janta Party(JJP) leader Digvijay Singh Chautala, and a number of state BJP leaders.Hitting out at the Congress, Khattar said the opposition party had created a hue and cry when Article 370 was scrapped and claimed that it would lead to a bloodbath in the Kashmir valley.“Has anything happened in Kashmir in the past year?” he asked.The Congress had also made a lot of noise on the Citizenship Amendment Act, he said.The Centre has been saying the recently enacted three farm laws will raise farmers’ income, free them from the clutches of the middleman and usher in new technology in farming.The Opposition and some farmers’ organisations have, however, been agitating against the laws alleging that they will destroy the MSP mechanism, end Agricultural Produce Market Committees(APMC) and allow corporates to arm-twist farmers.Khattar said only the father-son (former chief minister B S Hooda and his son Deepender Hooda) duo is campaigning for Congress candidate Induraj Narwal in Baroda.“No other Congress leader is ready to go there,” he claimed.“Earlier, they used to say Yogeshwar Dutt’s security deposit will be forfeited. But now they have realised that the ground situation is something else and the tide is turning against them,” he said.Urging people to vote for Dutt, Khattar said, “If you make him victorious, it will be the victory of Baroda. But if the Congress candidate wins, it will be the victory of only a few Congress leaders.” Khattar dubbed Narwal as a “dummy candidate” who is not known to many in his constituency.On the other hand, he said, Dutt is an internationally acclaimed wrestler.Khattar also spoke about the steps taken by his government for farmers’ welfare.He said the state government procures crops like bajra, mustard, sunflower, moong, and groundnut at MSP.He added that his government has announced a number of developmental projects for Baroda, including setting up of an industrial model township, a rice mill, and two colleges.Khattar extended an olive branch to Kapoor Singh Narwal, who recently left the BJP to contest the Baroda bypolls as an independent candidate only to withdraw later to support the Congress candidate.He said the BJP has not closed its doors on Narwal.“For us, he is still what he was before,” the chief minister said.Dutt assured people he would work for Baroda’s development, remarking that Dutt will serve his constituents the same way as he had served the country as a sportsperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-misleading-farmers-on-farm-laws-will-quit-politics-if-msp-system-dismantled-haryana-cm-khattar/story-0gsvYaAERfOjs2KXa8a0SM.html
29-10-2020||India||NIA conducts raids in Assam, Maharashtra in Delhi gold smuggling probe||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday conducted raids at four locations in Guwahati and at Sangli in Maharashtra in connection with a gold smuggling case in Delhi. According to a release issued by NIA, the locations where the raids were conducted are premises related to accused people and handlers from where the smuggling case originated. “During the searches, incriminating documents and electronic devices containing details of suspicious transactions as well as of the people involved in the instant crime, who also have linkages abroad including Myanmar and Nepal, were seized,” the release said. NIA had registered a case on September 20 this year following seizure of 83.62 kg of smuggled gold bars having market value of Rs 42.89 crore at New Delhi railway station on August 28 from the possession of eight people. “Interrogation of these accused have so far revealed that they had collected the said consignment from Guwahati for its further delivery at New Delhi on the directions of their handlers who are suspected to have sourced the smuggled material from Myanmar, Nepal and Bhutan,” the release said. Further investigation in the case is continuing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-conducts-raids-in-assam-maharashtra-in-delhi-gold-smuggling-probe/story-zTA0GkvnF1BBsyIaAGPh7H.html
29-10-2020||India||Delhi records 5,739 new Covid-19 cases, capital’s highest single-day spike||The coronavirus cases in Delhi continued to see a spike as the national capital reported more than 5,000 cases for the second consecutive day. In the highest single-day spike so far, Delhi recorded 5,739 new cases on Thursday. While 27 others succumbed to the viral disease, pushing the death toll to 6,423.On Wednesday, the city surpassed the 5,000 mark as it recorded 5,673 cases in a day. Before this, Delhi had logged 4,853 cases on Tuesday, which was its highest single-day tally since 4,473 on September 16. It was the highest number of cases in the city during the second surge of Covid-19.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDelhi had seen the first surge in cases in June-July, when the Union home ministry had stepped in to control the spread of the infection.Delhi has been consistently registering more than 4,000 cases daily for the last few days. Earlier in the day, state health minister Satyendar Jain said the AAP government has changed its anti-Corona strategy by conducting aggressive tracing and testing in the city, citing it as one of the reasons for the sudden spike in Covid-19 infection.Speaking on concerns regarding the the third wave, Jain said it’s too early to say conclusively. He said one should wait for another week to see the trends before declaring the surge a third wave.“Our main focus is that not a single (Covid-19) case should be left for testing. You can see a rise in number of cases, but it is a good strategy and its results should be seen soon,” news agency PTI quoted Jain as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-highest-single-day-spike-delhi-records-5-739-fresh-cases-of-covid-19/story-PvxB2SMgI4cDUtN572tgzM.html
29-10-2020||India||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa enters bypoll arena, will address poll rallies in Sira, RR Nagar||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa who is also the party’s star campaigner in the state, will address two rallies in Sira of Tumkur district on Friday. BJP is trying its best to wrest a seat in which, not only has it never won, but also never even been a runner-up. The seat has always elected a representative from either Congress or the regional Janata Dal (Secular).Two seats - Sira and RR Nagar - are facing bypolls and will vote on November 3. While the Sira bypoll was necessitated after the sitting JD(S) legislator B Satyanarayana succumbed to Covid-19, the RR Nagar by-poll was caused after the Congress MLA resigned and joined the ruling party. The outcome of the two by-polls will have no impact on the government’s survival as BJP enjoys a comfortable majority of 117 MLAs in a 225-member assembly apart from the support of 3 independents.However all the three main parties -- BJP, Congress and JD(S) - have taken the by-polls as a prestige issue. For Congress, these are the first polls they are facing under the newly appointed KPCC chief DK Shivakumar and victory in both or either of the seats, the party believes, will vindicate their charge of the government’s mishandling of the Covid-19 crisis and flood aftermath.For the regional JD(S), it is a question of defending turf after losing the coalition government and falling out with its erstwhile partner Congress. JD(S) wants to prove it is still relevant and an important third pole in state politics.The ruling BJP has never won either of the seats and will see any addition as a positive outcome. Specially Sira, where Yediyurappa’s son and state BJP vice president Vijayendra is leading the charge. A victory in Sira is likely to boost Vijayendra’s credentials as somebody who has come out of his father’s long shadow and establish him as a powerful political player in his own right.Even as two former CM’s -- Siddaramaiah from Congress and HD Kumaraswamy from JD(S) mounted an aggressive campaign on Thursday in Sira, Vijayendra sounded confident that the party would for the first time win the seat. “In both RR Nagar and Sira, BJP will emerge victorious,” the Karnataka BJP vice president added. Yediyurappa is likely to address a poll rally in RR Nagar also, before the curtains come down on campaigning 48 hours before polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-enters-bypoll-arena-will-address-poll-rallies-in-sira-rr-nagar/story-rZJyWF1XAt74qtKvVAE9xI.html
29-10-2020||India||India asks Saudi Arabia to take corrective step on its G-20 banknote showing J-K as separate entity||India has conveyed its serious concerns to Saudi Arabia both in Delhi and in Riyadh over the distorted map depicting Jammu and Kashmir as a separate territory from India, in its newly released banknote, and urged it to take urgent corrective steps.India has termed it an incorrect depiction of India’s external territorial boundaries,In the weekly media briefing ministry of external affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “We have conveyed our serious concerns to Saudi Arabia both to ambassador and Riyadh , We have taken up this gross misrepresentation of India ‘s exterior territorial boundaries on official and legal bank note of Saudi Arabia , we have asked the Saudi Arabia to take urgent corrective steps in this regard.”The banknote, a new 20 Riyal currency, was released on October 24 to commemorate Saudi Arabia’s presidency of organizing the G-20 on November 21-22. The note features Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and the 2020 G20 Summit logo on one side while the other highlights the G20 nations. “We have seen bank notes and these bank notes have incorrect depiction of India ‘s external territorial boundaries” Srivastava said.“I would further like to reiterate here that union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and ladakh are integral parts of India,” the MEA spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-asks-saudi-arabia-to-take-corrective-step-on-its-g-20-banknote-showing-j-k-as-separate-entity/story-WXbLvoxTPKivr7yINt62pN.html
29-10-2020||India||Officials who embarrassed govt with RTI response on Aarogya Setu face action||Information technology ministry officials who blocked a right to information request on Aarogya Setu, telling a RTI activist that they did not hold any information on the mobile app created by the government will face action, people familiar with the matter said.The ministry of electronics and information technology has given directions to initiate suitable action against the officers concerned.The decision comes after the Central Information Commission pulled up officials including one from the National Informatics Centre, who had evaded giving information to a RTI activist. The NIC had collaborated with experts in the private sector to create the mobile application to trace potential Covid infections and identify hotspots.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had led the government’s campaign to encourage people to download the application on their phones. When some privacy and security concerns were raised by experts, the government put out the source code of the application so that people could satisfy themselves that it was safe. The app has been downloaded more than 16 crore times.But when RTI activist Saurav Das filed an RTI request to get more details about the app, it seemed that no department concerned had any information about it. The NIC, in its response to the RTI, said that they do not hold information on who created the app, while MEITY did not reply and the National e-Governance Division NeGD said the information does not concern them.Das complained to the information watchdog, Central Information Commission, which was also shocked at the response of government officials.Information commissioner Vanaja N Sarna came down hard on the officials as she gave them an opportunity to explain why they should not be penalised under the information law. The law empowers the commission to impose a maximum fine of Rs 25,000 on government officials for default.She told NIC to explain how the government website was created if they did not have any information about it.“The Commission observed that none of the CPIOs provided any information. Therefore, the Commission directs the CPIO, NIC to explain this matter in writing as to how the website https://aAarogyasetu.gov.in/ was created with the domain name gov.in, if they do not have any information about it,” the information commissioner said.“None of the CPIOs were able to explain anything regarding who created the App, where are the files, and the same is extremely preposterous,” the order added.As the news of the government concerned claiming that it had no information about the application in its files emerged, the opposition rushed to jab the government. Finally in the evening, a red-faced government issued a statement to underline that all information about the contact tracing application designed to combat the Covid-19 outbreak was already in public domain.But that didn’t explain the evasive RTI response by its officials. The decision to take action against the bureaucrats and scientists who had blocked the information request came on Thursday. The government also underlined that it was committed to providing all the information sought under the RTI Act by the applicant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officials-who-embarrassed-govt-with-rti-response-on-aarogya-setu-face-action/story-L3i7wkvkHgiDGRKfg9qxuK.html
29-10-2020||India||‘India stands with France in fight against terrorism’: PM Modi condemns Nice knife attack||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday condemned the attacks in France, including the one in Nice where three people were killed inside a church. A man armed with a knife attacked two women and a man at the Notre Dame Basilica in the southern city of Nice on Thursday morning before he was shot by police.“I strongly condemn the recent terrorist attacks in France, including today’s heinous attack in Nice inside a church. Our deepest and heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims and the people of France. India stands with France in the fight against terrorism,” PM Modi tweeted. I strongly condemn the recent terrorist attacks in France, including today's heinous attack in Nice inside a church. Our deepest and heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims and the people of France. India stands with France in the fight against terrorism.French prime minister Jean Castex said that the country would raise its alert level to “emergency” in response to the attack, which comes during tensions over the re-publication of caricatures of Prophet Muhammad by the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo.Officials said a woman was beheaded and two others were killed by the knife-wielding attacker shouting “Allahu Akbar” in a suspected terrorist act at the Nice church. Nice’s mayor, Christian Estrosi, who described the attack as terrorism, said on Twitter it had happened in or near Notre Dame church and was similar to the beheading of French teacher Samuel Paty in an attack this month in the French capital of Paris. Estrosi said the attacker had repeatedly shouted the phrase “Allahu Akbar” or God is Greater, even after he had been detained by the police.Also read | UK PM Boris Johnson condemns France knife attack that killed 3 peopleOne of the people killed inside the church was believed to be the church warden, Estrosi said. ​“The suspected knife attacker was shot by police while being detained, he is on his way to the hospital, he is alive,” Estrosi told reporters. “Enough is enough. It’s time now for France to exonerate itself from the laws of peace in order to definitively wipe out Islamo-fascism from our territory,” he added.According to police, the three people were confirmed to have died in the attack and several were injured. The French anti-terrorist prosecutor’s department said it had been asked to investigate. The attack came on a day celebration are being held on the holiday of Mawlid, the birthday of Prophet Mohammad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-stands-with-france-in-fight-against-terrorism-pm-modi-condemns-nice-knife-attack/story-QOcfASpJGVHvr6e9n7jC1H.html
29-10-2020||India||Cabinet gives its nods for MoU between India, Cambodia in health sector||The Union Cabinet on Thursday approved the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Cambodia for cooperation in the field of health and medicine.The MoU will encourage cooperation between the two countries through joint initiatives and technology development in the health sector, the health ministry said in a statement.“It will strengthen bilateral ties between India and Cambodia. The MoU shall become effective on the date of its signature and shall remain in force for a period of five years,” it said.The main areas of cooperation between the two governments include mother and child health, family planning, HIV/AIDS and TB, drugs and pharmaceuticals, technology transfer, public health and epidemiology, disease control, and medical research and development, the statement said.The MoU will also include areas of medical education, health manpower development in the field of public health, training in clinical, para-clinical and management skills, and any other area of cooperation as may be mutually decided upon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-gives-its-nods-for-mou-between-india-cambodia-in-health-sector/story-nDFh2IgWbJX1BvXnt2TcMI.html
29-10-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh to reopen schools, colleges from November 2: Here are the guidelines||The Andhra Pradesh government on Thursday announced the reopening of all educational institutions, including schools and colleges, from November 2. The educational institutions will reopen in a phased manner with all Covid-19 precautionary measures in place, officials said.The announcement came after the Centre extended the implementation of Unlock-5 guidelines till November 30. Under the guidelines, the central government had allowed reopening of schools in a graded manner after assessing the coronavirus pandemic situation in their respective regions.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSchools in Andhra Pradesh have been shut since March when Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed the lockdown to control the Covid-19 spread in the country. As of Wednesday, there were 814,774 active cases of Covid-19 in the southern state and its death toll is at 6,643. Andhra Pradesh is among the worst-affected states by the Covid-19 in the country.Here are the full guidelines to be followed by educational institutions for reopening of schools:1. Schools would open on alternate days and will follow a half-a-day day schedule.2. In the first phase, schools will be reopened on November 2 for Class 9 and Class 10. Junior colleges with Class 11 and 12 (intermediate first year and second year) would also be opened simultaneously.3. In the second phase, schools for upper primary sections comprising Classes 6, 7 and 8 will be opened from November 23.4. In the third phase, primary schools from Class 1 to Class 5 will start functioning from December 14. They, too, will adopt an alternate day, half-a-day teaching module.5. Higher educational institutions like undergraduate and post-graduation colleges will also start classes from November 2. They will also follow the alternate day and half-a-day method.6. The guidelines will be applicable to all government and private educational institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-to-reopen-schools-colleges-from-november-2-here-are-the-guidelines/story-Um9QdB2fn0uSPcUMP5TvqI.html
29-10-2020||India||Election Commission orders removal of Munger SP, DM over violence during Durga idol immersion||The Election Commission(EC) on Thursday ordered the immediate removal of the District Magistrate(DM) and the Superintendent of Police(SP) of Munger over violence during Durga idol immersion that had left one dead and scores injured, officials said.The poll panel has also ordered inquiry into the entire incident by Magadh Divisional Commissioner Asangba Chuba Ao, an EC statement said.The probe has to be completed within a week. Rajesh Meena is DM and Lipi Singh is SP of Munger.One person was killed and over two dozen others, including security personnel, were injured in firing and stone pelting during Durga idol immersion late Monday night.Meanwhile, Munger witnessed violent protest Thursday too when agitators ransacked the SP office and torched a police outpost over the Monday incident.The office of Sub Divisional Officer (SDO) was also allegedly targeted by the protestors, official sources said.They burnt tyres near Rajiv Chowk in the Munger town demanding action against the SP and the police personnel responsible for allegedly opening fire during the idol immersion procession.The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) helmed Grand Alliance has strongly criticised the Monday incident, likening the district police with ‘General Dyer’ of infamous Jallianwala Bagh incident in Punjab during British rule on April 13, 1919. IPS officer Lipi Singh is the daughter of RCP Singh, the Janata Dal (United) leader in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-orders-removal-of-munger-sp-dm-over-violence-during-durga-idol-immersion/story-oOWPC77pOUOhf0q8DbBS8J.html
29-10-2020||India||Kolkata International Film Festival postponed due to Covid-19; now to be held in January 2021||The 26th edition of the Kolkata International Film Festival which was scheduled to be held in November this year has been postponed due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Thursday. It will now be held in January 2021. “After receiving the global film fraternity’s consent, I hereby inform all stakeholders of the Kolkata International Film Festival and cine lovers that our festival has been rescheduled, given the current circumstances. It will now be held from January 8-15, 2021. Let the preparations begin,” Banerjee tweeted. The KIFF was scheduled to be held between November 5 and 12. Started in 1995, it is one of the oldest film festivals in India and over the years has become a star-studded annual event in Kolkata. Bollywood actors including Amitabh Bachchan and Shah Rukh Khan and other celebrities including former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly have attended the inaugural ceremony in the past. In 2019, more than 200 full-length films and around 150 short films and documentaries from more than 70 countries were offered at the 25th KIFF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-international-film-festival-postponed-due-to-covid-19-now-to-be-held-in-january-2021/story-3p4B358GStaquWaA0rekWJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Committed to furnish all information for Aarogya Setu: Govt after RTI body’s notice||The Centre said on Thursday it is committed to furnish all the information sought under the RTI Act over the c contact tracing application and comply with the directions of Central Information Commission, which had issued a notice asking the government to explain the evasive response over the app’s creation.Officials said that the Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) has taken the lapses made in providing information on Aarogya Setu app, which has data of millions of users, very strictly. They said the ministry has issued directions to initiate suitable action against the officers responsible for this. It has also directed National Informatics Centre (NIC) and National E-Governance Division (NeGD) to take suitable action against officers dealing with the RTI query in their organisations as well.Also read | Govt pulled up by RTI body over evasive reply on Aarogya Setu. It clarifiesThe ministry, they said, is committed to furnish all the information sought under the RTI Act to the applicant and comply with CIC’s directions. The commission had called the government’s response “extremely preposterous”.The RTI application, filed by Saurav Das, had sought information about the creation of the application in light of privacy concerns around it. Government officials from NIC and NeGD and MeitY declined to comment on the question raised by Das, prompting him to file an appeal with the CIC. The application has been particularly contentious as news reports and data privacy activists have alleged that the app collects information and stores it.Also read | Ministry has no information on who created Aarogya Setu, RTI body issues showcause notice“The CPIO (central public information officer), NIC’s submissions that the entire file related to creation of the App is not with NIC is understandable, but the same submissions if accepted from MeITY, NeGD and NIC in toto, then it becomes more relevant to now find out how an App was created and there is no information with any of the relevant public authorities,” the CIC said in its order dated October 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-to-furnish-all-information-for-aarogya-setu-govt-after-rti-body-s-notice/story-Q8F6pMuisB3SWoa0Rl5BmL.html
29-10-2020||India||Govt revises bidding parameters for Air India divestment, bids to be invited on equity, debt||The Union government has revised the bidding parameters for Air India’s divestment and has decided to ask for bids at enterprise value. Bids will now be invited on the enterprise value wherein bids will be sought on both equity and debt, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri announced on Thursday. The decision was taken by the Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism (AISAM) on Wednesday following a meeting with the home ministry, Puri said. Considering the impact on Air India and significant deterioration of operating environment for airlines, various options were considered for the disinvestment of Air India. AISAM has decided to change the biding parameters and ask for bids at Enterprise Value. The bids will be invited on Equity and Debt. In the current PIM, the Debt left in the company would be Rs 23,286 crore,” Puri said. The Centre has also extended the deadline for inviting bids till December 14. The Centre in August had issued a notification to extend the deadline for submitting the expression of interest for 100% stake sale of national carrier Air India by two months to October 30. According to the notification issued by the department of investment and public asset management (DIPAM), the extension was provided following requests from interested bidders due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. In June, the Centre further extended the deadline to submit bids for the divestment to August 31, the third time since the process began in January. The national carrier was put on the block by the government on January 27 while a deadline of March 31 was set. It was later extended to June 30 and then to August 31 earlier. The government has been planning to sell its entire stake in Air India Ltd amid increasing debt and mounting losses. The Centre had earlier this year, in January, announced the stake sale in the debt-ridden airline after an attempt to auction a majority stake almost two years ago failed to draw any bids. The airline’s accumulated debt is estimated to be more than Rs 69,000 crore. It posted a loss of Rs 8,556 crore in FY19, as against a net loss of Rs 5,348 crore in the previous financial year. The civil aviation minister in June, had called the national carrier a ‘first-class asset’ during a press briefing and said that the government was confident and hopeful about its divestment plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-revises-bidding-parameters-for-air-india-divestment-bids-to-be-invited-on-equity-debt/story-le37OiRmWB8qr8B5da3YbJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Govt revises bidding parameters for Air India’s divestment, to ask for bids at enterprise value||The Union government has revised the bidding parameters for Air India’s divestment and has decided to ask for bids at enterprise value. The bids will now be invited on the enterprise value where bids will be invited on both equity and debt, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri announced on Thursday. The decision was taken by the Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism (AISAM) on Wednesday following a meeting with the home ministry, Puri added. Considering impact on Air India and significant deterioration of operating environment for airlines, various options were considered for the disinvestment of Air India. “AISAM has decided to change the biding parameters and ask for bids at Enterprise Value. The bids will be invited on Equity and Debt. In the current PIM, the Debt left in the Company would be Rs 23,286 crores,” Puri said. Centre has also extended the deadline for inviting bids till December 14. In August, Centre had issued a notification to extend the deadline for submitting the expression of interest for the 100 per cent stake sale of national carrier Air India by two months to October 30. According to the notification issued by the department of investment and public asset management (DIPAM), the extension was provided following requests from interested bidders due to the prevailing situation of Covid-19 pandemic. In June, Centre further extended the deadline to submit bids for the divestment to August 31, the third time since the process began in January. The national carrier was put on the block by the government on January 27 while a deadline of March 31 was set. It was later extended to June 30 and then to August 31 earlier. The government has been planning to sell its entire stake in Air India Ltd amid increasing debt and mounting losses. Centre, earlier this year in January, had announced the stake sale in the debt-ridden airline after an attempt to auction a majority stake almost two years ago failed to draw any bids. The airline’s accumulated debt is estimated to be more than Rs 69,000 crore. It posted a loss of Rs 8,556 crore in FY19, as against a net loss of Rs 5,348 crore in the previous financial year. The civil aviation minister in June had called the national carrier a ‘first-class asset’ during a press briefing and said that the government was confident and hopeful about its divestment plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-revises-bidding-parameters-for-air-india-s-divestment-to-ask-for-bids-at-enterprise-value/story-ebbhEHIAq38zcvWrROa6BN.html
29-10-2020||India||Heavy to very heavy rainfall in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry in next 5 days, says IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during next five days.“A cyclonic circulation lies over north Tamil Nadu, Coastal Andhra Pradesh and neighbourhood in lower and mid-tropospheric levels. Under its influence, scattered rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning very likely over Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during next five days,” IMD tweeted.In another tweet, it said isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Tamil Nadu during next 24 hours, and again isolated heavy rainfall on October 30, November 1 and November 2 in the state.IMD also predicted isolated heavy rainfall over Kerala and Mahe on November 1 and over South Interior Karnataka on November 2.“Generally dry weather very likely over most parts of Northwest, West, Central and East India during next five days,” it said in a prediction for other parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-to-very-heavy-rainfall-in-kerala-tamil-nadu-puducherry-in-next-5-days-says-imd/story-Q0nTO9u6b7Sd3h9Td43riJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Maharashtra extends ongoing Covid-19 lockdown till November 30||The Maharashtra government on Thursday extended the ongoing lockdown by another month as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continue to rise in the state. It will now remain in effect till November 30, officials said.While nationwide tally is witnessing a drop in daily cases, Maharashtra continues to be the worst-affected state by the Covid-19 in the country with 130,286 active cases. As of Wednesday morning, the death toll in the state stood at 14,86,926.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageEarlier this month, the state permitted hotels, food courts, restaurants and bars to restart operations at a capacity not exceeding 50%. However, schools, colleges and other educational and coaching institutions are closed.Since June 15, the state and the railway authorities have resumed limited number of special suburban trains for people employed in emergency services.Currently, the railway authorities are operating 1,410 special services on the Mumbai suburban network, including 10 ladies special trains.The state government on Tuesday wrote to Western Railway and Central Railway seeking suggestions on resuming local train services for the general public. In the letter, the government proposed the opening in a staggered manner in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-extends-ongoing-covid-19-lockdown-till-november-30/story-kMc8fh278SbLcclFsA19gJ.html
29-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 3 dead, several injured in knife attack in France’s Nice and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.3 killed in terror attack on French church, consulate targeted in JeddahA knife-wielding attacker shouting “Allahu Akbar” beheaded a woman and killed two other people in a suspected terrorist act at a church in the French city of Nice on Thursday, while a gunman was shot dead by police in a separate incident. Read moreIn a first, 42 transgender candidates to appear for Assam PSC examIn a first such instance for the state, 42 transgender persons have applied as candidates for the combined competitive (preliminary) examination (CCE), 2020, conducted by Assam Public Service Commission (APSC). Read moreIndia’s average daily Covid tests in past 6 weeks at about 11 lakh: CentreThe Union health ministry on Thursday said nearly 11 lakh coronavirus (Covid-19) tests have been conducted daily on an average in the last six weeks as the total tests crossed 10.65 crore adding that 15 lakh tests can now be done per day. Read moreCovid-19: Most Cathay Pacific pilots and cabin crew accept permanent pay cutsHong Kong’s Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd said on Thursday that a majority of pilots and flight attendants had signed new contracts that will result in permanent pay cuts. Cathay last week announced plans to cut 5,900 jobs to help it weather the pandemic, including nearly all of the positions at its regional airline Cathay Dragon, which it has shut down. Read moreIPL 2020 - ‘This has really turned upside down for them’: Brian Lara reveals what went wrong for CSKIt has been a season to forget for IPL’s most consistent team Chennai Super Kings. They are already out of the race for the play-offs, the first time ever that they won’t progress from the group stage. While the team has failed to put a string of victories together this season, several experts believe the primary reason behind this has been the franchise’s inability to blood youngsters into the team. Read moreKapil Sharma says he felt ‘jealous’ after Akshay Kumar replaced him in an ad, Akshay retorts Kapil’s house is bigger than hisA new promo of The Kapil Sharma Show, featuring Akshay Kumar and Kiara Advani as guests, has been shared online. The actors came to promote their upcoming film, Laxmmi Bomb, and seemingly had a blast shooting for the episode. Read moreMaruti Suzuki reports slim profit in quarter post lockdownThe country’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) on Thursday reported 2.04 per cent increase in its consolidated net profit for the second quarter at ₹1,419.6 crore on the back of higher sales. The auto major had posted a net profit of ₹1,391.1 crore in the July-September quarter of the previous fiscal. Read moreFind yourself in a fashion fix this Karwa Chauth? Deck up like Hina Khan in a deep rani pink sharara setWith the fashion industry waking up in the middle of a festive week, after months of quarantine hibernation, a yearn to look unconventional, contemporary and glamorous while sticking to traditional wear is dominating the ethnic closet. Read moreSmriti Irani posts ‘falling ill’ meme after testing positive for Covid, people praise her spiritUnion Minister Smriti Irani is keeping her spirits up after she tested positive for Covid-19. After making the announcement on Twitter, Irani shared a meme on ‘falling ill’ on her Instagram account. The minister is known for sharing quirky and hilarious posts on the photo and video sharing platform and her recent share is no different. Read moreWatch: India backs Macron against ‘personal attacks’; condemns teacher’s beheading||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-three-dead-several-injured-in-knife-attack-in-france-s-nice-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0qRD2YC6vbcmWPfyfLm51N.html
29-10-2020||India||India backs Emmanuel Macron, criticises personal attacks on French president||India has deplored personal attacks by countries such as Turkey and Pakistan on French President Emmanuel Macron for his stance on radical Islam in the wake of the beheading of a teacher in Paris, and said that there can be no justification for terrorism. Macron has pledged to crack down on radical Islam in France after the October 16 beheading of Samuel Paty, a history professor who used controversial caricatures of Prophet Mohammed from the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in a class on freedom of expression. The killing by a suspected terrorist triggered a heated debate on secularism and Islamophobia in France. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said last week that Macron needs “some sort of mental treatment” for his attitude towards Muslims, while Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan accused the French president of encouraging Islamophobia. Also Read: Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla to visit France, Germany and UK in NovemberWithout naming any countries, the external affairs ministry said in a statement: “We strongly deplore the personal attacks in unacceptable language on President Emmanuel Macron in violation of the most basic standards of international discourse.” The ministry condemned the “brutal terrorist attack that took the life of a French teacher in a gruesome manner that has shocked the world” and offered condolences to Paty’s family and the people of France. “There is no justification for terrorism for any reason or under any circumstance,” the statement added. French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain responded to the external affairs ministry’s statement in a tweet: “Thank you @MEAIndia. France and India can always count on each other in the fight against terrorism.” Thank you @MEAIndia. France and India can always count on each other in the fight against terrorism.https://t.co/oXZ0XpKNSZ pic.twitter.com/iGylUYxUB6The Indian statement came as foreign secretary Harsh Shringla began a two-day visit to France as part of a three-nation tour of Europe that will also take him to Germany and the UK. Shringla is set to interact with top French officials to discuss ways to strengthen cooperation in a wide range of areas, including security and defence, amid the Covid-19 pandemic. France has emerged as one of India’s strongest allies in Europe and has taken a strong position on security challenges facing the country, especially at the UN Security Council. It has consistently criticised cross-border terrorism targeting India and was also one of the first countries to offer support amid the border standoff with China and the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in a clash in June. French defence minister Florence Parly expressed “deep solidarity” over the death of the Indian soldiers in a violent face-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and conveyed her country’s “steadfast and friendly support” in a letter sent to her Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh. India’s support for Macron also comes at a time when New Delhi’s relations with Islamabad and Ankara are at a low. Pakistani and Turkish leaders have earned India’s ire by repeatedly raising the issue of Kashmir and treatment of minorities at international forums such as the UN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-backs-emmanuel-macron-criticises-personal-attacks-on-french-president/story-x15J2NMxCOSbamdsesqpiK.html
29-10-2020||India||Foreign minister Qureshi’s legs were shaking as he said India could attack over Abhinandan: Pakistani MP||Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi’s “legs were shaking” when he told a meeting last year that India would attack if Indian pilot Abhinandan Varthaman, shot down in a dogfight, was not returned, a Pakistani opposition lawmaker has said. Former speaker Ayaz Sadiq, a senior leader of the main opposition Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) who was at one time close to Prime Minister Imran Khan, made the revelation while speaking in the National Assembly or Lower House of Pakistan’s Parliament on Wednesday. Sadiq was responding to accusations by a member of the ruling Pakistan Tehrik-e-Insaf (PTI) party that the former PML-N government had not properly handled national security issues, such as the case of former Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, who was detained by Pakistani authorities in 2016 on charges of espionage. Also Read: Pakistani clerics give approval to Hindu temple construction“In the case of Abhinandan, I remember Shah Mahmood Qureshi was in that meeting which the prime minister refused to attend and the chief of army staff joined us – his [Qureshi’s] legs were shaking and there was sweat on his brow,” Sadiq said, speaking in Urdu. “And Shah Mahmood Qureshi told us, ‘For God’s sake let this man [Abhinandan] go back because at 9pm on that night, India will carry out an attack on Pakistan’,” he said, talking of a meeting of government officials with parliamentary leaders held sometime after Abhinandan was shot on February 27, 2019 amid an India-Pakistan standoff. “But India wasn’t going to attack, nothing was going to happen. But they were going to kneel down and send back Abhinandan, and they did it,” Sadiq said, adding that the ruling PTI shouldn’t level such allegations as this would force the opposition to disclose “such things”. The remarks sparked a strong political reaction in India, with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda highlighting the fear of an Indian retaliation weighing heavy on the Pakistan government, and blaming Congress president Rahul Gandhi for allegedly questioning the Indian military. Sadiq did not offer more details during his brief speech in the National Assembly but subsequently told Dunya News channel that the Opposition would be forced to respond if those in power referred to it as “Modi ka yaar” (friend of PM Narendra Modi). He told the channel that Qureshi made the remarks at a meeting where parliamentary leaders, including those of PML-N and Pakistan People’s Party (PPP), were present. Sadiq also said the opposition had supported the PTI government on all issues, including Kashmir and Abhinandan, but it would no longer be appropriate to provide further support. Tensions between India and Pakistan had spiked following a suicide attack by the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) at Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir on February 14, 2019 that killed 40 troops. India retaliated by carrying out an air strike on a JeM base at Balakot in Pakistan, and this was followed by an aerial engagement along the Line of Control (LoC) that resulted in the shooting down of an Indian combat jet piloted by Abhinandan Varthaman. The immediate tensions eased after Pakistan freed Abhinandan on March 1, 2019, but relations between the two countries continue to be at an all-time low. India has maintained that there cannot be any dialogue with Pakistan till the neighbouring country stops backing cross-border terror. Nadda on Thursday referred to Sadiq’s speech and said it showed how Islamabad, was forced to release Varthaman fearing an attack from New Delhi, and lashed out against the Congress for “mocking the armed forces”. “Congress princeling does not believe anything Indian, be it our Army, our Government, our Citizens. So, here is something from his ‘Most Trusted Nation’, Pakistan. Hopefully now he sees some light...” Nadda tweeted in a jibe at Rahul Gandhi. Congress’ princeling does not believe anything Indian, be it our Army, our Government, our Citizens. So, here is something from his ‘Most Trusted Nation’, Pakistan. Hopefully now he sees some light... pic.twitter.com/shwdbkQWai“Congress Party premised it’s entire campaign around keeping our armed forces weak. They mocked our armed forces, questioned their valour and tried every trick to ensure India doesn’t get latest Rafale Planes. The people India rejected such politics and punished Congress,” he said in another tweet. As Sadiq’s remarks were played up in India, he issued a video statement in which he claimed the Indian media “distorted my statement and played with the words in an attempt to change it”. He suggested he had meant that Prime Minister Khan’s “legs were shaking and he was perspiring as he couldn’t face the opposition”. He said, “What was their thinking, which country they were taking dictation from, were they directly in contact with Modi, was there any other pressure on them – they didn’t think it fit to share with us and they came and said that we have to immediately release Abhinandan.” Sadiq added: “What was the reasoning, only Imran Khan knows and no one else in Pakistan knows this. His decision was completely wrong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-minister-qureshi-s-legs-were-shaking-as-he-said-india-could-attack-over-abhinandan-pakistani-mp/story-bUCp9BiO8aOnxmudho3AzL.html
29-10-2020||India||Day after CM’s former aide’s arrest, Kerala CPI (M) secretary’s son held for funding drugs||A day after the arrest of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former secretary M Sivasankar in a money laundering case, the ruling CPI(M) suffered another setback on Thursday after the Enforcement Directorate arrested party secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in a narcotics case. Summoned to the ED office in Bengaluru for the second time, he was arrested after he failed to give convincing answers about the alleged funding of the drug racket after a 3-hour questioning, a senior officer said. He will be produced in a court later. Trouble began for Kodiyeri after Bengaluru drug racket accused Anoop Mohammad gave a statement to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in which he mentioned his name. He said Bineesh Kodiyeri, second son of Balakrishnan, had helped him a lot in his “business venture”. Later, his name also figured in the call list of Mohammad. Kodiyeri later admitted that he knew Mohammad and helped him in setting up a hotel in Bengaluru but he was not aware of his alleged drug dealings. But later the ED found that two shell companies floated by Kodiyeri, B Capital Solutions and B Capital Forex, were allegedly involved in many shady deals. Floated in 2015, both firms had failed to file tax returns and other formalities and the ED suspects these firms were floated for alleged money laundering and hawala transactions. During investigation the ED also found that Rs 50 lakh made its way into the account of Mohammad in the last six months and suspects that Kodiyeri was one of the financers of the drug cartel. Earlier the ED had frozen transactions of all his properties. During investigation into the gold smuggling case, the ED also found that there was a close link between gold smuggling and the psychedelic drug cases. The smuggling case came to light on July 5 after 30 kg gold was seized from a consignment that had arrived in the name of the United Arab Emirates consular office in Thiruvananthapuram. And the drug case surfaced on August 28 after the arrest of Anoop Mohammad and two others in Bengaluru. There are reports that the third accused in the gold smuggling case K T Ramees and Anoop Mohammad were friends. CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yecury said in Delhi that there was no crisis in the party or the government in Kerala and Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had made his position very clear that the party won’t interfere in the ongoing case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-cm-s-former-aide-s-arrest-kerala-cpi-m-secretary-s-son-held-for-funding-drugs/story-14EFANzH49mc3zsLNyQVHK.html
29-10-2020||India||Folk songs reflect as if corruption is a way of life: Uttarakhand HC||Emphasising that “the folk songs reflect the perception of people”, Uttarakhand high court in a recent order cited two songs of state’s famous folk singer Narendra Singh Negi, saying the folk songs written and sung by Negi reflect “as if corruption is a way of life”. The court not only cited the extracts of two songs but also provided a translation of both the extracts and YouTube link of the song.The 83-page order issued on Tuesday, in which the court had ordered CBI inquiry into the allegations against chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, stated “Corruption is such a menace which has penetrated in every realm of life. It appears as if society has normalised it. The folk songs reflect the perception of people. Living in Uttarakhand, the folk songs (written and sung by Narendra Singh Negi) reflect as if corruption is a way of life. Extracts of two of such songs are as below”, the order said The translation of the first song quoted in the order goes like this, “Nobody ever sees a fish drinking water or a bird sleeping on the branch of a tree. Everybody knows that our officer brother takes bribes, but nobody ever saw him taking it…” The translation of the second song quoted by the HC goes like this, “The riches of all the commission and the perennial stream of bribes. The riches of all the commission and the perennial stream of bribes...Stop now!! How much are you going to eat?? Stop now…” Singer Narendra Singh Negi, who hails from Pauri district said he has been writing and singing songs since the 1970s. “I have been writing songs on all kinds of issues. I don’t write songs against a particular party, but my songs reflect the social ills and corruption in our society. I have written anti-establishment songs during both Congress and BJP regime in the state”, he said “Folk songs reflect the aspirations, experiences and perceptions of people. Whatever people feel strongly, reflects in their folk songs and it is a healthy way of bringing such issues to light. If there is corruption in society, its reflection will percolate in folk songs also. Though I have written over 300 songs so far on varied issues, my anti-establishment songs have become more famous due to their increasing popularity,” said Negi who resigned from a government job in 2005. The HC order while talking about corruption in society, stated, “If allegations of corruption levelled against the people in high positions stay in society without them being inquired and cleared, it will neither help the society to grow nor the State to function efficiently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/folk-songs-reflect-as-if-corruption-is-a-way-of-life-uttarakhand-hc/story-fNMPdaL05Z6OzrvXQ0LEGN.html
29-10-2020||India||Move shows determination of government to mitigate pollution: EPCA writes to Prakash Javadekar||The Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) on Thursday wrote a letter to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar welcoming the commission for air quality management in the national capital region and adjoining area ordinance, which has replaced the 22-year-old pollution monitoring body. Bhure Lal, chairperson, and Sunita Narain, member, EPCA, in a letter to Javadekar said that the move showed the intent and determination of the union government to mitigate the high levels of air pollution in the Delhi-NCR region. “Over the past many years, we have worked to find solutions and to recommend action through our reports to government and to the honourable Supreme Court. We are grateful for the consideration given to our work and to the fact that many of our recommendations have been implemented,” the letter read. Also Read: Air pollution: Centre issues ordinance to form new commission to replace EPCAListing the actions taken by EPCA to tackle pollution levels in the region and the impact of those actions, the members said that there were some initiatives that the monitoring body was overseeing and now that the Central commission had taken over, their implementation could be continued to ensure long term solutions for air pollution in the Delhi-NCR region. “...The next phase of the agenda for clean air; fourth generation reforms need to be deliberated upon and implemented. That will necessitate the massive augmentation of intracity public transport, and to move industries, power plants and other users away from polluting fuels like coal to natural gas, electricity and renewable to ensure clean combustion,” the letter read. It added, “We hope that the above listing will help your ministry in following up the necessary actions for combating pollution in this region.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/move-shows-determination-of-government-to-mitigate-pollution-epca-writes-to-prakash-javadekar/story-xBL119Tv6a6Oe0Xnjm6FlO.html
29-10-2020||India||India’s average daily Covid tests in past 6 weeks at about 11 lakh: Centre||The Union health ministry on Thursday said nearly 11 lakh coronavirus (Covid-19) tests have been conducted daily on an average in the last six weeks as the total tests crossed 10.65 crore adding that 15 lakh tests can now be done per day. “With 10,75,760 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the cumulative tests have crossed 10.65 crore (10,65,63,440). Nearly 11 lakh tests have been conducted daily on an average during the past six weeks,” the ministry said.While giving a break-up of states and union territories (UTs), it said 79% of the fresh Covid-19 cases are being added from ten states and UTs. Kerala and Maharashtra continue to report the highest number of new infections which are over 8,000 and 6,000 respectively. Delhi which is also one of the worst hit states from the pandemic might see a third Covid-19 wave amid the surge in its daily tally. The national capital logged its highest ever single-day spike of 5,673 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday which pushed the overall tally to over 3,70,000. Meanwhile, with regard to recoveries from Covid-19, the ministry said the gap between total recoveries and total cases has crossed 67 lakh and it is continuously widening. It also pointed out that the declining trend of active cases is supported by the rising number of people recovering from the disease. The total recoveries which are at 73,15,989 constitute 90.85% of India’s caseload of over 80 lakh cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-average-daily-covid-tests-in-past-6-weeks-at-about-11-lakh-centre/story-K7A5OAe3VfRssisCZk9dbP.html
29-10-2020||India||Kerala CPM secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri arrested in narcotics case||Bineesh Kodiyeri, the son of Kerala’s Communist Party of India (Marxist) secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, has been arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with a narcotics case on Thursday, officials said. He was summoned by ED earlier in the day for questioning over allegations of his connection with an accused in the Bengaluru drug case. This was the third time he was summoned by the central agency.Last time, officials had questioned Bineesh for almost six hours over his financial links with the drug case accused Mohammed Anoop. The youth wing of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) had earlier accused Bineesh of having close connections with a few members of a drug racket that was recently busted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cpm-secretary-kodiyeri-balakrishnan-s-son-bineesh-kodiyeri-arrested-in-narcotics-case/story-g43WRICid1nYOGsIdf1G2O.html
29-10-2020||India||Singer in Tripura molested, 4 arrested after video goes viral||Four men were arrested on charges of molesting a local singer at Nischintapur village near the Bangladesh border in West district of Tripura, police said on Thursday. According to the 26-year-old woman’s complaint, she had gone to the village barely 5 km from Agartala, on Tuesday for Durga puja where she met a man she was acquainted with. While she was returning with him on his motorcycle, he allegedly molested her. After she started crying, some local people came there but harassed her and shot the incident on their mobile phones.A video of the incident later viral on social media where a man is seen twisting her arm from behind and touching her inappropriately while other people are seen abusing her, taking photographs and shooting videos of her along with the man with whom she was returning.A local person later escorted her home. The singer lodged a complaint against Sanjib Barman, the man with whom she was returning on the motorcycle on Wednesday. On the basis of her complaint, police arrested him later in the evening from his home in Agartala. Around midnight three others who had abused were also arrested.“Identification process of the people in the video clip is on. We will arrest them as soon as they are identified,” said Amtali sub divisional police officer Anirban Das. Police did not say if the other three men arrested were seen in the video.The assault on the singer has sparked outrage in the state. Many social and cultural organisations condemned the incident and demanded arrest and strict action against the persons who abused her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singer-in-tripura-molested-4-arrested-after-video-goes-viral/story-HPn5vP9L5agIr7uvl2gSHP.html
29-10-2020||India||Rains lash Chennai, waterlogging reported in several areas||Rains lashed parts of Chennai on Thursday leading to the inundation and water logging in several areas of the capital of Tamil Nadu. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted a ‘generally cloudy sky with heavy rain’ in the city on Thursday.The rains came after the northeast monsoon, a phenomenon which brings rainfall over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, parts of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala during October to December, began. The southwest monsoon withdrew from the entire country on Wednesday, 13 days after its normal date of retreat. The weather bureau said that a cyclonic circulation lies over southwest Bay of Bengal, off north Tamil Nadu coast in lower and mid tropospheric levels.“Under its influence, scattered rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning (is) very likely over Kerala, Mahe, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during the next five days with isolated heavy rainfall over south Tamil Nadu during the next two days and over south Kerala during the next 24 hours,” IMD has said.Dry weather is expected over the rest of the country during the next four to five days. There were three low pressure areas -- cyclonic circulation and first stage of any cyclone -- in the Bay of Bengal in October. One of them intensified into a deep depression and crossed the peninsula unleashing its fury over Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa and leaving a trail of destruction, damaging property and crops. The second one developed into a depression bringing rains over West Bengal and the northeastern states last week.The southwest monsoon made an onset over Kerala on June 1, its normal annual onset date. Its timely onset was aided by cyclone Nisarga. The monsoon covered the entire country by June 26, twelve days ahead of its normal date of July 8. Its withdrawal was also late. The southwest monsoon retreated from west Rajasthan and parts of Punjab on September 28, eleven days after its normal withdrawal date.The normal date for the monsoon to retreat from the country is October 15.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-lash-chennai-waterlogging-reported-in-several-areas/story-Ju2fibkTKgXzredeBdaoJP.html
29-10-2020||India||Will leave no stone unturned to defeat them: Mayawati attacks former ally Samajwadi Party||BSP chief Mayawati said on Thursday her party will leave no stone unturned and will vote for the BJP or any other party’s candidate to ensure the defeat of the Samajwadi Party in future elections for the legislative council in Uttar Pradesh. She also said that dropping the 1995 case against the SP was a “big mistake”.“We have decided that to defeat SP candidate in future MLC elections in UP, we will put all our force and even if we have to give our vote to BJP candidate or any party candidate, will do it. Any party candidate, who will be dominant over SP’s second candidate, will get all BSP MLAs’ vote for sure,” Mayawati said while speaking news agency ANIThe former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh also asserted that the SP has insulted Brahmins in the state by insulting Satish Chandra Mishra, her party’s national general secretary. She said when the Bahujan Samaj Party saw the Samajwadi Party’s behaviour towards them after the results of the Lok Sabha elections last year, they realised that they had committed a big mistake by taking back the 1995 case against them.Also read | BSP’s Mayawati suspends 7 rebel MLAs, day after they met Akhilesh Yadav“We should not have joined hands with them. We should have thought a bit deeper. We took the wrong decision in haste. We committed a very big mistake by doing so,” she said.“I want to disclose that when we decided to contest polls with the SP for the Lok Sabha elections in UP, we worked very hard for it but from day one of our coalition SP chief kept telling SC Mishra that since BSP and SP had joined hands, I should take back my June 1995 case,” the BSP chief added.Also read | Amid fluid opposition tie-ups in UP, SP-RLD may forge long-term alliance“Our party had joined hands with the SP to fight communal forces during the Lok Sabha elections. Due to their family in-fighting, they could not gain much from the gathbandhan (alliance) with the BSP. They stopped responding to us post-elections and hence, we decided to part ways with them,” she said.Her comments came even as suspended seven rebel legislators of her party, who had opposed the nomination of the BSP’s official candidate Ramji Gautam for the elections to the Rajya Sabha. Chaudhary Aslam Ali, Hakim Lal Bind, Mohammad Mujtaba Siddiqui, Aslam Raini, Sushma Patel, Hargovind Bhargava and Bandana Singh had also met SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday, triggering speculation that they might jump ship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-if-we-have-to-vote-for-bjp-mayawati-attacks-former-ally-samajwadi-party/story-jjkyHsjghcrkwQB5alLMHO.html
29-10-2020||India||SC stays CBI probe against Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat two days after the high court had directed the agency to investigate an alleged bribery case involving Rawat before he became the CM. Attorney General KK Venugopal who appeared for the CM and said that the order has to be stayed as it was passed without hearing Rawat and there was no prayer for a CBI probe was before the Court in the petition being considered. He said that the order had destabilized the government as Opposition were raising demands for the CM’s resignation. The three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said, “Can such an order be passed in a petition where neither any specific prayer for probe is made nor the state or CM is made a party. All of a sudden everybody is taken by surprise.”The top court stayed the operative portion of the October 27 high court order directing the CBI probe and asked the opposite parties to file response in four weeks. The HC had suo moto directed the CBI to examine allegations leveled by a journalist Umesh Sharma accusing Rawat of indirectly receiving alleged bribe of Rs 25 lakh in 2016 when Rawat was the BJP’s in-charge of Jharkhand. The alleged bribe giver was a Ranchi-based man who deposited this money into accounts held by Rawat’s relatives on the promise of being made Chairman of Gau Seva Committee in Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-stays-cbi-probe-against-uttarakhand-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat/story-Aq2J5Nl3AG6J55o60WFcLK.html
29-10-2020||India||Third wave of Covid-19 in Delhi? ‘Have possibly entered that phase,’ says health minister Jain||A day after Delhi logged its highest daily count of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday that it is too early to say the national capital is witnessing the third wave of Covid-19 cases but that it is possible “we are already in that phase.”Click here for full Covid-19 coverageJain’s remark came a day after Delhi recorded more than 5,000 new cases of Covid-19 for the first time. The 5,673 new infections on Wednesday have taken the Capital’s tally of cases due to the disease to 370,014, including 6,396 fatalities.Read: With 5,673 new coronavirus cases, Delhi records its highest single-day spike“It is too early to say that Delhi is experiencing the third wave of Covid-19 cases. We must wait for another week in order to definitively say that, but it is possible we’re already in that phase,” Jain told news agency ANI. “We’ve made some changes to our strategy. Now, when a person tests positive, we also test his entire family and close contacts. We do this not once, but twice - the second time after four-five days,” he added. It is too early to say that Delhi is experiencing the 3rd wave of #COVID19 cases. We must wait for another week in order to definitively say that, but it possible that we're already in that phase: Satyendar Jain, Delhi Health Minister on the spike in COVID cases pic.twitter.com/yxxEyzNsZ6The 5,673 infections Delhi recorded on Wednesday was the second straight day it witnessed its highest single-day spike. On Tuesday, Delhi had logged 4,853 cases, which was its highest single-day tally since 4,473 on September 16. In fact, the national capital has consistently logged more than 4,000 cases daily in the last few days.Officials have attributed the recent spike to re-opening of public places and the ongoing festive season. There are concerns this could lead to a fresh surge of cases not just in Delhi, but across the country.On Wednesday, in view of the Capital’s coronavirus situation, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had announced that all schools will remain closed till further orders. Schools were ordered to stay closed till October 31 before that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-wave-of-covid-19-in-delhi-have-possibly-entered-that-phase-says-health-minister-jain/story-GhaeHcaD8pzByTSx7VzD7H.html
29-10-2020||India||In Covid crackdown, commuters without masks in Mumbai local trains to be fined||Passengers travelling on Mumbai’s suburban railway network without masks will now have to pay fines as part of an exercise to stop the spread of Covid-19. A fine of Rs. 200 and will be charged on the basis of Brihan Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) notification on fines for wearing spitting and not wearing masks. No date has been decided yet for enforcing the fines but they are likely to enforced from next week.The Maharashtra government on Wednesday empowered the Government Railway Police (GRP) to collect fines from passengers travelling without masks onboard local trains and on the railway stations. A letter written by Abhay Yawalkar, director, disaster management to the GRP commissioner states that in order to avoid resurgence in the number of coronavirus cases it is imperative that all Covid related protocols are followed by commuters.“One of the main protocols is wearing a facial mask all the time. The state powers the Government Railway Police to impose fines on commuters found to be travelling without masks in the local trains or inside the station premises. The fine will be in line with the circulated dated 9 September 2020 issued by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) or in line with any further circular issued by MCGM in this regard.” states the letter. Meanwhile, the railways has decided to provide free masks to passengers to create awareness on the spread of coronavirus among railway passengers. Awareness campaigns on precautions and preventions to undertake while commuting will also be organised. “Passengers found travelling without masks onboard trains will be given masks and informed about the virus spread.” said a senior Central Railway official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-covid-crackdown-commuters-without-masks-in-mumbai-local-trains-to-be-fined/story-hCQQlP0BleyP13dPd7SzQJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Indian Railways starts additional special Shatabdi trains during festivals. Check details||Indian Railways has started operating three more festival special trains to clear the extra rush during festival season and also for the convenience of passengers. Western Railway said in a press release that Mumbai Central- Ahmedabad special Shatabdi Express will run from Wednesday till further notice. Two pairs of festival special trains between Bhuj and Bareilly, with 74 trips, will also be run to clear the festival rush.Here are the details of these trains:1. Mumbai Central-Ahmedabad Special Shatabdi ExpressTrain No 02009 Mumbai Central-Ahmedabad special Shatabdi Express will depart Mumbai Central daily except Sunday at 6.30am will reach Ahmedabad at 12.45am the same day. Similarly, Train No 02010 Ahmedabad–Mumbai Central special will leave Ahmedabad daily, except on Sunday, at 2.45pms and will reach Mumbai Central at 9.20pm the same day. The train will stop at Borivali, Vapi, Surat, Bharuch, Vadodara, Anand and Nadiad stations in both directions. This train has executive chair car and chair car coaches.Also read | Railways to run 392 ‘festival special’ trains from today2. Bhuj-Bareilly Festival SpecialTrain No 04322 Bhuj-Bareilly special will depart Bhuj every Wednesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday at 5.05pm and will reach Bareilly at 8.35pm the next day. This train will run from October 28 to December 2020. Train No 04321 Bareilly-Bhuj special will leave Bareilly every Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday at 6.35am and will reach Bhuj at 9.30am the next day. This train will run from October 25 to November 29. Also read | Booking, cancellation of rail tickets allowed till 5 minutes before departure from todayThis train will halt at Gandhidham BG, Samakhiali BG, Bhildi, Palanpur Jn, Abu Road, Falna, Marwar Jn, Beawar, Ajmer Jn, Kishangarh, Naraina, Phulera Jn, Jaipur, Gandhinagar JPR, Dausa, Bandikui Jn, Rajgarh, Alwar, Khairthal, Rewari Jn, Pataudi Rd, Garhi Harsaru, Gurgaon, Palam, Delhi Cantt, Delhi Sarai Rohilla, Delhi Jn, Ghaziabad, Pilkhua, Hapur, Gajraula Jn, Amroha, Moradabad, Rampur and Milak stations in both directions. Train No 04322 will also stop at Getor Jagatpura station, whereas, Train No 04321 will have an additional halt at Malakhera station. This train comprises of AC 2 Tier, AC 3 Tier, sleeper class and second class seating coaches.3. Bhuj-Bareilly Festival Special tri-weekly trainTrain No 04312 Bhuj-Bareilly special will leave Bhuj every Monday, Tuesday and Thursday at 2.05pm and will reach Bareilly at 8.35pm the next day. This train will run from October 26 to November 30, 2020. Similarly, Train No 04311 Bareilly-Bhuj special will leave Bareilly every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday at 6.35am and will arrive Bhuj at 12.05pm the next day. This train will run from October 27 to December 1, 2020. It will halt at Gandhidham BG, Samakhiali BG, Dhrangadhra, Viramgam Jn, Ambli Rd, Mahesana Jn, Palanpur Jn, Abu Road, Falna, Marwar Jn, Sojat Rd, Beawar, Ajmer Jn, Kishangarh, Naraina, Phulera Jn, Jaipur, Gandhinagar JPR, Dausa, Bandikui Jn, Rajgarh, , Alwar, Khairthal, Rewari Jn, Pataudi Rd, Garhi Harsaru, Gurgaon, Palam, Delhi Cantt, Delhi Sarai Rohilla, Delhi Jn, Ghaziabad, Pilkhua, Hapur, Gajraula Jn, Amroha, Moradabad, Rampur and Milak stations in both directions.Train No 04312 will also halt at Getor Jagatpura station, whereas, Train No 04311 will have an additional halt at Malakhera station. This train comprises of AC 2 Tier, AC 3 Tier, sleeper class and second class seating coaches. Booking for Train No 04312 opened from October 25 and for Train No 02009/10 & 04322 it opened from October 26 at nominated PRS counters and on the website of Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-starts-additional-special-shatabdi-trains-during-festivals-check-details/story-pGmxkD7Ia74KNEmD0MZV0M.html
29-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Congress welcomes Facebook’s India leadership change and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress welcomes Facebook’s India leadership change, asks it demonstrate neutralityThe Congress on Wednesday asked Facebook to demonstrate its neutrality with a thorough revamp of its institutional processes, and also outline steps taken to curb the “spread of false, polarising and hate content” on its platform. Read moreTwitter tenders apology over Leh map fiascoTwitter has tendered a verbal apology before the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) constituted to review the data protection bill after Leh was shown as part of China during a live broadcast, according to news agency ANI. The panel had shown strong displeasure and asked Twitter to tender a written apology and submit an affidavit over the issue. Read moreBihar Assembly Election 2020: Local issues take centre stage as BJP defends Kumrahar seatThe Kumrahar assembly constituency in Patna has traditionally been known as the stronghold of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), but that tag is under a cloud in the ongoing three-phase Bihar polls. Read moreASER 2020: Nearly 25% students from rural Maharashtra have no access to smartphones for e- classesNearly 25% students from rural Maharashtra have no access to mobile phones, the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2020 by NGO Pratham revealed. Nearly 16% students reported that they could not get help in their studies from parents due to their poor educational backgrounds. The survey was conducted to assess the impact of Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown on the education of students across the country. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Deep down he must be disappointed to not have donned India blue,’ Kieron Pollard after Suryakumar Yadav’s heroics against RCBTwo days after his name was not included in any of the three India squads that will tour Australia next month, Suryakumar Yadav produced another fine innings for Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League 2020. Yadav remained unbeaten on 79 and successfully shepherded MI’s chase of 165 against Royal Challengers Bangalore with five wickets remaining. This was Yadav’s third fifty of the season, with which he took his tally to 362 runs from 12 matches. Read moreAashram Chapter 2 The Dark Side trailer: The walls are closing in on Bobby Deol’s Baba NiralaThe trailer for Aashram Chapter 2: The Dark Side, a continuation of Prakash Jha’s MX Player series, has been released. The set of episodes will pick up after the first ‘season’, which ended abruptly in August. Read moreTwitterati helped 79-year-old medicinal plant seller in Bengaluru: Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-congress-welcomes-facebook-s-india-leadership-change-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZFXDzvqDo6tIrdisIQKdjL.html
29-10-2020||India||Villagers in Jharkhand allegedly behead 3 of family for practising witchcraft||Police on Wednesday recovered decapitated bodies of three people of the same family from a forested area in Jharkhand’s tribal dominated Khunti district who were allegedly abducted more than three weeks ago and killed for practising witchcraft.Police said the heads of the deceased were recovered from another isolated location near the spot and the bodies were sent for postmortem.The deceased were identified as Birsa Munda, 48, his wife Sukru Purty, 43, and daughter Somwari Purty, 20, of Kuda village under Saiko police station.Police have arrested three of the nine suspects from the same village from where the trio went missing on October 7 .“The beheaded bodies were recovered from a pit near Raba rivulet in a nearby forested area. Some villagers reportedly abducted the trio about 23 days ago after accusing them of practising witchcraft. We have arrested three people Soma Munda, Raghu Munda and Bishram Munda of the same village. The accused have confessed their complicity in the crime,” said Khunti superintendent of police Ashutosh Shekhar. He added that a manhunt has been launched to arrest other suspects including a local quack.The disappearance of the trio came to light on October 12 when Telani, a married daughter of the couple lodged a complaint with the police about her missing parents and younger sister, police said. She said that she along with her husband visited her parents’ house on October 8 but found the doors ajar. She said that none of the three members were at home.Telani said that she inquired about their whereabouts from neighbours but to no avail. After searching them at every possible location, she finally approached the police on October 12. She raised suspicion against a few villagers who allegedly abducted the trio due to some land dispute.Police said an initial search launched with dog squads failed to trace the abducted persons.Sources said that a woman of the same village had delivered a baby earlier this month but the infant died after a few days. A local quack informed the family that the death of the baby was due to witchcraft practiced by the deceased Birsa Munda’s family.Munda, his wife and daughter were found missing shortly after this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-in-jharkhand-allegedly-behead-3-of-family-for-practising-witchcraft/story-1aLg22Olk3xYGFqfIeVIgN.html
29-10-2020||India||Twitter tenders apology over Leh map fiasco: Report||Twitter has tendered a verbal apology before the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) constituted to review the data protection bill after Leh was shown as part of China during a live broadcast, according to news agency ANI. The panel had shown strong displeasure and asked Twitter to tender a written apology and submit an affidavit over the issue.The controversy came to the fore last week when a journalist started a live Twitter broadcast from a war memorial in Leh and realised that the location said People’s Republic of China. It also prompted the secretary of the ministry of electronics and information technology to write to Twitter’s chief executive Jack Dorsey to express the government’s disapproval of the move.The JPC had on Wednesday criticised representatives from Twitter for showing Leh as part of China and said that it amounts to an act of treason. It had raised legal issues regarding data protection as well. The committee also took into account instances of shadow-banning, taking down of accounts arbitrarily, lack of accountability and transparency when it comes to policies and data transfers and location of data centres.Also read | Committed to transparency, will share timely updates with govt: Twitter on geo-tagging issue“Leh being shown as a part of China can be construed as an act of treason and is punishable with unto seven years of imprisonment. The committee was unanimous in flagging the issue and expressed its stern disapproval,” chair of the committee Meenakshi Lekhi told Hindustan Times.However, Twitter had said it swiftly resolved the issue. “The recent geotagging issue was swiftly resolved by our teams. We are committed to openness, transparency around our work and will remain in regular touch with the government to share timely updates,” Twitter said in response to HT. It added that data privacy and protection are at the core of its products.“We thank the Parliamentary Committee for giving us an opportunity to share our views on the personal data protection bill. Privacy and data protection is at the core of our products and services that are designed to earn the trust of people who use them,” Twitter said. “Our focus is on working with governments across the world, including in India, to develop a forward-looking approach to regulation which is practical, realistic, feasible to implement, and takes into account the long-term impact on the wider digital ecosystem that protects the Open Internet and universal access.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-tenders-apology-over-leh-map-fiasco-report/story-XvFQuxemRbPH7FtRciZxSJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Local issues take centre stage as BJP defends Kumrahar seat||The Kumrahar assembly constituency in Patna has traditionally been known as the stronghold of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), but that tag is under a cloud in the ongoing three-phase Bihar polls. Though the BJP has stitched up the caste calculus and its traditional support base appears to be intact, localised issues could prove to be a stumbling block, despite the party’s recent feat such as the Bhoomipujan at Ayodhya for the construction of the long-pending Ram temple. Lack of development in the constituency is the overriding factor, but the BJP may still afford to be cautiously optimistic because of a lack of a strong candidate against its sitting lawmaker.But a tour of the constituency amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak gives a tell-tale glimpse of the broken civic infrastructure. Also read | Millions cast votes in Bihar under the shadow of Covid-19The roads in Kumrahar, which is located in the heart of the state capital Patna and boasts of the historic remains of the ancient city of Patliputra, including an 80-pillar hall of the Emperor Ashoka’s era, are in a pitiable condition. Drainage system is also in shambles, as development has been few and far between since the British colonial era. The open and filthy drain at Saidpur near Moin-ul-Haq Stadium at Rajendra Nagar has been a civic nuisance for local residents, who have to put up with the overpowering stench and mosquito menace. The roads have become death traps and several accidents have been reported from the neighbourhood. The public’s demand to cover and clean the drain has been falling on civic authorities’ deaf ears for years.Public parks and open spaces are also neglected. They have become safe havens for criminal and anti-social activities due to a lack of maintenance. The approach road to Bazaar Samiti, Bihar’s biggest wholesale market, which receives over two dozen truck loads of fruits and fish daily from West Bengal, Maharashtra, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Hyderabad and Karnataka, is in a mess. Basic civic amenities such as washrooms and drinking water are non-existent, much to the distress of thousands of wholesale fruit and fish market dealers and retailers, including women sellers. The state government has been found wanting in ensuring supply of water and the crisis aggravates every summer with unfailing regularity. Kumrahar residents are not spared of their annual monsoon woes, either. In September-October, 2019 Kumrahar had turned into an island after a burst of intense showers. Local residents remained cut off from the rest of Patna and spent a few harrowing days without food, electricity and water supplies. These civic issues may impact BJP candidate Arun Kumar Sinha’s poll prospects. Sinha is pitted against Dr Dharmendra Kumar of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Rajesh Ranjan Pappu of the Jan Adhikar Party (JAP). Kumrahar assembly constituency is a part of the Patna Sahib Lok Sabha constituency and comprises areas under Patna Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) wards 14 and from 16 to 22.Earlier, Kumrahar was a part Patna Central Assembly constituency, but was renamed in 2008 following the delimitation as per the Delimitation Act, 2002 and on the basis of the 2001 Census.The constituency is a treasure trove and boasts of several monuments and heritage sites tracing their origin to the ancient city of Patliputra.Several illustrious personalities from Bihar such as poet Ramdhari Singh Dinkar, novelist Phanishwar Nath Renu, folk singers, Vindhyavasini Devi and Padamshree Sharda Sinha, and dhrupad singer and Padmashree Pandit Siyaram Tiwari have all called the constituency their home at one point in time of their lives or the other.The total voter population of the constituency is 4,21,902, including 225328, 196539 and 35 males, females and third gender, respectively.Upper castes, comprising Kayasthas, Rajputs, Bhumihars and Brahmins, form a bulk of the constituency’s voters, but there is also a sizeable population of Yadavs, Chandravanshi, Dalits and Muslims. Over two dozen candidates are trying their luck at the hustings from Kumrahar, including Vivek Shankar, Amit Kumar and Vinod Kumar Pathak, who are fighting as independents, Ashok Kumar Keshri from the Rashtra Seva Dal and Suryakar Jeetendra from the Socialist Unity Centre Of India (Communist). Sinha, a three-time lawmaker, had won the seat in 2010, when he had defeated Kamal Parwez of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) by over 50% votes. In 2005, he had defeated Aquil Haider of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) by over 40% votes. However, in this election, many candidates are new entrants to politics.“The voters are yearning for a change. Though voters have supported the BJP for over a decade, there has been no development in the country. Worse, last year’s floods turned out to be a nightmare for local residents, as many had died of hunger and water-borne diseases. Our local legislator (Sinha) was missing in action amid the unfolding humanitarian crisis. Why will the public vote for him? We will vote for a party, which helps the public during floods,” said Yogesh Gupta, a young resident of Rajendra Nagar neighbourhood. Gupta alleged that Sinha, despite being a public representative, is aloof and seldom interacts with the public from his constituency. CM Agarwal, a businessman and a voter from the constituency, echoed Gupta. He said the majority of the local residents are unhappy with Sinha.“He was unapproachable, when the public needed him the most last year during the floods. Nobody was compensated for the loss of lives and property. A survey was all that was carried out, but no financial aid was distributed among the flood-affected. Upper caste voters are also seeking a change,” Agarwal said. Dr Amar Kumar Singh, another resident of Rajendra Nagar, said there is no alternative (TINA) factor that appears to be working in favour of Sinha since 2005. Dr Vinod Kumar, a resident of Sandalpur, and Udit Kumar, a yoga teacher from Kazipur neighbourhood, said most of the parties have failed to field strong candidates in Kumrahar. “Voters have no option, but to support the BJP,” they said. Rajeshwar Prasad Singh, a retired professor from Patna University, gave the BJP an outside chance because of a lack of a strong electoral contest. “Be that as it may, Sinha is never seen among his voters at any public function,” he said. However, Sinha rebuffed the allegations and maintained that several development works were undertaken by him. He cited the development of Premchand Rangshala and International level Science City as cases in point.“Many other projects such as an upgrade in Saidpur drainage facility and renovation of Bazaar Samiti are in the works,” he said. “Last year’s floods were a lesson for the state government. Fortunately, no such incident was reported this year,” he added. Pappu, the JAP candidate, said he deserved a chance to serve the people from the constituency. “We have proved how committed we are towards social service. The voters may still remember the way we had distributed food packets and water bottles during the floods and evacuated many of them to safer places. Now, it’s the payback time for the voters,” he said. “The voters of Kumrahar have given three chances to the BJP. Now, the JAP deserves a chance,” he added. Dr Kumar, a dentist and the RJD’s candidate, claimed that Kumrahar brought out Patna’s rear as far as development was concerned. “Besides thoroughfares, all roads and lanes in neighbourhoods are in a deplorable condition,” he said.He said, if he is elected he would resolve teething civic woes such water supply, roads and drainage facility at Saidpur.Kumarahar goes to polls on November 3 in the second phase of the elections. The third and the final phase will be on November 7.The election results will be declared on November 10. Kumrahar Assembly constituency (No 183): At a glance * Kumrahar assembly seat is a part of the Patna Sahib Lok Sabha constituency. * Comprises wards 14 and from 16 -22 of Patna Municipal Corporation. * Was a part Patna Central Assembly constituency * Became a separate assembly constituency in 2008 following the delimitation as per the Delimitation Act, 2002 and on the basis of the 2001 Census* Total number of voters: 4,21,902* Total number of male voters: 2,25,328* Total number of female voters: 1,96,539* Total number of third gender voters: 35* Upper castes, comprising Kayasthas, Rajputs, Bhumihars and Brahmins, form a bulk of the voters * Also a sizeable population of Yadavs, Chandravanshi, Dalits and Muslims. Key issues * Civic infrastructure woes such as pitiable road condition and poor drainage system * Public parks have become safe havens for criminal and anti-social elements*Bazaar Samiti, Patna’s main wholesale market, lacks washrooms, drinking water facilities and its approach road is also broken* Poor water supply||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-local-issues-take-centre-stage-as-bjp-defends-kumrahar-seat/story-3QBXYixisBlAAUBVTct7aL.html
29-10-2020||India||Narrow escape for 18 families as part of building collapses in Dombivli||Eighteen families living in a three-storey building in Dombivli, 41 km northeast of Mumbai, had a narrow escape as half of the structure collapsed early Thursday morning, police said.The families who were asleep rushed out of their rooms around 4 am as soon as the Maina Bittu Niwas building located at Charu Bhama Mhatre school, Kopar village, began to collapse. The residents who managed to escape before the major portion of the building collapsed claimed that as soon as they realized that the structure was cracking, they banged on each other’s doors and ran out. The building had 15 rooms and is 42-year-old according to the local civic body records. “Every family was asleep when the building started collapsing portion by portion. Initially it developed cracks and there was sound due to which residents woke up and rushed out. As soon as we left the building a major portion of it collapsed. There were children and senior citizens living in that portion,” said Sushmita Nagaral, 26, who lived in the building with her parents and younger sister. One fire tender of the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) fire department reached the spot around 4.30 am and helped the residents remove their belongings from the remaining portion of the building. “We received a call about the portion of the building collapsed and we rushed to the spot. The residents had already moved out from the building as there was no injury reported. Our team helped the residents remove as much as their belongings as they could,” said Jeevan Borade, fire officer. “Even when we tried removing our belongings the remaining portion was developing cracks and hence we could not pick up much of the belongings. The residents have now gone to their relatives’ places for shelter,” said Nagaral. KDMC officials claimed that notice regarding vacating the building was served to the owner. “We have started demolishing the remaining portion now. The building was unsafe and we had served notice to them to vacate it,” said Bharat Pawar, ward officer, KDMC. As per dangerous buildings list prepared by the civic body there are 187 extremely dangerous buildings and 284 dangerous buildings. The extremely dangerous buildings are more than 30 years old. In total there are 471 unsafe structures in KDMC limits. Earlier on September 21, 38 people died and 25 injured in a Gilani building collapse in Bhiwandi’s Damankar naka. That incident took place around 3.30 am while the residents were asleep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narrow-escape-for-18-families-as-part-of-building-collapses-in-dombivli/story-BG2KxctLX8DnexIW9NDB4N.html
29-10-2020||India||‘Demonstrate neutrality’: Congress welcomes Facebook’s India leadership change||The Congress on Wednesday asked Facebook to demonstrate its neutrality with a thorough revamp of its institutional processes, and also outline steps taken to curb the “spread of false, polarising and hate content” on its platform.It welcomed the change in Facebook India’s leadership team after the resignation of its head of policy, Ankhi Das, but added the matter will not be resolved by just changing one individual.The Congress in August wrote to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and called for an inquiry into a report suggesting the social media company was biased towards the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in censoring hate speech.In his letter, Congress general secretary KC Venugopal asked Zuckerberg to set up a high-level inquiry into the Facebook India leadership team and their operations and suggested the appointment of a new team to lead the India operations till the inquiry is completed.Also Read: Social media CEOs get earful on bias, warning of new limits“As India’s oldest political party that fought for the nation’s freedom and established electoral democracy through the adult franchise, it is deeply disturbing to note that your company may be a willing participant in thwarting the very rights and values that our founding leaders sacrificed their lives for,” he wrote.The Wall Street Journal report in August suggested Facebook was going easy on hate speeches by BJP members and triggered a controversy. The report cited interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders and claimed Das intervened in internal content review processes to stop a ban on BJP’s Telangana lawmaker Raja Singh, whose posts targeted the Muslim community. It said Das told staff members that punishing violations by BJP politicians would damage the company’s business prospects.On Wednesday, Venugopal said Facebook must ensure foolproof checks and balances, which cannot be tinkered by an individual’s whims and political leanings.“It must also outline the steps taken to curb false, polarising and hate news or content, spread rampantly on its platform, threatening India’s social harmony,” he added.The Congress had also demanded a joint parliamentary committee probe into the entire matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-welcomes-facebook-s-india-leadership-change-but-asks-it-demonstrate-neutrality/story-NBgDdnViFBLjwf5Vo7gVqJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Tension in Bagnan in Howrah as BJP calls for bandh after party worker is killed||The Bharatiya Janata Party in West Bengal has called for a 12-hour bandh in Howrah district’s Bagnan town on Thursday after a party worker was shot dead allegedly by goons backed by the ruling Trinamool Congress. Authorities have deployed large police contingents including RAF personnel and water-canons in the area to thwart any law and order violation. With tension brewing in the area, many shops remained closed. The BJP has brought out multiple small rallies. Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president in Bengal and member of Parliament Saumitra Khan is likely to reach Bagnan later in the day. Police said that Kinkar Majhi was shot at near his home in Bagnan on October 24. He succumbed at a Kolkata hospital on October 28. Police have arrested one person. While BJP alleged that Majhi was shot dead by TMC goons, the ruling party leaders said that the murder was the fallout of a property dispute and had nothing to do with politics. “There has been no effect of the bandh. Police will take action if any one tries to disrupt public life, violate law and break Covid-19 restrictions,” said Rana Mukherjee, additional superintendent of police of Howrah (rural). In some area scuffle and heated altercation broke out when police stopped BJP rallies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tension-in-bagnan-in-howrah-as-bjp-calls-for-bandh-after-party-worker-is-killed/story-hYpbrN2A4B5nF5PxFnZTlL.html
29-10-2020||India||Gold smuggling case: Kerala CM’s former secretary M Sivasankar remanded in ED custody for a week||Former secretary of Kerala CM M Sivasankar, who was arrested in connection with the gold smuggling case on Wednesday after his anticipatory bail petition was rejected by Kerala High Court, was remanded in Enforcement Directorate custody for a week on Thursday. The ED in its remand report said that he was made the fifth accused in money laundering case related to gold smuggling. He was aware of main accused Swapna Suresh’s smuggling activities, the agency said.On Wednesday, he was detained from the Ayurveda hospital where he was admitted for treatment. When Sivasankar got hospitalised, the customs said he was pretending illness to escape grilling by the agencies.Once a very powerful bureaucrat, Sivasankar fell from grace after his name got linked to the gold smuggling case that surfaced on July 5. As much as 30 kg of yellow metal was seized by the customs from a package camouflaged as diplomatic consignment addressed to the UAE consulate.Earlier, the ED had claimed that there were attempts to bail Swapna Suresh out after the seizure of gold hidden in a bag camouflaged as a diplomatic baggage that came to the UAE consulate in the state capital. The agency has also accused Sivasankar of helping the main accused in money laundering. But Sivasankar told the court that he had been grilled for more than 90 hours and none of the agencies could implicate him in the case.A multi-agency team comprising NIA, ED, DRI, Customs and Income Tax is probing the case and 32 people have been arrested so far. There are reports that smuggling was going on for more than a year through the UAE consulate and they smuggled at least 400 kg gold in several consignments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-smuggling-case-kerala-cm-s-former-secretary-m-sivasankar-remanded-in-ed-custody-for-a-week/story-c2Twt7swsQKQn0MrNZbIiO.html
29-10-2020||India||NDA always welcoming, we have never abandoned our allies: BJP chief JP Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda has said the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has never abandoned its allies and that they are always welcoming and accommodating.“[Bihar chief minister] Nitish [Kumar] will remain our leader [in the state], and we will form the government under his leadership, come what may,” Nadda said in an interview with HT amid speculation that the BJP may want to have its own chief minister in the event it gets more seats than Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), or JD(U). Nadda said Kumar will be NDA’s chief minister even if the latter’s party gets fewer seats than the BJP.Replying to a question on the exit of two of the BJP’s oldest allies, the Shiv Sena, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), from the NDA, Nadda said they had their own reasons for leaving. “In Maharashtra, it was a dhokha [betrayal]. Our ally [Shiv Sena] deceived us for seats...they realised at the last minute that they [Shiv Sena] want the chief ministership.”Also read | RJD talks of giving jobs to 1 mn people, but many more have left the state during its regime, says NaddaShiv Sena quit the NDA to form the government in Maharashtra with the help of BJP’s arch-rivals, Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party. The SAD parted ways over the farm laws passed in September, citing the interests of farmers.Nadda insisted Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed to farmers and to the people. “They [Akali Dal] participated in all the decision-making process; they were with us when the Cabinet took a decision. [SAD leaders] Parkash Singh Badal, Sukhbir, and Harsimrat Kaur Badal all gave statements supporting the farm bills, but later under the pressure of Congress, they decide to part ways with us. We have been asking them to explain how we are anti- farmers and they pro-farmer, but they have not been able to do so.”Nadda said they wanted the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which is contesting the Bihar polls separately and has been attacking Nitish Kumar while praising BJP, to be with them. “…but then every party has its targets and ambitions and they have the right to worry about the growth and scope, so they went away. We tried to adjust them, but after all, we had only 121 seats where we had to accommodate them, and the BJP has to worry about retaining its culture and character. We tried to adjust, but it could not be done.”Nadda rejected the view that the LJP was attacking Kumar at the BJP’s behest. “Not at all. At every meeting that I am holding with the leaders of the JD (U), VIP [Vikassheel Insaan Party] and HAM(S) [Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular)], I have stated clearly that the LJP is not our ally. We have made that clear in letter and spirit. We have specified clearly there is no divisive strategy; if anyone is doing so, he is trying to mislead the people.”He disagreed with the view about his party’s growing distance with its allies as there is not a single non-BJP minister in the Union Cabinet at the moment. “Not at all. We have a regular dialogue between allies. Before Parliament sessions, there is an NDA meeting. I personally have meetings with all leaders of our alliance partners at frequent intervals. We give them respect as NDA partners.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-always-welcoming-we-have-never-abandoned-our-allies-bjp-chief-jp-nadda/story-ZLuJp3ivxERLio5YQrDYqK.html
29-10-2020||India||Congress mocked our armed forces, questioned their valour, says BJP chief JP Nadda||Referring to a speech by a Pakistani parliamentarian claiming that Islamabad, fearing an attack from New Delhi, was forced to release Indian Air Force pilot Abhinandan Varthaman who was captured in February last year by the Pakistani army, Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda on Thursday lashed out against the Congress for “mocking the armed forces”.In a tweet, Nadda said the speech should dispel the notions that the Congress has about the valour of the armed forces. “Congress’ princeling does not believe anything Indian, be it our Army, our Government, our Citizens. So, here is something from his ‘Most Trusted Nation’, Pakistan. Hopefully now he sees some light...” he tweeted. The comment was a jibe at Congress MP Rahul Gandhi.Also read | ‘We don’t believe in abandoning allies’, says BJP chief JP NaddaIn a separate tweet, Nadda said, “Congress Party premised its entire campaign around keeping our armed forces weak. They mocked our armed forces, questioned their valour and tried every trick to ensure India doesn’t get latest Rafale Planes. The people India rejected such politics and punished Congress.”While the Congress had alleged irregularities in the purchase of the Rafale fighter jets, and demanded that the government should be transparent about the Chinese intrusion in Ladakh, the BJP has accused the opposition party of lowering the morale of the forces. The Pakistani MP’s video, the BJP said, lends credence to India’s muscular policy towards Pakistan and to its policy of zero tolerance for terror. In the video shared by Nadda, Pakistan Muslim League-N (PML-N) leader Ayaz Sadiq, while speaking in the National Assembly, is heard saying that their Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had pointed out at an important meeting that if Pakistan did not release Abhinandan Varthaman, India would attack Pakistan “that night by 9 pm.”Varthaman’s plane had ventured into Pakistani airspace during a dog-fight; he was later released in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mocked-our-armed-forces-questioned-their-valour-says-bjp-chief-jp-nadda/story-xxXPhnP2OGIvfiOW9cssOP.html
29-10-2020||India||‘Hopefully now he sees some light’: JP Nadda takes a jab at Rahul Gandhi over IAF’s Abhinandan||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Thursday criticised Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and his party over what he said what their attitude towards the Indian Army, government and the country’s citizens. He used a video of Pakistan Muslim League-N (PML-N) leader Ayaz Sadiq video talking about Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot Abhinandan Varthaman, who was released after he landed in Pakistani custody in February last year after a dogfight between Indian and Pakistani pilots.“Congress’ princeling does not believe anything Indian, be it our Army, our Government, our Citizens. So, here is something from his ‘Most Trusted Nation’, Pakistan. Hopefully now he sees some light...” Nadda tweeted.“Congress Party premised it’s entire campaign around keeping our armed forces weak. They mocked our armed forces, questioned their valour and tried every trick to ensure India doesn’t get latest Rafale Planes. The people India rejected such politics and punished Congress,” the BJP leader added as he also posted the video of Sadiq. Congress’ princeling does not believe anything Indian, be it our Army, our Government, our Citizens. So, here is something from his ‘Most Trusted Nation’, Pakistan. Hopefully now he sees some light... pic.twitter.com/shwdbkQWaiPML-N leader Ayaz Sadiq had claimed on Wednesday that the Imran Khan government had abruptly released Abhinandan Varthaman, fearing an attack by India. Sadid in his speech in the National Assembly said that foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had pointed out that if Pakistan did not release Abhinandan Varthaman, India would attack Pakistan “that night by 9pm.”He told opposition leaders that Qureshi in a meeting with the parliamentary leaders, including PPP and PML-N and Pakistan army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa, had asked for Abhinandan to be released. “I remember Shah Mahmood Qureshi was in the meeting which Imran Khan had refused to attend and Chief of Army Staff General Bajwa came into the room, his legs were shaking and he was perspiring. Foreign Minister said for God’s sake let Abhinandan go, India’s about to attack Pakistan at 9pm,” Sadiq said while speaking in Urdu.Wing Commander Varthaman had shot down a Pakistani aircraft F-16, which had transgressed into the Indian airspace during a dog fight between Indian and Pakistani air force in February 2019. His plane had crossed over to the Pakistani side and was shot down. He was returned to India on March 1 that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hopefully-now-he-sees-some-light-jd-nadda-takes-a-jab-at-rahul-gandhi-over-iaf-s-abhinandan/story-HagcdBnVB5cEW0lKafc9uJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Green Delhi mobile app to be launched today: All you need to know||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will launch the Green Delhi mobile application, which will enable users to register complaints about violation of anti-pollution norms, on Thursday. Due to deterioration of air quality in the National Capital Region (NCR) with the onset of winter, the government has released a seven-point action plan to fight air pollution and the launch of this application is a part of the same plan.Here is all you need to know about the Green Delhi mobile application:1. On October 6, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal announced an action plan to fight air pollution. The government’s “Yudh Pradushan Ke Virudh” campaign, along with dust-control strategies, a tree transplantation policy and schemes to encourage electric vehicles, included the launch of the Green Delhi app.2. The app will be launched by CM Kejriwal with the motive of curbing air pollution in the national capital region.3. Users will be able to upload photos and videos of instances of anti-pollution norms violation along with their complaints on the app.4. On Tuesday, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai held a review meeting with officials of the police and public works departments, Delhi Development Authority, the National Highways Authority of India, the three municipal corporations, the New Delhi Municipal Council, the revenue and the environment departments to discuss the grievance redressal mechanism in connection with the app.5. A statement issued by Gopal Rai’s office said that failure to address the issue on time will result in action against the concerned nodal officers.6. “The nodal officers are provided training to address issues. Through the Green Delhi application, people will be able to notify the government about burning waste, industrial pollution, dust, etc, by registering complaints online,” the statement said.7. Meanwhile, the Union environment ministry published “The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Area Ordinance” on Thursday with the objective of implementing an approach to monitoring, tackling and eliminating causes of air pollution in Delhi-NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-delhi-mobile-app-to-be-launched-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-8KjNM7nvT7TH58qNE1JX0M.html
29-10-2020||India||RJD talks of giving jobs to 1 mn people, but many more have left the state during its regime: Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda has defended their criticism of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)’s promise of one million government jobs when his party has spoken of 1.9 million jobs, saying their main rivals in Bihar do not have the vision to deliver on the promise. He said the RJD does not understand governance, and that is why they come out with such statements.In an interview with HT, Nadda said job creation does not take place in a vacuum and called it a holistic exercise. “You need law and order—the RJD in this aspect is compromised. You need infrastructure—for which you [RJD] do not have a vision. And then comes investment, but you [RJD] do not have confidence in yourself, and people do not have confidence looking at your background,” he said, referring to RJD’s 15-year rule in Bihar.He called migration RJD’s USP. “You talk of giving jobs to 10 lakh [one million] people, but I say in response that many more people have left the state during your regime. [RJD chief] Laluji [Prasad] used to say, ‘people leave Bihar in a torn pair of pants and come back in a suit and a tie’. They now say they will give government jobs; we said we will create opportunities for 19 lakh [1.9 million] jobs.”Also read | ‘We don’t believe in abandoning allies’, says BJP chief JP NaddaNadda disagreed with the view that RJD’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav, who is drawing large crowds to his election meetings, is untested unlike chief minister Nitish Kumar and Lalu Prasad. “Who says he has not been assessed? Did he attend the budget session [of the Bihar assembly] even once in 2019? Where was he during the [Covid-19] lockdown? When Tej Pratap [Yadav, Tejashwi’s brother] was the health minister, what did he do? He did not even get off his horse. Their character has not changed, and nor has their mentality,” said Nadda.He underlined a leader has to go through the paces. “The problem with many of these people is that they have not struggled on the ground; they have never been part of agitations, and therefore do not understand the real problems of the people. They sit in drawing rooms and decide slogans, and are surrounded by so-called master strategists. They have not struggled on the ground, and therefore the level of arrogance has not reduced.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-talks-of-giving-jobs-to-1-mn-poeple-many-more-left-during-their-regime-bjp-chief-nadda/story-vuMc2ly2Vvaw1NaMXRL9hI.html
29-10-2020||India||BSP’s Mayawati suspends 7 rebel MLAs, day after they met Akhilesh Yadav||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Thursday suspended seven rebel legislators of the party, who had opposed the nomination of its official candidate Ramji Gautam for the elections to the Rajya Sabha. The seven MLAs include Chaudhary Aslam Ali, Hakim Lal Bind, Mohammad Mujtaba Siddiqui, Aslam Raini, Sushma Patel, Hargovind Bhargava and Bandana Singh.The rebels had also met Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday, triggering a speculation that they might jump ship. Four of them had also filed an affidavit, saying their signatures on the nomination of the BSP’s national coordinator and Bihar in-charge Ramji Gautam’s nomination for the Rajya Sabha elections had been “forged”. However, the returning officer accepted Gautam’s nomination as the BSP candidate for the November 9 elections for the 10 Uttar Pradesh seats that are falling vacant.Also read | 8 BJP candidates file nomination in UP; Varanasi lawyer springs surprise by filing papers at last minuteMayawati’s party had on Monday fielded Ramji Gautam for the Rajya Sabha elections even though it did not have the number to ensure his victory. The BSP leaders had indicated they expected the other non-BJP parties to support his candidature, Altogether, 11 candidates, including eight from the BJP, have filed their papers for the 10 Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh going to the polls in the biennial elections.Out of these 10 Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh that are falling vacant, three were earlier held by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), four by the SP, two by the BSP and one by the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-s-mayawati-suspends-7-rebel-mlas-day-after-they-met-akhilesh-yadav/story-lp004xLHwiG88z9sEMIpPO.html
29-10-2020||India||Fire at Jammu airport damages ticket counters||A fire broke out at the ticketing counters of the Jammu Airport around 3 am on Thursday, police said.No loss of life or injury was reported in the incident. “A fire broke out at the ticket counters due to short circuit around 3 am. At least five fire tenders of the IAF and fire and emergency services department were immediately pressed into service to extinguish it,” Station House Officer (SHO) of Satwari police station, inspector Nishant Gupta said. He said that it took around 45 minutes for the firefighters to extinguish the blaze. Pravat Ranjan Beuria, director of the Jammu Airport, said, “The fire broke out at a ticket counter and it was brought under control within an hour. Flights are operating as per their schedule. There is no impact on the flights”.“We have given an incident report to the police. Damage to the counters will be taken care of by insurance companies. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-at-jammu-airport-damages-ticket-counters/story-J0Dw4p97o3XfYPXRlQfRPK.html
29-10-2020||India||Isro to launch earth observation, nine commercial satellites in November||The Indian Space Research Organisation will launch an Indian earth observation satellite and nine commercial satellites in the afternoon of November 7.This will be the first launch of 2020 from India’s only spaceport in Sriharikota, Andhra Pradesh.“India’s Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle in its 51st mission, will launch EOS-01 as a primary satellite along with nine international customer satellites from Satish Dhawan Space Centre. The launch is tentatively scheduled at 1502 hours IST on November 07, 2020, subject to weather conditions,” a statement from the space agency said.The only other Indian satellite launched this year was the heavy-communication satellite GSAT 30, which was launched from Kourou, French Guiana, by the commercial launcher Arianespace.Also Read: Isro, Nasa satellite NISAR scheduled to be launched by 2022A scheduled launch of an earth imaging satellite in March was postponed and did not take place because of the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.The pandemic has hampered several big-ticket projects that were planned for 2020 and the next year. India was to launch its first solar mission in the first half of the year; a third lunar mission with just the lander and the rover was also to take place either in the end of 2020 or the first half of the next year.The human spaceflight programme, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Independence day speech in 2018, was to attempt its first unmanned human-rated vehicle launch in December 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-to-launch-earth-observation-nine-commercial-satellites-in-november/story-BRz1cBgawpQxMTaP6F0SLI.html
29-10-2020||India||Air pollution: Centre issues ordinance to form new commission to replace EPCA||The union environment ministry has published “The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Area Ordinance” on Thursday for air pollution control in Delhi-NCR. The commission has an objective of implementing a consolidated approach to monitoring, tackling and eliminating causes of air pollution in Delhi-NCR by coordinating with state governments.The commission will be a statutory authority that will replace the 22-year-old Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) which has introduced several important interventions to control pollution. Among their most significant intervention was converting all public transport in Delhi to compressed natural gas (CNG) in 1998, phasing out polluting fuels like pet coke and furnace oil from industries and imposing pollution charge on old polluting trucks.The commission will have appropriate powers which can act against air pollution on a war footing and will coordinate with the NCR states and central government. It will have the power to issue directions to various statutory authorities established under various laws. The ordinance says that based on court orders, various ad hoc committees like the EPCA were formed to assist courts in implementation of its orders but the new commission may subsume them.Also read | Noida: 33% in an online survey says rules are not effectively implemented to contain air pollutionThe ordinance says that due to absence of an inter-sectoral, public participative, multi-state body, the SC has had to devote “its precious time in constituting various ad hoc and permanent committees at various stages,” and it has been supervising and guiding the air pollution problem in NCR through the MC Mehta Vs Union of India case.The new commission, however, will function completely under the aegis and supervision of the central government. It will have members from all NCR states and the Central Pollution Control Board; from associated ministries like petroleum and natural gas, agriculture, commerce etc. The commission will have powers to take decisions and act against pollution sources under various environmental laws, like the environment protection act and air act.A senior environment ministry official confirmed that the ordinance will be submitted to Supreme Court on Thursday.“Its a good thing that has happened. Government of India is serious about air pollution now. We welcome the ordinance. We will issue a statement soon,” said Bhure Lal, head, EPCA. “There are several concerns with this ordinance, starting with the fact that legal and regulatory changes to tackle public issues like air pollution need a democratic conceptualisation. At the outset it is clear that the central government has taken control over the pollution control matters in the Delhi NCR region. This starts with the fact that the chairperson of this commission is a central government-appointee. The commission will be heavily dominated by bureaucrats, to whom the legal frameworks gives various powers. The enforcement mechanism is clearly top down and so far there is no indication that it will include third party monitoring and citizen-driven enforcement,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research, about the ordinance.“One important issue is limiting the adjudication to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and not any other court. This is problematic as the appointments of the Chairperson and Members of both the Commission and the NGT will be led by the MoEFCC. Also, the ordinance cannot take away the powers of courts to adjudicate on matters related to pollution. The new ordinance will BE yet another distraction, just like the government’s previous attempts with action plans or appointment to new members to the EPCA. It does not address the root causes and legacy of pollution control and abatement in the country. Almost all contributing sectors have these, and need to be built in to any new strategy to address pollution in the NCR. We have to move away from treating pollution as a mere technocratic and legal matter,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-ordinance-to-form-new-commission-to-replace-sc-mandated-epca/story-nWagkwXA33KzD42FbWsTFN.html
29-10-2020||India||With 49,881 new Covid-19 cases, India’s tally crosses 8 million; 8,040,203 cases thus far||India’s tally of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease on Thursday crossed the eight million mark as the country logged nearly 50,000 new infections in the last 24 hours, taking its tally to 8,040,203, according to the Union health ministry’s data.However, the number of cases in the last 24 hours--49,881--mark a significant increase on the 36,470 cases reported two days ago, which was the lowest daily infection count the country had logged since 34,884 on July 18. In the previous spike, meanwhile, there were 43,893 infections.(Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)Number of recoveries rose by 56,480 to reach 7,315,989 or 90.85% of total cases. Active cases fell by 7,116 and are at 603,687 or 7.64% of the caseload. The death toll, meanwhile, rose to 120,527 or 1.50% of the total tally, with 517 fatalities in the last 24 hours.The fresh surge in cases comes as the national capital of Delhi is witnessing a rapid increase in infections in the last few days. On Wednesday, Delhi reported over 5,000 cases for the first time, with 5,673 infections taking the Capital’s Covid-19 tally to 370,014. This was the second straight day Delhi logged its highest single-day cases, after 4,853 on Tuesday.(Read: With 5,673 new coronavirus cases, Delhi records its highest single-day spike)The health ministry pointed out on Thursday that India’s average count of daily deaths due to the coronavirus disease has been declining in the last six weeks. There were 615 daily deaths, on average, from October 21-27 for the sixth week, the ministry said.Also on Thursday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said it had tested a total of 106,563,440 samples thus far for Covid-19, with 1,075,760 samples being tested on October 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-49-881-new-covid-19-cases-india-s-tally-crosses-8-million-8-040-203-cases-thus-far/story-ShTmSxbXrsXUS8uKzDcVDO.html
29-10-2020||India||Varanasi police bust IPL betting racket, arrest 10 men||Ten people were arrested from two different places of Varanasi in the past two days for betting on IPL cricket matches, police said. Six people were arrested from Teliyana area of Lohta on Wednesday while four others were arrested from Lanka area on Tuesday, police said. Seven mobile phones, an ATM card, a purse and Rs 27,910 in cash were seized from the accused picked up from Teliyana while Rs 1.90 lakh was found with those arrested from Lanka area, police said.Lohta police station officer Vishwanath Pratap Singh said police raided the house of one Brijesh Kumar Gupta where Jai Prakash Patel, Santosh Kumar Maurya, Vikas Singh, Chunnu Kanaujia, Vikki Prajapati were caught placing bets on IPL match featuring Sunrisers Hyderabad and Delhi Capitals.He claimed Gupta was running the betting racket. A case has been registered against all six persons who have been sent to jail, he said.Four persons were arrested from the Lanka area of the city on Tuesday night. They were identified as Ankit Singh, Sanjay Tiwari, Adarsh Kumar Singh, and Anil Patel, police inspector Lanka police station, Mahesh Pandey said. He said that the accused were produced in a court which sent them to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varanasi-police-bust-ipl-betting-racket-arrest-10-men/story-PPzaY7KGeizMqcbzC30iIP.html
29-10-2020||India||Nadda says ground beneath Mamata Banerjee’s feet slipping, BJP will form next government in West Bengal||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda has said the ground beneath West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s feet is slipping and they will see to it that they form the next government in the state as the people have decided to say goodbye to her.“The BJP, as a responsible party, has to see to it that we convert those sentiments into votes and for that, with full attention and intention, we are working on the ground,” Nadda said in an interview to HT.Also Read: ‘We don’t believe in abandoning allies’, says BJP chief JP NaddaWest Bengal, where the BJP has gone from strength to strength, is due to go to the polls next year. In the 2019 national elections, the party’s vote share increased to over 40% from a mere 2% in the 2011 assembly polls. The BJP won 18 out of West Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha seats to emerge as the second-largest party after the ruling Trinamool Congress in the state. It currently has just 16 lawmakers in the 294-member West Bengal assembly. Nadda rejected the view that the BJP is encouraging and benefitting from religious polarisation in the state. He added Banerjee has not lost support because of polarisation, but because “of misgovernance, non-delivery, and cheating the people of the state”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-says-ground-beneath-mamata-banerjee-s-feet-slipping-bjp-will-form-next-government-in-west-bengal/story-B3Gt0ppfAo1VZ7CTKQxuAN.html
29-10-2020||India||Maharashtra golden-backed frog found in Sahyadri Tiger Reserve||Wildlife researchers have documented the presence of the Maharashtra golden-backed frog (Indosylvirana caesari) for the first time from the Sahyadri Tiger Reserve (STR) in the Western Ghats.The unique species was identified earlier this week near a remote waterfall by Wildlife Crime Control Bureau member Rohan Bhate and wildlife researcher Hemant Kenjale during a study tour to explore the reserve’s biodiversity.“There has been very little research and hardly any information available about these species, their reproduction, and other scientific evidence. The amphibian was earlier reported at Amboli, Sindhudurg. However, the recent identification across steep slopes of STR and across waterfalls in some remote areas during the post-monsoon months of September October is crucial for species identification, habitat, and range,” said Bhate.Endemic to the Western Ghats, the rare species is one of the six species of golden-backed frogs (four from Kerala and one each from Karnataka and Maharashtra) discovered by a team of biologists led by Delhi-based amphibian researcher Satyabhama Das Biju and his team in 2014 in the Western Ghats. Of these, the Maharashtra golden-backed frog was found in Amboli and Sindhudurg. The species was named after wildlife photographer and well-known pathologist Caesar Sengupta.“The Maharashtra golden-backed frog differs from other members of its group based on characteristic features of its body and the sharper golden colour on its back,” said Bhate. “STR is home to countless such wildlife treasures that are yet to be discovered.”Also read | Authorities bust pangolin smuggling racket in Satara, 6 arrestedForest officials said prior to this in 2011-12, the Maharashtra Forest Department, International Union for Conservation of Nature’s Amphibian Specialist Group, Sanctuary Asia, and Lost Amphibians of India launched a major project on extinct lost amphibians in India. Following this, there were reports of the species documented near Vasota Fort in Satara in 2013. “In order to update our 10-year management plan of STR, the department has undertaken studies to identify, review, and further explore the endemic flora, fauna, and other biodiversity of STR,” said STR field director Samadhan Chavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-golden-backed-frog-found-in-sahyadri-tiger-reserve/story-zc8RwOzpYtWM63yoQVcUzO.html
29-10-2020||India||Hanuman langurs abandoning leaves for processed bread, peanuts, finds DST study||A new study funded by the Department of Science and Technology on hanuman langurs (semnopithecus entellus) used widely to scare off monkeys in cities found that they have started developing a taste for urban food, particularly bread and processed peanuts. Their primary natural diet is leaves.The yet-to-be-published paper traces the urban adaptation of langurs coexisting with humans. The study also pointed out that langurs are very thoughtful about their food selection, which is independent of human interferences and scarcity of natural food items, according to a note on the department’s website. Union science minister Harsh Vardhan also tweeted the findings of the study.Also read | Climate change may cause 26% habitat loss for snow trout in Himalayan rivers: StudyThe species is folivorous (herbivore that eats leaves) but they have developed a taste for processed foods. The study could provide important insights into the adaptation of non-human primates for their conservation, better management, and policy-making to develop a sustainable urban ecosystem, the department said.Manabi Paul from the Department of Environmental Science, University of Calcutta, headed the study on behavioral adaptations of urbanized non-human primates whose habitat ranges overlap with human settlements. “The findings have not been published in a journal yet. We will share the paper as soon as it is out,” she said.Her team conducted 83 field-based experiments across West Bengal between December 2018 and March 2020 to understand the feeding pattern of these folivorous colobines (a subfamily of the old-world monkey family) who have a multipartite stomach that facilitates the fermentation of leafy diet.The experiments have been interpreted by mathematical modeling to understand the feeding preferences of these free-ranging non-human primates within an urban ecosystem.“They are extremely adaptable creatures. Yes, their natural diet is leaves but they have adapted very well to co-exist with humans. Similarly with rhesus macaques, who are frugivorous but now eat urban human food. This only shows how adaptable langurs are. Eating such foods are not good for them in the long run because they develop various diseases and tend to become obese. In many places humans feed them urban foods,” said Sindhu Radhakrishna, professor, National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hanuman-langurs-abandoning-leaves-for-processed-bread-peanuts-finds-dst-study/story-fKovjoK1OGQ0MpTCuYGQVI.html
29-10-2020||India||Ahead of MP bypolls Congress ‘charge sheet’ alleges 17 scams in 7 months||The Congress unit in Madhya Pradesh released a “charge sheet” on Wednesday in the run-up to the assembly bypolls for 28 seats alleging there have been at least 17 scams in the short tenure of just seven months of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government so far.Senior Congress leaders Ajay Singh, Arun Yadav and Sajjan Singh Verma released the “charge sheet”.It claims there was a scam in distribution of wheat flour packets among the migrant labourers during the lockdown period. Lakhs of packets were to be distributed in Gwalior. However, when packets were checked 6 to 8 kg of wheat flour was found less in each of the packets.The charge sheet also alleges that despite the government’s claim that it distributed packets of Ayurvedic powder among crores of people in the state to help them fight against Covid-19, the packets were not delivered to most of the houses. Other scams are related to liquor MRP, massive transfers, ration, electricity bills, PPE kits, mid-day meal etc. “The scams mentioned in the charge-sheet are the ones which were committed in the present tenure of the BJP. People have not forgotten the mega scams like Vyapam, e-tendering, tree plantation and many more which were committed during the BJP’s previous rule of 15 years,” said Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta.The BJP dismissed the Congress “charge sheet” as “bogus”.BJP spokesperson in Madhya Pradesh Rajneesh Agrawal said, “The charge sheet released by the Congress is absolutely baseless and bogus. The Congress leaders who released the charge sheet are undergoing a political exile in the Congress headed by Kamal Nath in Madhya Pradesh. The fact is the charge sheet against the Congress is imprinted in the mind of voters who would pronounce their judgment on November 3, the date of polling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-mp-bypolls-congress-charge-sheet-alleges-17-scams-in-7-months/story-Xf3h0p3WiK5wdzxRnlCxHI.html
29-10-2020||India||NIA raids in terror-funding case at Srinagar, Delhi continue for 2nd day||The National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) raids in a case pertaining to funding of NGOs and trusts from India and abroad for secessionist and terror activities in Jammu and Kashmir continued for the second day on Thursday. Raids were conducted in nine places in Srinagar and Delhi belonging to six NGOs and trusts.Former Delhi minorities commission chairman Zafarul Islam Khan was among those being raided by the agency on Thursday.On Wednesday, the NIA conducted searches at 10 locations in Srinagar and Bandipora and at one location in Bangalore in connection with the case. The office of Greater Kashmir newspaper and the residence of human rights activist Khurram Parvaiz in Sonwar were among the places raided by the agency.The offices of NGO Athrout were also raided and a case to probe into its fund-raising activities was registered. Hawala racket, misappropriation of funds and terror funding are some of the allegations against these NGOs, officials said on Wednesday.Meanwhile, People’s Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti condemned the raids and called them a “vicious crackdown on dissent.” “NIA raids on human rights activist Khurram Parvez & Greater Kashmir office in Srinagar is yet another example of GOIs vicious crackdown on freedom of expression & dissent. Sadly, NIA has become BJPs pet agency to intimidate & browbeat those who refuse to fall in line,” she tweeted on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-raids-in-terror-funding-case-at-9-places-in-srinagar-delhi-continue/story-OJEoY542lEtfZPrxfKUgIN.html
29-10-2020||India||UP pushes for cow dung diyas this Diwali, income to be used for cow shelters||Amid heaps of cow dung at Lucknow’s Kanha Upavan – a cow shelter maintained by Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) – many women are busy passing solidified cow waste through a grinding machine to prepare a fine powder.The powdered cow dung is then processed, mixed with herbal premix to prepare biodegradable lamps which the state’s Gau Seva Ayog or the cow welfare commission intends to promote in the run up to Diwali – a move which it feels could help generate income for 531 registered cow shelters. Not all of these registered cow shelters are fully functional and the Ayog has ordered a reality check for these animal shelter homes. The big promotion for these diyas (earthen lamps) prepared from cow dung, would happen just ahead of the festival of lights, when the Ayog plans to light one lakh diyas at Lucknow’s Jhoole Lal Vatika on the banks of river Gomti. An even bigger push could come at Ayodhya’s Deepotsav.“If all works out as per our plan, possibly this year we could even have chief minister Adityanath ji celebrating Deepotsav in Ayodhya with cow-dung lamps. We are in talks with Awadh University that organises Deepotsav,” said Shiv Om Gangwar, the officer on special duty (OSD) with the Ayog. The Gau Seva Ayog, headed by UP BJP veteran Shyam Nandan Singh, has already written to the chief minister, his ministers as well as BJP lawmakers to help popularise cow-dung based products that include idols of Laxmi and Ganesha which are worshipped on Diwali. The Ayog would send some cow-dung based products, including diyas and idols to the chief minister, his ministers and a few important temples. “In fact, we have also written to all major temples, trusts and other religious places to use these products which we believe have a great potential in not just generating income for cow shelters but also in ensuring cleanliness. Moreover, being biodegradable, these lamps and idols can also be used as manure after use,” said Singh. The cost of a cow-dung diya would come around Rs 2, though designer ones would cost more. “The demand for these products is gradually growing,” Singh said. Sahkar Bharti, a co-operative wing of the RSS, is also engaged in the exercise to promote cow-dung based products.“Across the state more than 4,000 self-help groups (SHGs) are preparing 3 crores plus diyas while in Lucknow and adjoining districts alone more than 2,000 women are busy preparing not just diyas but festive buntings and various other things,” said Laxman Patra, an office-bearer with Sahkar Bharti. There are nearly 4 lakh abandoned cattle in temporary shelters across the state, say officials of the animal husbandry directorate. As per the 2012 animal census, there are around 1.9 crore cows in Uttar Pradesh and the Ayog feels that for proper upkeep of animals, cow shelters would have to become self-sustainable. The Adityanath government had also announced a cow safari project in Barabanki which is basically intended to be a one-stop-centre for production and marketing of all cow-related projects.Around 15,000 to 25,000 stray cattle will be kept at the safari to be developed also as a pilgrimage point for Hindus who can have a ‘darshan’ of a variety of milch cows at one place, UP officials said.However, the project announced last year is yet to fully take off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-pushes-for-cow-dung-diyas-this-diwali-income-to-be-used-for-cow-shelters/story-96Bap2WRZDhq6gXFcO1yUN.html
29-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Southwest monsoon has withdrawn; northeast monsoon has commenced, says IMD and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Southwest monsoon has withdrawn; northeast monsoon has commenced: IMDMonsoon withdrew from the country on Wednesday (October 28) after a delay of 13 days, as compared to October 15, its normal cut-off date. The country recorded 7% of excess rainfall between October 1 and 28. Read moreWhat Mike Pompeo’s attack on China tells us about India’s new approachChinese diplomats in New Delhi and Beijing went on overdrive on Wednesday, launching sharp counterattacks on the United States after secretary of state Mike Pompeo promised to support India in its confrontation with China after the India-US 2+2 strategic dialogue. Read moreSocial distancing goes for a toss at Delhi’s markets in festive seasonA security guard with a face shield screened with a thermal scanner every visitor entering a popular saree shop at the Lajpat Nagar central market and limited the number of clients to 10 at any given point of time, diligently keeping count on a register. Read more‘If he’s unwell, what is he doing inside the stadium,’ Virender Sehwag questions Rohit Sharma’s omission from Australia tourRohit Sharma’s injury has become a huge topic of discussion after the Indian opener was not included in the squads for India’s upcoming tour of Australia. While there has been no clarity or statement about the nature of his injury from his IPL franchise Mumbai Indians, the BCCI in its official release for the squad announcement had mentioned that Rohit and fast bowler Ishant Sharma will be monitored by the board’s medical team. Read moreAmeesha Patel says she feared for her life on Bihar campaign trail: ‘I could have been raped and killed’Actor Ameesha Patel has said that she feared for her life while campaigning for an LJP candidate in Bihar recently. Ameesha said that her experience was like a ‘nightmare’. The actor had said that she had no choice but to ‘play along’ till she safely reached Mumbai, and even after returning, received ‘threatening’ phone calls. The leader, Lok Janshakti Party’s Prakash Chandra, has denied the allegations. Read moreRecall woes grow for Toyota, 5.8 million units potentially affected worldwideToyota is adding 1.5 million US vehicles to recalls from early this year to fix fuel pumps that can fail and cause engines to stall. The company says the latest recall brings the total to 5.8 million Toyota and Lexus brand vehicles that need to be repaired worldwide. Read moreNASA’s ‘Pumpkin Space Latte’ pic taken from space shows this place. Can you name it?“Wow, it’s incredible,” that’s probably what you’ll be inclined to say for this “pumpkin space latte” picture shared by NASA. Taken from space, this amazingly stunning picture shows a place on Earth. Can you name it, though? Read moreIPL 2020: Mumbai Indians beat Royal Challengers Bangalore by 5 wicketsSuryakumar Yadav smashed 79* runs in 43 balls, as Mumbai Indians chased down the total of 165 set up by Royal Challengers Bangalore in Abu Dhabi in 19.1 overs with 5 wickets to spare. Earlier, Jasprit Bumrah registered figures of 3/14 to restrict RCB to 164/6 in 20 overs. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-southwest-monsoon-has-withdrawn-northeast-monsoon-has-commenced-says-imd-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CbWFtLJUsFOFvLzeJ4Hi1I.html
29-10-2020||India||BCG vaccine offers protection against Covid in elderly: ICMR study||Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine, which primarily provides protection against tuberculosis (TB), is also beneficial against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) among elderly people, scientists at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have concluded.The results have been published in a pre-print study. ICMR scientists have been investigating the impact of BCG vaccination on the frequencies of immunity cells--T cell, B cell, monocyte (white blood cells), and dendritic (antigen-presenting) cell subsets -- and total antibody levels in a group of healthy elderly people, who are aged between 60 and 80 years, a month after their vaccination as part of a clinical study to examine its effect on Covid-19 patients. Elderly people, who are aged above 60 years, and those with comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, cardiac and kidney diseases etc; are considered as high-risk groups. They tend to develop severe forms of illness, and also have a high mortality rate among Covid-19 patients. Also read | Pfizer says Covid-19 vaccine may yet be possible in 2020“BCG vaccination was associated with enhanced innate and adaptive memory cell subsets, as well as total antibody levels in elderly individuals, suggesting its potential utility in SARS-CoV2 infection, which causes Covid-19, by enhancing heterologous immunity,” scientists concluded in the research. The BCG vaccine is administered to newborn babies as a part of the Centre’s Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP), which was launched over 50 years ago. “In an ongoing study, scientists at ICMR have found that the BCG vaccine induces increased memory cell responses and total antibody production in elderly,” said an ICMR statement. From July through September, 86 individuals were enrolled in the study, including 54 and 32 in the vaccinated and unvaccinated arms, respectively. All the vaccinated individuals were followed up a month after their vaccination. The median age was 65 (range: 60-78) years in the BCG vaccinated group and 63 years (range: 60-80) in the unvaccinated group. Several clinical trials are in progress to examine the effect of BCG. ICMR scientists zeroed in on an investigation in elderly population because most BCG studies are evaluating its role in protecting healthcare workers and other individuals from the viral infection.Negligible studies are examining the protective effect of BCG vaccination against Covid-19 in the elderly population group. Previous studies in elderly individuals have shown that BCG vaccination protected against respiratory infections in Indonesia, Japan, and Europe. “These data fit very well with the recent finding that BCG vaccination in elderly patients was associated with increased time to first infection and protection against viral respiratory pathogens,” the paper stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bcg-vaccine-offers-protection-against-covid-in-elderly-icmr-study/story-ISYP87rQV5oTDo4ZqPe03K.html
29-10-2020||India||Average daily fatalities due to Covid-19 continuously decreasing in past six weeks, says health ministry||With India reporting relatively lower numbers of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease over the past few days, including single-day death toll due to the disease, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on Thursday said the country’s average daily fatalities due to Covid-19 have been continuously decreasing since the past six weeks.With a steadily falling Case Fatality Rate (CFR), India, the ministry further said, is among countries with lowest fatality rates. (Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)“India’s average daily Covid-19 fatality is continuously decreasing since the past six weeks. Steadily falling Case Fatality Rate (1.50%) at present has positioned India globally as the country with one of the lowest CFR,” the ministry posted on its official Twitter handle.A graph attached with the tweet showed India’s average Covid-19 fatalities per day in last six weeks: 1,165 (September 16-22); 1,054 (September 23-29); 1,035 (September 30-October 6); 898 (October 7-13); 763 (October 14-20); and 615 (October 21-27). #IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCoronaIndia's average daily #COVID19 fatality is continuously decreasing since the past 6 weeks. Steadily falling Case Fatality Rate (1.5% at present) has positioned India globally as the country with one of the lowest CFR. pic.twitter.com/YZrtBgkkb6As per the health ministry’s official dashboard, India has thus far recorded a total of 120,010 deaths, which is 1.50% of its total caseload of 7,990,322.(Read: What you need to know about Covid-19 today)“This is because of timely hospitalisation, provision of standard of care prescribed in the National Treatment Protocol , use of non-invasive oxygen, use of steroids and use of anti-coagulents,” the ministry posted in a subsequent tweet.India’s previous three single-day fatalities due to the virus have been 508, 488 and 480 respectively. In fact, the 480 single-day deaths were the country’s lowest since 475 on July 10.(Read: India registers 43,893 new Covid-19 cases as tally nears 8 million; 508 deaths in last 24 hours)Globally, India has the third-highest death toll, after the United States and Brazil. In terms of overall cases, it comes between the worst-hit United States and Brazil, which is third.However, India also the highest number of recovered cases in the world and a recovery rate of nearly 91%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/average-daily-fatalities-due-to-covid-19-continuously-decreasing-in-past-six-weeks-says-health-ministry/story-uDVARZL1lSW5YkQqYuQnJP.html
29-10-2020||India||Man allegedly murdered by wife and her lover in Bengal, body buried under bed||A 38-year-old woman and her lover were arrested Wednesday evening for allegedly murdering her husband in a village in North 24 Parganas district around 70 km north of Kolkata on Tuesday, police said. The woman’s lover later buried the victim’s body under a bed in his house. Police arrested the duo on Wednesday evening. “Villagers spotted some patches of blood near a bamboo thicket in the village and informed the police. Later when police went to the spot, they found blood stains all over the place. The blood trails hinted that something heavy was dragged on the ground. But nothing could be found,” said a senior police officer. The police asked the villagers to remain alert and inform them if they saw any suspicious activities. On Wednesday police received a tip off that there were blood stains in front of a house which was locked.“A team went to the spot and broke open the door. They found some loose soil under a bed. Later it was found that the body was buried there. The body had multiple stab injuries,” said the officer. The victim was identified as Ramkrishna Sarkar 42, a resident of Bongaon in the same district. Investigation revealed that Sarkar was allegedly killed by his wife Swapna and her lover Sujit Das. The house where the body was found belongs to Das. Swapna was allegedly having an extra marital affair with Das. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the trio drank alcohol near the bamboo thicket where Sarkar was murdered. They then took the body to Das’ house where he was buried,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-allegedly-murdered-by-wife-and-her-lover-in-bengal-body-buried-under-bed/story-3VAizPRz6f5oCa5SECydPM.html
29-10-2020||India||Southwest monsoon has withdrawn; northeast monsoon has commenced: IMD||Monsoon withdrew from the country on Wednesday (October 28) after a delay of 13 days, as compared to October 15, its normal cut-off date. The country recorded 7% of excess rainfall between October 1 and 28. There is a significant reduction in rainfall activity over most parts of the country, which led the India Meteorological Department (IMD) to announce the withdrawal of monsoon. Though IMD had announced the end of monsoon season on September 30, rainfall continued even after the cut-off date.The northeast monsoon, which triggers rainfall in south India, hit the extreme southern parts of the peninsula on Wednesday. Also Read: Mumbai records most delayed south-west monsoon withdrawal since 1975A cyclonic circulation is lying over the southwest Bay of Bengal off north Tamil Nadu (TN) coast at lower levels of the troposphere. Under its influence, scattered rainfall with moderate thunderstorms and lightning is likely to occur over Kerala, Mahe, TN and Puducherry during the next five days.Isolated heavy rainfall may occur over southern TN on Thursday (October 29). Dry weather condition is likely over the northwest, west, central and eastern India during the next four-five days. “Monsoon withdrawal couldn’t be announced earlier because widespread rainfall was reported from west, central and northeastern India in October. That has ceased now. Southwesterly wind has changed direction. Now, wind is blowing in the northeasterly direction,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southwest-monsoon-has-withdrawn-northeast-monsoon-has-commenced-imd/story-Xor85gnYb6qaWG5pImUraM.html
29-10-2020||India||Mike Pompeo’s attack on China signals a shift in India’s approach||Chinese diplomats in New Delhi and Beijing went on overdrive on Wednesday, launching sharp counterattacks on the United States after secretary of state Mike Pompeo promised to support India in its confrontation with China after the India-US 2+2 strategic dialogue.“The US will stand with the people of India as they confront threats to their sovereignty and to their liberty,” Pompeo told a news briefing in national capital Delhi just before wrapping up his India visit and proceeding to Sri Lanka, Maldives and Indonesia. US defense secretary Mark Esper, who had delivered the opening statement at the joint media briefing in New Delhi, had also declared that the US would stand shoulder-to-shoulder in support of a free and open Indo-Pacific, in light of what he called “increasing aggression and destabilising activities by China”.Also Read: BECA done, fighters and armed drones next as India turns US positiveThe two remarks - there were others as well - were unusual because visiting foreign dignitaries are expected to steer clear of negative references to a third friendly country at bilateral public events. Pakistan and its terror factories had been the only exception to this rule at joint events in New Delhi. On Tuesday, the joint Press conference was a break from this tradition, implying that India was bracketing China with Pakistan as an adversary.Like always, Foreign Minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh did not name China. Behind closed doors, India has clearly been much more explicit. “The challenge of defeating the pandemic that came from Wuhan also fed into our robust discussions about the Chinese Communist Party,” Pompeo had told the briefing, underlining that the communist party was “no friend to democracy”. Also Watch | BECA pact signed; India & US lash out at China l Who said whatOne step at a time, a person familiar with India’s gradual approach later said, explaining that a shift in New Delhi’s approach was likely to get more pronounced with passing time if China did not indicate any intention of resolving the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control. China’s People’s Liberation Army triggered the stand-off in early May this year when its troops went beyond the routine patrolling points and stayed put. Over the next six-odd months, China and India have moved tens of thousands of soldiers closer to the stand-off points.Also Read: Where the United States takes on China | HT EditorialThe bloody Galwan clash provoked New Delhi to block popular mobile applications linked to China, thrown the rule-book at its Confucious centres, restricted investment flow and created hurdles for Chinese firms bidding for government contracts. All this, without explicitly naming China.It has been a continuation of an approach that New Delhi has adopted for decades and was grounded in the belief that China will accommodate India if it brushed disagreements under the carpet for the larger good of the relationship.Also Read: At NSA Doval’s meeting with Pompeo and Esper, focus on shared objectivesIn an interview to Times Now, Pompeo said the US didn’t want a conflict to break out between India and China. It wouldn’t be good for either of the two, or the world. But he did make it a point to underscore that “anytime a nation shows weakness, you invite Chinese communist party aggression”.Indian officials who have tracked the 175-day long stand-off at Ladakh agree with this assessment.New Delhi has taken steps to stand up to Beijing. In terms of the pre-emptive action taken by commandos from the Special Frontier Force to take control of the southern bank of Pangong Tso in August this year and diplomatically too.India has also invited Australia to join its high-level Malabar naval exercises with Japan and the US, an invite that practically turns the exercise into a QUAD affair.Back in 2007 when India had invited Australia as a non-permanent member for the Malabar exercise, Beijing had made its displeasure known prompting India and Australia to take a big step back. As QUAD appeared to fizzle out over the next few years, an emboldened Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi brushed aside the four-nation informal grouping in 2018, confident that it would dissipate like “sea foam”.Speaking at a Kuala Lumpur event earlier this month, China’s Wang Yi came around to acknowledging that the US Indo-Pacific Strategy presented a “big underlying risk” to stir up confrontation among different groups and stoke geo-political competition with the Cold War mentality.But it has been mostly Xi Jinping’s aggressive expansionist approach that has driven a diverse bunch of countries to come together. At their last meeting, the QUAD foreign ministers decided to make the ministerial meetings an annual affair and could in the not-so-distant future, upgrade the dialogue to summit-level.Former chief of the joint staff of the Japan Self-Defense Forces Katsutoshi Kawano told the Mount Fuji Dialogue, an annual gathering of business and political leaders from Japan and the US that “China’s recent border clash with India and escalating tensions with Australia over its response to the coronavirus resulted in Quad members strengthening their cooperation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-mike-pompeo-s-attack-on-china-tells-us-about-india-s-new-approach/story-oKCqwFrys5sm4ekXIJ3RMK.html
29-10-2020||India||Father of Kannada singer Ananya Bhat held for murder of ex-school principal in Mysuru||The Mysuru police on Wednesday said that they have cracked the murder mystery of retired school principal Parashiva Murthy who was killed on September 20 at Nivedita Nagar in the city. N Prakasha Gowda DCP (Law and Order), said that Vishwanth Bhat, father of well know Kannada singer Ananya Bhat has been arrested along with four others for the murder.According to the police, 64-year-old Murthy was working as a secretary at Vishwa Chetana Sanskrit Patashala (school) at N R Mohalla after his retirement as a school principal. Murthy was allegedly harassing the teaching staff at the Sanskrit College and used to demand a cut from their salaries as well as government grants. Fed up with his alleged constant harassment, Vishwanath Bhat along with two other Sanskrit teachers decided to hire two contract killers Nagesh and Niranjan.The alleged killers agreed to kill Murthy for a sum of Rs 7 lakh, Gowda said.Murthy was found dead with multiple stab injuries at his home on September 20.“Since Murthy was also involved in money lending and other activities, it took us time to crack the case, but finally when we interrogated all associated with him, we were able to unravel it,” the police officer said. A sum of Rs 55,000 and five vehicles have been recovered from those arrested.Ananya Bhat in a statement said that she is estranged from her father and she did not have much information about the alleged crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/father-of-kannada-singer-ananya-bhat-held-for-murder-of-ex-school-principal-in-mysuru/story-LbeMmMNZARieLOIWGQbHyK.html
29-10-2020||India||100 years of Jamia Millia Islamia: Institute with roots in national struggle||Five years after returning to India for good, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi had acquired quite the following among students who were struck by his message preaching brotherhood between themselves and non-cooperation towards the colonial rulers. Sample this: On October 12, 1920, when Gandhi visited the Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental (MAO) College in Aligarh, he asked the students gathered, “How can you remain, even for an hour, in an institution in which you are obliged to put up with the Union Jack and profess your loyalty to a Governor or other high-ranking officials, when, in fact you, are not loyal?”Moved, a group of students, faculty members and activists including Mohammad Ali Jauhar and Shaukat Ali — also called the Ali brothers — joined the Non-Cooperation Movement within the fortnight. Even before the month was up, the group had established the Independent National University with an aim to have an indigenous education free from British influence. It was renamed Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI), and shifted from Aligarh to New Delhi soon after. Jauhar became its first vice-chancellor, and Hakim Ajmal Khan its first chancellor. Prominent educationalist Zakir Husain, who went on to become India’s third President, was associated with the university from the start. On October 29, 2020, JMI turns 100, and from temporary quarters in an ashram to operating out of a set of tents for four years, the educational institution today has five schools with nine distinct faculties, 39 departments and 30 centres (spread across Nanoscience, Dalit and Minorities Studies, Peace and Conflict Resolution, and even Information Technology) that educate over 21,000 students of various religious, caste, and class affiliations. The first batch that graduated in 1921 comprised 21 students — all male. Last year, nearly 2,000 students graduated from JMI; at least 35% of them women.  Its alumni span across fields from film, politics and science, to journalism and civil services, and include former Chief Election Commissioner SY Qureshi, filmmaker Kiran Rao, and cricketer Virendra Sehwag, among others. Even actor Shah Rukh Khan was enrolled at the university’s well-known AJK Mass Communication Research Centre (AJK-MCRC).Loveleen Tandon, co-director of Oscar-winning film Slumdog Millionaire, called Jamia a “birthplace of self-discovery”. “In our canteen, you would see people sitting discussing politics, films and speaking about people like (Andrei) Tarkovsky and (Ingmar) Bergman. Being in such an institute opened up a new world for me,” said Tandon who studied at AJK-MCRC in 1998.Former lieutenant governor of Delhi and Jamia vice-chancellor between 2009 and 2013, Najeeb Jung, said: “Jamia is not just a university. It’s a movement started back in 1920 with an aim to provide first-rate modern education. Here modern means secular and nationalist education with the all-round development of students.”Indigenous institutionThe year 1920 was an eventful one. Gandhi gave a call to boycott government-run schools and colleges and the Congress passed a resolution of Non-cooperation advising “the gradual withdrawal of children from schools or colleges... controlled by government and... the establishment of national schools and colleges in the various provinces”. In response, a number of institutions came up such as the Gujarat Vidyapith, Bihar Vidyapith, Kashi Vidyapith, and Modern School in Delhi, besides JMI.“Jamia, which means a university in Arabic, was born out of Gandhi-ji’s call,” said Sabiha Zaidi, director of Jamia’s Premchand Archives and Literary Center, which has a collection of photos, private papers and mementos dating back to its start.The new university aimed to be “nationalist” and “indigenous”, Gandhi’s personal secretary Mahadev Desai recorded in his journal at the time. By 1924, however, it had nearly run out of money. “Mohammad Ali had even suggested closing down Jamia but Gandhi-ji was totally against it. He said, ‘Jamia has to run. If you are worried about its finances, I will go about with a begging bowl’,” Zaidi said.A year later, the university shifted to Karol Bagh in New Delhi. Prominent industrialists sustained it — GD Birla, contributed Rs 50,000; Jamnalal Bajaj, raised Rs 6,000 for a new building — at Gandhi’s behest.In 1938, Jamia established the Ustadon ka Madarsa, which came to be called the Teachers’ Training College at Karol Bagh, and the Idara-e-Talim-o-Taraqqi that would provide evening classes for adult education. “Whenever we talk about the education of Independent India, and more specifically teacher’s education in India, Jamia’s contribution in preparing teachers for an education system free from the British influence cannot be stressed enough,” said Aejaz Masih, head of the faculty of education at the university.“We had no boundaries when it came to learning in Jamia. Though I was an engineering student, I got the opportunity to learn French and read the poetry of Rumi and Tabrez,” said Hanif Quraishi, secretary, Renewable Energy department, Haryana.Shohini Ghosh, officiating director at AJK-MCRC said this was one of the earliest centres for the production of educational films for the University Grants Commission. “Many of us started our careers as producers of these documentaries whose subject ranged from a portrait of Shahjahanabad to the workings of the Railways. Amar Kanwar, who is now a well-known documentary filmmaker and artist, made an award-winning series on the leather industry. Apart from this, AJK-MCRC encouraged us to make independent documentaries that affirmed social justice and questioned discriminatory practices,” she said.2019 political protestOn December 15, 2019, policemen entered JMI’s central library in an effort to quell the students and citizens’ protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The Delhi Police used sticks and fired tear gas shells. Civil society activists and opposition parties condemned the violence and demanded a judicial probe. A National Human Rights Commission report released in June stated that the police was “law bound to contain the activities of the unlawful assembly.”Many Jamia students who were a part of the protest, including Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar, have been arrested and charged by Delhi Police. Vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar said that the First Information Report based on a complaint made by the institute is yet to be filed.“Jamia believes in Gandhiji’s principle of non-violence. We have restored the library completely and even changed the colour of the chairs with a hope that it does not remind my students of the violence when they return back to the campus,” said Akhtar.The student-led protest outside the university was suspended after the Covid-19 pandemic hit in March. The matter is currently before the Delhi high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-years-of-jamia-millia-islamia-institute-with-roots-in-national-struggle/story-s6n3HdkjEuHOylSA7THkfM.html
29-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||More tests (9.66 million till Tuesday evening) than any other state barring Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The use of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests alone, unlike UP and Bihar which have largely used rapid antigen tests. Around 127,000 tests per million of the population. These are some of Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 metrics — and they are impressive.The southern state has seen 714,235 Covid-19 infections (till Tuesday), the fourth highest in the country after Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka; and recorded 10,983 deaths, the third highest in the country after Maharashtra and Karnataka. Its case fatality rate of 1.53% is marginally higher than the country’s 1.5%, and its cumulative positivity rate of 7.4% is almost the same as the country’s 7.57%. These are some more of Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 metrics — and they aren’t all that impressive.Also Read: Lockdowns set to return as global Covid-19 cases top 44 millionYet, as the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic winds down in India, I’d like to believe Tamil Nadu is the state that has managed the health crisis the best. Here’s why.The first reason is testing.For a state with a population of around 76 million to test 127,000 people per million is an achievement. India’s overall number is 79,141 tests per million. And Tamil Nadu continues to test aggressively. Significantly, the state relies exclusively on the gold standard RT-PCR molecular tests. I have written extensively about the perils of the indiscriminate use of rapid antigen tests; their false negative rate is around 50%, which means they miss infections in around half the people carrying the virus. India’s 79,141 per million number is built on the back of rapid antigen tests. UP and Bihar rely on them; even Delhi uses far more of them than it should be doing. Tamil Nadu’s dependence on RT-PCR tests means its positivity rate data is much more credible.  The second is the trajectory of positivity rates over time in the state.Also Read: With 5,673 new coronavirus cases, Delhi records its highest single-day spikeThe positivity rate is simply the number of people testing positive expressed as a percentage of the number of tests conducted. Tamil Nadu’s positivity rates started high (when very few tests were being conducted), dipped as the number of tests increased, then rose again as the infection soared, then fell and plateaued with consistently high testing, and finally started ebbing. The seven-day average has been below 5% for two weeks, and the daily number at or below 5% for the past 10 days. The World Health Organization said in May that a rate below 5% for two weeks meant the pandemic was under control. To be sure, this benchmark needs to be achieved even as testing remains consistently high and the right kind of tests are used (Tamil Nadu satisfies both conditions).Both these factors are reflected in the state’s current Covid-19 metrics. On October 27, Tamil Nadu saw a mere 2,522 cases — 5.85% of all cases recorded that day. Even the seven-day average of daily cases has fallen — it was 2,866 on October 27. After a long plateau through August and September (and a peak in July), the trajectory of daily cases has fallen through October.The same is reflected in the number of deaths. On October 27, Tamil Nadu registered 27 deaths (seven-day average: 35), way down from the peak seen in August. Like the daily case numbers, the death toll plateaued through much of September before beginning to fall in October.Other states would do well to peruse the charts accompanying this column carefully — this is how a successful Covid-19 management strategy looks (without using the wrong kind of tests or controlling case numbers through inadequate testing). Does this mean case numbers will not rise again in Tamil Nadu?Definitely not. They could. In May, crowding in a vegetable market in Chennai caused a spike. Earlier this month, frightening videos of crowds in a Chennai saree shop (since sealed by the local administration) did the rounds. Any such foolish behaviour could result in an increase in cases.And does this mean Tamil Nadu will remain insulated from the inevitable second wave?That’s very unlikely, but the state’s administrators have a proven strategy to follow.That’s more than can be said for many other states or Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-idt68L272WWBDMc1fKFkXP.html
29-10-2020||India||Border dispute with India bilateral issue: China to US||China reacted sharply on Wednesday to US secretary of state Mike Pompeo’s remarks targeting the Chinese government and backing India in facing challenges to its sovereignty, saying the Sino-India boundary dispute is a bilateral matter. Beijing also described Washington’s efforts to push the Indo-Pacific policy as an “outdated Cold War strategy” and said Pompeo’s comments during his visit to New Delhi for the India-US 2+2 dialogue had “instigated China’s relations with other countries in the region”. China’s response came in the form of separate but similar statements made by foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin in Beijing and the Chinese embassy in New Delhi. Pompeo told the media after the 2+2 dialogue on Tuesday that Washington will stand by New Delhi in confronting threats to India’s sovereignty. He also referred to the “pandemic that came from Wuhan” and described the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) as “no friend to democracy [and] the rule of law”. He continued the attack while addressing a news conference with his Sri Lankan counterpart Dinesh Gunawerdena in Colombo on Wednesday, describing China as a “predator”. Pompeo said: “We see from bad deals, violations of sovereignty and lawlessness on land and sea that the Chinese Communist Party is a predator, and the US comes...as a friend and a partner.” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin told a regular news briefing: “I want to say that the border affairs between China and India are things between the two countries. Now the situation across the border is generally stable and the two sides are resolving relevant issues through consultations and negotiations.” Wang was responding to a question on Pompeo pushing for closer India-US ties against the backdrop of the dragging border standoff. India and China deployed tens of thousands of soldiers at friction points in eastern Ladakh in the longest and worst faceoff in decades. Criticising and focusing on the US rather than on India, Wang said: “The Indo-Pacific strategy proposed by the US is preaching outdated Cold War mentality and...confrontation and geopolitical game.” Beijing sees the Indo-Pacific policy as a move aimed at countering its influence in the region, critical because of sea trade routes. Wang also criticised Pompeo’s visit to Sri Lanka. “I want to add that forcing small and medium-sized countries to pick sides is a habitual behaviour of certain US politicians,” he said. Sri Lanka and China are friendly neighbours engaged in cooperation on the basis of “equal-footed negotiations and mutual benefit”, and this won’t be altered by “any smears or slanders by...other countries”, Wang said. The Chinese embassy in New Delhi said in a statement there is “no space for a third party to intervene” in the boundary issue between India and China. It said Pompeo and US defence secretary Mark Esper had “repeated old lies, attacked and made allegations against China, violated the norms of international relations and basic principles of diplomacy, [and] instigated China’s relations with other countries in the region”. The Chinese embassy stopped short of directly criticising India .The statement contended China has been “unswervingly committed to peaceful development and developed friendly cooperation with our neighbours based on mutual respect”. By “hyping up the so-called ‘China threat’”, the statement said, the US is “making pretexts for maintaining its global hegemony and containing China’s development”. Responding to media queries regarding reference to Pakistan in the joint statement by India and the US after the 2+2 meeting, the Pakistan foreign office said: “We take strong exception to Pakistan-related assertions made in the selective and one-sided joint statement, devoid of meeting the objectivity criteria.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/border-dispute-with-india-bilateral-issue-china-to-us/story-iswsIOq647SJk0bvFnmSOO.html
29-10-2020||India||Row over BSP MLAs meeting Akhilesh Yadav ahead of Rajya Sabha elections||The nomination of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate Ramji Gautam for the Rajya Sabha election was held valid on Wednesday even as four party MLAs claimed that their signatures on it were “forged”.But the papers filed by the Samajwadi Party (SP)-supported independent candidate Prakash Bajaj were rejected after a scrutiny of the nominations filed for the November 9 polls for 10 seats from Uttar Pradesh that are falling vacant.“The nomination of Bajaj has been rejected. Gautam’s papers have been found valid,” the office of the Returning Officer said.With the rejection of businessman Bajaj’s nomination, all 10 candidates in the fray from UP are expected to win unopposed.Earlier, a controversy erupted after the four MLAs sent a petition to the Returning Officer, saying that they have not signed the nomination papers.The four BSP leaders later went to the SP office to meet SP president Akhilesh Yadav, sparking a buzz that they might switch sides. They were joined by two more BSP MLA. BSP MLA Umashankar Singh alleged that the SP was using money power to lure the MLAs. SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said his party was neither indulging in horse-trading nor luring BSP MLAs. “There is dissatisfaction in the BSP against the party leadership.”Meanwhile, the four rebel BSP MLAs alleged that a senior BSP leader has threatened them with dire consequences, insisting that they will not join another party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-bsp-mlas-meeting-akhilesh-yadav-ahead-of-rajya-sabha-elections/story-KqFEOPnnKmPhIHzdEV0vIJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Sputnik trials may end by March: Dr Reddy’s||Drugmaker Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd on Wednesday rolled out a preliminary timeline for the India trials of Russia’s coronavirus vaccine candidate, with the late-stage expected to be completed by as early as March 2021.Chief Executive Officer Erez Israeli said enrolment to the mid-stage trial of the Sputnik-V vaccine will start in the next few weeks and the trial was likely to end by December.“(Phase 3 trial) can be over as fast as the end of March, but it could go into April or May,” Israeli said on a post-earnings press briefing, adding the timeline will depend on the Phase 2 trial results and further approvals from authorities.With 8 million Covid-19 infections and second only to the United States, India is pinning its hopes on a vaccine to stem the spread of the pandemic.The ongoing festive season and a state assembly election are seen by healthcare experts as adding to the challenges in containing the outbreak.The Hyderabad-based company had received renewed approval for late-stage clinical trials in India of the Sputnik-V vaccine earlier this month, after initially signing a deal with the Russian Direct Investment Fund in September.The company expects to enrol 100 participants for the mid-stage trial and 1,500 people for the late-stage.Shares of the company closed 2.9% lower at 4,951 rupees in a weak Mumbai market after Dr Reddy’s reported https://bit.ly/31PkFO8 a 30.3% fall in consolidated net profit after tax from a year earlier. Net sales, however, jumped to 47.77 billion rupees from 39.98 billion rupees a year ago.The drugmaker, which last week isolated all its data centre services as a preventive measure following a cyberattack, said it was a ransomware attack, but was yet to ascertain if any personal information was accessed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-trials-may-end-by-march-dr-reddy-s/story-SOZwbh0zmEwe7IlGxhEa5O.html
29-10-2020||India||Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik holds virtual poll rally, opposition asks why he is not present in person||On a day when Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik addressed election meetings at Tirtol assembly constituency of Jagatsinghpur through video-conferencing facility from his home in Bhubaneswar, opposition parties in Odisha slammed him calling the concept laughable.Patnaik, who has not stepped out of his home since lockdown except for taking an aerial tour and a visit to the Jagannath temple in Puri, kicked off his virtual campaigning and expressed his inability to attend the rally in person due to Covid-19 restrictions. He also praised the work of the Mission Shakti workers in Tirtol and highlighted the development work undertaken in the region. Patnaik addressed around 10,000 people of 8 gram panchayats in Tirtol constituency through video conferencing from Naveen Nivas. Patnaik will address another rally in the Balasore assembly constituency through video-conferencing facility on Thursday.However, his virtual election meeting was slammed by the BJP and the Congress who asked why the CM was not coming out of his home to meet people.BJP leader and Bhubaneswar MP Aparajita Sarangi said that if a Chief Minister of a State holds virtual rallies without reaching out to people, it’s surprising and laughable. “Virtual rally? It’s laughable. I urge the party which has been at the helm for over 20 years now to reach out to people, and listen to their problems and grievances,” said Sarangi.Senior Congress leader and MLA Sura Routray said, “What can the CM say or reply when he is just staying inside his home. Prices of onion, potato, pulses and vegetables are on a steep rise. Both the BJD and BJP have a secret nexus; it is Congress’ time now.”PCC chief Niranjan Patnaik asked if the CM was not putting thousands of people in jeopardy by organising virtual rallies while he himself was secure. “Aren’t the lives of the people precious? During the pandemic, cores of rupees were misappropriated in the purchase of masks and ventilators. At this time, how is the CM campaigning by spending crores,” asked Patnaik.This is the first bypoll that Patnaik has missed out on campaigning on the ground. During last year’s assembly bypoll at Bijepur, he had successfully campaigned for the party candidate Rita Sahu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-naveen-patnaik-holds-virtual-poll-rally-opposition-asks-why-he-is-not-present-in-person/story-jamIrF3tIB8p3alKP2wnqL.html
29-10-2020||India||Odisha police rescue one-month-old baby. She was sold for Rs 15,000||The police in the western Odisha district of Sambalpur last night rescued a one-month-old girl from a couple who had allegedly bought her from an impoverished couple for Rs 15,000 in yet another case of selling of children in the state.Following a complaint by NGO Childline in Sambalpur, officials of Charmal police station in the district detained a couple from Kusapali village of Sambalpur who had bought the child from a couple hailing from Keutibahal village under Charmal police station area.“The alleged sale came to light after local ASHA and anganwadi workers tipped off Childline. We suspect that the infant’s parents who already had five children may have sold her due to poverty. We have detained the couple who bought the baby and have lodged a case in this regard,” Basant Dalei, inspector-in-charge of Charmal said. “During the investigation, we traced the child’s mother who later revealed the names of the buyer. The sale was done through a notarized affidavit which is illegal.”Stories of child sale are not uncommon in Odisha, once infamous for its poverty in 80s and 90s as scores of poverty-ridden families sold off their sons and daughters to well-off families unable to feed them. Western Odisha districts like Kalahandi and Bolangir are replete with examples of child sale. In 1985, the sale of 2-year-old tribal girl Banita to a blind man for as little as Rs 40 and a saree by her sister-in-law Phanas Punji brought the poverty of the state into the limelight. Though Odisha’s per capita income has jumped from what it was in 1999-2000 to Rs 1.01 lakh in 2019-20, cases of child sale still continue to pour in.Earlier this month, a toddler in Nischintakoili block of Cuttack district was allegedly sold by his poverty-stricken parents to a couple in neighbouring Kendrapara district. The same month, a couple in tribal-dominated Malkangiri district sold off their 9-year-old son to a neighbour as they wanted to remarry and the boy was a hindrance to their plans. The boy was rescued by the district administration, but not before his new family took him out of school and forced him to work as a cowherd.In December last year, the newborn twin girls of a 33-year-old mentally challenged single mother in Cuttack district were allegedly sold by her relatives to two different couples soon after her discharge from SCB Medical College and Hospital. In September 2019, a Muslim couple in costal Balasore town had sold their seven-day-old baby for Rs 20,000 to a childless couple in the town on Friday as it had become impossible for them to manage the family with the meagre income of the daily wage earner husband. The baby was their seventh child.In August 2017, a daily wage-earning couple in coastal Kendrapara district had allegedly sold their newborn girl for Rs 7,500 to a childless couple to settle their hospital bill. The couple in their complaint before the police alleged that the ASHA worker of his village was instrumental in taking them to a private nursing home which raised a huge bill.Head of the department of economics in Sambalpur University, Sanjukta Das said rise in per capita income or rise in GDP has nothing to do with reducing poverty. “The economy as a whole is surely growing but it has excluded a lot of people, particularly the Dalits and tribals. The Gram Sabhas and palli sabhas have failed to amplify the voices of the poor in India’s villages. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the economic hardships have surely gone up forcing the poor to take extreme steps like selling their child or even ending their lives. We have very little way of knowing how the pandemic has affected the poor unless a proper study is done,” Das said.Citing a study by Directorate of Economics of the Odisha government in 2017-18, social activist Ranjan Panda of Sambalpur said Sambalpur along with 7 other districts had more incidence of poverty than that of the entire state. “GDP growth does not mean equitable growth. If you look at the statistics you would see Odisha has brought down the poverty levels from 57 per cent in 2004 to 32.6 in 2011 while the food grain production has doubled in the same period. But has it helped the poor lead a better life? I don’t think so. I am not surprised by cases of child sale as the pandemic must have broken the back of several poor families. The current model of chasing GDP growth will only bring us doom,” Panda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-police-rescue-one-month-old-baby-she-was-sold-for-rs-15-000/story-vaZJuHUrgzdBglo4awejIO.html
29-10-2020||India||India extends $1 bn credit line to Central Asian countries for priority projects||India on Wednesday extended a $1-billion line of credit to Central Asian countries for priority projects in connectivity, energy, IT and health care, with the move being perceived as part of New Delhi’s efforts to boost its role as a transparent development partner. The line of credit was welcomed by ministers of Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyz Republic, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan during the second meeting of the India-Central Asia Dialogue held via video conference under the chairmanship of external affairs minister S Jaishankar. Acting Afghan foreign minister Haneef Atmar joined the meeting as a special invitee. The meeting discussed cooperation in political and security matters, and all the countries called for settling the Afghan conflict on the principle of an “Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process”, according to a joint statement. The countries also condemned terrorism and reaffirmed their determination to destroy terrorist safe havens, networks, and funding channels. In a tacit reference to Pakistan, the joint statement said: “They also underlined the need for every country to ensure that its territory is not used to launch terrorist attacks against other countries.” Jaishankar told the meeting: “India and Central Asia share ancient historical and cultural linkages. We consider Central Asia as India’s ‘extended neighbourhood’.” He added, “We face common challenges of terrorism, extremism, drug trafficking... All these commonalities make us a natural partner in our developmental journey.”Besides the $1-billion line of credit, India offered grant assistance for high impact community development projects to boost socio-economic development in Central Asia. The ministers emphasised the importance of connectivity in increasing trade and commerce between India and Central Asia, and appreciated New Delhi’s efforts to modernise Chabahar port in Iran as an important link in trade and transport between markets in Central and South Asia, the joint statement said. The ministers agreed to promote joint initiatives to create regional and international transport corridors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-extends-1-billion-credit-line-to-central-asian-countries-for-priority-projects/story-K84RcSGHpIbWhLsJ0pxm7N.html
29-10-2020||India||After 4-day blockade, traffic resumes along Imphal-Dimapur highway in Manipur||After four days of speedy road construction work, normal traffic along the 110 km Imphal-Mao sector of the National Highway 2 in Manipur’s Senapati district has resumed, reports from the district said on Wednesday.The road construction work at Khongnem Thana village, 72 km north of Imphal under Senapati district was started without delay after the completion of necessary formalities with the affected village authority in the presence of concerned officials.On October 23 evening, the 110 km long Imphal-Mao sector of the highway was completely disconnected due to a massive landslide at Khongnem Thana due to incessant rain in the last few days.Since then more than a hundred Imphal bound goods trucks remained stranded along the highway although the smaller vehicles often take roads leading to Imphal via other district routes.The new road is being built on the sunken portion of the highway, which is the main supply route of the state. The state Public Works Department officials had informed earlier that the complete restoration of the highway to its previous shape would take more time.Earlier Manipur’s public health engineering minister L Dikho accompanied by concerned officials had even inspected the construction activities at the landslide hit road. Dikho is an MLA from the Senapati district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-4-day-blockade-traffic-resumes-along-imphal-dimapur-highway-in-manipur/story-HqjPnrZn80aJN0lTJTjwEK.html
29-10-2020||India||Odisha to shut over 8,000 primary schools with less than 20 students||The Odisha government has decided to shut 8,000-odd primary and upper primary state schools from the current academic year on the ground that their minimal student strength is not viable to let them run.A notification by the state school and mass education department said the shutting down of the schools with student strength less than 20 would lead to improvement in the learning environment, better infrastructure facilities, better academic environment and co-curricular facilities for the students.The move termed “Consolidation and rationalisation” under Niti Aayog’s Sustainable Action for Transforming Human Capital in Education (SATH-E) project is already under implementation with around 8000-odd schools in Odisha with student strength less than 20 being closed and merged with nearest schools called Lead Schools over last few months.For a Primary school, a nearby Primary (I-V)/Upper Primary (I-VIII/VI-VIII)/ Secondary (I-X), will be identified for consolidation. Similarly for an Upper Primary (I-VIII/VI-VIII), a nearby Upper Primary (I-VIII/VI-VIII) or high school (I-X/VI-X) would be identified for the merger process. As per 2016 statistics of the school and mass education department, Odisha has around 58,000 primary and upper primary government schools.Joint director in Odisha School Education Programme Authority, Surekha Tarei said so far 6,000-odd schools have been identified in 27 districts for merger while another 2,000 schools are being identified in rest 3 districts for implementing the consolidation move. “The students who would have to travel to a distant school due to the consolidation process would be paid Rs 20 as daily allowance. The process would lead to fully functional schools with an increase in the number of teachers per class and concentrated investment of resources,” she said.As per the state government notification, every student from the schools that are facing closure will be provided a one-time facilitation allowance of Rs 3,000 on their admission to the Lead School. All teachers/headmaster/staff (including mid-day meal cook etc.) of the schools that are facing closure will also move to the Lead School without any change in their service conditions. If the Lead school distance is beyond 1 km, transport allowance as per RTE norms would be provided to the students.Trilochan Nayak, president of All Utkal primary Teachers Federation, decried the consolidation move saying it would bring the education system in Odisha to ruins. “The same government which allowed the schools to open in villages is now shutting down the schools. As on date, Odisha has around 4,400-odd vacant positions at the elementary level which should have been filled up by the government. But instead of improving the infrastructure, the government is just hell-bent on closing the schools. No one consulted stakeholders like teachers and the students while deciding on consolidation. The school and mass education minister also did not resist the move. Even if the government gives transport allowance, how many students in rural areas would be inclined to travel to a distant school for study. This would lead to more dropout in primary level,” said Nayak.Noted educationist Prithwish Acharya also said the consolidation of schools was not a smart move considering that the government is aiming at 100 per cent literacy. “When we talk of universalisation of education, schools with less than 20 students also play a role. The government schools in rural areas help poorer students enrol and complete their education. Besides, it is not the fault of the students that the school has less than 20 students as it’s the duty of the government to provide the necessary infrastructure for education. Many of these schools in rural areas don’t even have mandatory desks and benches for the students forcing them to study under humiliating conditions,” said Acharya.Acharya argued that the government should not think of saving money when it comes to education. “Education in any way is going to cost money. So why not stop funding schools altogether,” he asked.Akshay Hota, a school teacher in Bhadrak, where many primary and upper primary schools would be shut down, said the consolidation move would force many parents to enrol their children in private schools that are relatively expensive. “The poor parents would not probably like to send their children to a far-off school and may enrol them at a private school near home. How many parents can afford that,” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-shut-over-8-000-primary-schools-with-less-than-20-students/story-kFYeSA4pTyyUd9TGhleFBJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi records highest ever spike in cases||The Capital crossed another grim landmark in its fight against Covid-19, reporting over 5,000 new cases of the disease in a day for the first time on Wednesday. Reporting a record new-case count for the second day in a row, the city added 5,673 new cases of the viral infection on the day, after 4,853 new cases on Tuesday.On average, Delhi has now reported 4,225 cases every day in the past week, which means the trajectory has now surpassed the previous peak of 4,174, reported for the week ending September 17, at the height of the second surge. Delhi had seen the first surge in cases in June-July, when 3,446 cases were reported in a day at its peak — the week ending June 26. Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayFurther, the positivity rate also went past 9% on Wednesday for the first time since early September.“The trend of Covid cases is on a decline across the country. However, it has remained a matter of worry in three states and Union territories. Delhi is inching towards its third peak, while an unprecedented rise is being witnessed in Kerala and West Bengal,” NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul had said in a press briefing on Tuesday. An expert committee headed by Dr Paul had in early October said the number of cases in Delhi could go up to 15,000 a day during the winter months.  “The consistent rise in cases is bad news. The temperature drop has just started, and pollution levels are also going up, both of which increase the risk of transmission and severity of the infection. Another likely reason is that people went out to shop, for pujas, or for get-togethers during the festive season, and the Covid-appropriate behaviour was not followed,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Also Read: Social distancing goes for a toss at Delhi’s markets in festive seasonEven with more than 60,000 tests conducted on Wednesday, the positivity rate — proportion of samples that returned positive among those tested — crossed 9%, the first time this has happened since the first week of September, when Delhi was conducting only about 20,000 tests a day. The daily positivity rate had dipped to as low as 4.99% on October 6, soon after the government tripled the testing to about 60,000 a day. However, when testing was scaled up in September, most diagnoses were conducted using the rapid antigen method, which gives results in 15 minutes,but is more likely to throw up false negatives. The number of cases in the city started increasing again in the second week of October as the government scaled up the more reliable reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. In fact, over 17,000 RT PCR tests were conducted in the city for the first time on Sunday. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had on Tuesday attributed the rise in positivity rate to better, more targeted contact tracing. While experts said this could be one of the reasons for the spike in positivity, they also warned that testing needed to be scaled up even further to cover a greater proportion of infected people. “It may be that the government is now focussing on the contacts of a positive case, hence testing more people who are likely to have the infection. This could be one of the reasons for the increase in positivity rate. However, the government would then have to increase testing further to detect infections among the general population,” said Dr Kant. Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) believes that schools must be kept shut, and cinema halls and restaurants, which have been reopened, should also be closed for at least a couple of months. “There is a need to bring back at least 30 to 40% of the restrictions that were in place during the lockdown if we wish to arrest the increase in the number of cases. A study recently published in the Lancet that looks at such non-pharmaceutical interventions in 121 countries found that shutting down schools and offices can effectively control spread of the infection. So, we need to keep schools and colleges closed. We should also close non-essential services such as cinema hall, restaurants and pubs. I would say even the Metro because people are not following preventive measures there too,” said Dr Broor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-delhi-records-highest-ever-spike-in-cases/story-mWWrfdm1qiY7gu3W6xEhsN.html
29-10-2020||India||Implementation of critical air pollution solutions pending, Epca tells SC||Two days after the Centre told the Supreme Court that it was coming up with a composite law to tackle air pollution in the Capital, the apex court-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority (Epca) released a copy of a September 11 report it had submitted to the court .“The September 11 Epca report is the first status report on actions taken and those that remain to be taken in Delhi-NCR on air pollution; it was submitted to a new bench that took over the matter. Between September 11 and now, two more short, issue-specific reports on crop stubble fires and diesel vehicles were submitted to inform the apex court on what needs to be done,” said an Epca member who did not want to be named. “This report is being shared now because most action in Delhi-NCR has been taken based on SC orders, including enforcement of pollution control in hot spots, implementation of radio-frequency identification technology, closing of thermal power plants in NCR, the closure of Badarpur power plant in Delhi, implementation of graded response action plan and the Comprehensive Action Plan. Now what remains is very stringent enforcement to meet the air pollution crisis. We do not want to comment on anything else,” the member added.The Centre informed the top court on Monday that it has drafted a comprehensive law to control air pollution, especially in the Delhi-NCR region. This triggered speculation that a new agency or body created by the government could replace Epca.During Monday’s hearing, the Supreme Court suspended its order issued on October 16 appointing former apex court judge Madan B Lokur in a one-man committee to enforce strict ban on stubble burning in Delhi’s neighbouring states Haryana, Punjab and also Uttar Pradesh (UP). The order was “kept in abeyance” by a three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, after solicitor general (S-G) Tushar Mehta informed the court about the new law.On Wednesday, senior environment ministry officials said the new law proposed by the Centre will pave the way for the creation of a new commission for air pollution control in Delhi-NCR. “We cannot say at this time if it will replace Epca because Epca was created by SC. We also cannot say how the new body will impact the role of CPCB (Central Pollution Control Board). Those details will be in court very soon,” a senior environment ministry official who did not want to be named said.RP Gupta, secretary, environment ministry, said: “I cannot divulge any details about the law or the commission until it’s in court. I have not said anything about Epca being replaced. We have to wait a few more days.”Santosh Harish, fellow at the Centre for Policy Research, said: “Air quality management in India, and NCR in particular, is certainly to be tackled at the regional ‘airshed’ level. If this legislation leads to institutional changes to accomplish this, it would well set a blueprint for other parts of the country. That would be progress. But Epca (a statutory body created in 1998 with a similar mandate and significant powers) and the Comprehensive Action Plan in 2018 have attempted to do exactly this.”In the September 11 report, Epca noted that the top court has already passed directions on all large sources of air pollution. A Comprehensive Action Plan (CAP) aimed at reducing air pollution levels was notified by the Union environment ministry in 2018 following the court’s directions but it is yet to be implemented by the ministry completely, the report suggested.Epca has recommended that the environment ministry expedite the implementation of the plan through augmentation of public transport, non-motorised transport and inter- and intra-NCR transport connectivity. This includes time-bound and urgent implementation of the apex court’s directions, also specified in CAP, on the Phase IV of the Delhi Metro, construction of the different phases of Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTs), which will provide seamless connectivity between NCR towns, and the augmentation of buses in Delhi.In its report, Epca referred to findings of an emissions inventory for Delhi developed by the ministry of earth sciences based on data from 2018. It has found that there has been a 40% increase in vehicular pollution between 2010 and 2018 in the Delhi-NCR region and that vehicles contribute to around 41% of the pollution in the national capital.Reducing emissions from vehicles requires further restraint on trucks entering Delhi and on ensuring that there is reduction in overall personal vehicle and that even taxi use is controlled through expanded bus and metro services, the Epca report said.The inventory also showed that 1.1 million vehicles entered Delhi every day at just eight entry points including trucks, taxis and personal vehicles which underscores that the entire NCR region requires better connectivity through public transport.The inventory has also found that industrial pollution contributes around 18% of Delhi’s particulate pollution and industrial emissions have increased by 48% between 2010 and 2018 in the region. Epca said this was because burning of coal is rampant and requires enforcement of the sulphur dioxide (SO2) emission standards for industries and thermal power plants issued following directions by the top court.Santosh Harish said for a new authority to be more successful, it will have to be well-funded, well-staffed, endowed with multi-sectoral technical expertise, and have representation from all the state and local governments, relevant Union ministries, and the civil society. “We don’t yet know why this needs new legislation, and how this legislation will interact with existing laws like the Air Act and the Environment Protection Act,” Harish said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/implementation-of-critical-air-pollution-solutions-pending-epca-tells-sc/story-MntnXRsHVZGdeMbjftM9fK.html
29-10-2020||India||India test-fires 10 missiles in 35 days. It is not a coincidence||The Defence Research and Development Organisation will test fire the 800 km range Nirbhay sub-sonic cruise missile in mid-October, the last for the solid rocket booster missile before its formal induction into the army and the navy, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times. It would be the tenth missile test-firing by India’s lead defence research organisation in the last 35 days.The DRDO’s effort to fast-track development of ‘Made in India’ strategic nuclear and conventional missiles - it has fired a missile every four days over nearly a month - comes against the backdrop of China’s refusal to step back from the Line of Actual Control.China’s People’s Liberation Army had first clashed with Indian soldiers on the northern bank of Ladakh’s Pangong Tso lake on May 5 this year, setting up a stand-off that rapidly expanded to four locations in East Ladakh.Also Watch: India test fires anti-radiation missile Rudram-1 l All you need to know The stand-off escalated into a bloody clash in June that killed soldiers on both sides. It was the first time that the two countries had lost soldiers on this border in four decades. A little less than two months later, shots were also fired when Indian soldiers occupied the heights on the south bank of the picturesque salt water lake spread across 700 square km.India’s race to test missilesHypersonic Technology Demonstration Vehicle 7 Sept ABHYAS-High Speed Expendable Aerial Target 22 SeptLaser Guided Anti Tank Guided Missile 22 Sept Night trial of strategic missile Prithvi II 23 SeptSupersonic cruise missile BrahMos 30 Sep Laser Guided Anti Tank Guided Missile 1 Oct Supersonic Shaurya strategic missile 3 OctSupersonic Missile Assisted Release of Torpedo 5 Oct Anti Radiation Missile 9 Oct The two countries have held numerous rounds of negotiations at the level of diplomats, military officials and ministers; another round is scheduled on Monday. But China has been reluctant to go back to the positions it held before stepping up tensions.US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has held up Chinese president Xi Jinping’s aggression on the border with India as an example of the Chinese communist party’s “bad behaviour”. The US estimates China has mobilised about 60,000 troops in depth locations across Ladakh.The DRDO was quietly told to fast-track its missile programme in the early part of the standoff because the Indian government had doubts about China’s commitment to peace on the border, a missile expert associated with the projects said.The Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle (HSTDV) was the first one to be fired on 7 September. Over the next four weeks or do, the DRDO has test-fired the extended-range version of the supersonic cruise missile BrahMos that can blow up targets 400 km away, the nuclear-capable Shaurya supersonic missiles that can travel at twice to thrice the speed of sound; and the supersonic missile assisted release of the torpedo that targets submarines apart from test-firing the laser-guided anti-tank guided missile just 10 days apart.In between, the DRDO also carried out a night trial of the nuclear-capable ballistic missile Prithvi-II, the surface-to-surface missile capable of attacking targets at a range of 300 km. It is India’s first indigenous surface-to-surface strategic missile.The expedited development and testing has made it possible to deploy the terrain-hugging subsonic Nirbhay missile along the Ladakh border in limited numbers.“The Shaurya missile would be next,” an official said about the new-age weapon that can carry a nuclear warhead weighing around 200 kg and flies at 2.4 km per second. The government has cleared its induction into the military. The Indian Strategic Forces Command will decide locations of its deployment under guidance from the National Security Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-races-to-upgrade-its-armoury-fires-a-missile-every-4-days/story-UB5RQaMY4zVlTlYbNFR8EL.html
29-10-2020||India||‘Talks with China to continue, Indian troops standing firm’: Rajnath Singh||As the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) prepare to hold the next round of military dialogue shortly to reduce friction along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said that talks with China for peaceful resolution of the border crisis would continue even as Indian troops are “standing firm” in forward areas.Addressing the army’s top leadership during the ongoing army commanders’ conference, Singh said soldiers would be equipped with best weapons and gear to carry out their duties. “It is our national responsibility to ensure availability of best weapons, equipment and clothing to our troops braving extreme weather and hostile forces to defend our territorial integrity,” a statement issued by the army quoted Singh as saying. The situation in the eastern Ladakh theatre, where the army is preparing for a long haul, was discussed during the conference chaired by army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane. The border row is in its sixth month and efforts to disengage and de-escalate have yielded no results. The 8th round of military talks between corps commander-ranked officers from the two armies is expected to be held shortly to reduce border tensions.  Indian and Chinese military commanders met for the 7th time on October 12 in their latest attempt to defuse tensions. The Indian side demanded comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the talks. The two sides agreed to continue with the dialogue process to arrive at a mutually-acceptable solution for early disengagement in the eastern Ladakh theatre, said a joint press statement issued a day after the talks. In his address at the biannual conference, Singh complimented the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for its efforts to build infrastructure in forward areas and working under difficult conditions to connect far-flung areas. “The Indian Army’s apex leadership is comprehensively deliberating upon all aspects of existing security scenarios, situation along the borders and in the hinterland and challenges for the present security apparatus. In addition, the conference is also focussing on issues pertaining to organisational restructuring, logistics, administration and human resource management,” the army statement said. The four-day conference ends on Thursday. The statement said Singh reiterated the stellar role played by the army in guarding the country’s borders and fighting terrorism, apart from providing assistance to the civil administration whenever needed. “Actions of Indian Army truly ensure the integrity and sovereignty of our great nation,” the statement quoted the minister as saying. The minister also paid tributes to the bravehearts of Galwan, Kashmir and the North-east for making the ultimate sacrifice in the defence of the nation. Singh said that the creation of the chief of defence staff and the department of military affairs was a “momentous decision” and the concept of integrated battle groups and theatre commands would be “game changers in the way Indian Armed forces fight future wars.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-with-china-to-continue-indian-troops-standing-firm-rajnath-singh/story-s1isetUsPStr18iFoxiW7H.html
29-10-2020||India||Ministry has no information on who created Aarogya Setu, RTI body issues showcause notice||The National Informatics Centre, which designs government websites, has said that it has no information about who has created the Aarogya Setu app and how it has been created. The Chief Information Commission has pulled up the NIC, which comes under the ministry of electronics, and issued a showcause notice to various chief public information officers asking them to provide a reply to an RTI application which questioned about the Covid-19 contact tracing up. The reply can’t be evasive, the CIC has said.The complaint was filed by one Saurav Das who claimed to have approached the NIC, National E-Governance Division (NeGD) and the ministry of electronics and information technology seeking to know about the creation of the application, which has been downloaded by millions of Indians during lockdown. Downloading the mobile application is also a must before entering restaurants, cinema halls, metro stations, as stipulated by the ministry of home affairs. But Das said that neither NIC nor the ministry had data regarding the creations of the app. The CIC has also asked the National Informatics Centre to explain why its name is there on the website but it does not have any information regarding it. Also Watch | Covid update: Aarogya Setu clarification; Sputnik V India trials; Delhi spike“The Commission directs the CPIO, NIC to explain this matter in writing as to how the website https://aarogyasetu.gov.in/ was created with the domain name gov.in, if they do not have any information about it,” Information Commissioner Vanaja N Sarna has ordered.The CIC noted that not only the about the creation of the app, nobody“seems to have” any knowledge about the files created, the inputs received, audit measures taken to check whether personal data are being misused or not. Aarogya Setu is now being appreciated globally. The App is NOT outsourced to any private operator. Mr. Gandhi really high time that you stop outsourcing your tweets to your cronies who do not understand India.Concerns over the app and its security aspects have been raised before. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had earlier accused the government of breaching data security. “The Arogya Setu app, is a sophisticated surveillance system, outsourced to a pvt operator, with no institutional oversight - raising serious data security & privacy concerns. Technology can help keep us safe; but fear must not be leveraged to track citizens without their consent,” he had tweeted.Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had then refuted the allegations and asserted that Aarogya Setu has not been outsourced to any private operator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministry-has-no-information-on-who-created-aarogya-setu-rti-body-issues-showcause-notice/story-CCHofEmjdIaOOvmubCKxKI.html
29-10-2020||India||J&K: NIA raids NGO offices, human right activists, newspaper office in Srinagar||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday had carried out raids on the offices of several non-governmental organisations (NGOs), human rights activists and Greater Kashmir, a local daily, in Srinagar.The raid was also conducted on a house in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district. NIA officials said that they had conducted searches at 10 locations in Srinagar and Bandipora in the Kashmir valley and one more premises in Bengaluru in connection with a case pertaining to NGOs and Trusts raising funds at home and abroad.The funds were allegedly raised in the name of charitable activities and subsequently used for carrying out secessionist and separatist activities in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K), which was declared a union territory (UT) on October 31, 2019 following the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution on August 5 in the same year. Also read | Outsiders can now buy non-farm land in J&K“A case was registered under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 124A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), 1967 on receipt of credible information that certain NGOs and Trusts are collecting funds at home and abroad through donations and business contributions etc; and are utilising these funds for secessionist and terrorist activities in J&K,” an NIA spokesman said.Raids were conducted on the residence and office of Khurram Parvez, co-ordinator of J&K Coalition of Civil Society; his associates Parvez Ahmad Bukhari, Parvez Ahmad Matta, Swati Sheshadri; who is based in Bengaluru; Parveena Ahanger, the chairperson of Association of Parents of Disappeared Persons ( APDPK), and NGO Athrout and GK Trust, among others, the spokesperson said. “Several incriminating documents and electronic devices have been seized. Further investigation is in progress,” he added. Bukhari, a journalist, works for a foreign news agency. Mehbooba Mufti, former J&K chief minister and the chief of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), alleged that the NIA has emerged a “pet agency” of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) “to intimidate and browbeat those who refuse to fall in line”.She alleged: “NIA raids on human rights activist Khurram Parvez and the Greater Kashmir office in Srinagar is yet another example of the government’s vicious crackdown on freedom of expression and dissent. Sadly, NIA has become BJPs pet agency to intimidate and browbeat those who refuse to fall in line.”She alleged that at a time when J&K’s land and resources were being plundered, the government wanted media outlets to write opinion pieces about anodyne topics such as diabetes and yoga. “In BJP’s ‘all is well’ charade, truth is the biggest casualty. Any journalist unwilling to become a part of Godi media (those who speak in favour of the ruling party or government) is targeted,” she further alleged. Meanwhile, the Kashmir Editors Guild (KEG) has expressed its concern over the pre-dawn NIA raids on Greater Kashmir’s premises. “Kashmir media continues to be targeted, demonised, vilified and raided by both state and non-state actors for a long time now,” KEG said in a statement condemning the raids. “This is despite the adversity of an extraordinary situation and the mounting challenges day in and day out,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-nia-raids-ngo-offices-human-right-activists-newspaper-office-in-srinagar/story-AXuuzi4YrHOmRf1RAFbSTP.html
