30-10-2020||India||Situation along Assam-Mizoram border continues to be tense||Guwahati: The situation along the Assam-Mizoram border remained on edge on Friday as residents on the Assam side continued to block the national highway connecting Mizoram for the third straight day.The movement of vehicles remained paralysed on NH 306, were residents of Lailapur in Assam’s Cachar district have set up a blockade since Wednesday. The residents are demanding an end to alleged encroachment into Assam’s territory by Mizoram state security personnel.The Mizoram side, on the other hand, claims the area comes under its jurisdiction. It’s security personnel have started construction activity in the region, and Assam has responded by setting up fresh border posts. The border row between Assam and Mizoram began in 1987, when the latter became a separate state. Assam’s forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya on Friday visited areas along the border and assured residents that the state government was taking steps to resolve the dispute. The minister went to a newly set up border outpost (BoP) in Singua, and said two more such BoPs would soon be set up in Tulartal and Baghewala. “Residents on the Assam side of the border are agitated and scared. A school along the border was recently destroyed by miscreants from Mizoram, and their troops have entered our territory. People are blocking the highway till Mizoram troops withdraw,” Suklabaidya said. “The Mizoram side earlier assured us that they will withdraw their personnel from Assam territory, but that hasn’t happened. Instead they have started construction on the occupied areas. We are planning to turn the Lailapur check post into a full-fledged police station,” he added. On Thursday, Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana maintained that the state will not withdraw its security personnel from the border areas till normalcy returns. He told reporters that Mizoram accepts the boundary notified under the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation (BEFR), 1873, as the actual boundary between both states, and therefore the security personnel were on Mizoram territory.“People on either side of the border should live in harmony as the present crisis is not a communal issue but a border standoff which entirely rests on the governments of the two neighbouring states,” Lalchamliana was quoted by PTI as saying. Earlier this month, people on both sides of the border were injured in clashes after some miscreants, allegedly from Mizoram, burnt huts in Lailapur, leading to locals on the Assam side blocking the highway in protest. On October 21, senior officials from both states met in Silchar to resolve the issue, and the vehicular movement started briefly before blockades resurfaced this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/situation-along-assam-mizoram-border-continues-to-be-tense/story-kkmF8HBWxc2NVsq6Dk7QGP.html
30-10-2020||India||Congress leader and riots accused ex-Bengaluru mayor absconding: Police||A former mayor of Bengaluru city Sampath Raj, who is also a key accused in the riots which happened on August 11 this year, is ‘absconding’, according to the city police. Raj , also a Congress leader, is a sitting corporator in the outgoing Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP).The riots were allegedly caused after the estranged nephew of a Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy responded to a social media post with another objectionable one, leading to burning down of two police stations, in DJ Halli and KG Halli, the house of the MLA and nearly 60 vehicles in the subsequent bedlam.According to police, Sampath Raj had got himself admitted to a private hospital, saying he had Covid-19. Police had issued a notice to the Baptist hospital on October 7, asking that they be notified before the former Mayor was discharged. However when police went to meet Raj at the hospital on Thursday night, he had been discharged without them being informed. His home in Cox Town is also said to be locked.Police have issued a notice to the hospital, seeking an explanation why they discharged the former Mayor in spite of their specific request that they be informed before doing so. “Fearing arrest since September 14, Raj has been in and out of hospital claiming medical grounds at least four times,” a senior police officer who did not want to be identified told HT. The team of doctors who treated Raj is also being questioned.In the preliminary 50 page charge sheet submitted in the Bengaluru riots case, the central crime branch has named Sampath Raj, along with another Congress corporator Zakir, as key instigator. The cops in the charge sheet say that the riots were caused due to intra-party political enmity between the MLA and the corporators.Nearly 378 people have been arrested for indulging in violence which led to the death of three people. “Our information is that he may be headed to Kerala and thus we have spread a dragnet to detain him,” the officer quoted above said. Raj has also been officially issued another notice to appear before the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-and-riots-accused-ex-bengaluru-mayor-absconding-police/story-GFuR2Bf0KVXRE6gBivMeXJ.html
30-10-2020||India||Youth of this country should not shy away from politics: Manish Sisodia||The youth of the country should not shy away from politics and actively engage in governance, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told students during a ‘masterclass on entrepreneurship in governance’.In his address to students of Ashoka University in Haryana’s Sonepat, he also said it is important for students to understand that for a successful policy, the ‘public bind’ is essential.“If you want to be a part of the change, we should not shy away from joining politics. The youth of the country can impact policies and get involved in governance.The government needs skilled and knowledgeable professionals,” he said.  “It is important for students to understand that for a successful policy, the ‘public bind’ is essential. During the Right to Information Act movement, lawmakers, and policy makers involved us. I wasn’t in politics then but we mobilised enough people, and stakeholders to create a policy pressure group on the government. When the government heard us, it was a positive sign for the policy,” he added.Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s education minister, emphasised that there are many ways in which young professionals can get involved with policy making. On being asked by one of the students about how to replicate a movement as powerful as the anti-corruption movement in India for other causes, especially pollution, he said, “The first job is to make the public understands the issue and create awareness.The information is there, but we fail in driving a collective public sentiment. Is your dream (as a policy maker or change maker) the same as the dream of your people?”  “That’s the job of a leader, and basis for any powerful movement. Mobilise people through local interventions so they feel for the cause on a daily basis, he said. Sisodia also asked them to use the skills of education to work at grass-roots levels, that is where the real changes happen.“You don’t have to necessarily stand in elections, but by simply becoming a member, or even a party worker, you can engage in various departments where work on research, analysis, and policy drafts is being done regularly,” he remarked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-of-this-country-should-not-shy-away-from-politics-manish-sisodia/story-gGK6MENE4bakTuGPJhKwxO.html
30-10-2020||India||2 cops injured in Maoist attack in Jharkhand’s Lohardaga||Two Jharkhand police personnel were on Friday injured in a grenade attack triggered by suspected Maoists in Lohardaga district. Following this, an encounter erupted between security forces and the Maoists.The incident occurred at around 12 noon at Peshrar block under Sereingdag police station area.The two injured cops - Upendra Singh, 52, of district police and Anjani Kumar Pandey, 45, of special auxiliary police (SAP) - were airlifted and shifted to Ranchi’s Medica hospital for treatment.While Singh received bullet injury on his right thigh, Pandey got injured by grenade splinters.DGP MV Rao visited Medica hospital in the evening to meet the injured personnel.“The incident occurred when Maoists attacked a police patrolling party through grenades. The forces also retaliated. While one jawan received bullet injury, another got injured by splinters. They are out of danger. After rescuing and evacuating our forces, we have launched a search operation in the entire area,” said IG (operation) Saket Singh.Maoist sub-zonal commander Ravindra Ganjhu, who carries an award of Rs 15 lakh on his head, and his team were reported to have sprung a surprise attack by triggering grenade blast when security forces were returning from patrolling.They also opened fire to attack the forces. In the encounter that ensued, two Maoists reportedly received injuries.Following the incident, police lodged FIR against Ganjhu and 49 others with the Sereingdag police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-cops-injured-in-maoist-attack-in-jharkhand-s-lohardaga/story-MS7fds1PnMgURbjE0PSQnM.html
30-10-2020||India||Working with India to find solutions to Covid pandemic: Finland envoy||Finland and other European Union (EU) states believe disputes such as the India-China border standoff should be settled through negotiations as the world grapples with the widespread impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, Finland’s ambassador Ritva Koukku-Ronde has said. The pandemic also offers an opportunity to India and EU states to work together to make changes to ensure cleaner growth and to move towards a green economy, which is a priority for Finland as it prepares to become a carbon neutral country by 2035, she said in an interview. “We are following carefully what is happening around the world and we are concerned [by] some of the issues. When it is a conflict or a dispute, we always want that there is a possibility for negotiations, the possibility to sit down and have a dialogue and it’s much better to have this sort of dialogue than let conflicts escalate more,” she said in response to a question on Finland’s perspective on global security and situations such as the India-China standoff. Like other EU states, Finland believes in “conflict prevention”, which is “a smart thing to do because it’s much, much cheaper to invest in the early stage than to solve the situation afterwards”, said Koukku-Ronde, one of Finland’s most senior diplomats who has also served as the envoy to the US and Germany. The pandemic has “shown very strongly that we need strong multilateral cooperation and rules-based order”, but the crisis is also an opportunity to make changes to address issues such as climate change, she said. “We shouldn’t be blind to other major concerns such as climate change, and this is a great opportunity to build future growth in a clean manner,” she said, adding India and the EU have a plan of action till 2025 with emphasis on the green economy. Finland is looking toward close cooperation with India to find healthcare solutions to the pandemic. “We are globally together in this struggle to find solutions as soon as possible,” Koukku-Ronde said, noting there is considerable interest in vaccine projects pursued by India. She also referred to specific areas of healthcare cooperation, including import of generic medicines from India and collaboration based on Finland’s biobank technology, which collects biological samples and data with the donor’s consent for future research and product development. Biobank technology can be combined with India’s big data for possible healthcare solutions, she added. Covid-19-related restrictions have suspended flights between the two countries and Finland is working to slowly open up its immigration services, particularly for students and skilled professionals, from November, Koukku-Ronde said. “Finland trusts in the free movement of people, goods and services, and we are very dependent on exports and international trade. This is hitting us very hard,” she said. Finland is currently home to 1,000 Indian students and two programmes – Talent Boost and Future is Made in Finland – are aimed at attracting more students and professionals, she said. Koukku-Ronde said her country is also keen on cooperation in new areas such as 5G and 6G, clean technology and bio-solutions. In this field, she said, Finnish companies have technology to use crop stubble to make materials to replace plastics that can help tackle the annual problem of stubble burning. In Assam, two Finnish companies have formed a joint venture Numaligarh Refinery Limited to produce ethanol from bamboo to reduce the fossil fuel footprint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/working-with-india-to-find-solutions-to-covid-pandemic-finland-envoy/story-aNVhGibm53TYZf71E5LW3M.html
30-10-2020||India||Kevadia a must visit, tweets PM Modi, shares photos||After inaugurating various development projects in Kevadia in Gujarat’s Narmada district, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday shared a number of photos from the project sites that he visited during the day. “Inaugurated various development works in Kevadia, including facilities for jetty and boating. A great view of the ‘Statue of Unity’ is among the biggest attractions of a boat ride here,” the Prime Minister tweeted. Inaugurated various development works in Kevadia, including facilities for jetty and boating. A great view of the ‘Statue of Unity’ is among the biggest attractions of a boat ride here. pic.twitter.com/Nmqm2OqegiEkta Cruise Service will offer a 40-minute ride from Shrestha Bharat Bhavan to Statue of Unity. One boat can ferry 200 passengers at a time. Kevadia is all set to turn into a birdwatcher’s delight. Inaugurated a state-of-the-art aviary, which is a must visit! pic.twitter.com/17ZL3lON2dSharing his pictures at the state-of-the-art aviary, the Prime Minister tweeted, “Kevadia is all set to turn into a birdwatcher’s delight. Inaugurated a state-of-the-art aviary, which is a must visit!”  Kevadia offers a unique Jungle Safari, which takes you through the faunal diversity of India. I had the opportunity to visit the Jungle Safari area earlier this evening. Sharing some pictures. pic.twitter.com/gcyQ0je8XcSardar Patel Zoological Park and Geodesic Aviary Dome in Kevadia is home to more than 1,100 birds and animals and five lakh plants. The zoological park has two aviaries — one for domestic birds and the other for exotic birds. “Kevadia offers a unique Jungle Safari, which takes you through the faunal diversity of India. I had the opportunity to visit the Jungle Safari area earlier this evening. Sharing some pictures,” PM Modi wrote on Twitter.Earlier in the day, the Prime Minister inaugurate the Children Nutrition Park, Ekta Mall, Aarogya Van etc.On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will pay tribute to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in his 145th birth anniversary. A seaplane service between the Statue of Unity site at Kevadiya Colony and the Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad will also be launched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kevadia-a-must-visit-tweets-pm-modi-shares-photos/story-RhN4UdjQaCX4RAbWZ6O2XM.html
30-10-2020||India||Delhi public buses will run with full seating capacity, SOP to be issued in 1-2 days||Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has approved the Delhi government’s proposal to allow buses to run with full seating capacity, a senior government official said Friday.The buses are currently running with 20 passengers in view of the outbreak of coronavirus. The development comes amid Delhi witnessing a resurgence in Covid-19 cases in last few days. As per the Delhi government’s latest Health bulletin, a total of 5,891 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours. Baijal, who is the chairman of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), has also approved resuming inter-state bus service and the process to plan a standard operating procedure (SOP) for it is on and the service is likely to restart from next week, the official said. The inter-state bus service was stopped after a nationwide lockdown was imposed in March, resulting in shutting down of all four inter-state bus terminals in the city.Baijal has approved the proposal of the Transport department for allowing passengers to the full seating capacity of DTC and Cluster buses, the officer said, adding that the SOP for it will be issued in next one-two days. The issue of raising the number of passengers in DTC and Cluster buses was raised in a DDMA meeting on October 23. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot had sought permission for full seating without any passenger standing on buses.The number of DTC and Cluster buses seat up to 40-45 passengers.Bus stops in the city witnessed long queues as a result of the reduced capacity of passengers allowed in the buses. Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri in a statement thanked Baijal for approving the proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-public-buses-will-run-with-full-seating-capacity-sop-to-be-issued-in-1-2-days/story-zlhmDLqBoyIgo7FTkwSl7K.html
30-10-2020||India||Pak minister’s admission revealed truth of Pulwama attack, silenced govt critics: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh Friday said that a Pakistani ministers admission of his countrys involvement in the 2019 Pulwama attack has revealed the truth on the matter and silenced those who had questioned the NDA governments intent on the issue. His statement came at an election rally here a day after senior Pakistani minister Fawad Chaudhry sensationally admitted that his country was responsible for the Pulwama terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir that killed 40 CRPF personnel and brought the two countries to the brink of a war. “A Pakistani minister has revealed the truth in the Pulwama attack by giving a statement in the National Assembly. Pakistan has accepted that they were behind the Pulwama attack. Until now, they had been saying they were not involved in it,” he said. Forty Central Reserve Police Force personnel were killed on February 14, 2019, when a jeep laden with explosives had hit a convoy of vehicles carrying security personnel on the Jammu- Srinagar highway at Lethpora in Pulwama. Singh said, “Congress leaders had questioned our intent then. But now that a Pakistani minister has given a statement in the National Assembly that Pakistan was involved in the Pulwama attack, they are silent,” he said. He said Opposition leaders were indirectly empowering Pakistan. “Whenever we work for the countrys security with all our strength, the Congress and other opposition leaders raise questions,” he said. The senior BJP leader said when former prime minister Indira Gandhi had divided Pakistan into two, BJP stalwart late Atal Bihari Vajpayee had praised her in Parliament. “But, the Congress today has only one work left: doubting and raising questions over the governments achievements. On the issue of the countrys territorial integrity, we should rise above political lines and work together, he added. Singh said the opposition keeps saying that China has “grabbed” India’s land, but if “we reveal the achievements of our Army, you all will jump out of joy”. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had said in a recent political rally that China had captured “1200 km” of Indian land. Singh said 20 Indian soldiers made the supreme sacrifice in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in clashes with Chinese troops to protect the country. Moving on to other issues, he said the country would have been in a much better position if the promises made by leaders in Independent India would have been fulfilled even partially. “But we walk the talk,” he said, and listed the abrogation of Article 370, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, providing gas connection to households as major government achievements. He said it’s Prime Minister Narendra Modis resolve to provide tap water in every house and it is being done expeditiously. Praising Chief Minister Nitish Kumars works and achievements, Singh said there is absolutely no stain on the JD(U) chief over his works during the 15 years of his rule. He said “we dont hold ‘Tel Piyawan, Danda Bhanjan’ rallies, we hold rallies for development”. Singhs reference to ‘Tel Piyawan, Danda Bhanjan’ (dipping lathis in oil and wielding them to assert power) was a throwback to an RJD rally in 2003, two years before the party was ousted from power in Bihar. “We dont open charwaha schools (schools for those grazing their cattle) now, we want to make their children IAS officers, IPS officers, doctors and engineers,” he said, ridiculing RJD chief Lalu Prasads pet project of Charwaha Vidyalaya. “The lantern (RJDs polls symbol) era has ended, and the LED era has ushered in,” he wryly said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-minister-s-admission-revealed-truth-of-pulwama-attack-silenced-govt-critics-rajnath-singh/story-7ptkjFQG5LCnv3Ib9xZnFO.html
30-10-2020||India||Sharad Pawar holds hour-long meeting with Uddhav Thackeray||NCP president Sharad Pawar called on Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray here on Friday, sources said.The meeting that lasted for about an hour took place at the chief minister’s official bungalow ‘Varsha’ in south Mumbai, they said.The meeting took place days after Pawar said that he would discuss with the chief minister the issues of soaring onion prices and flood relief package from the Centre.It comes a day after the Maharashtra cabinet discussed the proposal of recommending to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari the names of 12 candidates for their nomination to the state Legislative Council from his quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-holds-hour-long-meeting-with-uddhav-thackeray/story-luN2W9lPAA32WvxRcLVG6M.html
30-10-2020||India||Men roaming around in half pants is distasteful, says Muzaffarnagar khap leader||Influential khap panchayat leader Naresh Tikait has said men have been advised to not roam around in half pants as only imposing such restrictions on women is not a solution. “Elders have decided to not allow men going about market places and daily public life in half pants as it is distasteful,” Naresh Tikait, khap panchayat leader, Muzaffarnagar said, as quoted by news agency ANI. This is, however, not an order. “It is a piece of advice,” he was quoted saying. In 2014, the khap panchayat banned women from wearing jeans and using mobile phones and the internet. Tikait at that time also blamed jeans for “spoiling the society and the environment”.Claiming the move as a success as 80 per cent women abided by the diktat, Tikait reportedly said now is the time to “reform” the men of society, as imposing diktats on women alone won’t help. Tikait, who is also the president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, had stirred another controversy in 2014 after he said the Supreme Court should not get entangled in deciding who should marry whom. “The marriage of our children is our sole business. We invest more than Rs 30-40 lakh on their education, upbringing, but when it comes to marriage, they run away and live with girls of same gotra under police protection,” Tikait had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/men-roaming-around-in-half-pants-is-distasteful-says-muzaffarnagar-khap-leader/story-TYkuekgD36njo7Y8TEBO6N.html
30-10-2020||India||Assam-Mizoram border row intensifies, highway blocked for 3rd day||The situation along the Assam-Mizoram border continued to remain tense on Friday and blockade of the national highway to Mizoram by residents on the Assam side persisted for the third day. While Assam maintains that miscreants from Mizoram have encroached parts of its territory and indulged in violence, the Mizoram side claims the areas belong to them. Mizoram security personnel present in large numbers on the disputed border areas have started construction activity and Assam has responded by setting up new border outposts. Movement of vehicles on the NH 306, which has been blocked by residents of Lailapur in Assam’s Cachar district since Wednesday seeking withdrawal of the neighbouring state’s security personnel from Assam territory, continued to remain paralysed. On Friday, Assam’s forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya visited the border areas and interacted with residents. He assured that the government is taking steps to resolve the border dispute soon. The minister visited the newly set up border out post (BoP) at Singua and assured residents that two more BoPs would soon be set up at Tulartal and Baghewala areas. “Residents on the Assam side of the border are agitated and scared. A school along the border was recently destroyed by miscreants from Mizoram and their troops have entered our territory. People are blocking the highway till Mizoram troops withdraw,” Suklabaidya told HT. “The Mizoram side had earlier assured them they will withdraw their personnel from Assam territory, but that hasn’t happened. Instead they have started construction on the occupied areas. We are planning to turn the Lailapur check post into a full-fledged police station,” he added. Senior police officials in Assam’s Cachar district maintained that the situation was tense but under control. “We are keeping a close watch on events. The blockade by the public continues as Mizoram troops are still present in Assam territory. Security personnel from Mizoram are constructing barracks and bunkers in the occupied area,” said Cachar superintendent of police BL Meena. Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana on Thursday maintained that the state will not withdraw its security personnel from the border areas with Assam till normalcy returns. Speaking to reporters after visiting the border areas he stated that Mizoram accepts the boundary notified under the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation (BEFR), 1873 as the actual boundary between both states and hence the troops are within Mizoram and not in Assam territory. “People on either side of the border should live in harmony as the present crisis is not a communal issue but a border standoff which entirely rests on the governments of the two neighbouring states,” PTI quoted Lalchamliana. Earlier this month, several people on both sides of the border between two states were injured in clashes after some miscreants from Mizoram allegedly burnt down some huts at Lailapur. Locals on the Assam side had blocked the highway in protest against the incident. On October 21, senior officials of both states had a meeting in Assam’s Silchar where they had agreed to restore normalcy in the border areas. Mizoram had assured it would call back its troops which had entered Assam side. Following this, trucks had started plying between both states. Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6 km boundary. There have been skirmishes on both sides earlier as well as both sides claiming portions of land along the boundary as theirs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mizoram-border-row-intensifies-highway-blocked-for-3rd-day/story-XCc6lFMsQlj7zjdfv4zvUP.html
30-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Quad set to kick off Malabar drills in Bay of Bengal, China to keep watch and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesQuad set to kick off Malabar drills in Bay of Bengal, China to keep watchThe navies of India, United States, Japan and Australia are set to kick off the first phase of the Malabar exercise in the Bay of Bengal next week, officials familiar with the development said on Friday, announcing the line-up of major warships and aircraft that will take part in the drills that are expected to be closely tracked by China. Read More‘Boost to Indian Air Force’: Rudram missile to be inducted by 2022, say top officialsIndia’s first anti-radiation missile ‘Rudram’ will be ready for induction into service by 2022 and will boost the Indian Air Force’s capabilities to knock out enemy radars and surveillance systems, top officials familiar with the developments said on Friday. The indigenous missile was tested for the first time in the anti-radiation mode from a Sukhoi-30 fighter jet on October 9 against a target on Wheeler Island. Read MoreDelhi breaks record with 5,891 Covid-19 infections in highest single-day spike everWith 5,891 Covid-19 news infections, the national Capital on Friday recorded highest single-day spike for third time in a row. Delhi also reported 47 fatalities due to coronavirus, taking the city’s death toll to 6,470. Read MoreWhat is WHO’s Vaccine Insurance Scheme? All you need to knowThe World Health Organisation is setting up a fund which will compensate people in poor nations in case they suffer any side-effect from Covid-19 vaccines, which are still under trial. Does this mean that such a possibility can’t be ruled out? Here is everything you need to know in this regard. Read More‘Only installed wife on CM’s chair’: Nitish attacks Lalu on women welfareIn a sharp attack on jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said the only step that Lalu took for the welfare of women of the state during his regime was to install his wife on the chair when he went to jail. Read MoreIPL 2020: ‘He’s a tornado who blows away the opposition,’ Aakash Chopra reveals how Rajasthan Royals can stop destructive Kings XI Punjab batsmanNo one has produced quite the contrasting campaign in the Indian Premier League 2020 than Kings XI Punjab. From losing six matches in a row, the 2014 finalists have staged a remarkable campaign winning their next five games, and in the process, kept their hopes for a place in the playoffs alive. Read MoreMirzapur 2 scene featuring Surender Mohan Pathak’s book to get edited after controversy: ‘Our sincerest apologies’Excel Entertainment has made amends to a scene in their web series, Mirzapur 2 after writer Surender Mohan Pathak claimed that his work, Dhabba, has been misrepresented in it. The scene also had a voiceover that was unrelated to the book and it has hurt the sentiments of the writer. Read MoreWatch: Anti-ship missile fired by INS Kora hits target with precise accuracy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-quad-set-to-kick-off-malabar-drills-in-bay-of-bengal-china-to-keep-watch-and-all-the-latest-news/story-gcrH5UQoBuQqPgeUnho55O.html
30-10-2020||India||Rs 1.27 lakh crore tax refunds issued to 3.9 million taxpayers, says govt||The income-tax (IT) department has credited about Rs 1.27 lakh crore in the current financial year through automated mode in the bank accounts of taxpayers to provide money in hands of individuals and businesses at this time of crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic, finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said.“This has been done to ensure that businesses get liquidity in this difficult time,” he said in a statement.Quick disbursal of large sums is possible as refund payment is now done through a fully automated system of the I-T department. “This is a quick refunds payment system which is fully automated and completely transparent. The income tax department has created a DBT (direct benefit transfer) like architecture to execute quick refunds transfer directly into the bank account of the assessee in a seamless manner and at a larger scale,” the finance Secretary said.The I-T department has been able to issue refunds worth Rs 1,26,909 crore to more than 39.14 lakh taxpayers, he said. “Out of which Rs. 34,532 crore were issued as refunds to individual taxpayers in about 37.22 lakh cases while Rs 92,376 crore were issued as refunds to 1,92,409 in corporate tax cases,” he said.“We are monitoring the progress of the quick refunds system weekly and release refunds data in the public domain. This helps us build trust between the taxpayers and the I-T department besides facilitating liquidity to the taxpayers,” he said.A government official requesting anonymity said that the department launched a special drive after the government decided on April 8 to issue all the pending income-tax refunds up to Rs 5 lakh immediately in order to provide relief to the businesses and individuals. “The department implemented the April 8 decision of the government to issue refunds in order to help taxpayers in a Covid-19 pandemic situation in letter and spirit,” the official said.“Unlike what used to happen some years ago, in these refund cases, no taxpayer had to approach the department to request for release of refund. They got refunds directly into their bank accounts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-1-27-lakh-crore-tax-refunds-issued-to-3-9-million-taxpayers-says-govt/story-HGAb6pHosuL9A6SO4T4kTK.html
30-10-2020||India||Delhi breaks record with 5,891 Covid-19 infections in highest single-day spike ever||With 5,891 news Covid-19 infections, the national Capital on Friday recorded highest single-day spike for third day in a row. Delhi also reported 47 fatalities due to coronavirus, taking the city’s death toll to 6,470.Delhi on Wednesday had crossed the 5,000 mark as it reported 5,673 virus cases in a span of 24 hours. On Thursday, the Capital saw yet another spike in cases as it recorded 5,739 coronavirus infections.The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city climbed to 3,81,644 on Friday ,with 3,42,811 total recoveries. According to the health bulletin released on Friday, Delhi currently has 32,363 active cases of coronavirus.On Thursday, as many as 59,641 tests for detection of coronavirus were conducted in the city.Delhi has been witnessing a surge in virus cases since June and has been recording over 4,000 cases every day for last few months. As the national Capital continues to record jumps in virus cases, Health Minister Satyendra Jain earlier on Friday reminded the importance of face masks, urging people to consider it as a vaccine against Covid-19 until there’s a potential one.“People should consider face masks as a vaccine till there is one. The spread of the virus can be stopped to a large extent if everyone wears a mask,” Jain told PTI.The minister also said that a mask has more benefits than a lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-breaks-record-with-5-891-covid-19-infections-in-highest-single-day-spike-ever/story-qveb4CiRmgcwbojxLcqRXK.html
30-10-2020||India||Quad set to kick off Malabar drills in Bay of Bengal, China to keep watch||The navies of India, United States, Japan and Australia are set to kick off the first phase of the Malabar exercise in the Bay of Bengal next week, officials familiar with the development said on Friday, announcing the line-up of major warships and aircraft that will take part in the drills that are expected to be closely tracked by China.The opening phase of the multi-nation naval drills will be staged off Visakhapatnam from November 3 to 6. The drills come at a time of increased Chinese belligerence in the Indo-Pacific region and the border row with India in the Ladakh theatre. “Phase-1 of MALABAR 20 will witness participation of Indian Navy units with USN Ship USS John S McCain (a guided-missile destroyer), RAN Ship HMAS Ballarat (long range frigate) with integral MH-60 helicopter, and JMSDF Ship JS Onami (destroyer) with an integral SH-60 helicopter,” said an official.Indian and US aircraft carriers will not feature in the first phase and are likely to be deployed in the second phase of the exercise in the Arabian Sea in mid-November. Led by Rear Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan, Flag Officer Commanding, Eastern Fleet, the Indian participation in the first phase of the drills will include destroyer INS Ranvijay, frigate INS Shivalik, off-shore patrol vessel INS Sukanya, fleet support ship INS Shakti and submarine INS Sindhuraj, official quoted above said. “In addition, advanced jet trainer Hawk, long-range maritime patrol aircraft P-8I, Dornier maritime patrol aircraft, and helicopters will also be participating in the exercise,” the official added.China has been wary of the Quadrilateral security dialogue, or Quad, that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level last year. The first phase would witness complex and advanced naval exercises including surface, anti-submarine and anti-air warfare operations, cross-deck flying and weapon firing exercises, officials said. “The exercise, being conducted as a ‘non-contact, at sea only’ in view of COVID-19 pandemic, will showcase the high-levels of synergy and coordination between the friendly navies, which is based on their shared values and commitment to an open, inclusive Indo-Pacific and a rules-based international order,” said the official. The decision to invite Australia was announced by the government on October 19. “As India seeks to increase cooperation with other countries in the maritime security domain and in the light of increased defence cooperation with Australia, Malabar 2020 will see the participation of the Australian Navy,” the defence ministry announced in a statement.The exercise comes after the Quad Foreign Ministers meeting in Tokyo on October 6 and follows the India-US 2+2 dialogue on October 26-27. The last time Australia got invited as a non-permanent partner by India for Malabar was in 2007, prompting Beijing to issue a demarche to India, US, Japan and Australia seeking details of the exercise in the context of Quad initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-set-to-kick-off-malabar-drills-in-bay-of-bengal-china-to-keep-watch/story-JjYwqTLzRcmyV0o9SKJpjK.html
30-10-2020||India||‘Only installed wife on CM’s chair’: Nitish attacks Lalu on women welfare||In a sharp attack on jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said the only step that Lalu took for the welfare of women of the state during his regime was to install his wife on the chair when he went to jail. Without taking Lalu’s name, the CM said, “They are talking today, but how was the condition of women earlier? They were ignored, nobody paid attention to their issues.” He was addressing an election rally at Parbatta, which will vote in the second phase on November 3.Click here for complete coverage of Bihar election “When he was sent to jail, he installed his wife (Rabri Devi) on the chair, but did nothing for the welfare of the women otherwise,” he said. Rabri Devi was made the chief minister of the state in 1997 when Lalu Prasad Yadav was arrested in the multi-crore fodder scam cases.  “If Bihar has progressed today, the biggest reason is women’s participation. Promoting women is our commitment,” the JD(U) chief said. Talking about economic empowerment of women, he said his government started the Bihar Rural Livelihoods Project (BRLP), locally known as JEEViKA, by taking loan from the World Bank and the initiative has expanded today.A few days ago, Nitish Kumar hurled another personal attack on Lalu on the same issue of women empowerment as he said people who produce seven to eight kids can’t be entrusted with the responsibility of Bihar. “They don’t have any faith on daughters. They had 7-8 daughters before they had a son. What kind of Bihar they want to make?” Nitish Kumar had said, without naming Lalu. प्याज का भाव 100 रूपये किलो हो गया है। तेल का भाव शतक लगाने वाला है, बेरोजगारी दर अर्धशतक के पास पहुंच चुका है।बढ़ा रही महंगाई, छीन रही रोजगारये जुमलों की डबल इंजन सरकारक्या ख़ाक बनाएगी आत्म-निर्भर बिहार?On Friday, Lalu Prasad Yadav tweeted mocking D(U)-NDA’s promise of self-reliant Bihar. “Onions are priced at Rs 100 per kg. Oil prices are soaring, unemployment is increasing. How this ‘double-engine’, ‘jumla’ government will make self-reliant Bihar.”Lalu Prasad was granted bail in one of the fodder scam cases by the Jharkhand high court. The other case is to be taken up on November 9. If he gets bail, he will walk free on November 10, on the day the results of the three-phase Bihar elections will be announced.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-installed-wife-on-cm-s-chair-nitish-attacks-lalu-on-women-welfare/story-XugDORsJYmhRrpfNTghwmK.html
30-10-2020||India||‘Boost to Indian Air Force’: Rudram missile to be inducted by 2022, say top officials||India’s first anti-radiation missile ‘Rudram’ will be ready for induction into service by 2022 and will boost the Indian Air Force’s capabilities to knock out enemy radars and surveillance systems, top officials familiar with the developments said on Friday.The indigenous missile, being developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for the IAF, was tested for the first time in the anti-radiation mode from a Sukhoi-30 fighter jet on October 9 against a target on Wheeler Island off the Odisha coast.“We plan to carry out six to seven more tests before declaring the weapon ready for induction by 2022. The missile’s passive homing head can detect, classify and engage targets over a wide band of frequencies as programmed,” the officials said. The missile will help the air force take out enemy air defence systems from large stand-off ranges. “With this, the country has established indigenous capability to develop long-range air-launched anti-radiation missiles for neutralising enemy radars, communication sites and other RF emitting targets,” the defence ministry announced on October 9 when the missile’s maiden test was conducted.While the Rudram is likely to be tested again from a Su-30 jet by the year-end, India is also developing a new air-launched missile capable of knocking out enemy tanks from a stand-off distance of more than 10 kilometres and a crucial test of the weapon will be conducted in two months, as reported by Hindustan Times on October 22. The indigenous missile - named stand-off anti-tank missile (SANT) -- is expected to be mated to the IAF’s Russian-origin Mi-35 attack helicopters to arm them with the capability to destroy enemy armour from an improved stand-off range. The existing Russian-origin Shturm missile on the Mi-35 can target tanks at a range of 5 kilometres. The SANT, also being developed by the DRDO, will be launched from a Mi-35 helicopter gunship for the first time in December in what is being seen as a developmental milestone. Also read: Xi Jinping rolls out vision for China in 2035, sparks buzz about his future roleThe SANT missile was successfully tested from a ground launcher on October 19 off the coast of Odisha - the 13th test-firing of a missile by India in less than two months amid the border stand-off with China and deadlocked talks to reduce tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). The DRDO is also planning to test the ‘Nirbhay’ sub-sonic cruise missile again after a failed test on October 12 when the weapon was tested with an indigenous engine for the first time.“We are looking at increasing the indigenous content in the missile. Development trials of the missile with the Russian engine were completed last year. A high-powered panel is examining what went wrong with the October 12 launch. We will fix the snag and test the missile again soon,” the officials said. The key tests recently conducted by India include the supersonic missile-assisted release of torpedo (SMART) to target submarines at long ranges and a new version of the nuclear-capable hypersonic Shaurya missile with a range of 750 kilometres. India is also developing a new class of ultra-modern weapons that can travel six times faster than the speed of sound (Mach 6) and penetrate any missile defence. In early September, the DRDO carried out a successful flight test of the hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time from a launch facility off the Odisha coast. Only the United States, Russia and China have developed technologies to field fast-manoeuvring hypersonic missiles that fly at lower altitudes and are extremely hard to track and intercept. India could develop hypersonic cruise missiles powered by air-breathing scramjet engines in about four years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boost-to-indian-air-force-rudram-missile-to-be-inducted-by-2022-say-top-officials/story-wYBpDIwHjzR8HnYpuQtFBL.html
30-10-2020||India||Delhi public buses to run with full seating capacity||Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has approved the Delhi government’s proposal to allow buses to run with full seating capacity even as Covid-19 cases are witnessing a surge in the city.The buses are currently running with 20 passengers in view of the outbreak of coronavirus. Baijal, who is the chairman of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), has also approved resuming inter-state bus services and the process to plan a standard operating procedure for it is on and the service is likely to restart from next week, a senior government officer said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The issue of raising the number of passengers in DTC and Cluster buses was raised in a DDMA meeting on October 23. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot had sought permission for full seating without any passenger standing on buses.The number of DTC and Cluster buses seat up to 40-45 passengers.Bus stops in the city witnessed long queues as a result of reduced capacity of passengers allowed in the buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-public-buses-to-run-with-full-seating-capacity/story-4KqIKIrifh4lEWNsF1eoTJ.html
30-10-2020||India||Truck with 25 tonnes of onion missing for a month, police launch manhunt||A wholesale vegetable dealer in Kochi has filed a complaint with the city police after his truck laden with onions - which are selling at over Rs 80 in most parts of the country - went missing. In his complaint, Mohammad Siyad said he procured 25 tonne onion from Ahmednagar in Maharashtra and sent a truck to fetch it. He said usually it takes a week to reach the destination but there was no trace of it even after a month. “When I called up the farmers’ co-operative society I was told it was sent on September 25. The truck driver’s phone was switched off. I suspect some foul play. Price was quite high at that time and currently it will be priced around Rs 50 lakh,” said Siyad. He said later the co-operative society sent a picture of the loading and other details. During investigation, police found that the driver hailing from Aluva in Ernakulam was involved in some other cases, including spare parts theft. They suspect that load must have been sold in the black market and he might have pocketed a good amount. Since the driver was not using his mobile, it was difficult to trace him, said police, adding they sought help from their counterparts in the neighbouring states. “We have started our investigation,” said a senior police officer of Ernakulam. He said the transport firm has also filed a complaint. To check prices, Kerala had imported onions through the National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation last week. Two weeks back, one kg onion was priced at Rs 90-100 in the state but now it is between Rs 60 and 70. The government is planning to sell it for Rs 45 a kg through a public distribution system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truck-with-25-tonnes-of-onion-missing-for-a-month-police-launch-manhunt/story-pHCSPP0rgT5DTuNlUwfPAI.html
30-10-2020||India||Indian Navy successfully test fires missile as part of military drill in Bay of Bengal||The Indian Navy on Friday successfully test fired its anti-ship missile (AshM) in the Bay of Bengal from its Guided Missile Corvette INS Kora and hit the target at max range with “precise accuracy”. “Target ship severely damaged and in flames,” the Navy said in a tweet, adding, “Anti-ship missile fired by Indian Navy’s Guided Missile Corvette INS Kora hits the target at max range with precise accuracy in Bay of Bengal.” #AShM fired by #IndianNavy's Guided Missile Corvette #INSKora hits the target at max range with precise accuracy in #BayofBengal.Target ship severely damaged & in flames.#IndianNavy #MissionDeployed & #CombatReady.#StrikeFirst #StrikeHard #StrikeSure#हरकामदेशकेनाम pic.twitter.com/EJwlAcN781Last week, the Navy had released a video showing the anti-ship missile launched by its Missile Corvette INS Prabal hitting a ship and sinking it with “deadly accuracy”.The missile was launched as part of a mega drill involving aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya , aircraft and a number of warships, attack helicopters and other assets of the Navy. “AShM launched by Indian Navy Missile Corvette INS Prabal, homes on with deadly accuracy at max range, sinking target ship,” Spokesperson of the Indian Navy had tweeted alongside videos and pictures from the drill.In the last few weeks, the Indian Navy has carried out a number of joint maritime exercises.Last month, the Navy held a three-day drill with Japanese counterpart, and also a two-day exercise with the Australian Navy in the Indian Ocean Region, where the countries participated in drills as such helicopter operations, anti-aircraft exercise and different types of naval activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-successfully-test-fires-missile-as-part-of-military-drill-in-bay-of-bengal/story-CFNMK20X4wddm31dPUWExH.html
30-10-2020||India||‘Mumbai police best after Scotland Yard’: Court asks woman to cooperate||The Bombay high court has directed Sunaina Holey, a resident of Navi Mumbai, who has been booked by the Mumbai and Palghar police for making offensive remarks on social media against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and state minister and his son Aaditya in July to appear before the Cyber Cell of Mumbai police at Bandra Kurla Complex on November 2.The Navi Mumbai resident has approached the high court to quash the FIRs against her. Earlier, the court had directed a Nagpur resident Sameet Thakkar booked under similar charges to cooperate with the investigation and appear before the cyber cell at the BKC as well. A division bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik, while hearing the application of Holey to quash the three FIRs registered against her, was informed by assistant public prosecutor JP Yagnik, appearing for the state government and police, that three FIRs were registered against Holey after several persons - including Rohan Chavan, a member of Yuva Sena - lodged complaints against her for the offensive remarks.Holey was booked under sections 505 (Punishment for statements conducting public mischief) and 153 (A) (Punishment for promoting enmity between different religious groups) of the Indian Penal Code and other provisions of the IT Act.Yagnik further submitted that though Holey had been issued notices under section 41-A of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), she had not appeared before the concerned investigating officer of BKC Cyber Police station in Mumbai and hence sought directions of the court to make her do so at the earliest. Advocate Dr Abhinav Chandrachud, appearing for Holey, said his client was unwell and hence could not appear on the earlier occasion but was willing to report to the BKC Cyber Cell on November 2. The court accepted the same and asked her to be present at 11 am. Earlier in September, Holey had moved the court seeking protection in the form of an application for pre arrest bail. The court had however refused to grant her protection after the police had assured the court that Holey would not be arrested if she was willing to cooperate and report to Azad Maidan and Tulinj police station, respectively. After she failed to report to the said police stations, the investigators sought her presence at the BKC Cyber Cell. After hearing the submissions and accepting the assurance of Holey, the court observed, “Job of police officers is difficult during these times. Sometimes they have more than 12-hour shifts. Then they have to do bandobast for morchas and processions. With all these odds, the Mumbai police is considered as one of the best in the world after Scotland Yard.” In light of this, the bench observed that Holey was expected to extend cooperation and her lawyer agreed to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-best-after-scotland-yard-court-asks-woman-to-cooperate/story-fQPnmSJFBMhDe7DFyMunTI.html
30-10-2020||India||Plea in Supreme Court seeks removal of party symbols on EVMs with name, educational qualification||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Election Commission(EC) to remove symbols from ballot and Electronic Voting Machines(EVM) and replace it with ‘name, age, educational qualification and photograph’ of candidates.The plea filed by Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay has also sought directions to declare that use of party symbol on EVM is illegal, unconstitutional, and violative of the Constitution.The plea, filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey, said the best solution to weed corruption and criminalisation in politics is to replace political party symbols on ballot and EVM with name, age, educational qualification, and photograph of the candidates.It said that ballot and EVM without political party symbol have many benefits as it will help electors to vote and support intelligent, diligent, and honest candidates.“Ballot and EVM without political party symbol will control dictatorship of political party bosses in ticket distribution and forced them to give ticket to those who religiously work for people’s welfare,” the plea said.Referring to a study done by Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), a non-governmental organisation working in electoral reforms, the plea said that out of 539 MPs, 233 (43 per cent) MPs have declared criminal cases against themselves.  “Out of 542 winners analysed after 2014 election, 185 (34 per cent) had declared criminal cases against themselves and out of 543 winners analysed after 2009 Lok Sabha election, 162 (30 per cent) had declared criminal cases against themselves. “There is an increase of 44 per cent in the number of Lok Sabha MPs with declared criminal cases against themselves since 2009, and the root cause of this bizarre situation is the use of political party symbol on ballot paper and EVM,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-supreme-court-seeks-removal-of-party-symbols-on-evms-with-name-educational-qualification/story-qhjN2MTv6tTTEtbDOvm9gN.html
30-10-2020||India||Victim’s family satisfied with govt’s action, says Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar in Ballabhgarh murder case||The trial against the murder accused in Ballabhgarh case will be held in a fast track court to ensure strict punishment, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar assured on Friday, adding that the victim’s family is satisfied with the government’s action.“Victim’s family is satisfied with Haryana government’s action. Culprits were nabbed within 2 hours of the incident and later one who helped them was also arrested.The fast track court would be established in this case for giving strict punishment to the culprits” CM Khattar said, as quoted by ANI.A 21-year-old B.Com final year student was shot dead outside her college in Faridabad’s Ballabhgarh by a man who allegedly had been chasing her to marry him, according to police.The incident took place on Monday when the victim had gone to her college to appear for an exam. According to police, the main accused, who knew the victim, tried to forcefully pull the woman inside his car in a possible attempt to abduct and then shot her. The woman was rushed to a hospital but succumbed to her injuries.The police have arrested two men in the murder case -- Tausif, the main accused, and Rehan.A three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been formed to probe the murder case. The team on Wednesday met the woman’s family in Ballabhgarh, according to a report in PTI.Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Thursday had said that the police have been informed to submit the charge sheet before the first track court at the earliest.“Nikita murder case trial will be held in a fast track court so that the matter can be heard on a daily basis and the guilty is punished soon. The Faridabad police have been instructed to submit the charge sheet in the case before the court at the earliest,” Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij had tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/victim-s-family-satisfied-with-govt-s-action-says-haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-in-ballabhgarh-murder-case/story-mBOuEcYn3XzGHoVl1AWHWM.html
30-10-2020||India||Election Commission revokes Congress’ Kamal Nath’s star campaigner status for multiple model code violations||The Election Commission on Friday revoked senior Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath’s star campaigner status for multiple model code violations.The Commission has slammed Nath for using the word ‘item’ for a woman candidate and said that the usage of the word for a woman constitutes violation of the advisory issued by the commission. The Commission has further expressed its displeasure and said that despite being a leader of a political party, Nath is repeatedly violating the provisions of Model Code of Conduct and breaching the ethical and dignified behaviour.The EC had pulled up Nath to not use words such as “item” to address a woman during campaigning for the bye-elections while the Model Code of Conduct is in effect. Addressing an election meeting on Sunday for the November 3 bypoll in Gwalior’s Dabra town, where the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has fielded Imarti Devi, Nath had said the Congress candidate (Suresh Raje) was a “simple person” unlike his opponent who was an “item”. Taking another complaint in consideration, where the Congress leader has spoken against current state chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and referred to him as “mafia” and milawatkhor”, the Commission has said that its report confirms violation of model code of conduct.If any campaign is done by Nath from now onwards, the entire expenditure will be borne by the candidate in whose constituency the campaign is being undertaken, the Election Commission ruled in its order. The order further read that the Model Code of Conduct has evolved over several decades with the consensus of all the political parties to maintain level playing field as well as ethical and dignified behaviour during the campaigning before the elections. Nath’s remark had triggered outrage, with BJP leaders, led by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, staging protests against the Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-revokes-congress-kamal-nath-s-star-campaigner-status-for-multiple-model-code-violations/story-7qJ54h9DsFoLSr2yv99FrO.html
30-10-2020||India||‘Who got achche din,’ Rahul Gandhi takes swipe at PM Modi’s VVIP planes, raises China issue||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday raised the issue of India-China border standoff and questioned ‘achche din’ comparing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s VVIP planes and the condition of Indian soldiers living in sub-zero conditions. Sharing a news report which later the Press Information Bureau claimed fake, Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “The jawans of the country are fighting PLA soldiers in extreme weather conditions from normal tents. They are unafraid. But the Prime Minister of the country flies around in an aeroplane that costs Rs 8,400 crore and he is scared to even take the name of China. Who go achche din?” देश के जवान भयंकर सर्दी में साधारण टेंट में गुज़ारा करते हुए भी चीन के आक्रमण का डटकर मुक़ाबला करते हैं।जबकि देश के PM 8400 करोड़ के हवाई जहाज़ में घूमते हैं और चीन का नाम तक लेने से डरते हैं।किसे मिले अच्छे दिन? pic.twitter.com/mTn6wLafjmA few days ago, VVIP aircraft Air India One to be used for President, Vice President and Prime Minister arrived at Delhi international airport from the US. These special flights are equipped with advanced communication system, allowing mid-air audio and video communication. Reports said the total cost of purchase and retrofitting the two planes has been estimated to be around Rs 8,400 crore. Juxtaposing this with the situation of the LAC soldiers — their tents are reportedly not suitable for sub-zero conditions, Rahul Gandhi mocked at ‘achche din’, a promise given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Over 50,000 India troops are likely to remain stationed through the winter months this year as the India-China standoff is going on.  .@the_hindu citing a claim, has published that Chinese troops have further transgressed into Indian territory and occupied positions in Finger 2 and 3 of the north bank of #PangongTso Lake.#PIBFactCheck: It is a #Fake news. @adgpi has refuted this statement. pic.twitter.com/PvNjUQRCt4Defence minister Rajnath Singh in the Lok Sabha had promised suitable habitat and clothing. I can assure you that the morale and motivation of our armed forces is very high…They are being provisioned with suitable clothing, habitat and the required defence wherewithal,” he said. From specialised winter clothing to rations and arctic tents to portable heaters, military planes and helicopters have been flying to Ladakh almost daily with their cargo holds filled with crucial supplies and gear that soldiers would require to slug it out in the inhospitable mountain terrain, officials said in September. However, former BJP MP of Ladakh, Thupstan Chhewang, said the soldiers have not been provided with new tents, the report quoted by Rahul Gandhi said. The report also said Chinese troops have “further transgressed into Indian territory and occupied positions in Finger 2 and 3 of north bank of Pangong Tso Lake. “It is a fake news. Army’s additional directorate general of public information has refuted this statement,” PIB face Check claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-got-acche-din-rahul-gandhi-takes-swipe-at-pm-modi-s-vvip-chopper-raises-china-issue/story-NP5OyRPE2C6wlHU48Hpr3L.html
30-10-2020||India||Centre asks states to form committees for smooth Covid-19 vaccination drive||The Centre has asked states to constitute committees for coordination and overseeing Covid-19 vaccination drive while ensuring minimal disruptions in other routine healthcare services, and stressed early tracking of social media to dispel rumours which could impact the community acceptance of coronavirus inoculation. Stating that Covid-19 vaccine introduction will span over a year with multiple groups being included “sequentially starting from health care workers”, the Health Ministry has sought constitution of committees at state and district levels which will review preparatory activities in terms of cold chain preparedness, operational planning, strategies for state-specific challenges in terms of geographical terrain and hard-to-reach areas, etc.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage In a letter to states and union territories, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has suggested setting up of a state steering committee (SSC) chaired by the chief secretary, a state task force (STF) led by additional Chief Secretary or principal secretary (health), and a district task force (DTF) to be headed by the district magistrate. An annexure attached with the letter outlines the terms of references for the committees according to which the SSC will ensure active involvement of all departments concerned and devise innovative strategies for improving community engagement (‘Jan Bhagidaari’) for improved coverage of Covid-19 vaccine once it is available. “Ensure early tracking of social media and other platforms for possible misinformation and rumours around Covid-19 vaccine that could impact the community acceptance for the vaccine,” it said. The SSC will also have to institute a reward/recognition mechanism for achievement of best performing district/block/urban ward, etc. “The Covid-19 vaccine introduction will span over a year with multiple groups being included sequentially starting from HCWs. Therefore, it is important to create strong advisory and coordination mechanism at state and district level to guide the process of Covid-19 vaccine introduction while ensuring minimal disruption of other routine health care services including immunisation,” the letter issued on October 26 stated. The activities to be conducted by the STF includes providing guidance, including funding and operational guidelines, fixing timelines for districts to plan and implement Covid-19 vaccine introduction whenever a vaccine is made available and identifying vaccinators across government and private sectors so as to minimise disruption of routine immunisation services. Activities also include planning and mapping of vaccination sessions where HCWs will be vaccinated during the 1st phase and mapping human resources across departments that could be deployed for vaccination sessions for verification of beneficiaries, crowd management and overall coordination at the session site and The STF will also track districts for adherence to timelines for overall implementation of vaccine introduction.  The DTF will monitor progress of database of beneficiaries on Covid-19 vaccination, ensure training of all concerned HR on Covid-19 vaccination Beneficiary Management system (CVBMS), monitor progress on key activities such as microplanning, communication planning, cold chain and vaccine logistics planning. Accountability to be fixed for each activity at all levels. The DTF will develop a robust communication planning at all levels to “address rumour mongering as well as vaccine eagerness”, track blocks and urban areas for adherence to timelines for various activities required for introduction of Covid-19 vaccine, besides ensuring timely disbursal of funds at all levels and sharing feedback at state level for review. The terms of references mention that SSC should meet at least once a month, STF once a fortnight, and DTF once a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-form-committees-for-smooth-covid-19-vaccination-drive/story-peUquweTLOsEW0EhpeD0kK.html
30-10-2020||India||Eye on 2022 assembly polls, Uttarakhand BJP focuses on strengthening party’s grassroots||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is focusing on booth-level training and orientation programme for its grassroots-level workers in Uttarakhand in a bid to prepare them for the next assembly elections slated to be held in the hill state in 2022.The party seeks to have an edge over its rival and as and when the poll bugle is blown. Bansidhar Bhagat, president of the BJP’s Uttarakhand unit, is on a whirlwind tour of all the 13 districts in both Garhwal and Kumaon divisions.He is not only addressing the party office-bearers, but also meeting the supporters separately. Also read | BJP preps for Uttarakhand polls, asks ministers to spend time in their areasSpecial training is being given to all the divisional block office-bearers, youth wing, panchayat and civic body representatives by senior members of the organisation in the state.The training programme for 20,000 BJP workers is being carried out in two phases. The first phase, which is being carried out at the divisional block level, has started from October 28 and will continue till November 12. The second phase will be held from November 6 to 12. The programme includes making the workers aware of the BJP’s history, the party’s achievements, its governance model both in states and at the Centre and also apprising them of the several schemes launched by it such as Ujjwala, Jan Dhan, their intended beneficiaries and other development initiatives. Bhagat spoke at a divisional orientation camp at Haridwar on Friday and stressed on the need to make the workers aware about the BJP’s history, which traces its origin to the Bharatiya Jana Sangh that was established in 1951. The BJP was formed on April 6, 1980. “In all the 252 divisional blocks of the state, our party is holding training camps for a month. The exercise is receiving an overwhelming response and the results can be seen in the near future. Interaction and regular training of the party workers are imperative. We want our party office- bearers, cabinet ministers and legislators to have first-hand knowledge of our cadres’ viewpoints. Our target is to ensure maximum workers undergo training and they become aware about the party’s policies, achievements and social welfare schemes. They will also be made aware of the poor governance by governments of opposition parties,” Bhagat said. Jay Pal Chauhan, BJP’s Haridwar president, said over 2,000 party workers are undergoing training in the district alone. The main opposition, the Congress, was quick to find faults with the BJP’s divisional-level training programme and alleged that “all is not well with the government and party workers”. Dhirendra Pratap, vice-president of the Congress’s Uttarakhand unit, alleged that the BJP government has failed to live up to the voters’ expectations because of a growing rift among Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, his cabinet colleagues and the party’s lawmakers. “The BJP knows it is an uphill task to retain power in 2022 assembly polls. It is trying to gloss over the differences among its leaders and also its poor governance, which got exposed following the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Training modules for its workers will not come to the party’s rescue. The ongoing Bihar assembly polls are a perfect example of a purported BJP wave, which was created through a carefully orchestrated media narrative, is on the wane,” Pratap alleged.Hema Bhandari, the state spokesperson for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), alleged that Uttarakhand high court (HC) took suo motu (on its own) cognisance of the corruption charges against CM Rawat and state forest minister Harak Singh Rawat. Besides, there is growing dissidence among ex-Congress legislators, who had joined the BJP in 2017 following a revolt. These incidents have exposed the BJP, which is reportedly known as the party with a difference, she further alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-2022-assembly-polls-uttarakhand-bjp-focuses-on-strengthening-party-s-grassroots/story-yHmgf2t5AfgfJ5qrWMq08K.html
30-10-2020||India||Avoid politics over Mumbai local trains: Maharashtra’s Deshmukh to Railways||The Railway administration should cooperate with the Maharashtra government on providing suburban train services to people without bringing any politics into it, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Friday.Speaking to reporters here, Deshmukh said the government has suggested certain time slots where general commuters can board these trains.The Maharashtra government had on Wednesday proposed to the Railways that the general public be allowed to travel on Mumbai local trains, which are currently available only for essential services employees and a select group of people in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.The Railway authorities appeared lukewarm to the proposal and on Thursday said only a little over 25 per cent of the normal number of commuters can be carried while following social distancing.In the pre--19 era, 80 lakh people travelled daily by Mumbai suburban local trains, called the “lifeline” of the metropolis. The Maharashtra government has given (the Railways) timings (when one can be allowed to use train services). The railway administration should cooperate with the Maharashtra government accordingly, Deshmukh said.People will not face inconvenience if the Railways cooperates well. Hence, the Railway administration should cooperate with the government without bringing any politics into this, he added.The government had proposed to the Railway authorities that the general public be allowed to travel by Mumbai local trains during non-peak hours.At present, only certain categories of persons, including essential services staff and women, can travel by local trains due to the coronavirus threat.In a letter to the Railways, the state government had suggested that any person holding a valid ticket be allowed to board local trains till 7.30 in the morning, between 11 am to 4 pm and between 8 pm till the end of the day.The time between 8 am to 10:30 am and 5 pm to 7.30 pm should be reserved for essential services staff having valid QR coded identity cards, and there should be ladies special trains every hour, the government had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/avoid-politics-over-mumbai-local-trains-maharashtra-s-deshmukh-to-railways/story-r9PiV5k6P4Zw6OuUACH6CK.html
30-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mumbai Police remove posters slamming Emmanuel Macron and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Anti-France protests in Mumbai: Police remove posters slamming Emmanuel MacronA day after India expressed solidarity with France after a teacher was beheaded and French President Emanuel Macron was subjected to personal attacks, posters slamming Macron for defending the rights to publish cartoons of the Prophet surfaced in Mumbai and Bhopal on Thursday. Read moreXi Jinping rolls out vision for China in 2035, sparks buzz about his future rolePresident Xi Jinping had laid the foundation for an extended stint when he rolled back a constitutional restriction that barred the Chinese president for serving more than 2 terms. President Xi’s second term ends in 2022. Read moreLashkar-e-Taiba behind killing of 3 BJP leaders in Kashmir’s Kulgam, says senior police officialTerrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) is behind the killing of the three leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam, a senior police official said on Friday and added that such killings were being executed at Pakistan’s behest. A vehicle has also been seized, news agency PTI cited police officials as saying.Read more‘Conversion just for marriage’s sake not acceptable’: Allahabad High Court dismisses couple’s pleaAllahabad High Court has dismissed a writ petition filed by a married couple seeking police protection, according to a Live Law report. The high court noted the woman was a Muslim and converted to Hinduism just a month before she got married. Justice Mahesh Chandra Tripathi said it clearly reveals that the conversion took place only for the purpose of the marriage. Read moreEating out, grocery shopping more dangerous than air travel during Covid-19: StudyA person who eats at restaurants and steps out for shopping for grocery is at a greater risk of contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) than someone who travels in an airplane, according to a report by Harvard researchers. Scientists at Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health published a study, in which they claimed that the rate of transmission of Covid-19 in passengers could drastically be reduced if they are encouraged to follow preventive measures. Read moreCentre may offer production-linked incentives to auto sector: Niti AayogThe Centre is likely to come up with a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for automobile sector among others. Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar said, the decision has been taken in an attempt to boost domestic manufacturing. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘He came, He conquered,’ Mumbai Indians posts cheeky tweet on Suryakumar Yadav’s exchange with Virat KohliSuryakumar Yadav has become the talk of the town in the cricketing circles in recent days. Team India’s squad for the tour of Australia was announced a few days back and his name was excluded from the list. Several fans and critics did not like the fact that Yadav wasn’t able to break through into the Indian T20 team despite impressive performances in the Indian Premier League. Read moreFatima Sana Shaikh says she was molested at the age of 3: ‘It’s a battle we fight on everyday basis’Fatima Sana Shaikh says she has faced rejection multiple times in her career. In a recent interview, she spoke about how she was not considered worthy of becoming a film heroine because she didn’t look like Deepika Padukone or Aishwarya Rai.Fatima, who made her film debut with Aamir Khan’s Dangal, earned critical acclaim for her role in the film. It also went on the become the most successful Hindi film ever made. Read moreWatch: PM Modi inaugurates ‘Arogya Van’ in Gujarat, takes tour in golf cart||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mumbai-police-remove-posters-slamming-emmanuel-macron-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Q4JzWVOywXjVJLtivLgL7M.html
30-10-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh bypoll: EC advises Vijayvargiya against using “objectionable terms”||The Election Commission (EC) on Friday advised Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kailash Vijayvargiya against using contentious terms during electioneering as they violate the model code of conduct for elections.The election watchdog had earlier sent him a notice for calling Congress leaders Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh traitors and “chunnu-munnu” during electioneering for the November 3 bypolls to 28 seats in Madhya Pradesh.“ ... the Commission, hereby advises Kailash Vijayvargiya that while making public utterances he should not use any such word or statement during the period of Model Code of Conduct,” the EC said in an order.The EC earlier on Monday also advised Nath against using words like “item”. On 21 October, the EC sent him a notice after he called BJP’s Imarti Devi “an item” and triggered outrage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-bypoll-ec-advises-vijayvargiya-against-using-contentious-terms/story-Bcr5ios53BLfovOk5aaRJO.html
30-10-2020||India||10 CRPF jawans injured as truck overturns in Jharkhand||Ten CRPF personnel were injured, some of them critically, when a truck carrying them overturned after losing control while trying to save some bovine animals in Jharkhand’s Giridih district on Friday, police said.The incident took place in Madhuban police station area when around 25 jawans of the Central Reserve Police Force’s 154th Battalion were being transported from Madhuban to Nimiaghat, a police officer said.Some cattle suddenly came in front of the CRPF truck and the driver tried to manoeuvre to save them, following which the vehicle overturned, the officer said.The injured jawans have been admitted to a local hospital and it is being discussed whether to airlift the two-three personnel who are in critical condition, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-crpf-jawans-injured-as-truck-overturns-in-jharkhand/story-rdf4Wgkktxh5azcybbNn9I.html
30-10-2020||India||Maharashtra not highest in new Covid-19 cases, Kerala is, reveals 7-day data||For the past seven days, Maharashtra has not been reporting the highest number of daily cases in the country, with Kerala overtaking the state. And this is not a stray incident of a sudden spike in the number of daily cases. Health ministry data reveals this has become a trend in the last seven days between October 24 and October 30. This is the first time that such a trend has been established as Maharashtra remain the worst-affected state in the country for the past few months — as far as the number of daily cases are concerned.After Onam which was held from September last week to October first week, the Covid-19 situation in Kerala started worsening. It was mostly a tie between Kerala and Maharashtra over the highest number of daily reported cases. But now Kerala has officially ousted Maharashtra and is witnessing the highest number of single-day infections.Here is a date-wise analysis:On October 23, Maharashtra reported 7,579 new cases and Kerala was just a little behind with 7,482 cases. From October 24 ( dates are according to health ministry data), the positions interchanged.October 24Kerala: 8,11Maharashtra: 7,347October 25Kerala: 8,253Maharashtra: 6,417October 26Kerala: 6,843Maharashtra: 6,059October 27Kerala: 4.287West Bengal: 4.121Maharashtra: 3,645October 28Kerala: 5.457Maharashtra: 5,363October 29Kerala: 8,790Maharashtra: 6,738October 30Kerala: 7,020Maharashtra: 5,902The number of daily infections point to the severity of the spread of the infection as it shows that the infection is not being contained. This number also contributes to the active number of cases. Active number of infections refer to the number of people who are presently infected while the total tally includes the number of recovered cases and death toll as well. So at a time when India’s active number of cases has seen a sharp fall, Kerala is on the reverse.The active caseload of coronavirus infection in the country dropped below 6 lakh for the first time in nearly three months and comprises only 7.35 per cent of the total cases, the Union Health Ministry said today, asserting India has achieved a significant milestone in its fight against COVID-19.There are 5,94,386 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date. The active caseload was 5.95 lakh on August 6.The Centre had earlier blamed the Kerala government for the crisis it is facing today. “Kerala is paying the price of its negligence during Onam,” Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said earlier. Apart from Onam, several political protests have rocked the state, flouting social distancing rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-not-highest-in-new-covid-19-cases-kerala-is-reveals-7-day-data/story-ZP2kVnUaUEoNn8FlcHcVXO.html
30-10-2020||India||Bengal boy beaten to death as parents support us, says BJP; cops call it suicide||A 15-year-old boy’s family has alleged that he was beaten to death inside a police station in Birbhum district in south Bengal on Thursday night. The police, however, said that the boy died by suicide.Since Friday morning, irate villagers clashed with police and blocked the National Highway by placing burnt tyres on road. The protesters also hurled projectiles, like bricks, at the police personnel when they went to disperse the crowd. The police had to resort to lathi charge. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has called a 12-hour-bandh in Mallarpur on Saturday, alleging that the boy was beaten to death because his parents were BJP supporters. “A 15-year-old boy died inside the police station. He was arrested following all norms and brought to the police station on Thursday. At night he went to the toilet and killed himself. We have ordered a magisterial probe and a post-mortem by a three-member medical panel following guidelines laid down by the National Human Rights Commission,” said Shyam Singh, superintendent of police of Birbhum district. The victim’s parents and villagers, however, alleged that the boy was picked up at least three days ago and was never produced in the court. “He was arrested for stealing a neighbour’s mobile phone at least three days ago. When I went to the police station, they told me that my son would be released soon. But now he has been beaten to death. He was not produced in court nor sent to any home,” said the victim’s father. Even though initially the protest was started by local villagers, BJP workers joined the protest.“How can a minor kill himself in the police station when everything, such as a towel and even the sacred thread, is taken away in police lockup? He was treated like this because his family members were BJP supporters,” said Dilip Ghosh, president of West Bengal BJP unit.BJP workers are likely to bring out rallies in Mallarpur and even gherao the police station, where the boy was found dead, on Saturday. “I am going to Mallarpur. We will gherao the police station and observe a 12-hour bandh. If necessary, we will go for a statewide bandh. His parents have been picked up by the police too and we don’t know where they are. We want a murder case to be initiated against the officer-in-charge. Why was he kept in the police station for three days? We will see the end of it,” said Saumitra Khan, BJP MP and president of the party’s youth wing in West Bengal.The ruling Trinamool Congress has denied the allegations, saying that BJP is politicising the issue. “They (BJP) play politics with every death. We all want a proper investigation and the truth to come out. But the BJP just wants to raise allegations against the TMC and the state administration,” said Avijit Singha, vice president of TMC in Birbhum district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-alleges-boy-beaten-to-death-in-custody-died-by-suicide-say-cops/story-VBqra70ydcGLhFNNlFwsVN.html
30-10-2020||India||Lashkar-e-Taiba behind killing of 3 BJP leaders in Kashmir’s Kulgam, says senior police official||Terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) is behind the killing of the three leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam, a senior police official said on Friday and added that such killings were being executed at Pakistan’s behest. A vehicle has also been seized, news agency PTI cited police officials as saying.Three workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) youth wing -- Fida Hussain, Umer Hajam and Umer Rashid Beigh -- were shot dead by unidentified terrorists in the YK Pora area of Kulgam district in south Kashmir late on Thursday. The alleged shadow group of LeT, The Resistance Front (TRF), has claimed responsibility for the killings.WATCH: BJP workers killed in Kulgam: LeT behind attack, says police; PM Modi condemns “Three militants came in a local car belonging to a local militant identified as Altaf. Fida (Hussain) was with his two colleagues in a car and the militants fired indiscriminately on them from close range. They received grave injuries and succumbed on the way to the hospital,” Vijay Kumar, the inspector general of police, was quoted as saying by PTI.He added that names of local terrorists of LeT have also surfaced during the probe. “The names of LeT terrorists-- a local terrorist from Dooru, Nisar Khanday; and Abbas from Khudwani who was previously associated with HM (Hizbul Mujahideen) and is now with LeT and also claims to be from TRF -- are cropping up. The involvement of these two is there, but there may be a FT (foreign terrorist) involved as well (in the attack),” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lashkar-e-taiba-behind-killing-of-3-bjp-leaders-in-kashmir-s-kulgam-says-senior-police-official/story-PdiWUxjtglJ7szN2JS01fM.html
30-10-2020||India||Ensure only green crackers are manufactured, sold: Delhi minister Gopal Rai to DMs||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Friday said that the city government has directed all district magistrates and the Delhi Police to ensure that only “green” firecrackers are manufactured, stored and sold in the national capital through licensed traders.People can burst firecrackers between 8:00 pm and 10 pm only on festivals like Diwali and Gurpurab, he said.On Christmas eve and New Year’s eve, it would be from 11:55 pm till 12:30 am only.“Only licensed traders can sell firecrackers compliant with PESO prescribed standards. No e-commerce websites can accept any online orders,” an order issued by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) said.The Delhi government has asked all district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police to comply with the directions and submit a daily action taken report to the DPCC, Rai said.In 2018, the Supreme Court had banned the use of polluting firecrackers and allowed the sale of “green” firecrackers in a bid to control air pollution.‘Green crackers’ are not as polluting as the conventional types of firecrackers and they contain at least 30 per cent less particulate matter such as Sulphur Dioxide and Nitrogen Oxide.The CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute was tasked with the job of developing ‘green crackers’. But only a few varieties were available in the market last year due to licencing requirements.The minister had earlier said that the government will launch an anti-cracker campaign from November 3. Under it, 11 special squads of the DPCC and city police will inspect firecracker manufacturing units to ensure that there is no old stock left.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-only-green-crackers-are-manufactured-sold-delhi-minister-gopal-rai-to-dms/story-LPIMGsUwnsrvi7CB0EBFIL.html
30-10-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah not being allowed to leave house a ‘new low’ in curtailment of rights in J-K: Gupkar alliance||The Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Friday said National Conference president Farooq Abdullah allegedly not being allowed to leave his house to visit Hazratbal shrine here is a “new low in curtailment of fundamental rights” of the people of Jammu and Kashmir.In a statement, PAGD spokesperson Sajad Lone condemned the state administration for putting a blockade outside the resident of Abdullah and demanded that it be removed.No official from the administration was available for comment on the issue.Abdullah is also the president of the recently floated PAGD – an alliance of seven mainstream political parties in Jammu and Kashmir seeking restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status as it existed on 4 August last year.Earlier in the day, the National Conference (NC) claimed in a tweet that the administration had blocked Abdullah’s residence and stopped him from offering prayers at Dargah Hazratbal on the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi.Lone said, “Abdullah was slated to go to Hazratbal in order to participate in the religious congregation on account of Eid-Milad-Un-Nabi, however (he) was barred from leaving his house.” “We strongly condemn the actions of the state administration which are tantamount to interference in the religious rights of Dr Farooq Abdullah. This marks a new low in the curtailment of fundamental rights of the people of J-K. We demand that the blockade be removed so that Dr Farooq Sahib is able to perform his religious duties,” he said.The PAGD also “unequivocally and unambiguously” condemned the killings of three BJP workers by militants in Kulgam district of south Kashmir on Thursday.“Political differences cannot justify use of violence. Violence has always and will crowd out sanity. We will always fight aggression in all its forms irrespective of the source of aggression,” Lone said.The three BJP workers -- Fida Hussain, Umer Hajam and Umer Rashid Beigh -- were shot dead by militants in Kulgam’s Y K Pora area.The Resistance Front (TRF), believed to be a shadow group of the Lashkar-e-Taiba, has claimed responsibility for the killings. PTI SSB MIJ DIV DIV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-not-being-allowed-to-leave-house-a-new-low-in-curtailment-of-rights-in-j-k-gupkar-alliance/story-nHrHgcmYU5UkdL77ioK4bN.html
30-10-2020||India||US court asks ISRO’s Antrix to pay USD 1.2 billion compensation to Bengaluru start-up||A US court has asked Antrix Corporation, the commercial arm of Indian Space Research Organisation, to pay compensation of USD 1.2 billion to a Bengaluru-based startup, Devas Multimedia, for cancelling a satellite deal in 2005. As per the agreement in January 2005, Antrix agreed to build, launch and operate two satellites and to make available 70 MHz of S-band spectrum to Devas, which the latter planned to use to offer hybrid satellite and terrestrial communication services throughout India. The agreement was terminated by Antrix in February 2011. Over the next several years, Devas approached various legal avenues in India. This included the Supreme Court, which directed for a tribunal. In his order dated October 27, Judge Thomas S Zilly, US District Judge, Western District of Washington, Seattle, ruled that Antrix Corporation pay a compensation of USD 562.5 million to Devas Multimedia Corporation and the related interest rate amounting to a total of USD 1.2 billion. In its lawsuit filed in the US District Court, Western District of Washington in September 2018, Devas Multimedia said three separate international tribunals and nine different arbitrators have found the termination of the Devas-Antrix agreement to have been wrongful, with one of the tribunals describing it as “conduct ‘which shocks, or at least surprises, a sense of juridical propriety,’” and another finding it to be “a clear breach of simple good faith” by India. Antrix, in November 2018, had sought the dismissal of the lawsuit citing jurisdictional issues. The court, however, asserted that it had jurisdiction over the issue, but stayed the matter for one year and asked the two to file a joint status report by April 15, 2020. On July 16, 2020, both Devas and Antrix filed the instant motion, a Joint Status Report in which they disputed whether the court should lift or extend the stay, and, if the latter, whether Antrix be required to post security. Devas, according to submissions, has argued that the US court has jurisdiction over these cases, as Antrix engages in business in this district and across the United States. Antrix and Spaceflight Industries, which is headquartered in Seattle have an agreement to provide satellite launch services using India’s PSLV rocket. Antrix and RBC Signals LLC, which is headquartered in Redmond, Washington have a worldwide agreement to provide space communications services to satellite operators. Antrix in 2018 launched a satellite for Redmond, a Washington-based Planetary Resources. Antrix agreed in 2015 to launch two satellites for Colorado-based PlanetiQ. Antrix is contracted with DigitalGlobe, which has headquarters in Colorado and other locations in Florida, Virginia and Washington to procure certain satellite data, which is then distributed by the Indian Space Research Organisation’s National Remote Sensing Centre. Devas said that after the initial signing of the agreement, the two companies performed in good faith for five years. Among other things, in May 2009, Dr Appanna Bhaskarnaryana, the Director of the Satellite Communications Programme Office of ISRO, spent four to five weeks in the US with Devas personnel meeting with Hughes Networks, Sirius XM SkyTerra, Qualcomm and ICO North America to understand the technologies used by, and operation of, hybrid satellite-terrestrial operators providing telecommunications services. Devas subsequently conducted experimental trials in India (attended by Antrix officials, including the company’s then chairman), Chengdu and Beijing in China, and Stuttgart in Germany, which successfully demonstrated the hybrid satellite-terrestrial systems and end-user terminals that Devas had developed in conjunction with a global network of leading technology players such as Alcatel Lucent, it said. On February 25, 2011, Antrix issued a termination notice to Devas, which among other things stated that the policy decision was of the central government, acting in its sovereign capacity is the event of force majeure, which was an occurrence on February 23, 2011. “The scope and duration of the said decision cannot be anticipated. It is likely to be indefinite. It is not possible for Antrix to take any effective step to resume the obligations under the agreement,” Antrix said. Devas disputed Antrix’s repudiation of the agreement and sought to conduct discussions among senior management as contemplated by that agreement. In June 2011, Devas commenced arbitration proceedings under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce. Antrix initially refused to participate in the arbitration and obtained an injunction from the Indian Supreme Court enjoining the arbitration. After one year, the Supreme Court lifted the injunction, allowing the arbitration to proceed. Thereafter, Antrix participated fully in the arbitration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-court-asks-isro-s-antrix-to-pay-usd-1-2-billion-compensation-to-bengaluru-start-up/story-DTuv9j8e2h2dx0Z9TmhKJL.html
30-10-2020||India||Delhi’s air quality may improve significantly in next 2 days: Ministry of Earth Sciences||A significant improvement is likely in the national capital’s air quality over the next two days, a central government air quality monitoring agency said on Friday.The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said that the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM 2.5 pollution was 19 per cent on Friday.Also Read | Delhi air quality stays severe for most parts of day, settles at very poorIt was 36 per cent on Thursday, the maximum so far this season, 18 per cent on Wednesday, 23 per cent on Tuesday, 16 per cent on Monday, 19 per cent on Sunday and nine per cent on Saturday.The number of farm fires in neighbouring states dropped from 2,912 on Wednesday – the highest so far this season – to 1,143 on Thursday.Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) has improved marginally as predicted and remains in the high end of the very poor category, it said. The wind speed is expected to pick up and the improved ventilation is likely to influence air quality positively, SAFAR said.A significant improvement is predicted by November 1 and the air quality is likely to slip back into the “poor” category, it said.Delhi’s air quality entered the “severe” category for a brief period on Thursday, for the first time since January, as calm winds and low temperature allowed accumulation of pollutants amid a spike in farm fires.  On Friday morning, Delhi’s air quality was recorded in the “very poor” category.The city recorded an AQI of 381 at noon. The 24-hour average AQI was 395 on Thursday. It was 297 on Wednesday, 312 on Tuesday, 353 on Monday, and 349 on Sunday.Also Read | Centre brings new law to tackle NCR air crisisSeveral monitoring stations, including at Shadipur (417), Patparganj (406), Bawana (447) and Mundka (427), recorded air quality in the “severe” category.An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’,201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-air-quality-may-improve-significantly-in-next-2-days-ministry-of-earth-sciences/story-7b4pp5aY1RdZ2a0HlaF06L.html
30-10-2020||India||People of Drass have ‘endorsed’ Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration’s agenda: Omar Abdullah||The people of Drass in Ladakh have “endorsed” the agenda of the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah said on Friday.The delegation, led by Omar Abdullah, is now in Kargil to begin consultations with the people “on the road ahead” for Jammu and Kashmir.Seven mainstream parties of Jammu and Kashmir, including the NC and the PDP, have formed the PAGD for restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir.On August 5 last year, the Centre had abrogated the special status of the erstwhile state and bifurcated it into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. “Warmly received by the people of Drass, who in one voice endorsed the agenda of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration,” Omar Abdullah, a former chief minister, tweeted.“People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration is heading to Kargil to hold consultations with the people to chart out the road ahead,” he said on Twitter.Commenting on the Ladakh visit of the PAGD delegation, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said it was high time someone reached out to the people of Kargil as they “too have grave apprehensions” about the future.  NC’s Farooq Abdullah is the PAGD’s chairman and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti its vice-chairperson “Glad to see all of you at Kargil to engage with the people. High time someone reached out to them since they too have grave apprehensions about the future,” Mehbooba, also a former chief minister tweeted. The members of the delegation, which is visiting Ladakh, comprise of NC leader Nasir Aslam Wani, PDP leaders Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura and Waheed Para, and Awami National Conference leader Muzaffar Shah. This is the first visit of leaders of mainstream political parties of Jammu and Kashmir to Ladakh after the August 5 last year decision of the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-of-drass-have-endorsed-peoples-alliance-for-gupkar-declaration-s-agenda-omar-abdullah/story-RiUAToI33IFavgFaADJDcI.html
30-10-2020||India||‘Conversion just for marriage’s sake not acceptable’: Allahabad High Court dismisses couple’s plea||Allahabad High Court has dismissed a writ petition filed by a married couple seeking police protection, according to a Live Law report. The high court noted the woman was a Muslim and converted to Hinduism just a month before she got married, according to Live Law.Justice Mahesh Chandra Tripathi said it clearly reveals that the conversion took place only for the purpose of the marriage. Justice Tripathi referred to a 2014 judgement in which the same court had observed that conversion just for the purpose of marriage is unacceptable. The court then dismissed the writ petition, saying that it is not inclined to interfere in the matter under Article 226 of Constitution of India. In the 2014 judgement, the Allahabad High Court had dismissed a batch of writ petitions were filed seeking protection by a couple as they had tied the knot after the woman converted from Hinduism to Islam and then performed the nikah. “Whether conversion of the religion of a Hindu girl at the instance of a Muslim boy, without any knowledge of Islam or faith and belief in Islam and merely for the purpose of Marriage (Nikah) is valid?” the court had said about the case then, according to Live Law.“A conversion of religion by an individual to Islam can be said to be bonafide if he/she is major and of sound mind and embraces Islam by his/her own free will and because of his/her faith and belief in the oneness of God (Allah) and prophetic character of Mohamed,” the court had observed while answering the question in negative and reiterating the Supreme Court’s stand in the case of Lily Thomas vs Union of India.“If a conversion is not inspired by religion feeling and undergone for its own sake, but is resorted merely with the object of creating a ground for some claim of right or as a device adopted for the purpose to avoid marriage or to achieve an object without faith and belief in the unity of God (Allah) and Mohamed to be his prophet, the conversion shall not be bonafide. In case of a religious conversion there should be a change of heart and honest conviction in the tenets of the new religion in lieu of tenets of the original religion,” it had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conversion-just-for-marriage-s-sake-not-acceptable-allahabad-high-court-dismisses-couple-s-plea/story-j9BOvXhRrQnvK9CjcXSPXM.html
30-10-2020||India||Returning from marriage ceremony, 8 die after van falls off hill in Andhra Pradesh||Eight people, part of a marriage party, including two women and two children, were killed when a van in which they were travelling fell off a ghat road of a hill in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district. The accident took place in the early hours of Friday at around 3.30 am when the marriage party was returning from the temple of Lord Venkateshwara located on Tantikonda hill of Gokavaram block, the police said.“Preliminary investigations revealed that the brakes of the van had failed as a result of which the driver lost control over the steering and was unable to negotiate the steep curve. The vehicle plunged off the road and fell on the steps-route of the hill meant for pilgrims trekking the hill,” the police said.While six people died on the spot, two succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Rajahmundry. Six of the deceased were identified as, Kambhala Bhanu of Gokavaram village, Simhadri Prasad of Thakurpalem village, Ella Lakshmi and Ella Divyasri of Diwan Cheruvu village, Chaganti Mohini of Gadarada village and Pachakuri Narasimha of Gangapalem village.The police said about 22 people had been visited Lord Venkateshwara Swamy temple on Tantikonda hill on Thursday evening for the marriage ceremony of their kin. While the bride hailed from Velugubanda village of Rajanagaram block, the groom was from Thagurpalem village of Gokavaram block.“After the marriage, 17 people of the marriage party began returning in the van early in the morning when the accident took place. The other injured are being treated at the Rajahmundry hospital. Investigation is on,” the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/returning-from-marriage-ceremony-8-die-after-van-falls-off-hill-in-andhra-pradesh/story-o4t0KC3fPxE4CqzF56WZBI.html
30-10-2020||India||Hold FB, Twitter, WhatsApp directly responsible for spreading hate, fake news: Plea in SC||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking directions to make laws to regulate social media platforms and to hold Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, Instagram directly responsible for spreading hate speeches and fake news.The public interest litigation (PIL), filed by advocate Vineet Jindal through advocate Raj Kishor Choudhary earlier this week, sought directions to the Centre to frame laws for criminal prosecution of persons involved in spreading hate and fake news through social media.It requested the top court to direct the Central government to establish a mechanism for automatic removal of hate speeches and fake news within a short timeframe so that the counter production of such hate speeches or fake news can be minimised.The PIL further prayed that the government is directed to appoint an expert investigating officer in each case registered for spreading hate and fake news through social media platforms.“A registered account is sufficient to start a channel, which provides a platform of uploading videos in the social media such as Twitter, YouTube, Facebook, Instagram, etc, which means anyone can float anything in the social media, there is no restriction or censor for their contents and there are no regulations at all by the government,” the plea said.The petitioner said that the plea was filed in wake of two tweets by the name of one Armin Navabi from his Twitter handle @ArminNavabi against Hindu goddess and using derogatory terms.The petition submitted that freedom of speech and expression is broadly understood as the notion that every person has the natural right to freely express themselves through any media and frontier without outside interference, such as censorship and without fear of reprisal, such as threats and persecutions.“However, Freedom of expression is a complex right, this is because freedom of expression is not absolute and carries with it special duties and responsibilities, therefore, it may be subject to certain restrictions provided by law,” the plea said.“Social media’s reach is much wider than that of the traditional media. Freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1) of the Constitution goes hand-in-hand with reasonable restrictions that may be imposed under Article 19(2),” it added.The plea contended that it would be beneficial for India to look at the regulation standards implemented by different countries in order to introduce guidelines, which form a balance between freedom of speech and accountability of social media platforms.“India has seen plenty of communal violence in the past, but in today’s time of social media, these aggressions are not just restricted to the regional or local population, the entire country is taken along. The fog of rumours, innuendo, and hate that act as kindling in a local communal clash immediately spread across India through social media,” the plea said.It said there had been a few horrific communal riots and social media has been playing a harmful role in inciting communal violence in India and time has come to check its misuse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hold-facebook-twitter-whatsapp-directly-responsible-for-spreading-hate-fake-news-plea-in-supreme-court/story-2HF2a2bNDWgNcvbNirC43K.html
30-10-2020||India||Deadline for report on ST status for 6 Assam communities ends today. Here’s what you need to know||A Group of Ministers formed by Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal in January 2019 has set October 30 as the deadline for the submission of its final report on the Scheduled Tribe (ST) status of the six communities in the northeastern state. The six Assam communities that are ST status are Chutiya, Koch-Rajbongshi, Matak, Moran, Tai-Ahom and ‘Tea Tribe’, some of which are reserved as the Other Backward Classes (OBC).The Group of Ministers had been tasked by the central government to counsel on the rights and privileges of the new STs after the introduction of the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill in Parliament. Assam is mainly divided into two categories, STs (Plains) and STs (Hills) and 16 Scheduled Caste (SC) communities. There are 14 Plains STs and 15 Hills STs as of February 2019. The six communities seeking reservation mostly belong to the Plains.The ST status to the six non-tribal communities is a raging issue in Assam since the tribal communities do not see them as indigenous, especially the Koch-Rajbongshi and Tai-Ahom who were the rulers of eastern and north-eastern India once. Not only that, the tribal communities also claim that Ahoms came from Thailand 800 years ago and are not the aborigines, thereby it disregards the United Nations specification of only aborigines to be categorised as indigenous.Also Read | Assam groups promised ST status say implement it first, as existing tribes threaten agitationThe Coordination Committee of the Tribal Organisations of Assam opposes the expansion of ST list on the lines that their inclusion will impact the tribes presently on the list as well as their rights. It has asked the government to take a different approach to fulfil the demands of the six groups seeking to be reserved as ST in the state.The new status will grant property and other constitutional rights to the six communities which the indigenous in Assam are opposed to due to the fear of greater marginalization of the ‘real tribes’ post their inclusion in the ST category.The state finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who heads the Group of Ministers, had earlier this month met both the sections contesting on this issue, including the groups who are opposing the ST status to these six communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadline-for-report-on-st-status-for-6-assam-communities-ends-today-here-s-what-you-need-to-know/story-75VysEnVHeAcHsKHvWaziL.html
30-10-2020||India||‘Consider face masks like Covid-19 vaccine,’ says Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday encouraged people to wear masks and said everyone should consider them as a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). With the festive season approaching and the number of coronavirus disease cases in the national capital soaring this week, he urged Delhiites to take all steps necessary to bring down the infections and deaths.Also Read: Eating out, grocery shopping more dangerous than air travel during Covid-19: StudyBenefits of wearing a face mask were at par, if not better than, those of a lockdown, he said. “When we had imposed the lockdown, cases did not go down. If 100 per cent of people wear masks, Covid-19 infection can be controlled to a certain extent. Benefits of wearing masks are just as many as those of a lockdown, if not more. Until there is a vaccine, masks should be considered as vaccines,” he told news agency ANI. Amid concerns of rising air pollution in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), he said that wearing masks would also help protect people from air pollution. The central government on Thursday set up a new umbrella agency to fight air pollution in the region, scrapping the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA). In another attempt to address these concerns, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal launched the Green Delhi mobile app, which enables users to register complaints about violation of anti-pollution norms, in the Capital.Also Read: Green Delhi mobile app to be launched today: All you need to knowJain also commented on the availability of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. “Around 35 per cent of our beds are currently occupied. We wanted to increase the number of beds but the High Court did not allow it. We have asked for 80 per cent of beds in private hospitals to be reserved for Covid-19 patients. That matter is being discussed in court,” he said.Active Covid-19 cases in the country stood at 594,386 on Friday while the infection tally soared to 8,088,851,  according to the Union health ministry dashboard. Meanwhile, as many as 3,75,753, cases, including 30,952 active cases and 6,423 deaths, have been recorded in Delhi.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consider-face-masks-like-covid-19-vaccine-says-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain/story-1XTu0o6hWGrZU3ls4Oc4AK.html
30-10-2020||India||Anti-France protests in Mumbai: Police remove posters slamming Emmanuel Macron||A day after India expressed solidarity with France after a teacher was beheaded and French President Emanuel Macron was subjected to personal attacks, posters slamming Macron for defending the rights to publish cartoons of the Prophet surfaced in Mumbai and Bhopal on Thursday. By Friday afternoon, Mumbai Police removed the posters from Mohammad Ali road. Videos of people walking, cars driving on the posters have been doing the rounds on social media. Reports said the Raza Academy, a Muslim organisation, was behind the protest. This is happened in Mumbai India 🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/gE7037Yl91 Bhindi Bazar, Mumbai. They have put French President's pic on Road and walking over it. The Hate is Universal, the Ideology remain same wherever it is France or Syria or Mumbai or Azamgarh.#Radical_Islamic_Terror #IStandWithFrance pic.twitter.com/yDbiH3l89FIssuing an official statement condemning the killing of a French teacher and personal attacks on Macron, the ministry of external affairs said, “We strongly deplore the personal attacks in unacceptable language on President Emmanuel Macron in violation of the most basic standards of international discourse.”“We also condemn the brutal terrorist attack that took the life of a French teacher in a gruesome manner that has shocked the world. There is no justification for terrorism for any reason or under any circumstance,” it said. On Thursday, a woman was beheaded and two other people were killed in a suspected terrorist act in Nice. In a separate incident, a gun-wielding man was shot dead by police in French city Avignon.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condemned the attacks and asserted India’s support to France in the fight against terrorism. “I strongly condemn the recent terrorist attacks in France, including today’s heinous attack in Nice inside a church. Our deepest and heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims and the people of France. India stands with France in the fight against terrorism,” PM Modi tweeted on Thursday.On October 16, Samuel Paty, a French teacher, was beheaded for allegedly showing cartoon of the Prophet in his class. Taking part in the mourning ceremony, Macron said France will not give up cartoons which led to a divide among world leaders as Pakistan, Turkey have strongly denounced Macron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-france-protests-in-mumbai-police-remove-posters-slamming-emmanuel-macron-pasted-on-street/story-XsJWBFbZf1CIEcNX8exAdM.html
30-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: NC alleges Farooq Abdullah not allowed to leave home for prayers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farooq Abdullah prevented from leaving residence to offer prayers: National ConferenceFormer Jammu & Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah has been prevented from offering prayers at Srinagar’s revered Hazratbal mosque, where a big gathering is expected for the congregational Friday noon prayers on the occasion of the Prophet Muhammad’s birth celebrations, his party said. Read moreCongress, others must apologise: Javadekar after Pakistan minister’s Pulwama attack commentsUnion minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday trained his guns on the Congress party, a day after Pakistan minister Fawad Chaudhry admitted his country’s role in the Pulwama attack last year. Read moreMaharashtra plans app, colour coding to control crowd in local trainsThe Maharashtra government, which plans to throw open suburban trains in Mumbai and adjoining densely populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) for all commuters soon amid the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19 ) outbreak, is looking at the use of technology to prevent overcrowding in trains. Read moreSangakkara has advice for Dhoni to get back in form ahead of IPL 2021Former Sri Lanka captain Kumar Sangakkara, who is commentating in the IPL, feels this could just be one of those years for Dhoni when things didn’t go right. Read moreTelangana to announce electric vehicle policy today: All you need to knowTelangana is all set to announce its electric vehicle policy today. After Delhi and Gujarat, Telangana will become only the third state in India to have a comprehensive policy for electric vehicles. Read moreKaali Khuhi movie review: Shabana Azmi’s talents are wasted on deathly dull Netflix horror filmKaali Khuhi is a deathly dull film that doesn’t even have the decency to be bad. It’s too serious for its own good. Does it not realise that the story it’s presenting teeters on the edge of ridiculousness? Read morePM Modi on two-day Gujarat visit; pays tribute to Keshubhai PatelPrime Minister Narendra Modi paid floral tribute to former Gujarat CM Keshubhai Pat at his residence in Gandhinagar on October 30. Keshubhai Patel passed away after prolonged illness in Ahmedabad on Oct 29. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-nc-alleges-farooq-abdullah-not-allowed-to-leave-home-for-prayers-and-all-the-latest-news/story-14iGlT1sj96U4vicI6HUCJ.html
30-10-2020||India||India and US discuss UNSC agenda, agree to work closely together||India and the US have held wide ranging discussions on issues on the UN Security Council agenda and agreed to work closely given their shared values of democracy, pluralism and rule-based international order, officials here said.Earlier this year, India, along with Mexico and Ireland, was elected a non-permanent member for a two-year term starting January 1, 2021. The consultations between India and the US are reflective of the efforts on the part of the two countries to coordinate on a host of global issues that would come up before the powerful organ of the United Nations next year. “Both sides held wide ranging discussions on issues on the UN Security Council agenda and recent developments,” the Embassy of India here said in a statement on Thursday.“They agreed to work closely together given their shared values of democracy, pluralism and rule-based international order, during India’s upcoming term as non-permanent member of the UNSC during 2021-22,” it said. India has been pushing for reforms of the United Nations, including the Security Council, stating that its composition doesn’t reflect the current realities and is not representative enough. Also Read: Mike Pompeo’s attack on China signals a shift in India’s approachThe UNSC has 15 members, including five permanent members - the US, the UK, France, Russia and China. China is the only permanent member of the UNSC which is opposed to India’s inclusion into the powerful organ. Half of the 10 non-permanent members are elected every year for a two-year term. Indian delegation for the two-day consultations on Wednesday and Thursday was led by Vinay Kumar, Additional Secretary (International Organisation and Summits) in the Ministry of External Affairs.The delegation included senior officials from the Ministry of External Affairs, the Permanent Mission of India in New York and the Embassy of India in Washington, DC. The US delegation was led by Pamela D Pryor, Acting Assistant Secretary for State Department’s Bureau of International Organisation Affairs, and included other senior State Department officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-us-discuss-unsc-agenda-agree-to-work-closely-together/story-oK0jYhJrYJ7pI7ccjAiu9M.html
30-10-2020||India||Chhattisgarh bypoll: In Ajit Jogi’s bastion of Marwahi, a direct fight between Congress, BJP||For the first time in 20 years, no member of the Jogi family will be in the fray for polls in Chhattisgarh’s Marwahi. The Marwahi seat fell vacant following Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) chief Ajit Jogi‘s death in May. Bypolls to the seat are scheduled on November 3. The nomination papers of Ajit Jogi’s son, Amit Jogi, were rejected on October 19, making it a direct fight between Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) and ruling Congress.The nomination was rejected on the basis of a high-power committee’s report that concluded Amit Jogi is not a tribal. His wife Richa Jogi’s nomination for the seat reserved for scheduled tribes was also cancelled on the same grounds.Also read | Chhattisgarh passes amendment bill to counter Centre’s farm billsAmit Jogi, who has been camping in Marwahi, said he has not told the people who they should vote but certainly who they should not vote for. He added he is meeting people of Marwahi to protect his father’s honour. “My campaign in Marawahi is not for the vote but to tell people about the injustice that has been done to me by the Congress government. This government has insulted the memory of my father and they keep abusing my father.”He blamed chief minister Bhupesh Baghel for removing him from the contest. “But he cannot take me out of the hearts of people in Marwahi. I am sure that the people of Marwahi will protect the honour of my father.”The constituency has been the bastion of the Jogis since Chhattisgarh’s formation in 2000. Ajit Jogi successfully contested by-election from Marwahi in 2001 after he became the state’s first chief minister in 2000. He retained the seat in 2003 and 2008 before his son successfully contested from Marwahi in 2013. Ajit Jogi won the seat again in 2018 two years after he quit the Congress and formed his own party, which bagged five seats. His ally Bahujan Samaj Party won two seats.Congress leader RP Singh said after his father’s death, Amit Jogi enjoys no support in Marwahi. “Secondly, everyone in the constituency has understood that Amit has joined hands with BJP. We are winning the by-poll because BJP is nowhere.”The BJP has fielded Gambhir Singh, a surgeon, and the Congress Dr Krishan Kumar Dhruw, who has served as a medical officer in the area.BJP leader Sacchinand Upsane said they will win with a huge margin. “The Congress is spreading rumours that Amit Jogi is with us... They came third in last elections and we got more votes than Congress. They themselves are joining hands with local leaders of JCC because they know that Congress has no base in the constituency.”Pariwesh Mishra, a political commentator, said by coming out openly against Congress and by default in favour of BJP in a bipolar contest, Jogi has killed any chances of reconciliation or his return to his parent party anytime soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-bypoll-in-ajit-jogi-s-bastion-of-marwahi-a-direct-fight-between-congress-bjp/story-bpPNlPuvoIwJIXEzgHtV8L.html
30-10-2020||India||PM Modi inaugurates Sardar Patel Zoological Park in Gujarat||A day before the 145th birth anniversary of country’s first home minister Vallabhbhai Patel, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated Sardar Patel Zoological Park, popularly known as Jungle Safari, in Kevadia, Narmada district on Wednesday. The park has been set up near the 182-metre Statue of Unity.After the inauguration, The Prime Minister took a tour of the zoological park. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Governor Acharya Devvrat also accompanied the PM.Earlier in the day, PM Modi inaugurated the ‘Arogya Van’ in Kevadia, which has hundreds of medicinal plants and herbs and also provides information about their usage and importance. The forest is spread over an area of about 17 acres and have five lakh plants of 380 selected species. It also comprises a lotus pond, alba garden, aroma garden, yoga and meditation garden, indoor plant section, digital information centre, souvenir shop and a cafeteria serving Ayurveda foods, among other things.PM Modi also inaugurated ‘Ekta Mall’ and ‘Children Nutrition Park’ and took a ride in ‘nutri train’ at the park.PM Modi is on a two-day visit to his home state Gujarat. During the course of the visit, he is scheduled to launch 17 projects in Gujarat.PM Modi arrived at the Ahmedabad airport today morning and began his official visit by meeting relatives of the late Gujarat chief minister Keshubhai Patel in Gandhinagar. Patel, 92, a BJP stalwart, died on Thursday. During the meeting, PM Modi offered his condolences to the family and recalled his long association with the senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader. “Modiji recalled his long association with Keshubhai and asked us about his last moments,” news agency PTI quoted a family member as saying.He also offered his tributes to brothers Mahesh and Naresh Kanodia, who passed away recently.During the day, PM Modi is also scheduled to unveil the Statue of Unity website in all UN official languages and the Kevadia App at the Unity Glow Garden. The Prime Minister is also expected to meet his mother Hiraba, who lives on the outskirts of Gandhinagar city with his younger brother Pankaj Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-arogya-van-in-kevadia-gujarat/story-AGc5fJ8lltRvvzVNtXqU2H.html
30-10-2020||India||Indian Army launches indigenous mobile app ‘SAI’, will facilitate secure messaging||The Indian Army has developed and launched a secure messaging application, Secure Application for the Internet or SAI. The app supports end-to-end secure voice, text and video calling services for Android platform and was launched to prevent “leaking” of any classified information to inimical intelligence agencies, the ministry of defence said in a statement.“The model (of SAI) is similar to commercially available messaging applications like WhatsApp, Telegram, SAMVAD and GIMS and utilises end-to-end encryption messaging protocol. SAI scores over on security features with local in-house servers and coding, which can be tweaked as per requirements,” the ministry said in a release on Thursday.The indigenous messaging application has been vetted by CERT-in empanelled auditor and Army Cyber Group and the process for filing Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) hosting the infrastructure on NIC and working on iOS platform for the app is currently in progress, the ministry said. SAI will be used by the army to facilitate secure messaging within the service, it added.SAI was developed by Colonel Sai Shankar, the commanding officer of a signals unit in Rajasthan, and then upgraded to military-grade standards. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, after reviewing the working of the app, complimented Col Shankar for developing the application with “skill and ingenuity”.In July, after the Centre banned 59 apps of Chinese origin or with Chinese links from app stores in India, the defence ministry had instructed soldiers and officers of the Indian Army to delete 89 apps from their mobile devices, including news apps like Daily Hunt, dating apps like Tinder, social networking apps like Facebook, TikTok, video-conferencing apps like Zoom and gaming apps like PUBG. This was done to prevent “sensitive information” from being leaked.Popular social media apps Facebook and Instagram have also been banned. Last year, the army had instructed its soldiers and officials to stay clear of using WhatsApp for official purposes. Officers posted on sensitive posts were also asked to delete their Facebook accounts. Carrying smartphones onto bases and dockyards has been prohibited. This came after the army observed Chinese and Pakistan’s online espionage agents attempting to obtain classified information and data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-launches-indigenous-mobile-app-sai-will-facilitate-secure-messaging/story-5QRa0S55x7R8qyKQdjFFIP.html
30-10-2020||India||Congress, others must apologise: Javadekar after Pakistan minister’s Pulwama attack comments||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday trained his guns on the Congress party, a day after Pakistan minister Fawad Chaudhry admitted his country’s role in the Pulwama attack last year. Chaudhry, the science and technology minister in Prime Minister Imran Khan’s Cabinet, had said on the floor of parliament that Pakistan had entered India and beaten it on its own soil.“Pakistan has admitted its hand behind Pulwama terror attack. Now, Congress and others who talked of conspiracy theories must apologise to the country,” Javadekar, the Union information and broadcasting minister, tweeted on Friday.Chaudhry made the remarks as he responded to comments by Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) lawmaker Ayaz Sadiq. Sadiq had said that foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi was shaken at the possibility of an Indian attack to free Indian pilot Abhinandan Varthaman, who was shot down in a dogfight amid the standoff in February last year.Also read | Pak military on damage control after MP says IAF pilot was released out of panic“The confidence with which he [Sadiq] said such things, that Shah Mahmood Qureshi’s legs were shaking because India was about to attack. Hum ne Hindustan ko ghus ke mara hai (We went inside India and hit them),” Chaudhry said, speaking in Urdu. “And our success in Pulwama, that was the success of this nation under Imran Khan’s leadership,” he added.This is the first time a Pakistan minister has admitted what India has long maintained -- that the country, directly and indirectly, encourages and supports terror groups that target India. Forty troopers of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were killed when a suicide bomber rammed an explosives-laden car into a bus, part of a convoy of security forces, in Pulwama on February 14, 2019.Also read | India designates 18 terrorists based in Pakistan under anti-terror lawCongress leader Rahul Gandhi had attacked the Centre in February this year asking a series of questions in a veiled reference to the allegations that the BJP might have benefitted from the dastardly attacks. Senior Congress leader BK Hariprasad had also alleged there was a “match-fixing” between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Pakistani counterpart Imran Khan which allowed the Pulwama terror attack to occur.Before this, the BJP’s national spokesperson Sambit Patra had attacked Gandhi and the Congress party. “Terrorism anywhere in the world has its roots in Pakistan. But it is irony that Rahul Gandhi and his associates from Congress party termed the Pulwama attack as a match-fixing between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Imran Khan. “This exposes that Congress and its leaders in their hatred for Modi have turned anti-India,” he had said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-others-must-apologise-javadekar-after-pakistan-minister-s-pulwama-attack-comments/story-WFGNboLe3zH5HuHRSmdKEI.html
30-10-2020||India||BJP leader blames provocations by NC, PDP for attack that killed 3 leaders||Former deputy chief minister Kavinder Gupta blamed the killing of three BJP leaders in Kulgam district late on Thursday evening to the provocations by the leaders of National Conference (NC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP).“We have lost three of our very dedicated leaders-- Fida Hussain Yatoo, Umer Rashid Beigh and Umer Ramzan Hajam in a dastardly terror attack. I feel the provocations by the leaders of NC and PDP, who are trying to reactivate themselves, are behind such incidents. However, we are not going to tolerate this and the killers will be paid back in the same coin.” “On Thursday a statement came from one of Imran Khan’s federal ministers, Fawad Choudhary, who claimed how Pakistan successfully carried out Pulwama attack on February 14 last year that killed 40 CRPF personnel. So, once again Pakistan’s role with its proxies in the Kashmir valley is established beyond doubt”, he added. Gupta said that the killing of three very dedicated leaders was a big loss to BJP and the nation. “There is an attempt to scuttle the voice of those who hold aloft tricolour in Kashmir Valley but it won’t deter us and the wave of nationalism won’t stop. The matter is being investigated. I stand by their families and assure them that the killers will be paid back in the same coin,” he said. Also read: ‘Sacrifices won’t go in vain’ - JP Nadda condoles BJP workers’ killings in J-K’s KulgamJammu and Kashmir BJP chief Ravinder Raina said, “Gupkar gang’s provocations are responsible for such incidents. They are conspiring against the nation and they repeatedly mention Pakistan and China in their statements. They are inciting the people in Kashmir. They should not play with fire because doing so strengthens anti-national forces and creates confusion among the people. They are to vitiate the atmosphere”. Raina also said that terrorists and their sympathises were perturbed by grand Accession Day celebrations in Kashmir for the first time on October 26. “These leaders had taken part in the celebrations. The perpetrators will pay heavily for their sins,” he added. Raina has left for the Kulgam to attend funeral of the three slain BJP functionaries. Thursday evening’s attack is seen as part of targeted attacks on mainstream politicians in Jammu and Kashmir over the last few weeks and months. Suspected terrorists have already killed BJP leader Sheikh Waseem Bari, his brother and their father and Congress sarpanch Ajay Pandita. Other politicians have been warned as well.In July, the BJP youth wing’s president in Baramulla, Marouf Bhat, quit politics after he found himself on the radar of terrorists. Bhat had told HT that he was ready to sacrifice his life, not his children. “I have been twice attacked in the past but nothing has been done so far,” he said. “They (militants) are not only targeting us but our families also. We have not been given any security and accommodation in a secured place. Now, our families are at risk,” he said after quitting in July.Bhat refused to comment on the latest round of killings on Thursday. “I have resigned from the BJP and I am living a normal life,” he said.A social activist from Handwara, Mubeena Bano, who quit in July, was the third BJP leader from north Kashmir to resign from the party in the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-blames-provocations-by-nc-pdp-for-attack-that-killed-3-leaders/story-YsLSvHI6xdQF5FI10AvsaN.html
30-10-2020||India||NDRF trains first lot of stray dogs as search, rescue specialists||Blaze and Tiger are the latest trainee members of the National Disaster Response Force’s (NDRF) dog squad which helps personnel carry out search-and-rescue operations. Contrary to the conventional norm, Blaze and Tiger are neither German Shepherds nor Labradors, but “desi” stray breed, which the NDRF’s eighth battalion has inducted as a novel experiment.The battalion has four such strays, which were adopted from its Govindpuram campus in Ghaziabad. Blaze and Tiger are 17 months old, while the other two are puppies, who were born about 50 days ago. NDRF officials said the initiative is a call to action of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “vocal for local” concept. “We have started this new experiment. So far, we were involved in training German Shepherds and Labradors as part of the dog-squad’s search-and-rescue operation. Training strays is a bit difficult, when it comes to consistency. But they are doing well,” said PK Tiwary, commandant of the eighth NDRF battalion at Govindpuram in Ghaziabad. “The strays have an edge, as they are acclimatised and require less care than the other breeds we have,” he added. At present, the battalion has 20 well-trained dogs and Blaze and Tiger are likely to join them after they successfully undergo training. “Blaze and Tiger have completed 40 weeks of training. Soon, they will team up with German Shepherds and Labradors for the search-and-rescue operations. This will be the toughest part of the training exercise, as the ‘desis’ are not friendly to the other breeds that we have,” said Sandeep Kumar, who is handling the training of the first lot of strays at the NDRF. Blaze and Tiger have separate facilities such as kennel, training area and handlers from the German Shepherds and Labradors until they become friends with the rest of the pack. All dogs in the battalion undergo training daily in the morning, including physical exercises, obstacles courses and search-and-rescue operations. “The strays are very agile and, at times, it becomes difficult to make them concentrate. But over a period of time, they have become attuned to the commands. The other breeds are more obedient, sincere and can be handled easily even by other handlers. On the contrary, the strays mostly like to take commands from their own handler,” Kumar said. The dogs are an integral part of the NDRF and a dog-squad always accompanies teams, whenever they go for search and rescue missions. The dogs with NDRF are well trained and are also familiar with public places in a bid to perform their duties in crowded places and urban landscapes. The handlers at the battalion said that the “desi” dogs have more physical stamina and are less susceptible to ailments. “We are pulling out all stops to train Blaze and Tiger, who are puny and less bulky than other breeds that we have. They are likely to prove more successful in search-and-rescue missions. Team work is the key to their success, which will be the most crucial phase of the training that starts soon,” Kumar added.The dogs from the battalion have proved their mettle during the 2011 tsunami rescue operations in Japan, 2015 earthquake in Nepal and have even served in several missions across the country. They have also taken part in local search-and-rescue operations such as the Akash Nagar building collapse in Ghaziabad and Shaberi building collapse incident at Greater Noida in Gautam Buddha Nagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-trains-first-lot-of-stray-dogs-as-search-rescue-specialists/story-JGo8HBRX3roDcN3LAqZauL.html
30-10-2020||India||‘Sacrifices won’t go in vain’: JP Nadda condoles BJP workers’ killings in J-K’s Kulgam||BJP president JP Nadda on Fridy condemned the killing of three workers of his party’s youth wing in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Thursday, saying their sacrifice will not go in vain. Fida Hussain Itoo, the district general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), Umer Rashid Beigh, a district executive member of the unit, and Umer Hajam, another member of the body, were shot dead by suspected terrorists in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, police said. The attack took place at YK Pora in Kulgam on Thursday evening, they had said.“Terrorists killed three leaders, including district BJP Yuva Morcha general secretary Fida Hussain, in a cowardly attack in Kulgam in Jammu and Kashmir. The death of such patriots is a big loss for the country. The whole society is with the suffering families. These sacrifices will not go in vain. Condolences to the families,” JP Nadda said in a tweet in Hindi.Also read | 180 terrorists, 55 security force personnel killed this year in J&K: DGPThe three men were rushed to the Qazigund hospital with bullet injuries after being shot at by unidentified gunmen. Doctors at the hospital declared them dead on arrival. Officials said a case has been filed and an investigation has begun.The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Jammu and Kashmir unit had also “strongly condemned this barbaric terror attack” on Thursday and said that “those who are responsible for this will not be spared”. On Friday, former deputy chief minister Kavinder Gupta attributed the killings to the provocations by the leaders of National Conference (NC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).Also read | BJP seeks security after killing of 3 workers in Kulgam“We have lost three of our very dedicated leaders-- Fida Hussain Yatoo, Umer Rashid Beigh and Umer Ramzan Hajam in a dastardly terror attack. I feel the provocations by the leaders of NC and PDP, who are trying to reactivate themselves, are behind such incidents. However, we are not going to tolerate this and the killers will be paid back in the same coin,” Gupta said.Gupta said that the killing of three very dedicated leaders was a big loss to BJP and the nation. “There is an attempt to scuttle the voice of those who hold aloft the tricolour in the Kashmir Valley but it won’t deter us and the wave of nationalism won’t stop. The matter is being investigated,” he said. JK BJP chief Ravinder Raina also echoed Gupta’s allegations. “Gupkar gang’s provocations are responsible for such incidents. They are conspiring against the nation and they repeatedly mention Pakistan and China in their statements. They are inciting the people in Kashmir. They should not play with fire because doing so strengthens anti-national forces and creates confusion among the people. They are to vitiate the atmosphere,” Raina said.Raina also said that terrorists and their sympathisers were perturbed by grand Accession Day celebrations in Kashmir for the first time on October 26. “These leaders had taken part in the celebrations. The perpetrators will pay heavily for their sins,” he added.Before this BJP leader Sheikh Waseem Bari, his brother and their father as well as Congress sarpanch Ajay Pandita were killed in Kashmir in July. BJYM president from Baramulla, Marouf Bhat, had resigned from the party followed by the resignation of a social activist from Handwara, Mubeena Bano. She was the third leader of the BJP from north Kashmir who had resigned from the party that month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sacrifices-won-t-go-in-vain-jp-nadda-condoles-bjp-workers-killings-in-j-k-s-kulgam/story-O5mF0TlQgf2WlWKcCc0FvK.html
30-10-2020||India||J&K: BJP seeks security after killing of 3 workers in Kulgam||Following the killing of three of its men in a terror attack, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Jammu & Kashmir has demanded security for its leaders and party workers.Unidentified gunmen had killed Fida Hussain Itoo (BJYM district general secretary, Kulgam), Umer Rashid Beigh (BJYM district executive member, Kulgam), and Umer Hajam in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Thursday. The men, travelling in a car late in the evening, were without security and sustained bullet injuries. They were taken to Qazigund hospital where they were declared brought dead.A search and cordon operation in the area did not yield any result. Now, BJP leadership has reiterated its demand for security for its leadership and workers in Kashmir. Condemning the killings, former legislator and vice president of the party, Sofi Yusuf, said, “Despite our seeking security, they (workers) didn’t have any...but this will not deter us.”He said the party has apprised the police top brass with the issue. “We have raised our concerns,” he said. Meanwhile, several BJP leaders are travelling to south Kashmir for the funeral of the three workers.Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi condemned the killings and tweeted, “I condemn the killing of 3 of our young Karyakartas. They were bright youngsters doing excellent work in J&K. My thoughts are with their families in this time of grief. May their souls rest in peace.” PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti tweeted, “Saddened to hear about the killing of three BJP workers in Kulgam. Condolences to their families. At the end of the day, its people of J&K who pay with their lives because of GOI’s ill thought out policies.” Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said the perpetrators of violence are the enemies of humanity and such cowardly acts cannot be justified. “Law shall take its course and the guilty shall be dealt with sternly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-bjp-seeks-security-after-killing-of-3-workers-in-kulgam/story-Lj28N4ce3YfR24JsXxe4zJ.html
30-10-2020||India||India registers 48,648 new Covid-19 cases, slightly lower than Thursday||India reported 48,648 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 563 related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s tally to 8,088,851, according to the Union health ministry’s data on Friday morning. The number of new cases was less than Thursday morning’s 603,687 but there were 46 more fatalities on Friday, which have raised the death toll to 121,090.Active cases of the coronavirus disease stand at 594,386, down from 603,687 on Thursday morning, as of 8am on Friday, the health ministry’s dashboard showed. The health ministry has stressed that the declining trend of the active cases of Covid-19 is supported by a rising number of recovered cases in the country. The number of recovered cases is at 7,373,375 and the gap between recovered and active cases has crossed 6,778,989. The national recovery rate is at 91.15% now.Also read | Grocery store workers at heightened risk of symptomless Covid-19 infections: StudyData showed on Thursday morning that 56,480 Covid-19 patients had recovered and discharged and the ministry said that 79% of them were observed to be concentrated in 10 states and Union territories. Maharashtra had contributed the maximum with more than 8,000 single-day recoveries followed by Kerala with more than 7,000 recoveries.Of the 49,881 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, 79% were from 10 states and Union territories. Kerala continues to report a very high number of new cases with more than 8,000 cases followed by Maharashtra with more than 6,000 cases.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayThere were 517 fatalities on Thursday morning and of these, nearly 81% are concentrated in 10 states and Union territories. Maharashtra had reported the maximum fatalities with 91 cases.India has attributed the falling positivity rate, which is at 7.54% at present, to scaling up of its testing capacity from one in January to more than 106.5 million. The health ministry said on Thursday that with 10,75,760 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the cumulative tests have crossed 10,65,63,440. Nearly 1.1 million tests have been conducted daily on an average during the past six weeks, it has said.“India has demonstrated a consistent increase in the COVID-19 testing infrastructure since Jan 2020 resulting in an exponential increase in its testing numbers. The country’s testing capacities have been ramped up multiple times. 15 lakh tests can be done every day now,” it added. Also read | Covid-19 vaccine update: Brazil expects vaccine by June 2021, Russia temporarily pauses trials“As evidence has revealed, comprehensive and widespread testing on a sustained basis has resulted in bringing down the positivity rate. The sharp decline in the national cumulative positivity rate has demonstrated that the rate of spread of infection is being effectively contained. The cumulative positivity rate has been falling progressively and has touched 7.54% today,” it said.The global coronavirus disease tally stands at 44.9 million cases and more than 1.18 million deaths. Europe, North America and Latin America account for more than 66% of global cases and over 76% of global deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-48-648-new-covid-19-cases-slightly-lower-than-thursday/story-SXOyoJb058C1InDuCNu6MK.html
30-10-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi to visit Statue of Unity as part of Gujarat tour||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as part of a two-day visit to his home state Gujarat, will visit the Statue of Unity, the world’s tallest statue and the nation’s homage to the country’s first home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, on Saturday.Modi, who was the chief minister of the western state before he became the Prime Minister of the country, has a packed itinerary for the tour that began Friday.The Prime Minister will also pay his respects to the family of Keshubhai Patel, a former chief minister of Gujarat who passed away after a prolonged illness on Thursday, in Gandhinagar on Friday morning.Also Read: Tejashwi Yadav replies to PM Modi’s ‘Yuvraj of Jungle Raj’ jibeAnother item on the Prime Minister's programme is a visit to the Arogya Van and Arogya Kutir at Kevadia. He will also visit an Ekta Mall and inaugurate a Children’s Nutrition Park.He will also lay the foundation stone of several other projects and inaugurate a Jungle Safari and Geodesic Dome Aviary in the afternoon.He will then inaugurate Dynamic Dam Lighting around 7pm.Subsequently, the website of the Statue of Unity (in all UN languages) and the Kevadia mobile app will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-visit-statue-of-unity-as-part-of-gujarat-tour/story-9gm5GZF6BoArhoPjrMmiJO.html
30-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi hopes for compassion, brotherhood in Milad-un-Nabi greetings and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. PM Modi hopes for compassion, brotherhood in Milad-un-Nabi greetings to nationPrime Minister Narendra Modi hoped for ‘compassion and brotherhood’ in his greetings to the nation on the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi, the birthday of Prophet Muhammad. “Best wishes on Milad-un-Nabi. Hope this day furthers compassion and brotherhood all across. May everybody be healthy and happy. Eid Mubarak!,” PM Modi said in a Tweet. Read moreChina tries to negotiate sweet deal to step back in Ladakh. India won’t biteEven as New Delhi awaits Beijing’s confirmation on a date for the eighth round of military-diplomatic level dialogue on disengagement in East Ladakh, HT learns that it has rejected the conditions posed by the People’s Liberation Army for the withdrawal of Chinese troops from the Finger 4 mountainous spur on the north banks of Pangong Tso. Read moreIPL 2020: Gautam Gambhir names player who is going to ‘become one of the top-most all-rounders across formats’Chennai Super Kings had a forgettable Indian Premier League season this year. For the first time in the history of the tournament, they haven’t managed to make it to the playoffs. Currently, they are the bottom-placed team in the tournament with just 10 points out of 13 games. Read moreAnushka Sharma, expecting her first child with Virat Kohli, shares wisdom about perceptions and truth. See hereActor Anushka Sharma has some Friday wisdom to share with her fans. The actor, who is expecting her first child with husband Virat Kohli, took to Instagram and posted a thought-provoking message. Read morePUBG Mobile, PUBG Mobile Lite stop working in IndiaPUBG Mobile was banned in India earlier this year along with 117 more Chinese-linked apps. This included both PUBG Mobile and PUBG Mobile Lite. Following the government order, PUBG Mobile was removed from the Google Play Store and App Store. Read moreIPL 2020: Chennai Super Kings beat KKR by 6 wicketsChennai Super Kings beat Kolkata Knight Riders by 6 wickets in the 49th Indian Premier League 2020 match at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium. KKR batted first after losing the toss. Nitish Rana’s brilliant half-century guided Kolkata Knight Riders to 172 for five in their 20 overs. Watch Here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-hopes-for-compassion-brotherhood-in-milad-un-nabi-greetings-and-all-the-latest-news/story-JyUH1s1sGhTeJrCAv0QI8M.html
30-10-2020||India||India scales up Covid-19 testing capacity; positivity rate drops||The Union health ministry on Friday said that India has “exponentially scaled” up its Covid-19 testing capacity from one in January to more than 106.5 million at present. “The very high testing has resulted in the continuously falling positivity rate. It is 7.54% presently,” the ministry added.According to the health ministry, the cumulative positivity rate of coronavirus disease has been falling progressively as testing has increased and it has touched 7.54 per cent as of October 29. At least 10 million were conducted in the last nine days and the daily positivity rate stands at 4.64 per cent.The declining trend of active Covid-19 cases is supported by a rising number of recovered cases. The total recovered cases have crossed 7.3 million. The gap between recovered cases and active cases has crossed 6.7 million, the ministry has said.India’s tally of the coronavirus disease on Thursday crossed the eight million-mark as the country logged nearly 50,000 new infections in the last 24 hours, taking its tally to 8,040,203, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard. The death toll rose to 120,527 with 517 fatalities in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra has contributed the maximum with more than 8,000 single day recoveries followed by Kerala with more than 7,000 recoveries. While Kerala has reported 6,260 recovered cases, Delhi has witnessed at least 4,128 recovered cases.West Bengal has reported 3,825 cured cases of the coronavirus disease, Tamil Nadu has seen 3,850 recovered cases and at least 3,609 people got discharged from hospital in Andhra Pradesh. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh has reported 2,742 recovered cases, Rajasthan has reported 2,016 cases, and Odisha with 2,015 recovered cases.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-scales-up-covid-19-testing-capacity-positivity-rate-drops/story-Yum9GzcN0bGzFFexduOgqK.html
30-10-2020||India||PM Modi hopes for compassion, brotherhood in Milad-un-Nabi greetings||Prime Minister Narendra Modi hoped for ‘compassion and brotherhood’ in his greetings to the nation on the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi, the birthday of Prophet Muhammad.“Best wishes on Milad-un-Nabi. Hope this day furthers compassion and brotherhood all across. May everybody be healthy and happy. Eid Mubarak!” PM Modi said in a Tweet.President Ram Nath Kovind also extended his greetings on the occasion and urged everyone to follow the Prophet’s teachings and work for the society’s well-being. “On the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi, the birthday of Prophet Muhammad (PBUH), good wishes to all fellow citizens, especially to our Muslim brothers and sisters in India and abroad. Let us follow his teachings and work for the well-being of society and peace & harmony in the country,” he tweeted.Practitioners of Islam all over the world observe Prophet Muhammad’s birthday on Milad-un-Nabi. The day is also known as Mawlid or Nabid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-hopes-for-compassion-brotherhood-in-milad-un-nabi-greetings-to-nation/story-002LcpkjbmWpR4JJ3OHvEM.html
30-10-2020||India||Northwest India battles ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ air quality||Many parts of northwest India recorded “severe” and “very poor” air quality on Friday morning.The air quality of Bhiwadi, Fatehabad, Delhi, Faridabad, Greater Noida, Gurugram, Hisar, Jind and Ghaziabad was either in “severe” or “very poor” category as stubble fires peaked and meteorological conditions became adverse. On Thursday, the contribution from stubble fires in Punjab and Haryana to Delhi’s PM 2.5 load was 36%, according to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) under Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM). An air quality index (AQI) reading between 301 and 400 is considered “very poor” while an AQI reading between 401 and 500 is categorised as “severe”. Severe air quality can affect healthy people and seriously impact those with existing health conditions.Also Read: Air pollution: New law, new hope, old challengesThe wind direction is north-westerly, wind speed over Delhi is under 4 kmph and farm fires are at their peak now. The combination of these factors has led to the deterioration of air quality in most parts of northwest India. A very large number of farm fires—at least 3,000 in Punjab—was recorded on October 28, according to the air quality early warning system under the ministry of earthy sciences (MoES). The wind speed is likely to improve marginally on Friday. This could lead to a slight improvement in air quality, but Delhi’s AQI reading would remain in the “very poor” category according to MoES.The minimum temperature is likely to fall further across northwest India by 2-3 degrees Celsius in the next 3 or 4 days according to the Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi. The lowest minimum temperature recorded over the northwestern plains in the past 24 hours was 10.3 degrees Celsius at Adampur IAF (Punjab). Delhi had recorded a minimum temperature of 12.5 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the lowest temperature recorded in October in 26 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northwest-india-battles-very-poor-to-severe-air-quality/story-PJGL3LbhxqlMoRwm4KeL4O.html
30-10-2020||India||Decision to re-open Kartarpur Corridor will be as per Covid-19 protocol: MEA||Ahead of the Guru Nanak Jayanti the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Thursday said that a decision to re-open the Kartarpur Corridor will be taken as per the coronavirus protocol.Speaking at the weekly virtual briefing, Anurag Srivastava, MEA Spokesperson, said that the Kartarpur Corridor was closed due to Covid-19 protocol and it will re-opened only after consultation with all the concerned authorities.Also Read: Yet to decide on opening Kartarpur Corridor, says India“The decision to reopen the Kartarpur Corridor will be in line with #Covid19 protocol. We are in touch with all the concerned authorities,” said Srivastava. On October 2, Pakistan government had announced the re-opening of the 4.7-kilometre-long passage that connects Dera Baba Nanak Sahib in India’s Gurdaspur and Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan’s Kartarpur. It was inaugurated last year.Also Read: India, Pakistan sign agreement to operationalise Kartarpur corridorIn the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Kartarpur Corridor was shut down by the Indian government in March.Pakistan’s government had also imposed a ban on Pakistani nationals from travelling via the Kartarpur corridor.It was reopened briefly in June to commemorate Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s death anniversary, with India rejecting Pakistan’s offer and refusing to open the corridor on its side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-to-re-open-kartarpur-corridor-will-be-as-per-covid-19-protocol-mea/story-ocRRU0GFn7BtqSov2ZVyEP.html
30-10-2020||India||6 killed as van overturns in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district||Six people, members of a wedding party, were killed after the vehicle they were travelling in overturned in Thantikonda village of East Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh on early on Friday. Those injured have been shifted to a hospital, news agency ANI reported.The van was returning from a wedding and was carrying 15 people, according to ANI.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-killed-as-van-overturns-in-andhra-pradesh-s-east-godavari-district/story-ssa07DqKTk7odFUvOZT5kN.html
30-10-2020||India||China draws up a peace plan on Ladakh. India sees right through it||Even as New Delhi awaits Beijing’s confirmation on a date for the eighth round of military-diplomatic level dialogue on disengagement in East Ladakh, HT learns that it has rejected the conditions posed by the People’s Liberation Army for the withdrawal of Chinese troops from the Finger 4 mountainous spur on the north banks of Pangong Tso.According to officials familiar with the thinking in India’s national security establishment, the next round of talks will likely be held after the end of the 5th Plenary Session of the 19th CPC Central Committee meeting and the November 3 US Presidential elections. India’s defence minister Rajnath Singh on his part has made it clear that the country is ready to continue with the disengagement and de-escalation dialogue so that both armies, deployed since May 2020, can return to their barracks.According to senior military commanders familiar with the discussions between the two sides, India has found PLA’s condition that Indian Army should only patrol till Finger 3 of Pangong Tso, with the Chinese army only patrolling till Finger 5 unacceptable as this means that the contentious Finger 4 will become part of occupied Aksai Chin.Essentially, the Chinese proposal means that Finger 4 will become out of bounds for both armies even though the Indian Army used to (or at least try to) patrol till Finger 8 in the past.The Chinese perception of the line of actual control or LAC, by a 1959 line, runs through Finger 4 of the Pangong Tso lake.India has rejected this. Also Watch | Explained: How India-US BECA pact will help in LAC faceoff with ChinaThe Indian perception of LAC is that the line runs through Finger 8 of the salt water lake. To complicate matters, the PLA has built a road right up to Finger 4 from Finger 8, while the Indian side is still to connect by road to Finger 4.While Indian and Chinese troops are both at the height of 5800 metres on Finger 4, Beijing’s proposal calls for permanent vacation of the spur by the Indian Army. On May 5-6 night, the PLA, using riot gear and nail studded clubs and rods launched an assault on Finger 4, throwing an Indian Army officer into the Pangong Tso lake and overpowering contesting Indian troops.New Delhi has also rejected Beijing’s proposal that the Indian Army vacate the Rezang La -Rechin La ridge-line on the south bank of the Pangong Tso first as part of the disengagement process.India’s position, which has been conveyed to the Chinese according to the military commanders cited above is that the aggression on the LAC was initiated by Chinese troops — first on Finger 4, then in the Galwan valley and finally, in the Gogra-Hot Springs area — and that the Indian Army then retaliated in South Pangong Tso. New Delhi wants the disengagement and de-escalation to follow the same order, with the Chinese withdrawing first.The ground situation all along the 1597 km LAC in Eastern Ladakh remains the same with both Indian and Chinese armies now battling the elements. While the Indian Army is trying to keep all the high mountain passes to to both north and south of Pangong Tso open, the PLA are at an advantage (in terms of logistics and movement) due to the vast and flat Tibetan plateau on their side.The military commanders insisted that the morale of Indian troops, under the new XIV Corps commander, remains high and pointed out that this is first time in many years that Indian soldiers are patrolling right up to the limits defined by the China Study Group in 1976.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-tries-to-negotiate-sweet-deal-to-step-back-in-ladakh-india-won-t-bite/story-tk6K5kRpEDQhLpFbX6CEoM.html
30-10-2020||India||Supreme Court stays order directing surrender of 2,300 undertrials||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed an order directing more than 2,300 under trials to surrender after the Delhi high court ended the arrangement by which interim bail of prisoners was automatically extended to prevent overcrowding of prisons during the Covid-19 pandemic.A three-judge bench of Justices LN Rao, Hemant Gupta and Ajay Rastogi stayed the October 20 order issued by a three-judge bench of the Delhi HC headed by Chief Justice DN Patel. The order came on a petition filed by National Forum on Prison Reforms argued by senior advocate Colin Gonsalves.The high court had directed 2318 under-trials involved in heinous offences to surrender in a phased manner latest by November 13. About the remaining 2,907 prisoners, whose interim bails were extended by HC’s previous orders, a high powered committee was set up on the orders of the Supreme Court for deciding their surrender on a case to case basis. The apex bench said, “There shall be stay of directions (i), (ii) and (iv) given in paragraph 7 of the impugned order dated October 20 passed by the High Court.” The stay would operate till November 26 when the bench will hear the prison authorities and Delhi government on the petition.Gonsalves told the apex court that the order of the HC will result in widespread confusion as prisoners will be forced to approach different trial courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-stays-order-directing-surrender-of-2-300-undertrials/story-F27bKW7XUDE0JjDeSH9REP.html
30-10-2020||India||PM Modi on 2-day Gujarat trip from today, to inaugurate various projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will arrive in Gujarat on Friday morning on a two-day visit during which he is scheduled to launch a host of projects, including the seaplane service between Kevadiya and Ahmedabad, an official said on Thursday, according to news agency PTI.After his arrival at the Ahmedabad airport, PM Modi is expected to visit the grieving family of former Gujarat chief minister Keshubhai Patel in Gandhinagar. The BJP stalwart passed away on Thursday due to prolonged illness.PM Modi will then leave for Kevadiya in Narmada district.This will be his first visit to his home state since the coronavirus outbreak.PM Modi would take a helicopter ride from the Ahmedabad airport to reach Kevadiya, according to the official. He would first inaugurate the Sardar Patel Zoological Park which is dedicated to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Later, he would inaugurate a boat service which would operate in the Narmada river between the statue and Shreshth Bharat Bhavan.The PM is expected to take a boat ride after inauguration of the service, the official said. He would then inaugurate Ekta Mall near the statue where tourists can buy handicraft items brought from all over the country.On the morning of October 31, PM Modi would first visit the Statue of Unity to pay floral tributes to Sardar Patel on his birth anniversary. On the occasion, a parade, named Ekta Diwas Parade, by Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and the Gujarat police will also be organised.After speaking at the parade ground near the statue, PM Modi would interact with civil service probationers through video conferencing, the official said.Later in the afternoon, the PM would launch the seaplane service connecting Kevadiya and Ahmedabad. He will then leave for New Delhi, said the official.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-on-2-day-gujarat-trip-from-today-to-inaugurate-various-projects/story-2Jk5qpTAvhHDPjLiahpjAI.html
30-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||France imposed a near-total lockdown on Wednesday, and Germany a partial one, as the countries continue to be roiled by the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. From Italy to the Czech Republic and from Belgium to Spain, much of Europe is now under some form of lockdown or curfew. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), on October 28, nearly 50% (201,588) of the daily new cases around the world (404,159) came from Europe.The second wave of Covid-19 infections in Europe has been gathering momentum for weeks now. Countries initially responded by imposing some emergency measures, but most steered clear of enforcing lockdowns, worried about the impact of more stringent restrictions on already struggling economies (and, consequently, on people). That’s changed now. The hardest lockdown is in France, which, along with Spain, is the worst hit by the second wave — only schools and essential businesses will remain open from Friday till December 1.Also Read: Future pandemics could be deadlier, warns studyThere was always an inevitability about the second wave. As countries ease restrictions on movement and activities, populations waiting to exhale do so collectively — one enormous exhalation. And everyone knows the connection between exhalations and this particular viral infection.Despite protestations to the contrary by governments in Europe, there was also always an inevitability about a second wave of lockdowns. With their health systems overwhelmed by the surge of hospitalisations, European countries needed to break the chain of infection — and the only sure way to do so is a lockdown. Technically, masks and social distancing can also break the chain, but not when faced with the all-too-human instincts to not wear masks (or wear them every other way but the right one), and to socialise.So, what should Delhi (which saw a record number of cases on Wednesday) do?The trajectory of the pandemic in Delhi shows that the Capital is now experiencing the third wave of the pandemic, although as HT’s Covid-19 data specialist Jamie Mullick insists, this is likely misleading. His argument is that Delhi’s inadequate testing through August (and some part of July), and its continued reliance on rapid antigen tests (although it has increased the number of RT-PCR tests in the past week, almost 29% of its tests were antigen tests) skews the picture (and the curve).Also Read: Elderly who live with working-age people at higher Covid-19 risk, says Lancet studyIn Dispatch 104, on July 14, I referred to this skew (which was already evident). “Delhi has definitely flattened the curve, although the peak is a little too narrow for my liking (in general, the peaks of many distributions, including infections, are more rounded and gradual),” was what I wrote then.To return to the original question: what should Delhi do?One, it should test even more aggressively, increasing the proportion of RT-PCR tests, and try to either source more accurate rapid antigen tests, or enhance the accuracy of the existing tests (a previous instalment of Dispatch suggested a simple hack -- two samples tested simultaneously, with the subject administered the RT-PCR tests if there is a discrepancy between the results of the two).Two, it needs to screen and trace as diligently as it was doing in May and June. Even visitors flying in from hot spots such as Bengaluru are not always screened at the airport, for instance.Three, it should ensure that its hospitals and hospital staff are ready to deal with the rush of patients that can be expected (and that it has enough critical care beds, oxygen, and ventilators).Four, it should convene a meeting of the state disaster management authority and consider imposing restrictions on social, cultural and religious activities; movement; and on businesses and establishments. I would recommend a complete ban on the first till December 1 (starting immediately); the re-imposition of a curfew; late opening and early closing of shops and restaurants; and a four-day week for businesses that have restarted WFO (work from office) — the other day or two days can be WFH — with a cap of 20% or 25% on staff in office.And the time to do these things is now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-jFPTzdJ7ngWuLNvDhsHvkN.html
30-10-2020||India||Pakistan minister admits Pulwama terror role||Pakistani minister Fawad Chaudhry sparked a controversy on Thursday when he admitted the country’s role in the Pulwama terror attack, bragging on the floor of parliament that it (Pakistan) had entered India and beaten it on its own soil.Chaudhry, who holds the science and technology portfolio in Prime Minister Imran Khan’s Cabinet and was formerly the country’s information minister, made the remarks in the National Assembly while responding to comments by Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) lawmaker Ayaz Sadiq, who contended foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi was shaken at the possibility of an Indian attack to free Indian pilot Abhinandan Varthaman, who was shot down in a dogfight amid the standoff in February last year.“The confidence with which he [Sadiq] said such things, that Shah Mahmood Qureshi’s legs were shaking because India was about to attack. Hum ne Hindustan ko ghus ke mara hai (We went inside India and hit them),” Chaudhry said, speaking in Urdu.“And our success in Pulwama, that was the success of this nation under Imran Khan’s leadership,” he added.This is the first time a Pakistan minister has admitted what India has long maintained -- that the country directly and indirectly encourages and supports terror groups that target India. Pakistan has disregarded evidence provided by India on the role of terror groups based there in the 26/11 Mumbai attacks and the Pathankot airbase attack, but it might be difficult for it to walk back on an admission by its own minister -- and on the floor of its own Parliament.Forty Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers were killed when a suicide bomber rammed an explosives-laden car into a bus, part of a convoy of security forces, in Pulwama on February 14, 2019. In reprisal for the attack, for which responsibility was claimed by the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorist group, Indian Air Force planes bombed a JeM training in Balakot, Pakistan, 12 days later.On February 27, 2019, Pakistani said its combat jets had targeted areas near Indian military installations across the Line of Control (LoC), and this sparked an aerial engagement which resulted in the shooting down of the jet piloted by Varthaman. On March 1, 2019, Pakistan freed Varthaman.Chaudhry contended that after the Pulwama incident, the way in which Pakistan’s military and air force “went in and hit Hindustan” had left India’s media and political leadership “ashamed”.There was no immediate response to Chaudhry’s remarks from Indian officials.Union minister of state for road transport and highways, and former Indian Army chief, General VK Singh, said the Indian government had already said all leads pointed to Pakistan. “It is good that Pakistan has admitted it. I am sure our government will utilise this admittance to tell the world that Pakistan needs to be blacklisted in the FATF (Financial Action Task Force),” he told ANI.Soon after Chaudhry’s remarks were widely covered by the Indian media, he told HT over the phone from Islamabad that he had been referring to the standoff and air strikes by both sides in his remarks in Parliament.“I was referring to the post-Pulwama issues, when the Pakistan Air Force taught a lesson to the Indian side after the air strike on February 26. If some one wants to twist my remarks, there is little I can do,” Chaudhry said.During the external affairs ministry’s weekly news briefing on Thursday, spokesperson Anurag Srivastava again criticised Pakistan for failing to curb terrorism directed against India. He was responding to Islamabad’s rejection of a call by India and the US for Pakistan to take “irreversible” action against terrorists operating from its soil.“The whole world knows the truth about Pakistan’s role in supporting terrorism, no amount of denial can hide this truth. Even their own leaders have, time and again, spoken about their role with regard to terrorism. The country which provides shelter to the maximum number of UN-proscribed terrorists should not even attempt to play victim,” he said.Srivastava also dismissed Pakistan’s criticism of the latest change in land use laws in Kashmir. Noting that the Indian government has taken several measures for the socio-economic development of Jammu and Kashmir, he said the region was an integral part of India. “Therefore, these decisions relate to internal affairs of India and no country has the locus standi to comment on this,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-minister-admits-pulwama-terror-role/story-LHi3OPTA1f2noGs0tCQq9N.html
30-10-2020||India||Centre brings new law to tackle NCR air crisis||The Union government issued an ordinance and put in place a new anti-pollution agency with sweeping powers spanning five north Indian states where it will monitor and act against sources of dirty air, armed with the ability to lay down rules, set emission standards, and hand out fines of up to Rs 1 crore or send violators to prison for up to five years.The ordinance, issued by the ministry of law and justice as per its commitment to Supreme Court, sets up what will be an 18-member Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) for the National Capital Region (NCR). Its members will be drawn from Union ministries, NGOs and administrations from each of the five NCR or NCR-adjacent states: Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.“We will do everything on a war footing to curb air pollution,” solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the Supreme Court on Thursday, days after the government sought time from the judges to create a permanent mechanism to tackle a persistent problem.The new commission replaces all ad-hoc committees and bodies created under court orders, including the SC-appointed environment pollution control authority (Epca), which was tasked with overseeing air pollution control in NCR since 1998.Since 2015, the air in the national capital and in much of the Indo-Gangetic plains plunges into hazardous levels as a consequence of farm fires, pre-winter meteorological conditions, and festivals, when more people crowd markets, and use firecrackers.“We like to have a look at the Ordinance before passing any order. Let the petitioner also go through it and make suggestions,” chief justice SA Bobde said, adjourning the case to November 6. The hearing was related to a petition seeking the court’s intervention in farm fires in NCR and adjacent regions.Pollution levels in the air were at its worst yet this season, with the air quality index (AQI) in the Capital settling at 395 – merely six notches below what’s considered severe. This directly appeared to correlate with the number of farm fires in Punjab and Haryana, which hit a new peak on Wednesday. Data from US’s National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) showed 2,633 fires in the two states.Farm fires are likely to be one of the focus areas of the new commission, which will be headed by a retired bureaucrat, include eight technical members, and three from non-governmental organisations. The commission will be a statutory authority and its 18 fulltime members will be appointed by the central government. The committee will have the powers to issue directions, entertain complaints; regulate and prohibit activities that are likely to cause or increase air pollution, lay down parameters and standards; restrict industry, activities, processes; direct the closure, or prohibit any polluting activity in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas.The new mechanism also brings in a completely new, centralised regime of pollution control with appeals against any order or direction of the Commission can be made only at the National Green Tribunal. No civil court will have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceedings against the decisions of the Commission.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and state pollution control boards will continue to function but in case of a conflict, the commission’s orders will prevail. Defying any orders or violating rules that will be laid down by the commission will be punishable with prison term of up to five years or with a fine which may extend up to ₹1 crore or with both.Members of Epca wrote to the environment minister on Thursday welcoming the decision on the new commission. “Over the past many years, we have worked to find solutions and to recommend action through our reports to government and to the honourable Supreme Court. We are grateful for the consideration given to our work and to the fact that many of our recommendations have been implemented,” said the letter by Epca’s chairperson Bhure Lal and member Sunita Narain, recounting a list of initiatives government departments had taken on the panel’s recommendations.“...The next phase of the agenda for clean air; fourth generation reforms need to be deliberated upon and implemented. That will necessitate the massive augmentation of intra-city public transport, and to move industries, power plants and other users away from polluting fuels like coal to natural gas, electricity and renewable to ensure clean combustion,” the letter added, listing out seven areas that the new commission will need to address.Legal and environmental experts, however, raised several concerns with the ordinance including a lack of consultation and possible overriding powers that the Centre may now wield.“There several concerns with this ordinance, starting with the fact that legal and regulatory changes to tackle public issues like air pollution, need a democratic conceptualisation. At the outset, it is clear that the central government has taken control over the pollution control matters in the Delhi-NCR region,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.“This starts with the fact that the chairperson of this commission is a central government appointee. The commission will be heavily dominated by bureaucrats, to whom the legal frameworks gives various powers. The enforcement mechanism is clearly top down and so far there is no indication that it will include third party monitoring and be citizen driven enforcement,” Kohli added.During the hearing at the top court, senior advocate Vikas Singh appearing for the petitioners –environment activists Aditya Dubey and Aman Banka – told the Court that the air quality in the city was worsening and the ordinance would not provide any quick-fix solutions.Singh said, “Till the next hearing, let the Justice Lokur Committee take steps to control stubble burning in order to address the problem of air pollution.” The bench replied, “We shall hear you on what steps can be taken by the Commission under the Ordinance. These steps can be considered by the Solicitor General on the next date.”Earlier this month, the Court appointed former apex court judge justice Madan Lokur as a one-man commission to conduct surveillance of stubble burning in neighbouring farmlands of Punjab, Haryana and UP. But the order appointing him was kept in abeyance after the Centre proposed bringing an Ordinance.The bench felt that stubble burning alone was not the problem ailing Delhi’s air. “Experts have told us the only cause for pollution in the city is not stubble.” In a lighter vein, the chief justice added: “For that you have to stop using your beautiful cars and ride bicycles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-brings-new-law-to-tackle-ncr-air-crisis/story-HnX3FVGighNr0oM8CrBgUL.html
30-10-2020||India||Keshubhai Patel: A BJP stalwart who rose through the political ranks||The passing of former Gujarat chief minister Keshubhai Patel at the age of 92 marks the end of an epoch for the Bharatiya Janata Party and its previous avatar, the Jana Sangh, in the state. The party now has no surviving leader from the generation that braved early decades of political isolation and hostility. Paradoxically, despite having raised the Sangh parivar’s political arm from scratch, he played no role in the most decisive decade in the party’s ascendance. From October 2001, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi became chief minister replacing him, Patel lost all political relevance in a political culture different from the one he incubated. He eventually formed his own outfit, the Gujarat Parivartan Party in 2012 but soon proved Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s truism correct: once a pracharak, always a pracharak. He merged the outfit with BJP but personally quit active politics in 2014.In the autumn of his life, rehabilitation came in the form of the chairmanship of the prized Shri Somnath Trust, which overseers management of the Somnath Temple. His last re-appointment for another year was at an online meeting on September 20. But the honorary positions he held, are not what Patel will be remembered for. He joined the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh in the mid 1940s while in his late teens. In the post-independence years, he was shifted to the Jana Sangh and held several offices. His growth was swift and by 1965, he was president of the Gujarat unit of Jana Sangh.Patel’s first shot at becoming a state legislator ended in disappointment in 1972 as he was swept away by the tidal wave in favour of Indira Gandhi. He was successful in 1975 and went on become a state minister in the Janata government under Babubhai Patel. In the 1980s, he was instrumental in securing support of the Patidar community for the BJP. Patel possessed the political astuteness to read the once-powerful community’s dissatisfaction over its loss of political clout with the emergence of the KHAM (Kshatriya-Harijan-Adivari-Muslim) combination that Madhavsinh Solanki forged for the Congress. The 1980s served as the launch-pad decade for the BJP in Gujarat. Always sympathetic to the Hindu nationalistic idea, the state acquired the moniker of Hindutva’s laboratory during these years. The Ram temple agitation in the late 1980s coincided with the BJP abandoning its desire to be the legatee of Janata Party. RSS pracharaks were once again deputed to the BJP . One of them, who stood apart, was Narendra Modi and he forged a mutually beneficial partnership with Patel at the cost of the other claimant within the party for its state leadership: Shankersinh Vaghela. Patel was initially not a popular mass leader but drew support from all communities and emerged as the leader of the anti-Congress front. It was Modi’s organisational and marketing skills that raised Keshubhai Patel’s standing and equity through the Lok Shakti Rath Yatra in 1989. This sent out two messages: One, the BJP too was a significant non-Congress political alternative in Gujarat. Two, Keshubhai Patel was the party’s mascot.Modi’s hand was evident when Patel became chief minister in March 1995. The over-centralised governance style that later evolved into the Gujarat model during Modi’s tenure as CM, however became the cause for a setback to both. After three years in wilderness, Patel returned as chief minister. From 1998 onward, he opted not to seek Modi’s advice, a decision that resulted in a fallout. Poor administration of rehabilitation measures after the 1998 cyclone in Kandla and the 2001 Republic Day earthquake proved Patel’s undoing. He never recovered from his loss of office while the man who took the baton from him, has gone from strength to strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keshubhai-patel-a-bjp-stalwart-who-rose-through-the-political-ranks/story-P7BU5mFRiw87zSA1EGtQxL.html
30-10-2020||India||JPC questions Google, Paytm over China links||The joint parliamentary panel on the Personal Data Protection Bill on Thursday asked tech giant Google and fin-tech company One 97 Communications, which runs Paytm, to explain their relationship with China, according to people familiar with the matter.  Google officials reiterated that the company walked out of China on its own, but the panel was keen to know if its products or services have any links with China since Google owns Android, the software used by many Chinese phone makers. Paytm, the people said, admitted that Chinese company Alibaba is an investor but that none of the investors has a say in the company’s running. One of the people added that Google officials were grilled about the need for regulating the company, especially on the content part of its business. According to one member of the JPC, Google maintained that India should avoid data localisation requirement as it is ill-fitted to protect privacy and security. The tech giant also claimed that the move to localise data is not in sync with open trade commitments and modern data protection standard, this person said. The JPC has given Google and Paytm time to sumbit written responses to queries on structure, tax regimes, data processing and protection, and privacy. “Our goal is to create the best possible products for users, from Search to Android to YouTube, making relevant information readily accessible around the world. Every year, we issue hundreds of improvements to our algorithms so as to ensure they surface high quality content in response to user queries,” said a Google spokesperson. “We welcome the opportunity to help policymakers understand our business and the work we do to keep the Internet open and support the calls for comprehensive, baseline privacy regulation. We believe that regulation can support a dynamic marketplace for businesses of all types and sizes. We sincerely hope this consultative process will help the Committee achieve its objective of protecting the interests of citizens and promoting innovation,” the spokesperson added. The panel has already met Twitter, Facebook, and Amazon. A second person familiar with the matter said that all these companies have been asked to share their policy on tackling deepfakes, and how they ensure the neutrality of their platforms, especially when there is conflict of interest. “These companies claim to be the intermediaries yet they are also the manufacturers, the market, the financial service providers, loaning agencies and they have the control over what will be displayed on the platforms and what gets suppressed,” the second person said. JPC chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi said, “We have asked all the platforms details about the corporate structure, corporate tax, data protection and processing and how it is stored. We want to understand their style of functioning and how data and revenue mobilisation takes place.” While Twitter and Amazon stopped short of welcoming the data bill, Google welcomed the bill but expressed reservations about India’s attempt to restrict data portability and cross border sharing of data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jpc-questions-google-paytm-over-china-links/story-fJcEdDh2hyWSwvzyLVr0CJ.html
30-10-2020||India||Mayawati suspends 7 MLAs, says will back even BJP to defeat SP||Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati on Thursday suspended seven legislators who opposed the nomination of her candidate Ramji Gautam for election to the Rajya Sabha, and vowed that BSP MLAs would support any other dispensation, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), to ensure the defeat of the Samajwadi Party (SP) in upcoming elections to Uttar Pradesh’s upper house.At a virtual press conference in New Delhi, Mayawati said the party suspended the seven MLAs for alleged anti- party activities.The seven MLAs — Chaudhary Aslam Ali, Hakim Lal Bind, Mohammad Mujtaba Siddiqui, Aslam Raini, Sushma Patel, Hargovind Bhargava and Bandana Singh —had betrayed the party for the lure of money and election tickets offered by the SP, the BSP supremo alleged.The BSP would also move an application to get the seven rebel MLAs disqualified from the legislative assembly under the anti-defection law, Mayawati said.The nomination of Gautam to the Rajya Sabha was held valid on Wednesday for the November 9 polls to 10 Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh that are falling vacant although four rebels claimed that their signatures on the nomination form had been forged. The four had met SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, sparking speculation that they may desert the BSP.“BSP MLAs would vote for the BJP or any other party candidate to ensure the defeat of the SP in the coming legislative council elections,” Mayawati said. The council elections are likely to be held in January. Mayawati said her decision to contest the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in an alliance with the SP was wrong. “Ignoring the anti-Dalit policy of the SP, I had taken the decision to go for an alliance in haste...The BSP mobilised its cadre and resources for the victory of the alliance...”. After declaration of the 2019 Lok Sabha election results, the attitude of Akhilesh Yadav changed, Mayawati said.Calling the allegations baseless, SP state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said: “The truth is that the BSP has sided with the BJP. The SP had sincerely followed alliance ethics with BSP till it broke...As far as the BSP teaching a lesson to us (in legislative council polls), the BSP should first look at the number of MLAs they have.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-suspends-7-mlas-says-will-back-even-bjp-to-defeat-sp/story-NGdbLYCi4cw0haizXodwDO.html
30-10-2020||India||Three BJP workers killed in terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir: Police||Suspected terrorists on Thursday shot dead three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers in South Kashmir’s Kulgam district, police officials said. The deceased were identified as Fida Hussain Itoo, the district general secretary of the party’s youth wing (Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha), Umer Rashid Beigh, a district executive member of the unit, and Umer Hajam, another member of the body.According to officials, the attack took place at YK Pora in Kulgam on Thursday evening. “Today (Thursday), at about 20:20 hours, Kulgam Police received information about a terror crime incident at village YK Pora, where terrorists fired upon three BJP workers. Senior police officers reached at the terror crime spot,” a police spokesperson said.The unidentified gunmen shot at the three men, who were rushed to the Qazigund hospital with bullet injuries. Doctors declared them dead on arrival.Officials said a case has been filed and probe has begun. Condemning the attack, BJP spokesperson Altaf Thakur said, “All three were at the same place when they were attacked in Kulgam. This is a killing of innocent people.”A tweet from the official handle of the J&K BJP read that the party “strongly condemned this barbaric terror attack” and that “those who are responsible for this will not be spared”.National Conference leader Omar Abdullah and Peoples Democratic Party’s Mehbooba Mufti, both former chief ministers of J&K, condemned the attack on the BJP workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-bjp-workers-killed-in-terror-attack-in-jammu-and-kashmir-police/story-lA8tKyPt4evlLIk67glJsK.html
30-10-2020||India||Assam residents block highway to Mizoram seeking withdrawal of troops||A week after officials of both states agreed to diffuse tension along the interstate boundary, the ongoing border row between Assam and Mizoram has flared up again with some Assam residents blocking the national highway to the neighbouring state on Wednesday. On Wednesday, people from Lailapur in Assam’s Cachar district blocked the NH 306, the lifeline to Mizoram, seeking withdrawal of the neighbouring state’s security personnel from Assam territory. Nearly 100 trucks on either side of the boundary have been stranded following the fresh blockade. On Thursday, Cachar district officials visited Lailapur and held talks with the residents urging them to lift the blockade and also requested truckers to start plying their vehicles. “The truckers said they were scared of going to the Mizoram side especially after the blast (at a school close to the border) which took place recently. Locals too refused to withdraw the blockade and made it clear they would not do so until a permanent solution (is found),” said a released issued by the Cachar district administration. On Wednesday, Additional DGP (Law and Order) Assam Police GP Singh had visited the border area to take stock of the situation and also interacted with police officials of Kolasib district of Mizoram to try and diffuse the situation. “We visited the school at Khulicherra where the explosion had taken place. We have decided to pursue the case under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Since the bombing may have been done by miscreants from Mizoram side, we are discussing on handing over its probe to a central agency,” Singh told journalists. Earlier this month, several people on both sides of the border between two states were injured in clashes after some miscreants from Mizoram allegedly burnt down some huts at Lailapur. Locals on the Assam side had blocked the highway in protest against the incident. On October 21, senior officials of both states had a meeting in Assam’s Silchar where they had agreed to restore normalcy in the border areas. Mizoram had assured it will call back its troops which had entered Assam side. Following this, trucks had started plying between both states. Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6 km boundary. There have been skirmishes on both sides earlier as well as both sides claiming portions of land along the boundary as theirs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-residents-block-highway-to-mizoram-seeking-withdrawal-of-troops/story-JwfbsoDbmHRULzKUGH20gK.html
30-10-2020||India||Fare cap on air tickets to remain till February 24: Hardeep Singh Puri||The upper and lower limits on domestic airfares will remain in place for another three months post November 24, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday.The ministry had on May 21 placed these limits through seven bands, classified on the basis of flight duration, till August 24. Later, it was extended till November 24.Puri said if the scheduled domestic flights reach pre-Covid levels by the end of the year, he will have no hesitation in removing the fare limits at that time.“We are extending the price bands for another three months,” he said at a press conference.“Even though we are extending it by three months, if by the time we reach the end of the year, and if we find that there is a very appreciable movement in the situation and we are reaching pre-COVID levels, I would absolutely have no hesitation if my colleagues (aviation ministry officials) want us to not utilise the price band for the full three months period,” Puri added.Domestic passenger services resumed on May 25 after nearly two months of suspension to combat the coronavirus outbreak.  The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had on May 21 announced seven bands of ticket pricing with lower and upper fare limits based on flight duration.The first such band consists of flights that are of less than 40 minutes duration.The lower and the upper fare limits for the first band is Rs 2,000 and Rs 6,000, respectively.The subsequent bands are for flights with durations of 40-60 minutes, 60-90 minutes, 90-120 minutes, 120-150 minutes, 150-180 minutes and 180-210 minutes.The lower and upper limits for these bands are: Rs 2,500-Rs 7,500; Rs 3,000-Rs 9,000; Rs 3,500-Rs 10,000; Rs 4,500-Rs 13,000; Rs 5,500-Rs 15,700 and Rs 6,500-Rs 18,600, respectively, the DGCA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fare-cap-on-air-tickets-to-remain-till-february-24-hardeep-singh-puri/story-R4VX7d8YeyvLNcnn1MQVIJ.html
30-10-2020||India||‘Grave law and order situation’: Bengal guv Jagdeep Dhankhar after meeting Amit Shah in Delhi||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Thursday made serious allegations about the law and order situation in the state and the role of Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers after meeting Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi. “What discussion I had with the Union home minister is confidential and cannot be shared with the media. What I am telling you about West Bengal is my observation as the governor. The nation needs to know what is happening there,” Dhankhar said at a press conference at Banga Bhawan, which houses the office of the state’s resident commissioner in the capital. Asked whether he recommended imposition of President’s rule in the state during his meeting with Shah, Dhankhar kept silent. “Governor Dhankhar was with the Union Home Minster for over an hour and state of affairs and affairs of state in West Bengal were traversed,” the governor tweeted in the afternoon. “In my last communication to the chief minister I have said that we are in the penultimate state of constitutional collapse. It is time for us to survey the situation,” Dhankhar said during the press conference. “The state is sliding towards lawlessness. There is virtual anarchy,” he added. “The political killings, targeted killings and violence are a cause of great concern. The greater challenge to democracy in the state is that the police and administration, those in the premier services, the IAS and IPS, are politicised. Some of them are working as full-time political workers, as political foot soldiers, totally abandoning their roles. I have appealed to them that this is unconstitutional, illegal, violation of conduct. You cannot do this. This shall not be overlooked,” said Dhankhar. “Through my friends in the media I wish to appeal to them that in the name of rule of law, in the name of the Constitution, it is high time they started acting as public servants. Don’t act as political workers,” Dhankhar said. He said West Bengal has all the elements of a police state. “This does not work for democracy. The chairman of the human rights commission, who is a retired chief justice of the high court, has said the commission is on ventilator,” he said. Dhankhar cited some incidents, such as the recent murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manish Shukla in North 24 Parganas district. He said the crime took place even after he asked the director general of police to control political violence in the area. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) reacted by saying that Dhankhar has acted irresponsibly. “I am stunned. He can always meet the Union home minister. But what he discussed with the minister is confidential. He has acted irresponsibly. The allegations he made are baseless. Law and order situation in Bengal is quite good. There have been some stray incidents of violence. We have not witnessed genocides. By bringing allegations against IAS and IPS officers he has maligned the image of the all-India services,” said TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy. State education minister Partha Chatterjee said, “The governor himself is politicized. He is maligning the state government. Everybody knows he is a spokesperson of the BJP.” Bengal BJP leaders claimed that the governor raised pertinent issues. “Five BJP workers have been killed during the ongoing festive season. There is enough ground to declare President’s rule in Bengal. This government has lost the right to rule,” said BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu. The Congress criticized the TMC for not complaining to the President of India against Dhankhar. “Why has the TM not gone to the President till now? Why don’t their leaders speak against him in Parliament?” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, state Congress president. “We feel that the post of the governor is redundant. No governor should play a political role,” said CPI (M) legislator Sujan Chakraborty, leader of the Left parties in the state assembly. At the press conference in Delhi, Dhankhar said, “This is the minimum I can do to vindicate the oath of office I have taken. I am not a stakeholder in politics. Who gets elected is not my concern but how the election takes place is my concern…” Dhankhar will return to Bengal on Friday and spend the entire month of November at the Raj Bhawan built by the British in Darjeeling. Although many governors have spent their vacations in the hill town, Dhankhar said his office will be fully operational and he will interact with people in north Bengal to know their problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grave-law-and-order-situation-bengal-guv-jagdeep-dhankhar-after-meeting-amit-shah-in-delhi/story-bZ1spbYtNDPq0am9reHlTL.html
30-10-2020||India||India dealing with worst border crisis with China with ‘firmness and maturity’:Harsh Shringla||India has dealt with the worst crisis on the border with China in decades with “firmness and maturity” even as it has worked with partners to create an open and inclusive architecture for the Indo-Pacific region, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday. Speaking on the theme “India’s foreign policy in the post-Covid world” at the Institut Français des Relations Internationales (IFRI) in Paris, Shringla said India’s actions, as it prepares for the world order emerging amid the pandemic, were not “seeking to target or exclude any country” but to create an environment in which all countries can operate with respect for the sovereignty of others. He reiterated India’s condemnation of the recent terror attacks in France, including the one in Nice, and conveyed the solidarity of the Indian people in confronting terrorism and extremism. He also noted that one of the two recent terrorist incidents in France had its origins in Pakistan. “Despite the pandemic, we have dealt with the worst crisis in decades on our border with China and we have done so with firmness and maturity. At the same time, we have continued to ward off terrorism from across our western border,” said Shringla, who is on a three-nation tour that will also take him to Germany and the UK. India’s immediate challenges have not distracted the country from its broader strategic goals, especially in the Indo Pacific, where “we are moving purposefully at multiple levels to create an open, inclusive architecture”, he said. New Delhi has a cooperative and inclusive outlook, as laid out in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s SAGAR vision or “Security And Growth for All in the Region”, and India has steadily enhanced its diplomatic and security engagement in Southeast Asia too, he said. “With Australia, Japan and the US, there is tangible progress in realising our shared vision. We are not seeking to target or exclude any country, but create an environment that induces all countries to operate with respect for the sovereignty of others and in a manner consistent with international norms in global commons,” Shringla said against the backdrop of the military standoff with China that is set to enter its seventh month. Noting that the pandemic has led to “geopolitical repositioning primarily by China and the US”, Shringla outlined what he said were four key outcomes of the accelerated global transition and increased geopolitical competition and tension triggered by the Covid-19 crisis. These developments, he said, will shape the nature and terms of India’s engagement with major economies such as the US, China, the European Union, Japan and ASEAN. There is a need for greater global conversations on resilient supply chains, he added. The practices that New Delhi perfects at home in response to the pandemic will “inevitably become exportable abroad”, and India’s thinking “about deeper global economic engagement with the world will be influenced by both geopolitical divides and pandemic pressures,” he said. “There was already a reassessment of FTA experiences, keeping in mind the unsettling impact they have had on India’s manufacturing. The attention could now well shift to becoming part of global value chains, complemented by focused trading arrangements,” Shringla remarked. “This would be so especially as efforts towards making India an easier location for doing business gain traction. We are conscious of the need not just to improve on our own record but to become more competitive,” he added. Like-minded countries need to coordinate to emerge from the pandemic more resilient than before, he said, adding: “We cannot afford to let multilateralism be held hostage by great power competition. A multipolar world without an international order based on rule of law and collaboration will lead to uncertainty and turbulence.” Turning to terrorism, Shringla said India and France face similar non-traditional security threats in the form of radicalism and cyber-security challenges. “Both India and France have suffered. The fight today is not against specific communities or individuals but against a radical politico-religious ideology that attempts to negate the progress made by secular democracies...,” he said. “This radical ideology espouses violence and separatism, very often fanned and supported by foreign influence...It was horrifying to hear about the two recent terrorist incidents in France, one of which, as is very often the case, had its origins in our western neighbourhood – Pakistan,” Shringla said. “For the past three decades, we have experienced what unbridled radicalism can wreak – and what malevolent violent forces it can unleash. The civilised world needs to act together and act with firmness to address this threat to our cherished democratic value systems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-dealing-with-worst-border-crisis-with-china-with-firmness-and-maturity-harsh-shringla/story-z1Xpd5MxBCrAQqn0nK032H.html
30-10-2020||India||CAQM: Stronger body, but some gaps remain||The Government of India has passed an ordinance to set up a new Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas (CAQM). This will replace with immediate effect the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, or Epca, as well as other committees that have been created over the years to address the crisis. What should we make of this? Is this the answer to the pleas of National Capital Region (NCR) citizens and an end to the winter airpocalypse? CAQM’s creation is not a trivial change, and almost certainly represents a step-up from Epca. A new commission, with full-time members and dedicated staff, is likely to help address the problem of intermittent focus on air quality, provide a “consolidated and conjoint” approach, and possibly help improve capacity to address the problem. CAQM will have substantial powers and can override other agencies such as the Central Pollution Control Board, but notably also state government departments, if there is a conflict. This potentially makes it easier to harness the powers of government, to solve inter-agency coordination problems and set uniform standards and enforcement protocols. Significantly, CAQM will also have a convening role, backed by authority of a law. However, it is not clear how much further effective bureaucratic coordination alone gets us. There are several other impediments to achieving clean air, and the ordinance does little to overcome them.Perhaps the biggest limitation of CAQM is that it may replicate existing roadblocks in a new forum. Action is often stuck because those who lose from air pollution control measures are able to block change directly or through their representatives. These include industries facing more expensive fuel, farmers being asked to change cropping practices, and car owners getting restricted parking spaces. CAQM retains the stalemate of interests across sectors (like power, road transport, environment), and in the absence of clearly articulated overarching goals, introduces nothing to change this. To do so would have required CAQM to be held to benchmarks of progress in air quality. CAQM may be able to use its convening authority to bring together warring factions and hammer out a compromise on hot-button issues such as crop burning, power plant emissions, and so on. But to do so, CAQM has to see itself in that convening and deliberative role, rather than as primarily a rule setting and enforcing body. While it is not excluded, the ordinance gives few indications of the former.The ordinance also misses some key opportunities. This was the chance for the government to institutionalise an airshed-level approach to air quality, an idea that is now widely accepted. It could have provided a framework for an airshed-level approach in different parts of the country, and then perhaps have issued an NCR-specific set of rules. But an NCR-specific law signals — yet again — that the rest of the country which experiences similarly severe pollution levels is not as important as the Capital region. In addition, by continuing to rely on criminal prosecution as the primary tool of enforcement, the ordinance misses the opportunity to legally back a wider range of regulatory tools, including administrative fines that allow escalation of enforcement measures proportionate to the nature and severity of offence. The ordinance also risks underplaying the importance of evidence-based policymaking, which receives no emphasis in the ordinance.There are areas where CAQM could further confound agreement and action. Its composition is heavily dominated by central government representatives as is the selection committee. There is little indication of intent to create processes that allow for stakeholder perspectives, including from states and civil society. Indeed, passing the ordinance with no public input does not inspire confidence that CAQM will open its doors to a more fruitful conversation and action across all interests. Similarly, CAQM’s ability to override state agencies may arouse the opposition of state governments. It is hard to imagine, for example, that simply because a central commission insists on limiting stubble burning that Punjab will ignore the voices of its farmers.Much depends on how this commission will get constituted, and the rules that are issued to enable its functioning. The risk is that CAQM has been conceived as a bureaucratic hammer of enforcement, to drive the nail of air pollution regulation. But the problem is more complicated than one of enforcement alone. To address these complexities at minimum, the commission needs to convene competing interests effectively and help them develop creative solutions, hold itself accountable to ambitious but achievable targets, and seed the idea of airshed management across India. (Navroz K Dubash is Professor, Centre for Policy Research. Santosh Harish and Shibani Ghosh are Fellows, Centre for Policy Research)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caqm-stronger-body-but-some-gaps-remain/story-3ioUlV1bMNDOyHwnvPxFMI.html
30-10-2020||India||Implementation of graded action plan won’t stop, says environment secretary||India’s environment secretary RP Gupta spoke to Jayashree Nandi about the new law to tackle air pollution in the National Capital Region, and what it aims to achieve. Edited excerpts:We are already in the middle of peak pollution season. How will the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) meant to tackle air pollution be implemented now that a new law is in place?The Commission will be constituted immediately and take Grap forward. The implementation of Grap will not stop under the ordinance.The Commission is a centralised body. Do you think state governments will be happy with such a structure, and accept both your directions and penalties if contraventions arise?The Commission will direct various organisations under the state government, including pollution control boards, municipal commissions, and road and building departments. They are not meant for the state governments directly. There are powers, and action can be taken if the need arises -- but this is a collaborative and coordinated effort. Why should we think the states will not follow the Commission?Why did you have to bring in an ordinance and not wait until it’s passed in Parliament?This was urgent. Then we had to wait for Parliament. The winter period is crucial.Are you waiting for the Supreme Court’s approval or comments on the Commission?Any law or ordinance passed by government is valid until SC declares it unconstitutional. Why should we have any such apprehension?The only place where people can appeal against orders of the Commission is National Green Tribunal. Why so?The provision of appeal should be there in any law. It’s legal and justifiable.When did you start planning this ordinance?Its been one to one-and-a-half months. There was a lot of ad-hocism, and something was needed. Epca [the SC-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority] was not able to function in a comprehensive manner in coordination with states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/implementation-of-graded-action-plan-won-t-stop-says-environment-secretary/story-3cbBwaNtuIheii2noHaieO.html
30-10-2020||India||Confessions made to officers in drugs cases not admissible, says SC||Confessional statements made to officers under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act will not be admissible as evidence to convict a suspect,the Supreme Court has ruled, ending the scope for misuse of the wide powers given under the Act to extract confessions or frame suspects in drug-related crimes.A three-judge bench, by a 2:1 majority, held that officers vested with the power to investigate offences under the Act are “police officers” and any confessional statement recorded by them will be barred by Section 25 of the Evidence Act. This provision of the Evidence Act states: “No confession made to a police officer, shall be proved as against a person accused of any offence.”The majority judgment by justices Rohington F Nariman and Navin Sinha held: “any confessional statement made to them (officers under Section 53 of NDPS Act) would be barred under the provisions of Section 25 of the Evidence Act, and cannot be taken into account in order to convict an accused under the NDPS Act… A statement recorded under Section 67 of the NDPS Act cannot be used as a confessional statement in the trial of an offence under the NDPS Act.” Justice Indira Banerjee, the third member of the bench, dissented with the majority and held that such a confession given under NDPS Act will be sufficient to convict a suspect.The question had fallen for consideration before the three-judge bench on a bunch of appeals referred to it by a two-judge bench in October 2013.Under Section 53 of the Act, the Centre has the power to invest any officer of the Department of Central Excise, Narcotics, Customs, Revenue Intelligence or any other department of the central government including paramilitary forces or armed forces, with the powers of an officer-in-charge of a police station for the investigation of offences under the NDPS Act.The bench said, “The severer the punishment, the greater the care to be taken” in order to preserve safeguards against misuse. Noting that the NDPS Act is a penal law with punishments for small to commercial quantities of drugs ranging from one year to 20 years and fines of Rs 10,000 to Rs 2 lakh, the bench examined the questions referred to it in the backdrop of Article 20(3), which protects a person against self-incrimination and Article 21, which includes right to life, liberty and privacy.“The interpretation of a statute like the NDPS Act must be in conformity and in tune with the spirit of the broad fundamental right not to incriminate oneself, and the right to privacy, as has been found in the recent judgments of this court,” the majority stated. The bench noted the draconian provision in the Act – Section 30 where preparation to commit an offence is made an offence and Section 31A which provides for the death penalty for subsequent offence in specific cases. Further, if an accused conducts himself well in jail, he cannot have the benefit of remission or commutation as the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 does not apply to those above 18 years who are convicted under the Act.Although the central government argued that officers under the NDPS Act cannot be called police officers, the bench concluded that any officer who is invested with the power of investigation and who can prepare an investigation report essentially is a police officer as “when they prevent and detect crime, they are in a position to extort confessions, and thus are able to achieve their object through a shortcut method of extracting involuntary confessions,” noted the bench.The court noted an anomaly that if a case of confiscation of drugs is investigated by the police of a state and the same offence is probed by an officer under NDPS Act, it cannot be expected that one investigation enjoys safeguards of a police investigation under Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) while the other is free of them. “These anomalies are real and not imaginary, and if a statute is so read as to give rise to such anomalies, it would necessarily have to be struck down under Article 14 of the Constitution as being discriminatory and manifestly arbitrary,” concluded the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confessions-made-to-officers-in-drugs-cases-not-admissible-says-sc/story-bkSvI4RR8ru8JHaVOcb3xO.html
30-10-2020||India||Future pandemics could be deadlier, warns study||As if the year were short on bad news, and needed more, a report by leading experts says the world could experience pandemics more frequently in future, that some of these will be deadlier than the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and far too expensive to control unless there is a transformative change in the global approach to dealing with infectious diseases.The global report on biodiversity and pandemics was authored by 22 leading experts from around the world, and released on Thursday. It is the result of a workshop convened by the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) focused on the links between the degradation of nature and increasing pandemic risks.And for those thinking SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 is it, there are as many as 540,000 – 850,000 unknown viruses in nature that could infect people, warns the report. Interestingly, the report comes three days after the World Health Organisation (WHO) reported the outbreak of the Mayaro virus disease in French Guiana. With symptoms similar to dengue, this virus too is transmitted through mosquitoes. The majority (70%) of emerging diseases such as Ebola, Zika, Nipah encephalitis, and almost all known pandemics such as influenza, HIV/AIDS, Covid-19, are zoonotic diseases that are caused by microbes of animal origin. These microbes spill over due to contact among wildlife, livestock, and people, the IPBES report added.In the workshop, experts agreed that escaping the era of pandemics is possible, but that it requires a seismic shift in approach — from reaction to prevention.Also Read: First US Covid-19 vaccines could ship late Dec or early Jan, says Anthony Fauci“Covid-19 is at least the sixth global health pandemic since the Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918, and although it has its origins in microbes carried by animals, like all pandemics its emergence has been entirely driven by human activities,” said the report.An estimated 1.7 million currently undiscovered viruses exist in mammals and birds, of which up to 850,000 could have the ability to infect people, the report said. “There is no great mystery about the cause of the COVID-19 pandemic – or of any modern pandemic”, said Dr Peter Daszak, president, EcoHealth Alliance and chair of the IPBES workshop, in a statement.“The same human activities that drive climate change and biodiversity loss also drive pandemic risk through their impacts on our environment. Changes in the way we use land; the expansion and intensification of agriculture; and unsustainable trade, production and consumption disrupt nature and increase contact between wildlife, livestock, pathogens and people. This is the path to pandemics.”Pandemic risk can be significantly lowered by reducing the human activities that drive the loss of biodiversity, by greater conservation of protected areas, and through measures that reduce unsustainable exploitation of high biodiversity regions. This will reduce wildlife-livestock-human contact and help prevent the spillover of new diseases, said the report.Also Read: Officials who embarrassed govt with RTI response on Aarogya Setu face actionThe report pointed out that it is costlier to control outbreaks once they emerge because of the costs of developing drugs, vaccines and implementing public health measures that could damage the world economy. It is much more cost-effective to prevent these outbreaks, it said. “It is a known thing that zoonotic viruses, in which viruses jump from animals to humans, are the next threat to humans because they will be new viruses that humans are not exposed to. Once these viruses adapt to human hosts they will start spreading. SARS-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19 disease is a classic example before us. You cannot predict which virus will be more invasive that spreads faster,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head, department of microbiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi.Dr Mahesh Sankaran, professor, National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bangalore, said, “India has many features that can potentially come together to create the ‘perfect storm’ for the spillover of novel diseases in the future – high biodiversity, high population densities and extensive land transformation and fragmentation that has increased the extent of the human-wildlife interface.” He said there was a critical need to integrate biodiversity and ecosystem service values into land planning and management, while also investing in restoring and protecting natural land- and waterscapes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/future-pandemics-could-be-deadlier-warns-study/story-pDUy6byrB86Obr2qDLRYFJ.html
30-10-2020||India||Global awards for Victor Banerjee||Actor Victor Banerjee won two global awards in two days for his role as a priest, Father O’Hara, in the 2019 film, Josef - Born in Grace. The first was for Best Actor at the India International Film Festival of Boston on October 27; and the second, a day later, was best supporting actor, at the Ontario International Film Festival. Josef - Born in Grace has made waves since its release in 2019. It was in the race for contention at the Oscars earlier this year. In September, it won Best Set Design at the Madrid International Film Festival; and it also won a second award at the Ontario International Film Festival this week, when Sudheer Palsane was declared Best Cinematographer. Directed by Susant Misra, Josef - Born in Grace is an adaptation of a short story titled Joseph, written by well-known Odia author Umakanta Mahapatra, father of the film producer Ashok Mahapatra. Set in the foothills of the Himalaya, the plot unfolds gradually and elegantly over 20 years, between 1960 and 1980. Father O’Hara, a missionary doctor, serves the poor at a small local hospital, adopts an orphan named Josef and raises him with the help of his caretaker Maularam (Sudarshan Juyal). O’Hara eventually sends Josef to Dehradun to finish school and take up vocational training as a cook. The young man (Subrat Dutta) returns a great cook, but an alcoholic. The three very different journeys of these three characters — Fr O’Hara, Josef and Maularam — form the heart of the film. Made in Hindi, it was shot in Uttarakhand over a month in the summer of 2018. “Even though I’m a priest in the film, it was not very difficult to develop a paternal bond with Josef, who’s like a son to my character,” said Banerjee over the phone from Mussoorie . Banerjee also showered accolades on Dutta for his performance. “I must admit and confess that it was my co-actor’s intense and studied performance as Josef that acted as my inspiration. And it was Subrat who made my performance what it is.” Banerjee’s four-decade-long stellar career fetched him three National Awards -- one for cinematography, one for directing and one as supporting actor -- a clutch of international awards and a BAFTA nomination.He worked with legendary directors throughout his career — from Satyajit Ray (Shatranj Ke Khilari, Pikoo and Ghare-Baire) in the 1970s and ’80s to Shyam Benegal (Kalyug, 1981), Roman Polanski (Bitter Moon, 1992) and David Lean (A Passage to India, 1984). His performance in Josef - Born in Grace enhances Misra’s slow-burn narrative but he directs the credit to the director. “It’s certainly not easy shooting in the hills, mainly because of the unstable weather. I was amazed at how calm he (Susant) was when he would shoot. He was always clear in his mind about what he wanted.”The film is special to him, Banerjee added, because it allowed him to draw on his own experience of being nurtured by priests. “My character is modelled on the Irish Christian brothers, I studied under for 11 years in school at St Edmunds, Shillong,” he says. “They taught me how to act, how to sing. I derived my values from them. In a way, this award is because of them, and hence it is humbly dedicated to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-awards-for-victor-banerjee/story-R302I1GcCeflSlyH5Nm6DP.html
30-10-2020||India||Congress alleges violations in Central Information Commission selection||Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, gave a dissent note earlier this month over the process of selection in the Central Information Commission (CIC), alleging that the government violated Supreme Court guidelines in the appointment process, people familiar with the matter said. Chowdhury did not object to the name of Yashvardhan Kumar Sinha on the panel, but questioned the inclusion of journalist Uday Mahurkar in the list of probable candidates for the information commissioner’s post. Sinha, 62, a former high commissioner to the United Kingdom, is slated to be the new CIC chairperson. He will succeed Bimal Jhulka who retired in August this year. Chowdhury raised objections to Mahurkar’s name, saying he had not even applied for the post, the people quoted above said. The meeting of the three-member selection committee, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, met twice this month – October 7 and 24 -- to discuss and finalise the name of the CIC chairperson and information commissioners. Union home minister Amit Shah and Chowdhury are the other two members. Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) minister Jitendra Singh was also present in the meetings. As per the Right To Information (RTI) Act, the appointment of commissioners in the CIC is made by a committee, headed by the Prime Minister, and comprising a cabinet minister and the leader of the single largest opposition party in the Lok Sabha. In states, the appointments are made by the chief minister, a cabinet minister and the leader of the opposition in the assembly. In his dissent note, according to the people quoted above, Chowdhury cited the Supreme Court guidelines in a case filed by RTI activist Anjali Bhardwaj last year. He alleged that transparency was not followed in the selection process and the apex court guidelines were violated by the government by not making public the names of the shortlisted candidates and the criteria for their selection. In all, seven candidates were shortlisted for information commissioners. In its judgment, the Supreme Court had asked the search committee to make public the names of shortlisted candidates and the criteria adopted for shortlisting such people. The top court had also observed that retired bureaucrats were primarily being appointed as commissioners, and said it is difficult to fathom that only persons belonging to public service are found more competent and suitable than those belonging to other categories. “Chowdhury’s objections were not on the name of the CIC chairperson but to the non-transparent procedure adopted in the selection process in violation of the Supreme Court guidelines on the matter,” said the people quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-alleges-violations-in-cic-selection/story-Z5tBtuJyZBtE8SYCUET6hJ.html
30-10-2020||India||Covid-19 positive woman gives birth to triplets in Chhattisgarh||A 28-year-old coronavirus positive woman has given birth to triplets in a government-run hospital in Chhattisgarh capital Raipur, officials said on Thursday.The woman, who was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Raipur, delivered three baby girls over 10 days back, they said.The babies were found Covid-19 negative in their first test and a repeat test will be conducted on them after a few days, an official said.Authorities said that this is probably the first case in the state wherein a coronavirus-infected woman has given birth to triplets.“The woman, a government employee who hails from Dhamtari district, was admitted to the AIIMS on October 18 after testing positive for the infection. On the same day, she gave birth to three baby girls through C-section surgery,” S S Sharma, public relations officer of AIIMS, Raipur said.“It was a challenging task for the doctors of the Neonatology Department to keep the newborn secure from COVID- 19 infection. The three children were initially kept in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU),” he said.Five days later, two babies were reunited with their mother with completeprecaution, while another one is still under observation of the specialists in the NICU, he said.“All three babies were found Covid-19 negative in their first test and a repeat test will be done after some days,” he added.In another case, a 33-years-old Covid-19 patient from Durg district gave birth to twin girls on October 19 in AIIMS, he said.“Both the babies are suffering from Respiratory Distress Syndrome, but they tested negative for coronavirus.They are in stable condition in NICU,” he said.Both the women are yet to recover from Covid-19 infection, he added.Dr Nitin M Nagarkar, Director of AIIMS, Raipur said, doctors in the neonatology department have proved their expertise by successfully dealing with such complex cases.“We have 20 state-of-the-art beds in NICU and another two reserved for Covid-19 positive children. Doctors in the department have done a remarkable job during the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-woman-gives-birth-to-triplets-in-chattisgarh/story-pbmzx1zUEvVPunPt5W0c0N.html
