31-10-2020||India||Delhi: Hindu Rao nurses threaten to go on indefinite strike from Nov 2||The association of nurses of North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital on Saturday threatened to go on indefinite strike from November 2 over their “pending salaries” for August-October. The threat to launch a stir from the Nurses’ Welfare Association (NWA) of the largest municipal hospital comes days after the resident and senior doctors of the facility called off their protest after the North Delhi Municipal Corporation released their due salaries till September. The NWA on Saturday shot a letter to North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash over non-payment of salaries from August-October and said it will “begin an indefinite strike from November 2”. “We hope this strike won’t have to continue for long and our issues will be resolved,” the letter reads. The members of the Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of the 900-bedded hospital had been protesting for the past several days and had gone on an indefinite strike, seeking the release of salaries due for the past three months.  Seniors doctors under the banner of the Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association (MCDA) later had also gone on an indefinite strike, and both associations had called off the stir on October 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hindu-rao-nurses-threaten-to-go-on-indefinite-strike-from-nov-2/story-FTbb7GJZRhdwAxc7P2xk1L.html
31-10-2020||India||India-China ties under ‘severe stress’, LAC changes unacceptable: Jaishankar||India-China ties are under “severe stress” and normalcy can be restored only if bilateral agreements on border management are respected in their entirety, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday, with the border standoff in Ladakh set to enter its seventh month. Jaishankar made the remarks while delivering the Sardar Patel Memorial Lecture on the theme “India and the post-Covid world”. The speech contained an overview of India’s relations with major powers such as the US, Russia and China, and outlined the government’s vision to enhance the country’s standing in the world order emerging from the Covid-19 crisis. Noting that relations with China had remained stable for three decades, he said peace and tranquillity on the border had allowed the two sides to expand cooperation in other domains. “But as the pandemic unfolded, the relationship has come under severe stress,” he said. “To restore normalcy, agreements between the two countries must be respected scrupulously in their entirety. Where the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is concerned, any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo is unacceptable,” Jaishankar said. “The relationship cannot be immune to changes in the assumptions that underpinned it. Large civilisational states re-emerging in close proximity will not have naturally easy ties. Their interests are best served by a sustained engagement based on mutual respect and mutual sensitivity,” he added. India has said Chinese troops had hampered patrolling by its forces along the LAC since April this year and violated border agreements and protocols. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in June and warning shots have been fired by both sides – the first time guns were used along the LAC since 1975. With winter approaching, tens of thousands of troops mobilised on both sides are set to remain deployed in Ladakh region as several rounds of military and diplomatic talks have been unable to take forward the disengagement process. Jaishankar also highlighted the importance of border infrastructure in national security, saying the periphery will reflect the capabilities of the heartland. Leaving parts of the border underdeveloped has its risks and “safeguarding borders is a 24x7 exercise [and] not only an appropriate response to an emerging situation”, he said. India’s experience in the past few years in expediting the creation of border infrastructure in the north shows how much difference sharper focus and better implementation can make, and the shift from declarations to delivery is in keeping with the outlook of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, he added. “Underlying it is, of course, a basic willingness to fully recognise the challenges that the nation faces. By playing down issues like cross-border terrorism or competitive geopolitics, there has been a tendency to look away from the hard choices. In a more difficult world, that is going to be less possible,” Jaishankar noted. With the US, successive governments on both sides have pursued a “non-partisan endeavour”, and strong economic and technological complementarities have laid a strong foundation for the relationship, he said. “But it is in the face of emerging multi-polarity that both nations have developed a serious interest in more intensive engagement,” he added. India’s relations with Russia have held remarkably steady and the “strategic logic that has sustained this relationship since its early days still remains largely relevant”, Jaishankar said, adding that India has also ramped up its engagement with European states, which are taking a greater interest in the Indo-Pacific region. There is also a strong case for accelerating the partnership with Japan, which has been responsible for catalysing many aspects of India’s modernization, he said. Looking at the world order emerging out of the Covid-19 crisis, Jaishankar said it was apparent even before the pandemic that the existing international system was under great stress due to multiple and complex reasons, including the disenchantment with a globalised economic system that created unequal gains. “The Covid-19 pandemic could well be the last straw on the back of a fraying global consensus,” he said. “India will approach the world in a more proactive way in the aftermath of the pandemic...The pressures of the pandemic will naturally impart a different urgency to such engagements...Indian diplomacy will be more integrated with our defence and security needs, more supportive of our economic and commercial interests, more aware of our technology capabilities and offerings, and more sensitive to the diaspora,” he added. The annual lecture has been organised by All India Radio since 1955 to commemorate Sardar Patel....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-ties-under-severe-stress-lac-changes-unacceptable-jaishankar/story-qfMigdjTD9RMFVm0VFCEkO.html
31-10-2020||India||‘India, China ties were stable for 3 decades because...’: Jaishankar on LAC||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said any attempt to unilaterally challenge the status quo is unacceptable where the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is concerned. Commenting on the ongoing standoff between India and China, the foreign minister said ties were stable for three decades as two nations addressed inherited challenges and new circumstances. “Peace and tranquillity in border areas provided basis for expanded cooperation on other domains,” Jaishankar said.Agreements between the countries must be respected scrupulously in the entirety to restore normalcy, Jaishankar said.The foreign minister has commented several times on the India-China standoff and reiterated that the immediate focus should be on restoring peace and tranquillity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/any-attempt-to-unilaterally-change-status-quo-is-unacceptable-jaishankar-on-lac/story-bwG6i8xo1g1lfSGJGAKLXP.html
31-10-2020||India||AAP rejects Punjab CM Amarinder Singh’s appeal to accompany him to President||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday rejected Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s appeal to all parties’ MLAs to accompany him to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on November 4 to request him to give his assent to the state’s amended farm laws.Dubbing the chief minister’s move a “mere political drama”, Aam Aadmi Party senior leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the AAP will not be a part of the delegation headed by the CM to meet the President.Cheema said the three farm Bills passed in the state assembly by “rushing” amendments to negate the “controversial” central laws were “meaningless”, asserting that it would not help protect the farmers’ interests.He said there was no point in meeting the President as the Punjab governor has not yet signed the Bills.He alleged that Amarinder Singh was trying to “fool” the people of Punjab, especially the farmers, by projecting himself as their champion.The AAP MLA said instead of meeting the President, if the CM leads a delegation of all parties, to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the AAP would have gladly accepted the offer.“Had Amarinder decided to stage a ‘dharna’ outside the Prime Minister’s residence to repeal the black laws, including the Air Pollution Ordinance, the AAP would have extended its full support to him,” he said in a statement here.Amarinder Singh was a “mere puppet” in the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which was why he had not so far met either the Prime Minister or the Union agriculture minister and the railway minister alone or as a delegation against the black laws, he alleged.Notably, the CM had appealed to all the MLAs to “stand up and be counted” and rise above party lines in safeguarding the state’s interests which are being “trampled upon” by the Union government.The Punjab Assembly this month had adopted a resolution rejecting the Centre’s new farm laws and passed four bills to counter the contentious legislation enacted by Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-rejects-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-s-appeal-to-accompany-him-to-president/story-BXMO5wUE4pd0hZqiFGa7BL.html
31-10-2020||India||Kerala church activist threatens nuns over Franco Mulakkal case, arrested||The Kerala police on Saturday arrested the Indian Catholic Forum general secretary Kennedy Karimpinkalay for allegedly threatening the nun and five others who stood with her in the rape case against former bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal. In the complaint, the victim and other nuns who supported her said he was frequently posting threats and objectionable materials to portray them in bad light. Later the case was handed over to the cyber wing which arrested the church activist from his house on the outskirts of Kochi. During investigation, the cyber wing found that he was posting many messages discreetly to discredit the victim and others. A staunch supporter of Franco Mulakkal, he used to appear in TV debates representing the Indian Catholic Forum, a body associated with the Catholic church. The trial against the former bishop is going on in a special court in Kottayam. Earlier his plea to quash the case was dismissed by the Kerala High Court and later the Supreme Court. The case surfaced two years ago, when a 43-year-old nun, also a mother superior, had complained to the police in Kottayam in central Kerala that Mulakkal had raped her several times between 2014 and 2016.The nun is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation based in Punjab. Mulakkal denied the charges, saying he was implicated after he took action against the nun for financial irregularities in the convent. Later, a special investigation team arrested him in September 2018 and subsequently he was removed from the post of bishop. The SIT had filed the charge sheet against him last year. There were allegations that the accused was trying to delay the trial. The petitioner had also complained that some of the witnesses were threatened by the followers of Mulakkal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-church-activist-threatens-nuns-over-franco-mulakkal-case-arrested/story-STsw54i1tuNUuwueOK0NGO.html
31-10-2020||India||Amit Shah on 2-day Bengal tour from November 5, JP Nadda’s visit cancelled||Home Minister Amit Shah will be on a two-day visit to West Bengal from November 5 to take stock of the party’s preparations ahead of the 2021 assembly polls.BJP president JP Nadda’s visit to the state was cancelled late on Friday night after the party got confirmation from the home minister about his scheduled trip. “There was a sudden change in program on Friday. Instead of Nadda, Shah would be coming to West Bengal and hold meetings on November 5 and 6. Earlier too it was decided that Shah would come. But as his health was not permitting, the schedule became uncertain,” said Dilip Ghosh, head of the BJP’s state unit in Bengal. Nadda was supposed to come on November 6 and 7. This would have been his second visit to the state. He had been to north Bengal on October 19 just ahead of the Durga Puja. Out of the BJP’s five organizational zones in the state, during his visit Nadda had addressed the BJP workers of north Bengal zone.Shah, during his two-day stay, will address two meetings, covering two zones in each meeting. While the meeting on November 5 is in Bankura, on November 6 the meeting will take place in state capital Kolkata. After the BJP’s impressive performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, in which the party won 18 out of the 42 seats, the party is now eyeing for the West Bengal assembly elections. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had addressed Bengali people and BJP workers on the first day of the Durga Puja, virtually sounding the bugle for the 2021 polls and setting the tone for the party’s poll campaign. With the Durga Puja over and only a few months left for the polls, the BJP’s central leaders want the state unit to hit the road with full steam from November. The entire movement will be monitored from Delhi. On Thursday, West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had met Shah in Delhi and had made serious allegations about the law and order situation in the state.“He is the Union home minister. Every day, he receives multiple complaints about party-men being killed and police doing nothing. It may be that he wants to see everything with his own eyes. Apart from addressing party meetings he has a lot of other meetings,” said Sayantan Basu, state general secretary of BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-on-2-day-bengal-tour-from-november-5-jp-nadda-s-visit-cancelled/story-I4HX9zYOeNWhEDMPhRFPCL.html
31-10-2020||India||Best is always worth waiting for, says Hemant Kher||Actor, writer and acting coach Hemant Kher is elated with the success of his recently streamed series and strongly feels it was worth the wait. “I waited nearly two decades to get the kind of acting project. I always wanted to be a part of something worthwhile after being disappointed on many occasions. But, I didn’t let my love for acting fade away while I was writing and training others,” said National School of Drama (NSD) alumnus. Telling more about his early days, Hemant said, “After my course, I did some work but it was not up to the mark. Then I got a writing offer for a show ‘Shabaash India’ (2006) and along with that I continued doing theatre. I wrote shows like ‘Dance India Dance,’ ‘Indian Idol’ and also donned the hat of a creative director for other shows.” Simultaneously, he started training anchors and actors for shows as an acting coach. “All this continued and I deliberately avoided taking acting projects where my role was insignificant. I was actually happy training and writing shows but the actor in me was restless.”Hemant has impressed one and all with his performance of Ashwin Mehta in the web series, ‘Scam1992.’ “My audition for this role went very well. When I came to know that the story is about Harshad Mehta, who made headlines for the 1992 Indian stock market scam, and the character is that of his elder brother, I felt this can be the project I have waited for all these years. Thank God, I accepted it and it did click! I mean look at the high ratings and rave reviews it’s garnering. Hansal (Mehta) sir was well armed and left nothing unresearched or unexplored.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/best-is-always-worth-waiting-for-says-hemant-kher/story-ddcKoh3LuY7HL0dncWMauK.html
31-10-2020||India||India-Bangladesh border sees spike in wildlife smuggling, says BSF||The highly porous India-Bangladesh border in south Bengal has witnessed a spurt in wildlife smuggling this year, a top official of the Border Security Force has confirmed. While in 2018, the BSF’s south Bengal Frontier had seized 22 such consignments, in 2019 the number went down to 13. This year, however, despite the pandemic and the lockdown when infiltration had dropped, the BSF has seized at least 25 consignments till October. The last in the line is the rescue of 13 white cockatoos on Thursday which are native of Indonesia and were being smuggled into India through the international border in North 24 Parganas district. “There has been a rise in animal trade, mostly birds, in this year. We are trying to analyse the trend. There has been no specific reason which has come to light so far. The BSF is alert and keeping a watch,” said SS Guleria, DIG of BSF’s south Bengal frontier. Senior officials of the BSF said that this year till date around 14 gecko lizards, 31 cockatoos, 77 parrots and 95 pigeons have been seized. In 2019 only around 64 pigeons and 46 parrots were seized. The list of exotic bird pets seized this year include eight helmeted-curassow, a large terrestrial bird usually found in forests of south America, macaws and keel billed toucans, among others. The cost of some of these birds such as the curassow, toucan and macaw can run up to lakhs per pair. The India-Bangladesh border in West Bengal is the longest international border in any state across the country. Out of the 4096.7 km long border, West Bengal alone shares 2216 km with the neighbouring country. In 2017, 2018 and 2019, security agencies arrested 1175, 1118 and 1351 people, respectively, along the entire stretch of the Indo-Bangla border in India, according to data presented by the Union ministry of home affairs before Parliament in March. “In most of the cases the traffickers managed to flee taking advantage of the dense vegetation and darkness abandoning the boxes containing the birds. The birds were sent to the zoo in Kolkata after being rescued. Only four persons have been arrested this year,” said a BSF official. The lockdown had taken a heavy toll on infiltration attempts across the country’s longest and most porous international border - the Indo-Bangla border in West Bengal. Smuggling activities however were still going on. Data shared by the Border Security Force shows that around 20 persons were arrested while they were trying to enter India in April and May – the two months in which total lockdown was observed - this year. In 2018 and 2019, the BSF had arrested 314 and 171 persons during the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-border-sees-spike-in-wildlife-smuggling-says-bsf/story-ydB6YU0oB0PQyIfhfrNLRN.html
31-10-2020||India||Teen attempts self-immolation after sexual abuse, dies a week later||A 17-year-old girl who was allegedly sexually abused and then resorted to self immolation died in the Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital on Saturday after battling for life for a week.The accused, a leader of the Democratic Youth Federation of India in Idukki, is in police custody. The DFYI had expelled him from the party after the incident came to light.Police said the Dalit girl was sexually assaulted several times by the accused who pretended to be in love. She had set herself on fire on October 24 after pouring kerosene, said police. The girl suffered 60 per cent burns, and was later moved to the Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital after her condition deteriorated.Police said the accused, also an auto driver, befriended her and sexually abused her several times promising to marry her. When her parents filed a police complaint he allegedly threatened and forced them to withdraw the complaint. Police said more charges will be slapped on him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teen-attempts-self-immolation-after-sexual-abuse-dies-a-week-later/story-SlX9dlPIVn4FkLT4ffqtAP.html
31-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: Delhi buses to run with full capacity from November 1 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesDelhi buses to run with full capacity from Nov 1; face mask mandatory, standing not allowedAt a time when Delhi is witnessing a surge in the number of daily Covid-19 cases, Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Saturday allowed passengers to occupy all seats of Delhi buses from November 1. The Capital breached its record for the highest number of daily Covid-19 cases four times this week. Read more‘Will be difficult for them to save face,’ Rajnath Singh attacks Congress on China issueUnion defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday attacked the Congress for ‘questioning’ the bravery of Indian jawans. Addressing an election rally in Patna, the senior BJP leader said that the Congress was spreading misinformation about India-China issue. Read more‘Not even a single drop of water spilled’: How Twitter reacts to Piyush Goyal’s ‘smooth journey’Railways minister Piyush Goyal has tweeted a video of a glass full of water kept on the table of a coach of Bengaluru-Mysuru rail route. Not a single drop of water spilled out of the glass, the railway minister said, explaining how smooth the route has become. Read moreIn a first, Corbett Tiger Reserve to have women nature guidesCorbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) will have women nature guides for the first time in its history, said forest officials. CTR officials said seven women have been selected by the Corbett administration after holding a guide recruitment test on Wednesday. Read more French prez Macron says he understands Muslim feelings on Prophet imageFrench President Emmanuel Macron told Al-Jazeera Saturday he understood that cartoons of the Muslim Prophet Mohammed could shock people but that violence was unacceptable, days after a Tunisian migrant killed three people in an attack on a church in Nice. Read more A little confused about what you should be for Halloween? Let Netflix India’s star sign inspired post help you outIt is no lie that Halloween is a fun holiday but sometimes it can be a little frustrating. After all, deciding one’s costume is no child’s play, especially when there are so many fictional characters from TV shows and movies that one wants to dress up as. Read moreGoogle Meet custom backgrounds now available for desktop usersGoogle Meet has started rolling out a long-awaited feature that Zoom users have been enjoying for months now. You can finally start using custom backgrounds in Google Meet, coming to its desktop app first. Read more IPL 2020: Kieron Pollard gives important update on Rohit Sharma’s injuryMumbai Indians captain Rohit Sharma missed his fourth game of the ongoing season of the Indian Premier League 2020 on the trot on Saturday with Kieron Pollard standing in as the captain for the team against Delhi Capitals. Read more Sean Connery, James Bond actor, dies at 90Sir Sean Connery, the Scottish actor who rocketed to fame as James Bond, has died at the age of 90. He remained a fan favourite and was considered the best actor to have played 007 in the long-running franchise. Read more ‘Ram Naam Satya journey will begin...’: UP CM Yogi’s warning on ‘love jihad’Following an Allahabad High Court order regarding religious conversion and marriages, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister issued a warning. During a speech on October 31, Yogi Adityanath said that his government is planning a law against ‘love jihad’. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-delhi-buses-to-run-with-full-capacity-from-november-1-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ShZ9ETgC0huMUnrYWl01YP.html
31-10-2020||India||Delhi again records over 5,000 new Covid-19 cases, 34,186 cases added in last 7 days||Delhi recorded 5,062 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, which is a slight dip from the number of new cases being reported from Wednesday, but the higher positivity rate in the city indicates that the Capital is experiencing a new wave of Covid-19 infections. On Friday, Delhi reported 5,891 new cases — the highest single-day number of all time. The government health bulletin revealed that 41 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours. Over 44,000 people have been tested in the same period of time.There are 3,274 containment zones in the Capital and over 20,000 people are under home isolation at present.The sudden spike in the number of daily cases after a period when Delhi was believed to have tackled Covid-19 effectively has become a cause of worry. The Centre has called for a meeting on Monday to discuss the issue.Also Read: As Covid-19 cases soar in Delhi, health minister Satyendar Jain lists reasonsThe spike began on Wednesday when Delhi crossed the 5,000-mark for the first time with 5,673 new cases in a span of 24 hours. On Thursday, Delhi recoded 5,739 cases and on Friday, the number stood at 5,891. On Tuesday, Delhi had logged 4,853 cases, which was its highest single-day tally since 4,473 on September 16. Though Saturday’s number is lower than the previous three days, the positivity rate is high — at least 11 per cent of all tests in the past 24 hours returned positive results. The number of total cases in the Capital stands at 3,86,706. Out of this, 34,185 cases have been added in last one week.Here is a date-wise data of new cases reported in Delhi during the past one weekOctober 25: 4,136October 26: 2,832October 27: 4,853October 28: 5,673October 29: 5,739October 30: 5,891October 31: 5,062Why cases are rising in DelhiDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain has blamed pollution, the onset of winter and the rising pollution for the sudden rise in the number of cases. “It’s a combined effect of the festive season, decrease in temperature and increased pollution. Experts had also suggested that at this time Covid-19 cases could rise,” Jain said on Saturday.Also Read: Alarm over new Covid-19 cases in Delhi; Centre may step inThird Covid-19 wave in Delhi?Jain had earlier said that it can be concluded whether Delhi has entered the third wave of Covid-19 cases after examining the numbers of a week. But he had hinted that the possibility could not be overruled. The peak of the second wave in Delhi was during mid-September when it reported 4,174 average cases every day. The current trajectory is far above that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-again-records-over-5-000-new-cases-positivity-rate-11-42/story-f24KkZwe8f92GMg2pIQ2VO.html
31-10-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: Amit Jogi extends support to BJP in Marwahi bypoll||Three days before the Marwahi bypoll, Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) chief Amit Jogi has decided to extend support to the BJP’s candidate on Saturday, claiming the Congress has ‘continuously insulted’ his father Ajit Jogi.This is the first time in the last 20 years that Jogis are not in fray in Marwahi because on October 19 Amit Jogi’s nomination from JCC was rejected on the basis of a high-power committee report which found that the leader was not a tribal. The nomination papers of Jogi’s wife Richa Jogi, who had filed nomination for the same seat, were also cancelled on the same groundThe reserved seat for schedule Tribes (ST) Marwahi seat, which falls in the newly formed Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi (GPM) district, fell vacant following the death of sitting MLA and Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) chief Ajit Jogi in May. The elections are scheduled on November 3. In a written statement, Jogi said that he was informed by the JCC (J) legislative party leader Dharamjeet Singh and party leader Rajendra Rai that they have decided to extend support to BJP candidate Gambhir Singh. Jogi further said that he had not spoken directly to BJP leaders in this connection but the support is temporary.“The Congress chief minister and his party members have been continuously insulting my father Ajit Jogi that goes against the tradition of the country and basic morality. Hence, we have decided to extend support to the BJP in the bypoll and I appeal to the people of Marwahi to vote against the Congress and teach them a lesson,” said Jogi.RP Singh, senior Congress leader and party spokesperson, reacting over the support of JCC to BJP, said that there is nothing new and Congress and people of Marwahi were aware of the tie up from the beginning.“What is the promise BJP has given for the support? Is there any kind of deal? People have the right to know. As far as the question of insult to Ajit Jogi is concerned, it was the BJP who raised questions on the tribal status of Ajit Jogi since he entered politics,” said Singh.It is worth mentioning that both BJP and Congress have fielded doctors in the Marwahi constituency. The BJP fielded a tribal surgeon, Gambhir Singh, as its candidate while the ruling Congress has put up veteran Dr Krishan Kumar Dhruw, who had a long stint as the block medical officer (BMO) in the area.“Everyone knows that Congress has snatched the democractic right of the Jogi family, which should be condemned. As far as support for our party candidate in Marwahi, we welcome it. Amiy Jogi’s party has a huge vote bank and its support will strengthen the democratic values,” said senior BJP leader and spokesperson, Sacchinand Upsane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-amit-jogi-extends-support-to-bjp-in-marwahi-bypoll/story-QUbrTm8YCkpxrDOHoTYtPP.html
31-10-2020||India||Even if God becomes CM he can’t give government jobs to all: Pramod Sawant||In a peculiar remark, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday said that even if God himself became the Chief Minister he would not be able to provide government jobs to everyone.“It is not possible to give 100 per cent government jobs to everyone. If tomorrow morning, even if God himself becomes the Chief Minister, it is not possible,” Sawant said during a web conference with village panchayat representatives here.Sawant was virtually launching his government’s ambitious ‘Swayampurna Mitra’ outreach initiative, under which gazetted government officers are expected to visit village panchayats and audit the ground level implementation of state government schemes.“Their (unemployed) households should also have a Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000 income. There are so many jobs which outsiders come to Goa and get cracking on... Our Swayampurna Mitras will also co-ordinate these chores like arranging for suitable minor jobs for the rural unemployed,” he said.This comes amid the reports of Goa’s unemployment rate touching 15.4 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-if-god-becomes-cm-he-can-t-give-government-jobs-to-all-pramod-sawant/story-JpvczlwXqrqCsfihGw7IMK.html
31-10-2020||India||Worried about girl child, Hyderabad couple sells newborn, arrested: Police||The Rachakonda police in Hyderabad on Saturday arrested a couple who sold their male child for Rs one lakh to another childless couple even before the childbirth five months ago. The couple after two girls presumed that the third would be a girl as well and struck a deal.The couple got to know later that the newborn was a male child and they then approached the police seeking their help in restoration of their infant boy. Inquiries revealed that the couple demanded an additional amount of Rs 4 lakh from the adoptive parents since the child was a baby boy.“We have arrested the adoptive father and also the couple for selling the infant, besides another woman who brokered the deal. All the four accused were produced before the court and remanded in 14-day judicial custody,” Nacharam police inspector T Kiran Kumar told Hindustan Times.According to police, Meena - a servant maid living at Nacharam along with her husband Venkatesh, a cab driver - gave birth to girls in her first two deliveries. While the first girl child died soon after delivery four years ago, the second girl is 18 months old.“She became pregnant again last year and feared that she might give birth to a girl child again. So, when Meena was in her fourth month of pregnancy, the couple thought of selling the new-born baby to a childless couple. They contacted Janaki, a sanitary worker, who managed to find a couple – Rajesh and Nagina, who agreed to buy the infant soon after the birth,” the inspector said.The deal was struck for Rs 1 lakh, which Rajesh had paid in instalments. “In May, Meena gave birth to a male child. But the mediator hoodwinked her saying it was again a girl child and that she had given the baby to Rajesh,” the police official said.A few days ago, Meena came to know from some other source in the hospital that she had actually given birth to a male child. She and her husband went to Rajesh and demanded that they be given their male child back. When Rajesh refused, the couple demanded that they be given at least another Rs 4 lakh as compensation. When he refused, the couple went to the Nacharam police station and sought police’s help to restore their child.Police recovered the child from the adoptive parents and handed him to the childline authorities of state women development and child welfare department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worried-about-girl-child-hyderabad-couple-sells-newborn-arrested-police/story-Gl88C4hGVo9lfg9ISMjE7H.html
31-10-2020||India||MP bypoll: BJP’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan played tricks to unseat Congress, says Sachin Pilot||Senior Rajasthan Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Saturday said Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan played tricks to get back to power after dislodging the Kamal Nath dispensation in March.Addressing a bypoll rally in Biaora, Pilot said the people had voted for the Congress in the 2018 MP Assembly polls after 15 years of BJP rule.“However, the three-time chief minister (Chouhan) was dissatisfied and played tricks and made a backdoor entry to power,” Pilot said without elaborating.He said the BJP government under Chouhan had done nothing for farmers, and claimed the highest number of agriculture-related suicides took place in MP.He said the Centre’s new farm laws would force mandis to close, result in the dismantling of the minimum support price mechanism, and lead to corporates and industrialists calling the shots in the sector, including on purchase price of produce.He said the Congress government under Nath had waived off farm loans while the BJP had promised jobs and investments but ended up playing the “temple-mosque, Hindu-Muslim, China- Pakistan-Sri Lanka” cards.Hitting back on the remark about Chouhan’s “tricks”, MP BJP chief spokesperson Deepak Vijayvargiya said Pilot was leveling baseless allegations, adding “the Congress government here fell due to infighting”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-bypoll-bjp-s-shivraj-singh-chouhan-played-tricks-to-unseat-congress-says-sachin-pilot/story-7kSt9KQ1nX3Lz1wbpfz10J.html
31-10-2020||India||CPI(M) firm behind Kodiyeri Balakrishnan after his son’s arrest in drug case||Amid the arrest of party secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in connection with the Bengaluru drug racket, the CPI(M) central leadership rallied behind the beleaguered leader. The party central committee on Saturday said there was no need for him to quit and parents can’t be held responsible for the doings of grown-up children.“The party and government are intact and the latest developments have nothing to do with both. If Bineesh Kodiyeri has done any wrong he has to face music. The party won’t protect him. But citing this, we will not allow anybody to weaken the government,” said senior politburo member S Ramachandran Pillai in the state capital.Another politburo member MA Baby also said there was a concerted move to weaken the government using the central agencies. “The Union government is implementing the RSS agenda to weaken the secular government in Kerala. All agencies are busy nitpicking. The party and government will emerge stronger because people are with us,” he wrote in a Facebook post. He also said the party won’t protect Kodiyeri and it was his duty to come clean.In Delhi, party general secretary Sitaram Yechury also echoed the same view. “Bineesh Kodiyeri is not holding any position in the party. The party has no role in things he has done at the personal level,” he said. The opposition Congress and BJP said the central leadership was not in a position to touch the state secretary. “It shows the degeneration of the proletarian party,” said state opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. Kodiyeri was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in Bengaluru on Thursday and a court later remanded him to the ED’s custody for four days. In a statement, the central agency said the main accused in the drug case Anoop Mohammad was just a “benami” (proxy) of Kodiyeri who ensured funding from various sources for the thriving drug business.Two key arrests - CM Pinarayi Vijayan’s former secretary M Sivasankar in the gold smuggling case and the party secretary’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in the narcotics case - have roiled the state’s ruling CPI(M). With six months left for the assembly election, the party has its task cut out to convince supporters and voters that it is in the clear. Analysts said this is fast becoming the biggest crisis of CM Vijayan’s tenureIn another trouble for the government, the customs have summoned higher education minister K T Jaeel next week. Earlier, he was grilled by the National Investigation Agency and Enforcement Directorate in connection with the import of religious books and dry dates from the United Arab Emirates flouting foreign contribution norms.Jaleel landed in trouble after his name figured prominently in the call list of Swapna Suresh, main accused in the gold smuggling case. Soon after the list surfaced, the minister held a press conference in Malappuram and said he called Suresh as a consular employee in connection with Ramadan kits offered by the UAE consulate. But this clarification invited more trouble as he was not supposed to accept any fund or freebies without the consent of the ministry of external affairs. The opposition alleged that some of the consignments carried smuggled gold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpi-m-firm-behind-kodiyeri-balakrishnan-after-his-son-s-arrest-in-drug-case/story-mDhx1YTxTxAXIfhbvSwp1O.html
31-10-2020||India||Samajwadi Party supported independent Rajya Sabha candidate to expose BSP-BJP ties: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party(SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday asserted that his party supported independent nominee Prakash Bajaj for the Rajya Sabha(RS) election to expose the understanding between the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) and Bahujan Samaj Party(BSP).“Those having socialist leanings decided to support the independent candidate for Rajya Sabha so that people can come to know that the BJP and BSP are together,” Akhilesh Yadav told reporters after an event held to pay tribute to Acharya Narendra Dev on his anniversary.He alleged that the BJP can enter into an understanding with anyone and those who have an internal understanding need to be exposed.In a dig at the BJP-led state government, Akhilesh Yadav enquired about the present state of the cleaning of river Gomti, a work started by his government.He also rued that there has been no expansion of the Lucknow metro project which his government had started.In a major twist to the biennial Rajya Sabha elections, Prakash Bajaj had filed his nomination papers from Varanasi as an independent candidate on the last day for the filing with the Samajwadi Party’s support.He had filed them minutes before the closing of the filing on Tuesday. His nomination, however, was rejected during the scrutiny of papers the next day after a day long drama in which seven BSP MLAs, including the four who had signed the nomination of their party candidate Ramji Gautam, gave an affidavit that their signatures had been forged.The seven MLAs, who are said to have met SP president Akhilesh Yadav, were later suspended by BSP president Mayawati who also declared that her party would vote for any other political outfit, including the Bharatiya Janata Party to ensure the defeat of the Samajwadi Party in the upcoming elections to the Upper House of the Uttar Pradesh assembly and the Rajya Sabha.She had also termed her decision to join hands with the Samajwadi Party ahead of the last year’s general elections a “mistake”, lamenting that she should not have withdrawn a 1995 case against Akhilesh’s father Mulayam Singh Yadav.Speaking after paying floral tributes to Acharya Narendra Dev, Akhilesh Yadav also said there was a need to deliberate on how to restore economic growth amid the persisting Covid-19 pandemic.The big question is how are we going to achieve prosperity, he said lamenting that despite great men showing the path, the governments have not followed it resulting in severe problems.“We resolve every year to serve the society and country through the path shown by Acharya Narendra Dev. We also pay our respect to Sardar Patel and Maharshi Valmiki on their anniversary today,” he said.“It is an important day. We are passing through one of the most difficult days. People have lost their jobs and farmers are not getting the right price of their produce,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samajwadi-party-supported-independent-rajya-sabha-candidate-to-expose-bsp-bjp-ties-akhilesh-yadav/story-WxgtItsL5s68fk2mvzx42O.html
31-10-2020||India||Goa government to sell onions to ration card holders at Rs 32 per kg||The Goa government is set to procure 1,045 metric tonnes of onion from an agency in Maharashtra’s Nashik district and supply the staple to 3.5 lakh ration card holders at a subsidised rate, a senior official said on Saturday.The state cabinet had on Wednesday approved a proposal to provide onions at a subsidised rate after the price of the commodity increased substantially.“The Goa government has ordered 1,045 metric tonnes of onion from Nashik-based National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation (NAFED) and the staple will be provided to all ration card holders,” said Siddhivinayak Naik, director of the state Civil Supplies Department.A total of 3.5 lakh ration card holders would be provided 3 kgs of onion each at Rs 32 per kg by holding a special drive across all fair price shops, the official said.Once the stock starts arriving in the state, consumers will be informed through advertisements, text messages, and social media, so that they can buy it from their respective fair price shops, Naik added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-government-to-sell-onions-to-ration-card-holders-at-rs-32-per-kg/story-ejhysxvlBqH6nk9OmB2eRK.html
31-10-2020||India||‘Will be difficult for them to save face,’ Rajnath Singh attacks Congress on China issue||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday attacked the Congress for ‘questioning’ the bravery of Indian jawans. Addressing an election rally in Patna, the senior BJP leader said that the Congress was spreading misinformation about India-China issue. Lobbing a challenge to the Opposition, Rajnath said once he makes a disclosure, those who are questioning the Army today will not be able to show their face.“Some political parties.. Congress... are questing the bravery of our jawans. They are saying China has captured 1200 square kilometre of land. If I make a disclosure, it will be difficult for them to save face. And you all are educated people. You have been following the state of affairs since 1962 to 2013. As the defence minister, I take immense pride in saying that our jawans had made India proud.The issue of the ongoing India-China standoff has surfaced several times in Bihar election campaign. In their first election rallies in Bihar before the first phase of Bihar Assembly Election 2020, both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi evoked Bihar’s pride of sending jawans to protect the country. The Prime Minister had said that the Opposition should be ashamed of seeking votes in Bihar when they want Article 370 of erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir back. Rahul Gandhi also questioned why Prime Minister Narendra Modi denied transgression by Chinese Army.On Friday, Rahul Gandhi shared a report which quoted Ladakh’s former BJP MP Thupstan Chhewang saying that the Chinese troops have further transgressed into Indian territory and occupied positions in Finger 2 and 3 of north bank of Pangong lake. The Centre has denied this claim and said it was fake news.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-be-difficult-for-them-to-save-face-rajnath-singh-attacks-congress-on-china-issue/story-xqe9WIcWwgPm2Gb6sLHt9O.html
31-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Stage collapses during Pappu Yadav’s campaign in Muzaffarpur||A stage and tent, set up for Jan Adhikar Party leader Pappu Yadav’s campaign rally, collapsed on Saturday. He was addressing people in Muzaffarpur’s Minapur Assembly constituency when the incident took place. Pappu Yadav’s Jan Adhikar Party and Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan’s Azad Samaj Party have joined hands to form the Progressive Democratic Alliance to contest the Bihar Assembly polls.The first phase of the polls concluded on October 28, while the remaining two phases of voting are scheduled to be held on November 3 and 7. The counting of votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-stage-collapses-during-pappu-yadav-s-campaign-in-muzaffarpur/story-LU6bNRDFxMCsgxtkDw2YEN.html
31-10-2020||India||From gas booking to high-security registration plates: New rules from November 1||From November 1 onwards, the home delivery system of LPG cylinders will change as a one-time password will be required to authenticate at the time of delivery. In Delhi, online booking for high-security registration plates will also resume from Sunday.Aimed at preventing theftThe move which is already a pilot projet in Jaipur will be implemented in 100 smart cities starting from November 1. Customers will get an OTP on their registered mobile number. Only after providing this to the delivery person, the cylinder will be delivered. This will help prevent theft.Indane customers will have to use a new phone number 7718955555 to book LPG cylinders from November 1. At present, there are various numbers.High-security registration plates in DelhiOnline booking for getting high- security registration plates (HSRP) and colour coded stickers affixed in vehicles will restart in Delhi from November 1. Transport officials said that each vehicle owner booking HSRP online will get a receipt so that even if there is any future drive by transport department to penalise violations, they are not punished even if there is delay on the part of dealers or manufacturers.High-security number plate, colour-coded fuel plate has been made mandatory in Delhi from October 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-gas-booking-to-high-security-registration-plates-new-rules-from-november-1/story-fxY0nzYVmjEGXPbIzvIZdP.html
31-10-2020||India||In a first, Corbett Tiger Reserve to have women nature guides||Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) will have women nature guides for the first time in its history, said forest officials. CTR officials said seven women have been selected by the Corbett administration after holding a guide recruitment test on Wednesday. These selected women will be registered as guides and given responsibilities after a training and orientation programme. The CTR officials said 488 candidates appeared in the guide recruitment test held in Ramnagar, out of which 102 were women. A total of 67 candidates cleared the test, including seven women. “This is the first-time women are getting a chance to become nature guides. Till now, males used to dominate this domain. This concept is being implemented to generate livelihood for local women villagers who live in the periphery of the CTR,” said Rahul (who goes by his first name), director, CTR . Madan Joshi of Corbett Gypsy Safari Operators Welfare Association said there are around 105 nature guides in Corbett, who are all men. “This will be for the first time that women will be nature guides here”, he said.Joshi said for a safari of four hours, nature guides get around Rs 700. AG Ansari, a Ramnagar-based wildlife expert, said the initiative of having women guides is based on the concept of providing equal chance both men and women without any gender bias. “These selected women guides will be given around a 14-day training in various aspects of working as a guide, after which they will be registered as nature guide in Corbett.” “It is a matter of joy that all seven women hail from eco-development committees located in the periphery of CTR. There are around 40 villages along the boundary of CTR. This will also help in providing livelihoods to many families”, he said. Corbett Tiger Reserve, which is spread across 1,288 square kilometers, is one of the most loved tourist destinations in the state. The gates of Corbett open on November 15 every year for six months till mid-June. Corbett witnesses a footfall of around 300,000 tourists every year. There are 231 tigers inside CTR and 266 using the reserve according to the latest report on tigers. This is the highest number of tigers in 50 tiger reserves in India. Earlier this month, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced the creation of a new tourism zone in Corbett Tiger Reserve, which will be known as Garjiya Tourism, Zone. Currently, CTR has Bijrani, Dhikala, Dhela Durga Devi, Jhirna, Pakhro and Sonanadhi zones for tourism activities. But with the arrival of thousands of tourists every year, there is a lot of pressure on these zones. With the opening of this new Garjiya Tourist Zone, tourists will get to see a new place in CTR and the pressure on other zones will be comparatively reduced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-corbett-tiger-reserve-to-have-women-nature-guides/story-KvIwuos3GVVApiwq1cejjP.html
31-10-2020||India||Maharashtra CM managed to fight state’s Covid-19 situation well: Sanjay Raut||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray managed to fight the Covid-19 situation in the state very well, said Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut here on Saturday. “Pune is the centre of Maharashtra’s politics. When Balasaheb Thackeray was there it (centre) was Mumbai but now all important people are in Pune. Even though some people were thinking this type of government won’t be formed but people like me were of the opinion earlier as well that it will be formed. The government has completed one year on October 28,” said Raut during a press conference. “I would say Uddhav Thackeray has managed to fight Covid-19 very well. If you go to other states you will realise it,” he added.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Shiv Sena leader further stated that there are various challenges before the Maharashtra government. Central leaders feel there should not be opposition or opposition leaders but Raut is always of the opinion that there should be a strong opposition party or leader.“Today we see the Bihar election....A youngster who has nobody’s support, his family members are in jail, CBI and Income tax is behind him. A youngster like him creates a challenge....If Tejaswi Yadav becomes Chief Minister then I won’t be surprised at last these are public feelings/sentiments,” he added. Raut further said if NCP chief Sharad Pawar gives advice then nobody should have a problem with it, even Prime Minister Narendra Modi used to take his advice earlier.“Chandrakant Patil needs to learn a lot many things till now. Sharad Pawar is the senior-most leader with experience in the state and if we don’t take that benefit then we are useless. Pawar saahab is our leader, if the Governor is also sending people to Pawar Saahab then it’s good, I welcome it. If the Governor needs guidance from Sharad Pawar then I would advice Pawar Saahab that he must guide him as well,” said Raut. Raut also said that if any Governor, be it from any state wants to do politics he must come out of governor house and do it, governor house is most respected and we maintain it.“Nobody from Delhi says this (Maharashtra) government will fall and even now state leaders have slowly started accepting it. “Till one year ago, there was a difference between the Hindutva of BJP and Shiv Sena, we used to present it aggressively and we do it even today. I always tell Balasaheb Thackeray’s statement--I want to become Khumaini (Afghanistan) of Hindutva’. I don’t feel Shiv Sena has used Hindutva for politics and if somebody has done it we didn’t stop them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cm-managed-to-fight-state-s-covid-19-situation-well-sanjay-raut/story-hrodeSW9c9hfZS8Of8qfxM.html
31-10-2020||India||Back home, migrants prepare to vote in Bihar after long||Suraj Kumar, 28, worked in Srinagar for 14 years before the Covid-19 pandemic left him jobless and forced him to return to Bihar this summer. He has since set up a paver block unit at Madhopur-Bairiya village in West Champaran district as he tries to pick up the pieces back home. The pandemic upended the lives of tens of thousands of migrant workers, brought untold sufferings, and forced many of them to walk back to their homes. But it has also pushed people like Kumar to stay put and get back on their feet in Bihar, which means they can also vote, something that they hardly ever did. “I have the privilege to [now] exercise my democratic rights,” said Kumar, who previously worked at a paver block unit in Srinagar and has since June employed 40 workers. Kumar is not alone in the village. Nine groups of migrant workers have started textile, apparel, embroidery, woodwork units with the government’s help and employ over 90 returnees there. Most of these returnees are excited about voting for the first time after having spent years outside Bihar. Most of them have never seen an electronic voting machine. Sikandar Pandey, 55, a migrant worker, last voted when paper ballots were used in the noughties. “Past is past. Our expectations from the next government are that it will facilitate the reverse migration of the workforce.” An official said they have made it a point to register tens of thousands of migrant workers as voters. “Efforts are also on to help the migrants become entrepreneurs,” said the official, who did not wish to be named. The migrant workers are expected to play a key role in deciding the outcome of the assembly elections. Congress lawmaker Vinay Verma said the migrant workers are aggrieved and feel cheated by the kind of treatment meted out to them during Covid-19 lockdown. “We are in constant touch with them and they are naturally with us. We will see that we make a comprehensive programme to empower them.” Ram Niwas Sahani, who worked in Mumbai, said political parties have been seeking their support. “We will take a judicious decision. The lockdown was a bad time. Everybody faced a rough time. We are not an exception. But things have certainly changed a great deal.” Bhartiya Janata Party leader Renu Devi said a beginning has certainly been made to make the migrant workers self-employed. “We are looking forward to encouraging their reverse migration and settlement in Bihar to provide the impetus to the economic development of our state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/back-home-migrants-prepare-to-vote-in-bihar-after-long/story-MeBjhTiQXL5vqYg9VXrXtI.html
31-10-2020||India||Shops down shutters as Hurriyat calls strike in Kashmir over land rules||Shops and businesses remained mostly shuttered in response to separatist Hurriyat Conference’s call for a one-day long strike against the Centre’s “anti-people orders”, especially pertaining to land rights, even as vehicles plied on the roads.The call was given after the Centre on Tuesday notified rules allowing outsiders to buy non-agricultural land in Jammu & Kashmir over a year after the region’s special status was scrapped. The status prevented people from outside the state from buying or owning immovable property.In a statement calling for the strike and peaceful protests, Mirwaiz Umar Farooq-led Hurriyat Conference said the Centre’s imperial approach was bound to fail. It accused the Centre of “issuing incessant anti-people orders at frequent intervals to intimidate and psychologically torture the people”.The statement said the amalgam reiterates its “principled stand of engagement and dialogue among stakeholders for resolution of the Kashmir dispute”. It accused the Centre of attempting to “undermine all attempts of pursuing a peaceful resolution”.“A policy of permanent demographic change is aggressively being pushed to snatch our land, destroy our identity and turn us into a minority in our own land. One after the other laws are being invented and amended by New Delhi and forcibly thrust upon the people...”It added the Centre first brought in the “arbitrary” domicile law that gave residency rights to non-permanent residents and then allowed them to get jobs. “...now our land laws have been brazenly repealed to allow anyone from across India to own land in Jammu & Kashmir,” it said.Abdul Majid, a grocer in Srinagar’s Lal Chowk, said now nothing has been left for them. “The new laws introduced after the nullification of Article 370 [that gave Jammu & Kashmir the special status] and division of the state are anti-people and efforts are made to disempower the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shops-down-shutters-as-hurriyat-calls-strike-in-kashmir-over-land-rules/story-O3xNHMTwYwkwlT9jA5Wb0O.html
31-10-2020||India||Union home secy to review Covid-19 situation in Delhi amid surge in daily cases||Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla will on Monday review the coronavirus situation in Delhi, which has seen a sudden spike in cases, officials said.Top officials of the Union Health Ministry and the Delhi government will attend the meeting.The union home secretary will review the Covid-19 situation in Delhi on Monday as part of the regular review of all Union Territories on a rotational basis, a home ministry official said.The meeting is going to be held amidst the rising cases of coronavirus in Delhi. On Friday, the national capital recorded the highest single-day rise of 5,891 Covid-19 cases, taking Delhi’s tally of infection to over 3.81 lakh.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThis was the third consecutive day when over 5,000 cases were reported in a day in Delhi. On Thursday, the city recorded 5,739 cases of coronavirus infection.The national capital also recorded 47 new fatalities on Friday, pushing the death toll to 6,470.In June, when Covid-19 cases were on the rise in Delhi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah swung into action after criticism in different quarters over the Delhi government’s handling of the crisis.At that time there were complaints of non-availability of beds in hospitals for patients and difficulty in getting tests done.Leading from the front, the home minister ensured increased testing facilities and more hospital beds for patients by setting up temporary hospitals and Covid care centres.A committee, set up by Shah, also fixed the rates for testing, private hospital beds, ICUs and isolation beds.On June 18, at a meeting, the home minister had said a common strategy should be framed for Delhi and NCR to tackle the coronavirus pandemic and added that the suburbs like Gurgaon, Noida and Ghaziabad can’t be separated from the national capital in this battle.The sudden spike in Covid-19 cases comes amid festivities and rising air pollution. While Durga Puja celebrations ended on October 25, the next major festivals are Diwali and Chhath in November.  The National Centre for Disease Control in a report drafted recently had warned that Delhi needs to be prepared for about 15,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 per day taking into account the upcoming winter season-related respiratory problems, a large influx of patients from outside and festive gatherings.The number of tests done per million, till Thursday, was over 2.44 lakh while the total number of tests stood at over 46 lakh. The number of people in home isolation rose to 19,064 compared to 18,069 the previous day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-home-secy-to-review-covid-19-situation-in-delhi-amid-surge-in-daily-cases/story-bKzofLNMlUoMM5uVUg0nNN.html
31-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5pm: ‘Will fight politically... peacefully,’ says Omar Abdullah as PAGD delegation visits Kargil and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times‘Will fight politically... peacefully,’ says Omar Abdullah as PAGD delegation visits KargilFormer Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and vice president of the National Conference Omar Abdullah on Friday afternoon held closed-door meetings with the Kargil Democratic Alliance in Kargil to evolve a consensus on People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration to get back the status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir that existed before August 5, 2019. Read More‘Minimum govt, maximum governance should be your mantra’: PM Modi to young probationersPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that the role of civil servants should be of minimum government and maximum governance as he urged them to take decisions towards India’s unity and to maintain the spirit of the Constitution as they work as the steel frame of the country. The government, the Prime Minister reminded the probationers, does not run from the top so the incorporation of policies, which are for the people, becomes very important. Read MoreKamal Nath moves Supreme Court, challenges EC order revoking his star campaigner status in Madhya Pradesh by-pollsCongress leader Kamal Nath moved the Supreme Court on Saturday to challenge the order of the Election Commission revoking his star campaigner status over multiple violations of Model Code of Conduct. Read MoreWill Grand Alliance ensure development in Bihar?: JP Nadda targets Cong, RJD at Sonepur rallyThe Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) president JP Nadda on Saturday targeted the opposition Grand Alliance over the issue of development in Bihar during a rally in Sonepur, which will vote in the second phase of the assembly elections on November 3. Nadda also reiterated his party’s promise to offer 1.9 million job opportunities during the campaign rally. Read More‘Unfortunate for the rest of the world, but India have found another batsman’: Michael Vaughan’s huge remark on youngsterOver the past few years, the Indian cricket team has gone from strength to strength in the batting department. A look at India’s batting options puts oppositions under pressure, it is so well stacked up. At the top, India have options between Rohit Sharma, Shikhar Dhawan, KL Rahul, Prithvi Shaw and Mayank Agarwal. The middle order is filled by options between Virat Kohli, Shreyas Iyer, Rishabh Pant, Vijay Shankar, Sanju Samson, Shubman Gill and Hanuma Vihari. Players like Hardik Pandya and Krunal Pandya give Indian batting line-up fire power towards the end. Read MoreMukesh Khanna says women aren’t equal to men, should stay at home: ‘MeToo movement began because women started working’Actor Mukesh Khanna, best known for shows Shaktimaan and Mahabharat, has said that the #MeToo movement began because women started thinking of themselves as equal to men. He said that it is the duty of women to take care of the household.A video of his comments from a recent interview is being widely shared online. In the video, the actor says, “The problem of #MeToo began when women started working.” Read MoreWatch: PM Modi launches India’s 1st seaplane service between Kevadia & SabarmatiPrime Minister Narendra Modi launched India’s first seaplane service between Kevadia and Sabarmati in Gujarat. The seaplane service will connect the Statue of Unity near Kevadiya in Narmada district and Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad. PM Modi boarded the twin- engine plane from pond-3 close to Sardar Sarovar Dam. The seaplane is a twin otter 300, registered in the name of Spicejet Technic. Earlier, PM Modi said that the seaplane service would boost tourism and generate employment in Kevadia. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-will-fight-politically-peacefully-says-omar-abdullah-as-pagd-delegation-visits-kargil-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Yi07cvDdzTBySd2R8vKd0O.html
31-10-2020||India||Welfare schemes in Puducherry enacted despite hurdles by Governor Kiran Bedi, says CM||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Saturday said inspite of hurdles posed by Lt Governor Kiran Bedi, his government was implementing welfare schemes to ameliorate the lot of the poor and the have-nots here.Paying homage to former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on her 36th death anniversary here, the Congress leader said, “the Lt Governor had sent 10 charges of corruption against me to the CBI.I am not at all worried and I am always ready to face any exigency.” However, he did not elaborate as to what were the charges against him.He said, “despite several representations to the Centre to replace Kiran Bedi nothing had been done so far.” Narayanasamy exuded confidence that the Congress-DMK alliance would romp home in the next Assembly polls due next year.“We will continue to implement welfare measures for the betterment of students, farmers, women, youth and others,” he added.Earlier, the CM and others paid floral tributes at the portrait of first Home Minister Sardar Vallabhai Patel on his 145th birth anniversary at the party office.All those present took National Integration pledge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/welfare-schemes-in-puducherry-enacted-despite-hurdles-by-governor-kiran-bedi-says-cm/story-PUJBkL2JLNI8hIHfYCCjhJ.html
31-10-2020||India||Raveena Tandon files FIR over fake Twitter account in her name||Bollywood actor Raveena Tandon has filed a First Information Report, or FIR, against an unknown person for creating a fake Twitter profile in her name to post tweets defaming the Mumbai police, its chief Param Bir Singh and morphing his pictures.An officer from the Mumbai police’s cyber cell said the accused created a video of Singh and posted abusive content from the Twitter handle. “The accused also defamed Marathi language and Marathi speakers through his/her Twitter posts,” the officer said on condition of anonymity. The police have filed a case against the accused under the Indian Penal Code sections including those pertaining to deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings by insulting religion or religious beliefs, public mischief, and identity theft under the Information Technology Act. A second police officer said their initial investigation has found a bot may have been used in defaming the Mumbai police and state government. “After registering the offence, Twitter blocked this handle.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raveena-tandon-files-fir-over-fake-twitter-account-in-her-name/story-mZOOjOKfwlXdO7XJvCUcmO.html
31-10-2020||India||Covid-19 pandemic was something as if the heavens fell, says CJI||Inaugurating India’s first-ever e-resource centre Nyay Kaushal in Nagpur, Chief Justice of India Sharad Arvind Bobde on Saturday said how the Covid-19 pandemic created a huge challenge for physical hearings and subsequent virtual hearings could not become a proper solution as it created a divide between those who could afford technology and who couldn’t.“We tried to let the SC function in a restricted way but realised it wasn’t possible to safely continue court in that way... The pandemic was something as if heaven fell. A walk around the Court showed that no social distancing was being maintained. But there is an old saying in law that let justice be done though the heavens may fall. I’m very proud to say that along with my colleagues, we have managed to ensure that the rule of law is maintained,” the CJI said.Talking about advocates who have ended their careers, who wanted to end their lives in the aftermath of the pandemic, the CJI said, “ I know a case, where the advocate resorted to selling vegetables. Some states started mobile vans with portable Wifi, where litigants and Advocates can use the Wifi for hearings. It is time to remove these inequalities. This centre which we are inaugurating is the step in that direction.”The centre that was inaugurated on Saturday will facilitate filing of online cases starting from district courts to the high courts and the Supreme Court. The internet speed in 300 MBPS, reports said and the hearing room has been made soundproof. There is also a waiting room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pandemic-was-something-as-if-the-heavens-fell-says-cji/story-jdPx9h9PTfqUcGDVDcyi0I.html
31-10-2020||India||Kamal Nath moves Supreme Court, challenges EC order revoking his star campaigner status in Madhya Pradesh by-polls||Congress leader Kamal Nath moved the Supreme Court on Saturday to challenge the order of the Election Commission revoking his star campaigner status over multiple violations of Model Code of Conduct.The senior Congress leader has challenged the EC’s decision on various grounds and an urgent hearing on the plea would be sought, news agency PTI reported, citing lawyer and Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha. Voting for by-polls to 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh will take place on November 3 and the results will be declared on November 10.Also Read | Election Commission had not given me any notice, says Kamal Nath after losing ‘star campaigner’ statusDuring campaigning, Kamal Nath used the term “item” against a woman minister. Later, he explained his comments saying he meant agenda. “I was in Lok Sabha for so many years. There it is mentioned in the agenda sheet, item number 1, item number 2... That was on my mind. I did not say it to disrespect anyone,” he said. “Yet, I had said that if someone feels insulted, then I express regret,” Kamal Nath said.On Friday, the poll panel took note of the comments and alleged breach of “ethical and dignified behaviour” and revoked the “star campaigner” status of Nath.To return to power, the Congress will have to win all 28 seats. The BJP, on the other hand, will retain the state if it wins nine seats as that would make the majority mark of 116 in the 230-member Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-nath-challenges-ec-order-to-revoke-star-campaigner-status-in-supreme-court/story-19MfLmZBDP8cVj4lKYTIjM.html
31-10-2020||India||President Kovind, Vice President Naidu, home minister Amit Shah pay tributes to Sardar Patel||President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Home Minister Amit Shah paid floral tributes to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his birth anniversary on Saturday, which is observed as the “National Unity Day”. The top dignitaries paid their tributes to the first home minister of independent India at his statue located at Patel Chowk in Delhi. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Shah said the country’s first home minister is an epitome of national unity and lives in the heart of every Indian. He tweeted that Sardar Patel united the nation post Independence, which was scattered in hundreds of princely states, and laid the foundation of today’s strong India. “The country can never forget his great contribution, decisive leadership and unparalleled commitment towards the motherland,” the tweet said. The home minister also said that from uniting India to reconstruction of the Somnath Temple, Sardar Patel devoted each and every moment of his life, for the unity and integration of the country. “Iron willed leadership, devotion and patriotism of Sardar Patel ji will continue to guide us. “On behalf of a grateful nation, I pay my respects to Sardar Patel, a great patriot and Iron Man of India,” he added. Later, Shah also administered the “National Unity Day” pledge to government officials, security personnel and others. “I solemnly pledge that I dedicate myself to preserve the unity, integrity, and security of the nation and also strive hard to spread this message among my fellow countrymen. “I take this pledge in the spirit of unification of my country which was made possible by the vision and actions of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. I also solemnly resolve to make my own contribution to ensure the internal security of my country,” read the pledge. Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and New Delhi MP Meenakashi Lekhi were also present on the occasion. The Centre observes October 31 across the country as a day to foster and reinforce the government’s dedication to preserve and strengthen the unity, integrity, and security of the nation by celebrating it as the “Rashtriya Ekta Diwas” or “National Unity Day” to commemorate Patel’s birth anniversary. The Narendra Modi government has been observing Patel’s birth anniversary as the “Rashtriya Ekta Diwas” since 2014. Patel was born on October 31, 1875 in Gujarat’s Nadiad. He is credited for the merger of over 560 princely states into the Union of India. As part of Patel’s birth anniversary celebrations, various programmes are being organised across the country, recalling his contribution to the unification of India. Prime Minister Modi attended a special function in Gujarat’s Kevadia where a giant statue of Patel is located.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-vice-president-naidu-home-minister-amit-shah-pay-tributes-to-sardar-patel/story-ulea81Ul1heRkBuzauPzBO.html
31-10-2020||India||‘Will fight politically... peacefully,’ says Omar Abdullah as PAGD delegation visits Kargil||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and vice president of the National Conference Omar Abdullah on Friday afternoon held closed-door meetings with the Kargil Democratic Alliance in Kargil to evolve a consensus on People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration to get back the status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir that existed before August 5, 2019. Abdullah is leading a delegation of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) to Ladakh. The members of the delegation, which is visiting Ladakh, include NC leader Nasir Aslam Wani, PDP leaders Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura and Waheed Para, and Awami National Conference leader Muzaffar Shah. On Friday morning, the delegation met leaders in Drass enroute Kargil and discussed with them the PAGD agenda. Thereafter, the delegation reached Kargil where it discussed the agenda with Kargil Democratic Alliance, which revolves around restoration of Article 370 and 35-A that were revoked on August 5 last year. Talking to scribes, Omar said that the motive was connecting with the people of Ladakh and to take them on board. “We will fight politically, legally and most importantly peacefully. We have no intentions to vitiate peace in the region,” he responded when asked how the PAGD would approach its goal.  Also read: ‘BJP’s Covid-19 vaccine promise not a poll violation,’ says ECA delegation of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration met leaders of the Kargil Democratic Alliance in Kargil this afternoon. All of us united that the pre August 5th, 2019 position must be restored pic.twitter.com/wn60AnfzzBOmar also said that he would like the Kargil leaders to participate in PAGD meetings. “We were not in touch with Kargil leadership in previous rounds. How could have we invited him unless and until we talked to them? We talked to them today and we now would like to see if they send their representatives to PAGD meetings,” he responded to another query. When asked if he will talk to the Apex Body of People’s Movement in Leh district, which has been spearheading a campaign to get sixth schedule for Ladakh UT, Abdullah said, “We can talk to anyone. We have no hesitation in talking to anyone.” “A delegation of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration met leaders of the Kargil Democratic Alliance in Kargil this afternoon. All of us united that the pre August 5th, 2019 position must be restored”, he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-fight-politically-legally-peacefully-says-omar-abdullah-as-pagd-delegation-visits-kargil/story-9f3VX8S5cmJvECq7WlbfdM.html
31-10-2020||India||Amit Shah to begin two-day visit to West Bengal ahead of 2021 Assembly polls||Ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections in West Bengal, Union Home Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) leader Amit Shah will be on a two-day visit to the state from November 5 to take stock of the party’s organisational matters.According to party sources, Shah will be on a two-day visit to West Bengal on November 5 and 6.The Union Home Minister was earlier scheduled to visit West Bengal on the occasion of Durga puja but the trip was cancelled. During his two-day visit, Shah will be meeting party state leaders, reviewing poll preparations, looking into organisational matters and also discussing the party’s strategy for the upcoming Assembly polls.Earlier this year, Shah had addressed a virtual rally for West Bengal. This will be his first visit to West Bengal after the Covid-19 induced lockdown. He had last visited the state on March 1 amid the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests.West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had recently met Shah in the national capital and discussed the “state of affairs and affairs of state”. Dhankhar has been at loggerheads with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee over several issues.Banerjee had earlier accused Dhankhar of running a “parallel administration” in the state.A few days ago, BJP’s West Bengal unit witnessed a major organisational change, as incumbent state general secretary (organisation) Subrata Chattopadhyay was removed and his deputy Amitava Chakraborty was elevated to the post by the central leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-begin-two-day-visit-to-west-bengal-ahead-of-2021-assembly-polls/story-AiuJKzKaMhFwP7MBYo4a6N.html
31-10-2020||India||Central leadership will decide on participating in Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration: J&K Congress||The Jammu and Kashmir Congress on Saturday said it would take a call on participating in the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) after consultations with the party’s central leadership, even as it asserted that there is a need to have a common platform to fight for the rights of the people of the erstwhile state.Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) president Ghulam Ahmad Mir, who was a signatory to the “Gupkar Declaration” on August 4 last year -- a day before the Centre revoked Jammu and Kashmir’s special status as accorded under Article 370 of the Constitution -- has skipped two meetings of the alliance, which was given a formal shape recently.Mir said while he was not feeling well when the first meeting of the alliance took place on October 15, the second one on October 24 was called at a short notice and he was not in Srinagar.Speaking to reporters at the party headquarters here after paying floral tributes to former prime minister Indira Gandhi on her 36th death anniversary, which the Congress observed as “Kisan Adhikar Diwas”, Mir said the JKPCC would have consultations with the party’s central leadership over the issue and take a decision after that.“I was not feeling well when the first meeting took place. The second meeting was called at a short notice. Being a national party, the Congress has to discuss such things with its central leadership. When I was told about the meeting just three hours before, I was not even in Srinagar,” he said.Mir said he had asked to defer the meeting of the PAGD as the Congress’s central leadership was busy with the Bihar polls.“I told them to defer the meeting till after November 10 as we had to take on board the Congress’s central leadership, which was busy with the Bihar polls, but they went ahead. So it was not possible for me to attend that meeting on that day,” he said.Asserting that all the signatories to the “Gupkar Declaration” have common concerns as regards the decisions taken by the Centre on August 5 last year, Mir said there can be differences in the intensity of the language “being used while fighting for the cause, but the basic concerns are the same”.“When the next meeting takes place, I will take up the matter with the party’s Kashmir Policy Planning Group and whatever the top leadership decides, I will follow that direction,” he said.Apparently referring to PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti’s controversial remarks on the national flag, the Congress leader said while it is a political fight for the people of the erstwhile state, “it should not seem, in any language, that we are fighting personal battles with other people of the country”.At her first press conference after her release from detention, Mufti said PDP members would not hoist the national flag unless they are allowed to raise the flag of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir.On the amendments to land laws, which allow outsiders to buy land in the Union Territory, Mir said it was “one more betrayal with the people of Jammu and Kashmir”.“They (Centre) had said this on the floor of Parliament that the land and job rights of the people of Jammu and Kashmir will be protected. But they have backtracked on their own promises. The Congress party condemns it and will fight this,” he said.Mir said the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh are united in their fight for the repeal of such laws and there is a need to have a common platform to fight for their rights.“There could have been differences of opinion in Jammu and Kashmir over the decisions taken before, but I am happy that there is unity on this issue and people are rejecting these laws. The Congress and other like-minded parties should work on a common platform to fight for the repeal of these laws because it concerns the emotions of the people of Kashmir, Jammu and Ladakh -- whether Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs or Buddhists,” he said.Asked how the party views the law authorising the Army to declare any area as “strategic”, Mir said such steps are not good for the spirit of democracy.“Giving a direct authority to the Army or other defence forces in any manner is not good in a democratic country. The Army is in support of the civil administration, we, the civil administration, are not under the control of the Army. Therefore, such steps are not good for the spirit of democracy and we have already raised voices against it at different forums,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-leadership-will-decide-on-participating-in-peoples-alliance-for-gupkar-declaration-j-k-congress/story-PgZMJGxA9rcaREISNRj1HO.html
31-10-2020||India||Won’t be surprised if Tejashwi becomes Bihar’s CM, says Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut||Asserting that Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav is creating a substantial challenge against the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the Bihar Assembly Elections, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said he will not be surprised if Tejashwi Yadav becomes the Chief Minister of Bihar.“Today, we see in the Bihar election that a youngster who has nobody’s support, whose family members are in jail and agencies like the CBI and the Income Tax are behind him is creating a challenge for others. If Tejaswi Yadav becomes Chief Minister tomorrow, I won’t be surprised because these are the public sentiments,” Raut said addressing mediapersons here.When asked about the Election Commission giving a pass to the BJP’s Covid-19 vaccine promise in Bihar polls, he said the ECI is a branch of the BJP now and nothing else can be expected from it. “One can not expect anything else from them. I believe it was a clear violation,” he said.Raut, who was speaking with mediapersons in an interaction organised by the Pune Union of Working Journalists, spoke about several issues.He also attacked the Maharashtra Governor over his recent remark about sending people for help to Sharad Pawar instead of the Maharashtra government.“Pawar Sahab is our leader, if the Governor is also sending people to Pawar Sahab then it’s good and I welcome it. If governor or BJP needs guidance from Sharad Pawar then I would advise Pawar Sahab that he must guide them as well,” he said.On claims that Sharad Pawar is running the Maharashtra government and not Chief Minister Uddhav Thackrey, Raut said “Manohar Joshi was the Chief Minister from Shiv Sena in the past and that time also there were allegations that Balasaheb Thackeray runs the government and not Manohar Joshi.”“The NDA was part of that government. But when such a type of government is formed where more than one party is part of the government, an experienced leader is there to advise or guide. If Sharad Pawar guides the government then nobody should have a problem with it. Even PM Modi used to take his advice earlier,” he added.Asked about people meeting Maharashtra Governor instead of the Chief Minister with their grievances, he said, “Meeting governor over questions itself is an insult to Maharashtra. There is a Chief Minister. One must meet relevant ministers to get the work done. Governor does not have administrative rights.”Slamming actor Kangna Ranaut over avoiding Mumbai Police summons, Raut said, “She is an accused in a case now and she must appear before the police. Police have sent her summons and I don’t know why she is avoiding it.”Raut also said if National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah or PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti wants to reimpose Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir with the help of China, then they should be immediately arrested and sent to jail in Andaman prisons.Mufti had earlier targetted the Centre over the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution, which conferred special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, and said she will only raise the tricolour when the “flag of Jammu and Kashmir” is brought back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-be-surprised-if-tejashwi-becomes-bihar-s-cm-says-shiv-sena-leader-sanjay-raut/story-hHqXUT10dlWMiHQn18J3NJ.html
31-10-2020||India||Election Commission had not given me any notice, says Kamal Nath after losing ‘star campaigner’ status||A day after the Election Commission revoked the ‘star campaigner’ status from former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath over multiple violations of Model Code of Conduct, the senior Congress leader said he had not received any notice from the Commission. Reiterating that his ‘item’ comment was not meant to hurt anyone, he, however, questioned whether star campaigner is a post. “Which post or position this star campaigner has? The EC had not given me any notice, nor had it asked me about it. Why they are doing this in the last two days of campaigning only they know,” Kamal Nath told news agency PTI.Also Read: EC revokes ‘star campaigner’ status of Kamal Nath over violationsCampaigning will end on November 1. A total of 28 Assembly constituencies in Madhya Pradesh will go to the bypolls on November 3. To return to power, the Congress will have to win all 28 seats. The BJP, on the other hand, will retain the state if it wins nine seats as that would make the majority mark of 116 in the 230-member Assembly. During campaigning, Kamal Nath used the term “item” against a woman minister for which his ‘star campaigner’ status has been revoked. Defending his comment, Kamal Nath said when he said ‘item’, he meant agenda. “I was in Lok Sabha for so many years. There it is mentioned in the agenda sheet, item number 1, item number 2... That was on my mind. I did not say it to disrespect anyone,” he said. “Yet, I had said that if someone feels insulted, then I express regret,” Kamal Nath said.Also Read: EC order withdrawing Kamal Nath’s star campaigner status unfair, says Digvijaya SinghNath also claimed that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi did not express disapproval about him in particular after the episode, but only said disrespectful language should not be used against women.On the BJP’s demand for apology from him over the remark, Nath said, “It is not anyone’s demand. I do what I feel is right and proper, because it (disrespecting the woman minister) was never my intention.” The costs of star campaigners’ rallies are borne by the party, and are not added to the election spends of the candidates for whom they campaign. “The Commission has carefully considered the matter and has observed with displeasure that Kamal Nath, despite being a leader of a political party, is repeatedly violating the model code of conduct and breaching the ethical and dignified behaviour,” the Commission said in its order issued on October 30.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-had-not-given-me-any-notice-says-kamal-nath-after-losing-star-campaigner-status/story-Xpk9QZ7s4aIo9ixtT77EuL.html
31-10-2020||India||HC refuses relief to Canadian citizen whose OCI card was cancelled after divorce||The Bombay high court has refused to interfere with notices issued to a Canadian citizen, who was married to a Bhopal resident, to surrender her Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) card following their divorce.A bench of justices Nitin Jamdar and Milind Jadhav said there was nothing wrong with the notices sent to Lee Anne and cannot be called illegal. It added the Union home ministry cannot be restrained from issuing them as per the citizenship law.Anne married Arunoday Singh in 2016 and was issued an OCI card. She received the first notice instructing her to surrender her card after the divorce last year.Anne moved the high court as she has filed an appeal against a family court that granted the divorce. She pleaded she has also separately sought restitution of conjugal rights, and both the matters were pending.The high court noted the OCI card issued in her case is liable to be cancelled upon dissolution of marriage.It noted that the decree of divorce by the Bhopal family court was neither stayed nor suspended. The high court referred to the proceedings at a court in Mumbai’s Bandra and said it related only to a flat in Mumbai and is inconsequential as such.OCI cardholders enjoy benefits like multiple entry visas, exemption from foreigners’ registrations, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-refuses-relief-to-canadian-citizen-whose-oci-card-was-cancelled-after-divorce/story-yRfOhWzMATmn4x3r4ZDEYM.html
31-10-2020||India||Chhattisgarh police constable held for torturing two-year-old||A Chhattisgarh police constable was arrested on Saturday for allegedly torturing a two-year-old girl with cigarette butts in the state’s Balod.Police superintendent Jitendra Meena said Avinash Rai tortured the girl as her mother was unable to repay some money she had borrowed from him. He added the accused also insisted the girl call him “papa” while torturing her.Meena said the mother lodged a case against the constable on Friday. Chhattisgarh police chief DM Awasthi called it a heinous crime and added the accused has no right to remain in the police force. “I have told the SP [Meena] to terminate him as soon as possible.”Meena said the termination process has been started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-police-constable-held-for-torturing-two-year-old/story-u540J5xfIED2jcVrnQbWcI.html
31-10-2020||India||BJP to organise business event in West Bengal||Kolkata: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is planning an event in West Bengal in December or January to attract investments to the state and prepare a roadmap for the revival of its economy.“We want to initiate a process of serious dialogue with all potential investors, industrialists, entrepreneurs and start-ups so that we can have a greater idea of what they want. As a political formation, we can respond to that. We hopefully would be able to get this initiative through by December 2020–January 2021. Whether it would be virtual or real, will depend on the Covid-19 situation,” said BJP lawmaker Swapan Dasgupta.The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) dismissed the idea as a gimmick before the 2021 assembly elections.“This is nothing but a poll gimmick. A business summit can only prove to be successful if it is organised by the government – Centre or state. The BJP-led government at the Centre has not been able to attract investment in the country. Instead, it is selling off assets,” said TMC lawmaker Saugata Roy.The assembly elections are scheduled for 2021. A resurgent BJP has emerged as the main rival to the ruling TMC. In the 2019 parliament elections, BJP won 18 out of West Bengal’s 42 seats and TMC 22.Dasgupta said other measures which they want to take up at the event include how to free-up land, which is one of the biggest problems. “We want to explore how the frozen assets can be opened up through a process of proactive intervention by the state and legislation if necessary,” Dasgupta added.A BJP leader, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the party basically wants to find out the faults and loopholes in TMC’s industrial policy ahead of the elections that could be highlighted.The TMC government’s annual Bengal Global Business Summit is also scheduled to be held in mid-December.West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has criticised the annual summits saying more money has been spent in organising them than the investments they have attracted.State finance minister Amit Mitra wrote to Dhankhar saying the annual business conclaves have helped improve the state’s GDP and enhanced investor perception.Dasgupta said they are planning to have consultations in an organised way. “We are not so foolish to call it a sham business summit,” Dasgupta said when asked whether it would be a business summit to counter the state-sponsored event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-organise-business-event-in-west-bengal/story-3FIWNlBSkolPeJe8529UFP.html
31-10-2020||India||Three cops held over custodial death allegations in Bihar||Three policemen have been arrested in Bihar’s Naugachhia for allegedly torturing software engineer Asutosh Pathak, 30, to death after picking him up while he was home for the Durga Puja holidays. Pathak died a day after he was picked up after he got into an argument with a neighbour on October 24.The three have been identified as Shiv Balak Prasad, Raju Paswan, and Manoj Choudhary. Another accused, station house officer Ranjit Kumar Mandal, remains on the run. Mandal, who has been suspended, has been named in the First Information Report, or FIR, in the case along with the driver of a police vehicle. Naugachhia police superintendent Swapna Ji Meshram said a Special Investigation Team has been formed and asked to investigate the matter. Meshram said they have ordered the arrest of the absconding policemen.A delegation of local residents met Meshram and demanded Rs 25 lakh compensation, a government job for Pathak’s kin, and dismissal of the policemen involved.Deputy inspector general Sujit Kumar said Meshram has been directed to ensure an impartial inquiry. “Follow up action would be taken on the basis of the inquiry report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-cops-held-over-custodial-death-allegations-in-bihar/story-pEhhBVjxInTVvJgZvQlTfI.html
31-10-2020||India||HC rejects firm’s petition against IFIN’s decision to declare Rs 100 crore loan as NPA||The Bombay High Court on Thursday rejected petition filed by Wavell Investments Private Limited, challenging the decision of IL&FS Financial Services Ltd (IFIN) to declare it’s Rs 100 crore loan account as a non-performing asset (NPA).The bench comprising Justice Nitin Jamdar and Justice Milind Jadhav refused to believe in Wavell’s claim that it was a victim of the loan scam at IL&FS group and that the petitioner company was used to route the amount from IFIN to an IL&FS Transportation Networks Ltd. and the entire amount was passed on to the IL&FS group company.Wavell further claimed that since the loan account was wrongly declared to be an NPA, it was also entitled to the benefit of six-month moratorium extended in view of Covid-19 pandemic.The claim of innocence, however, failed to impress upon the HC. The bench said the claim can be examined from a common-sense point of view.“No prudent commercial entity would enter into a transaction of such a large amount without making necessary enquiries regarding bonafide and legality of the transactions,” said the bench.Also read: ‘BJP’s Covid-19 vaccine promise not a poll violation,’ says ECThe judges said the petitioner claimed to have suffered a loss in this transaction. “The obvious question arises why then the petitioner chose to be part of the transaction? Why would a commercial entity enter into a transaction of Rs 100 crore and then suffer loss willingly,” the judges asked.“The petitioner’s behaviour is contrary to ordinary commercial prudence. It is not possible to believe that the petitioner was not aware of the implications of the transactions,” said the bench.The HC also took into consideration that the interim forensic audit report of February 2019 has indicated that loans worth about Rs 2,270 crore were routed to IL&FS group companies through third parties like the petitioner and the exact role played by these third parties was still unclear. “Considering the totality of the circumstances, the simplistic foundation of the petitioner’s case cannot be accepted. We are not convinced of the bonafide of the petitioner as asserted in the petition,” the HC said while refusing to exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-rejects-firm-s-petition-against-ifin-s-decision-to-declare-rs-100-crore-loan-as-npa/story-FbvvdEDMoX1wlR0YDGPTRN.html
31-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Antibody therapy may lower hospitalisations, emergency visits, study finds||Covid-19 patients who were administered a novel antibody had fewer symptoms and were less likely to require hospitalisation or emergency medical care than those who did not receive the therapy, according to a new study. The ongoing Phase II clinical trial, whose interim results were published in The New England Journal of Medicine, tested three different doses of LY-CoV555, a monoclonal antibody derived from the blood of a recovered Covid-19 patient.“For me, the most significant finding was the reduction in hospitalisations,” said the study’s co-first author, Peter Chen from the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in the US.“Monoclonal antibodies like this have the potential to reduce the severity of Covid-19 for many patients, allowing more people to recover at home,” Chen said. According to the researchers, monoclonal antibodies work by attaching themselves to a virus and preventing it from replicating. They said LY-CoV555 binds to a particular protein on the novel coronavirus, called the spike protein, which the virus needs to enter human cells and replicate.By preventing the virus from replicating, the scientists said the antibody slows down the replication process, allowing the patient’s own immune system time to kick into gear. “What we’re doing is preventing the virus from causing too much damage early on in the process,” Chen said. “We’re buying the patients time, so that their bodies can start developing their own immunity to fight the virus,” he added.In the study, the patients were given intravenous doses of either 700, 2,800 or 7,000 milligrams of the antibody, or a placebo. “In this interim analysis of a phase 2 trial, one of three doses of neutralising antibody LY-CoV555 appeared to accelerate the natural decline in viral load over time, whereas the other doses had not by day 11,” the scientists wrote in the study.The researchers used a nasopharyngeal swab to test patients’ viral load before administering the antibody and again at several points after administering the drug. They also gave the patients a questionnaire about their subsequent symptoms and treatment. According to the study, nearly 300 patients received the treatment (100 patients per dosage level), and approximately 150 patients received the placebo. Of the three dosage levels, the scientists said the 2,800-milligram dosage was shown to be effective in reducing viral load. By day 11, they said the viral load was substantially diminished for most patients, including those in the placebo arm. However, the researchers said further studies will be needed to validate these results.“The publication of these data in a peer-reviewed journal adds to the growing body of evidence for the potential utility for neutralising antibodies as therapeutics for people recently diagnosed with mild to moderate Covid-19, particularly high-risk patients,” said Ajay Nirula, another co-author of the study. “These data show LY-CoV555 may be effective in treating Covid-19 by reducing viral load, symptoms and the risk of hospitalisation in outpatients,” Nirula said.At day 29, the study noted that hospitalisation rates were only 1.6 per cent in the antibody-treated group, compared with 6.3 per cent in the group that received the placebo. The researchers said the reduction in hospitalisations was seen across all demographic groups, including those in high-risk categories -- adults older than 65 and those with a high body mass index (greater than 35). For high-risk patients, they said the hospitalisation rates were 4.2 per cent in patients treated with the antibody, compared with 14.6 per cent in placebo-treated patients. The safety profile of patients treated with LY-CoV555 was similar to that of placebo-treated patients, the study noted. “We know that Covid-19 is especially hard on the elderly, the obese and people with certain pre-existing health conditions,” Chen said. “Antibody treatments like this may have the most benefits for people in these higher-risk categories,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-antibody-therapy-may-lower-hospitalisations-emergency-visits-study-finds/story-DTomK5t7fltBPRXKY7BtwK.html
31-10-2020||India||PM Modi launches seaplane from Statue of Unity to Sabarmati, takes a ride||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched a seaplane service from the Statue of Unity in Kevadia of Gujarat’s Narmada district to Sabarmati riverfront in Ahmedabad to mark the 145th birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. He also travelled on the maiden seaplane flight to Sabarmati riverfront.The seaplane is a Twin Otter 300 registered in the name M/s Spicejet Technic and be operated by SpiceJet.This 19-seater seaplane will be used for flights between the Sabarmati riverfront and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s Statue of Unity in Kevadia as a part of regional connectivity scheme. The seaplane will be able to accommodate 12 passengers and tickets will cost Rs 4,800 per person.  Gujarat: PM Narendra Modi travels on the maiden seaplane flight from Kevadia to SabarmatiThe flight connects Sabarmati riverfront in Ahmedabad to Statue of Unity in Kevadia, Narmada district pic.twitter.com/5e9w6PdAgsThe aerial distance between Ahmedabad and Kevadia is around 200 kilometres and it will take about 45 minutes to cover the distance.The Gujarat government had earlier announced that it had signed an MoU (Memorandum of Understanding) with the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) and Airports Authority of India (AAI) in July (2020) to begin the first-ever seaplane services in Gujarat to provide seamless and affordable air connectivity from Sabarmati Riverfront, Ahmedabad to the Statue of Unity, Kevadia.Watch: PM Modi pays floral tributes to Sardar Patel at Statue of Unity Earlier in the day, PM Modi participated in the Rashtriya Ekta Divas Parade. The police forces of Gujarat Police, Central Reserved Armed Forces, the Border Security Force, the Indo Tibetan Border Police, the Central Industrial Security Force and the National Security Guards participated in the parade. He also interacted with more than 400 trainee officers from services such as the Indian Administrative Services through a virtual conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-seaplane-service-from-sabarmati-riverfront-to-statue-of-unity/story-U2rFyb6RS3aScJSSp3rr7H.html
31-10-2020||India||Mumbai: Woman dies after crane rams Metro pillar on highway||A 23-year-old woman was killed after being crushed under a trolley on Saturday morning at the Western Express Highway (WEH) in Mumbai. Her sister was injured in the incident.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has constituted a three-member committee to conduct an investigation and submit a report on the incident within two days. According to a press note issued by the Mumbai Police, the driver of a puller-axle, who was moving towards Andheri, lost control when a trolley being carried by the vehicle separated and rammed the woman, an auto-rickshaw and a taxi. A resident of Saki Naka, 23-year-old Falguni Patel was waiting by the Gundavali bus-stop with her sister Tulsi Patel to receive a parcel at around 6 am on Saturday morning when the incident occurred. Her sister, 32-year-old Tulsi, is said to have sustained minor injuries. The driver of the vehicle, 40-year-old Vinod Yadav, fled the spot. MMRDA in a statement said, “While the puller-axel was not executing any MMRDA Metro Line works at the place of accident that time, it was returning from the Metro Line 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) construction site; the contractor of the same has been notified and will be strictly penalized for negligence and damage.” Two of the Metro pillars on line 7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E) have also been damaged in the incident, MMRDA stated. It also said that appropriate action will be taken against vehicle’s owner. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-woman-dies-after-crane-rams-metro-pillar-on-highway/story-gq23a1C5c6vefPlGQrXIqO.html
31-10-2020||India||Odisha extends Covid-19 lockdown in containment zones till Nov 30||The Naveen Patnaik-led Odisha government on Saturday said the coronavirus (Covid-19) lockdown across containment zones in the state has been extended till November 30. According to news agency ANI, Odisha has registered 290,116 Covid-19 cases till now, which includes 273,838 recoveries, 14,905 active cases and 1,320 deaths. The active cases are almost 5 per cent of the total caseload.An official from the health department said the case fatality rate (CFR) s currently at 0.45 per cent. On Friday, the state recorded 1,470 new Covid-19 cases, 12 related deaths and 1,800 recoveries. Out of the fresh Covid-19 cases, Khurda district which includes the capital city of Bhubaneswar added the maximum (159) followed by Cuttack and Angul which added 98 and 95 cases respectively. With regard to disease-related fatalities, 229 were added from Ganjam district followed by Khurda (226) and Cuttack (110).Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe state has tested over 4.5 million samples for Covid-19 out of which 44,506 were tested on Thursday. Odisha’s positivity rate stands at 6.4 per cent.Maharashtra, which continues to be worst-affected state by the pandemic, has also extended its lockdown till November 30 with no further relaxations. Places of worship, theatres and swimming pools along with several other social, political, academic events are yet to be reopened.Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally over 8.13 million, recoveries cross 7.43 millionEarlier, the state government had allowed restaurants and bars to open with 50 per cent capacity. Gymnasiums too opened up and railway authorities since June 15 resumed a limited number of special suburban trains for people who are a part of essential services. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-extends-covid-19-lockdown-in-containment-zones-till-nov-30/story-EkcqlKoHM3IyvewMUY3syM.html
31-10-2020||India||Five Bangladeshis and 12 Indians apprehended by BSF for illegally crossing border||Five Bangladeshis and 12 Indian nationals were apprehended by Border Security Force personnel in separate incidents, for illegally crossing the Indo-Bangla border in West Bengal’s Nadia district, a statement issued by the paramilitary force said.Five Bangladeshis and 12 Indian nationals, including one tout, were apprehended by the border guards while illegally crossing over to this side near Ramnagar outpost in Nadia district on Thursday, the BSF statement said on Friday.The apprehend Indians confessed they had earlier crossed the border at the Benapole area to meet their relatives in Bangladesh and were returning back.The Bangladeshis said they were going to Bengaluru to work as labourers.All the apprehended persons have been handed over to the Hanskhali police station.In another incident, one Indian national was caught and 10 cattle seized by a patrolling BSF team at Khasmahal outpost on the same day.The man was trying to smuggle the cattle to Bangladesh along with some other persons.However, while others in the group managed to escape, the man was caught and handed over to local police.The price of the seized cattle is estimated to be Rs 2,25,230 in local market, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-bangladeshis-and-12-indians-apprehended-by-bsf-for-illegally-crossing-border/story-0qF3X20UDjtf7ceuvM1JTL.html
31-10-2020||India||‘Minimum govt, maximum governance should be your mantra’: PM Modi to young probationers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that the role of civil servants should be of minimum government and maximum governance as he urged them to take decisions towards India’s unity and to maintain the spirit of the Constitution as they work as the steel frame of the country. The government, the Prime Minister reminded the probationers, does not run from the top so the incorporation of policies, which are for the people, becomes very important. People are not just the receiver of government policies and programs but “Janata Janardana” is the real driving force, he said. “That is why we need to move from government to governance,” he said. “In the mode in which the country is working today, the role of all you bureaucrats is of Minimum Government, Maximum Governance. You have to make sure that your interference in the lives of citizens is minimum, how it should empowerment the common man,” he said while addressing them virtually from Gujarat’s Kevadia.Also Watch: PM Modi pays tribute to Sardar Patel on his 145th birth anniversary The Prime Minister also talked about the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, India’s first home minister, who used the phrase steel frame for the civil services in the country. “Sardar Saheb’s advice to the officers was that serving the citizens of the country is your highest duty. I also urge that whatever decision a civil servant takes, should be in the national context, should strengthen the unity and integrity of the country,” PM Modi said. “Even if your area and section you handle are small, you should always have people’s interest in mind and that there should be a national perspective,” he added.He said that the work of the steel frame is not just to provide the base and only to manage ongoing arrangements.“The work of steel frame also has to make the country feel that even if there is a big crisis or a big change, you will cooperate in advancing the country by becoming a force, facilitate,” he saidThe Prime Minister was addressing officer trainees belonging to various civil services currently undergoing the foundation course at Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) in Mussoorie through videoconference as a culmination of Aarambh 2020.Aarambh, the LBSNAA website said, is an initiative to bring all probationers of All India Service, Group-A Central Service and Foreign Service together for a Common Foundation Course (CFC) with the vision to break the silos of departments and services from the very beginning of the career of a civil servant. This ‘Aarambh’ is not just the beginning, it is also a symbol and a new tradition, he said as he talked about another campaign launched by his government. “The government has started another campaign a few days ago - Mission Karmayogi. Mission Karmayogi is a new experiment of its kind in the direction of capacity building,” he said.Prime Minister Modi earlier witnessed the National Unity Day or Rashtriya Ekta Diwas parade on the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in Kevadia, Gujarat. The parade tableau included National Disaster Response Force’s (NDRF) Medical First Respondent (MFR) and Flood Water Rescue (FWR) vehicles, Border Security Force’s (BSF) Mine Protected Vehicle (MPV) and Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) Critical Response Vehicle.The Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF’s) Women Warriors’ also performed a rifle drill and Gujarat’s department of sports youth and cultural affairs presented a cultural programme. The Prime Minister also administered the Rashtriya Ekta Pledge in Kevadia.PM Modi is on a two-day visit to Gujarat, the first time since the coronavirus disease outbreak and the lockdown in March, to mark Rashtriya Ekta Diwas, celebrating the birth anniversary of Sardar Patel.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-a-facilitator-in-india-s-development-pm-modi-tells-young-probationers/story-ezpesGlWGieW8VjaZn55RK.html
31-10-2020||India||Religious guru Ramrao Maharaj passes away; PM Modi, Amit Shah pay tributes||Ramrao Maharaj, a top religious leader of the Banjara community, passed away on Saturday morning due to prolonged illness. He was admitted to the Lilavati Hospital in Mumbai and was undergoing treatment for the past several days.Ramrao Maharaj, a prominent saint of the Banjara community, had nearly 120 million followers across the country. The guru also had close relations with top political leaders such as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.Prime Minister Modi took to Twitter to express his condolences, saying that the saint had worked tirelessly to alleviate poverty and human suffering. Modi added that the saint of the Banjara community will be remembered for his service to society. Shri Ramrao Bapu Maharaj Ji will be remembered for his service to society and rich spiritual knowledge. He worked tirelessly to alleviate poverty and human suffering. I had the honour of meeting him a few months ago. In this sad hour, my thoughts are with his devotees. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/o1LjExjSWH“Shri Ramrao Bapu Maharaj Ji will be remembered for his service to society and rich spiritual knowledge. He worked tirelessly to alleviate poverty and human suffering. I had the honour of meeting him a few months ago. In this sad hour, my thoughts are with his devotees. Om Shanti,” the Prime Minister tweeted.Union home minister Amit Shah also paid tributes to Ramrao Maharaj and said that his entire life was dedicated towards the upliftment of the poor and downtrodden and will be remembered for his noble works.According to reports, his funeral in accordance with all legal rules will take place on Monday at Pohradevi pilgrimage site which is situated in the Washim district of Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-guru-ramrao-maharaj-passes-away-pm-modi-amit-shah-pay-tributes/story-cCvBGgH8W8rAVNBhFgCOjI.html
31-10-2020||India||Early arrival of Siberian winged visitors spurs hopes of hustle-bustle returning to Varanasi ghats||Even though the arrival of foreign tourists in this ancient city is yet to begin, thousands of winged guests – from Siberia – are back on River Ganga, lighting hopes of the usual bustle to return to the iconic ghats.The birds which landed two days ago will be here for approximately four months and will continue to remain an attraction during that period.Banaras Hindu University’s (BHU) zoology department professor Ranjan Kumar Gupta said, “Usually, Siberian birds arrive in Varanasi in the first week of November. But this year, the birds have arrived a week in advance. Low pollution level due to lesser vehicular traffic during the lockdown may be a reason for their early arrival.”Gyaneshwar Chaubey, also from BHU’s zoology department, said that the arrival of the Siberian birds is a very good sign. It means the global pandemic has had no impact on migratory patterns of these birds.Also read: 12 states conduct more Covid-19 tests per million per day than national averageBoatman Shambhu Manjhi is also happy with the arrival of the winged guests. He hopes that the birds will attract more people to the ghats and boatmen will get more passengers.“Every year, after the arrival of these birds, a large number of people visit the ghats to watch them. Many of them take boat rides and offer gram flour sev to the birds. The birds are fond of the sev and gather around the boat as soon as it is offered to them,” he said.Many a foreign tourist used to spend hours on the ghats, clicking pictures of the birds flying and landing on the Ganga, playing with the tourists.Manjhi said that with the arrival of the winged guests, life and activity will return to the ghats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-arrival-of-siberian-winged-visitors-spurs-hopes-of-hustle-bustle-returning-to-varanasi-ghats/story-fw5CRcPsBi5tg1NEIM4PzH.html
31-10-2020||India||Ladakh temperature drops to sub-zero, focus shifts to countering Chinese Navy||With the onset of first snow and sub-zero temperatures in East Ladakh, the Indian Army troopers, equipped with US-made blizzard masks, have settled down for the winter against the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), with the focus of national security planners now shifting to beefing maritime security.While the four-nation QUAD multilateral exercises under Malabar begin next Tuesday, the Indian military planners have decided to give top priority to Eastern Naval Command and island territories of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and Lakshadweep to counter any threat from PLA Navy in Indian Ocean. The Western Naval Command has also been asked to spread out its assets with Karwar base in Karnataka as focus.The plan follows a security assessment that pitched concern around China’s PLA Navy way over the maritime threat from the Pakistan Navy. Also Watch | Aiming missiles, drones: How new US pact helps India against China in LadakhAlso Read: China draws up a peace plan on Ladakh. India sees right through itIn this context, the national security planners are considering raising another amphibious brigade, one for eastern and western seaboard, for offensive operations in the future. As of now, India has one dedicated amphibious brigade, whose elements are spread between Thiruvananthapuram and Andaman and Nicobar Islands Command in Port Blair. The amphibious forces are specialised in launching a counter-offensive from sea using landing ship tank (LST) vessels such as INS Jalashwa and projecting power in the region and beyond. The planners are considering having one full brigade in Thiruvananthapuram, and the second stationed either at Visakhapatnam or AN Islands.India’s island territories are at the heart of Indian Navy’s operational plan in the Indian Ocean as they dominate the major shipping lanes from Suez Canal and Persian Gulf to South-East and North Asia via Malacca Strait. The Indian Air Force fighter jets, armed with Brahmos missiles, can strike at any moving target in and around Malacca, Sunda or Lombard straits in the worst-case scenario. These three straits are the only way to access the South China Sea from Indian Ocean. Shipping costs mount manifolds if the ships have to be diverted from the Malacca Strait to other two straits.Also Read: Mike Pompeo’s attack on China signals a shift in India’s approachDespite the strategic leverage that the island territories represent, the Indian Navy is still largely focused on Mumbai and Visakhapatnam with the AN Command left to the tri-services headquarters. With the military theatre commands in the offing, both AN Islands and Lakshadweep are going to be the hub of India’s maritime strike capabilities. Lakshadweep lies on the Nine Degree Channel, the most direct route for East Asia-bound ships from the Persian Gulf.Given that India and the US have tied up for Indian Ocean Region with institutionalised tie-ups with American Indo-Pacific, Central Command and African Commands, the QUAD countries will project maritime surveillance and dominance in their region with assets communicating and sharing information through secure military communication channels among air, surface and underwater combatants made possible by the Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement signed in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-china-india-will-raise-2nd-amphibious-brigade-to-counter-pla-navy/story-BXOnFMItufSAw0MOPuf8BN.html
31-10-2020||India||12 states conduct more Covid-19 tests per million per day than national average: Data||India’s national average of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests per million per day is 844, with at least 12 states performing more tests per million per day than the national average, shows government data.Testing in Kerala is the highest at 3,258, followed by Delhi with 3,225 tests and followed by Karnataka with 1,550 tests.The World Health Organisation recommends 140 tests per million population per day. “And 35 states and union territories are currently performing more than the WHO recommended number, which is enough to say that as far as testing goes, India is doing fairly adequate Covid-19 testing,” said a health ministry official, who did not want to be named.Other states and territories that are performing more tests per million per day than the national average are Andhra Pradesh (1,418), Bihar (1,093), Odisha (1,072), Goa (1,058), Jharkhand (994), Jammu & Kashmir (984), Telangana (947), Tamil Nadu (936), and Haryana (863).India has tested 107 million cumulative samples for Covid-19 so far, of which 81,36,232 have returned positive.On January 23, the first Covid-19 test was conducted in India at ICMR- National Institute of Virology in Pune using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).On average, India performs a little over one million tests to determine Covid-19 daily. It has the capacity of performing at least 1.5 million tests in a day across 2,000 labs in the country.One of the reasons for the increased scale of testing has the introduction of rapid antigen-based testing on June 14. “Wherever mass deployment of tests is needed such as containment zones, migrant camps, quarantine centres, etc, rapid antigen tests come in handy. True positives are 100% confirmed, and for symptomatic negatives, ICMR has recommended repeating the test using RT-PCR for confirmation. The rule was also revised later for asymptomatic negatives asking this category of people to be monitored for a couple of days for symptoms, and those who show symptoms must be made to undergo a Covid-19 test. This way we manage to minimise the risk of missing infected cases,” said an ICMR official, who did not wish to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-states-conduct-more-covid-19-tests-per-million-per-day-than-national-average-data/story-FwgHkfM2veRIeKvnaRracM.html
31-10-2020||India||From address at Statue of Unity to seaplane service launch: PM Modi’s visit to Gujarat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is on the final day of his two-day visit to his home state of Gujarat visit, is slated to inaugurate various projects on Saturday. PM Modi had inaugurated as many as 17 new projects, including new tourist attractions near the Statue of Unity at Kevadiya in Narmada district, on Friday. PM Modi visited the Statue of Unity in Kevadia on the occasion of National Unity Day and paid his respects to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his 145th birth anniversary. Rashtriya Ekta Diwas, also known as the National Unity Day, is observed to commemorate Sardar Patel, India’s first home minister.Here’s what PM Modi will do on the second day of visit to Gujarat:1. PM Modi offered floral tributes to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel at the Statue of Unity in the state’s Narmada district.2. He witnessed Rashtriya Ekta Diwas parade and addressed the gathering.3. PM Modi will address probationers of Indian Civil Services at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA), Mussoorie, through a video conference from Kevadia.4. The Prime Minister will then inaugurate the Water Aerodrome in Kevadia following which he will also inaugurate the seaplane service, which will ply from Kevadia to Sabarmati riverfront in Ahmedabad.Watch: PM Modi visits Statue of Unity, inaugurates projects in GujaratPM visit’s Day 1 in Gujarat1. PM Modi inaugurated many new projects on Friday like the Arogya Van, Ekta Mall, Children’s Nutrition Park and Sardar Patel Zoological Park/ Jungle Safari.2. The Arogya Van (health forest) is spread over 17 acres with a wide range of medicinal plants and boasts of five lakh plants of 380 species. It also has a `yoga and meditation’ garden, souvenir shop and a cafeteria serving “Ayurveda foods”.3. Ekta Mall is a unique store near the Statue of Unity where tourists can buy handloom and handicraft products from various states. The two-storey air-conditioned complex is spread over 35,000 square feet and houses 20 emporia.4. Children Nutrition Park, dubbed as the world’s first such technology-driven theme park is developed over 35,000 square meters. The park has 47 attractions providing “infotainment” to children with the underlying theme of “Sahi Poshan Desh Roshan”; thus, reiterating the importance of nutritious food for children.Read more: PM Modi on 2-day Gujarat trip from today, to inaugurate various projects5. Jungle Safari is a state-of-the-art Zoological Park spread across 375 acres and seven levels, spread across 375 acres. It houses over 1,100 indigenous and exotic birds and animals of more than 100 species including tigers, lions, giraffes, zebras and leopards. The Safari also boasts of two of world’s largest geodesic dome aviaries.6. The Ekta Cruise is a ferry ride from Shrestha Bharat Bhavan to Statue of Unity in Kevadia in Gujarat. The 40-minute ride can be covered by a boat which can ferry 200 passengers at a time.7. The Unity Glow Garden is the first of its kind garden in India, developed in 3.61 acres with a glimmering array of illuminated installations.8. The Cactus Garden spread in 25 acres on the opposite bank of the river. It is home to more than 450 species with a total of 6 lakh plants including 1.9 lakh cactus plants in an area spread over 25 acres.9. Prime Minister Modi also inaugurated dynamic lighting for the Sardar Sarovar Dam in Gujarat and unveiled the website of Statue of Unity in all the UN official languages and launched the Kevadia App.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-address-at-statue-of-unity-to-seaplane-service-launch-pm-modi-s-visit-to-gujarat/story-RT0TetjonUOuiMMH9G4q3O.html
31-10-2020||India||‘I steered clear of controversies but…’: PM Modi tears into Congress over Pulwama||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the truth behind the Pulwama terror attack has been revealed after claims made in Pakistan’s parliament, referring to the comments made by a minister of the neighbouring country about the incident in which 40 troopers of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were killed last year. Also Read: India is fighting Covid-19 and coming out of it: PM Modi at Statue of Unity“The country can never forget that some people were not saddened at the sacrifice of the security personnel during the Pulwama attack. I steered clear of all controversies and silently endured all allegations as I knew that these people were looking for political gain even in the attack,” he said during his address on the second day of his two-day visit to Gujarat.“However, after the neighbouring country accepted responsibility for the attack in its parliament, the true nature of the people who resorted to ugly politics during our difficult time has been uncovered. I request them not to do such politics in the interest of the nation,” PM said. Pakistan’s science and technology minister Fawad Chaudhry on Thursday said that his country had entered India and beaten it on its own soil. “Hum ne Hindustan ko ghuss ke mara hai (We have entered and attacked India),” Chaudhry said.At least 40 security personnel were killed in Pulwama on February 14 last year when a suicider, a member of the Pakistan-based terrorist group Jaish-e-Mohammed, attacked their convoy. Also Watch | ‘Claims made in Pak parliament revealed truth behind Pulwama’: PM ModiAlso Read: From address at Statue of Unity to seaplane service launch: PM Modi’s visit to GujaratAttacking Congress party without naming it, he pointed out that it was aiding anti-India powers in achieving their goals and encouraging them. “These parties are pawns of anti-India elements,” he said. “These people won’t do any good for the country or their party,” he added.“We have to remember that only when we do good to others, does good return to us. We all should work towards making India strong, independent and self-reliant, just like Sardar Patel envisioned,” PM Modi said.Before this, PM Modi paid tributes to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on the occasion of Rashtriya Ekta Diwas, Patel’s birth anniversary, at the Statue of Unity in Gujarat’s Kevadia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pulwama-terror-attack-truth-revealed-after-claims-in-pakistan-parliament-pm-modi/story-PFQ7s3HwwUqzTs0X95CvnN.html
31-10-2020||India||Kerala, Goa and Chandigarh best governed states and union territory, says PAC ranking||Kerala was adjudged the best governed state in the country while Uttar Pradesh ended at the bottom in the large states category, according to the Public Affairs Index-2020 released by the Public Affairs Centre here on Friday. In its annual report released on Friday, the city-based not-for-profit organisation, , headed by former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairman K Kasturirangan, said the states were ranked on governance performance based on a composite index in the context of sustainable development. Four southern states, Kerala (1.388 PAI Index point), Tamil Nadu (0.912), Andhra Pradesh (0.531) and Karnataka (0.468) stood in the first four ranks in the large state category in terms of governance, it said. Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Bihar were at the bottom of the ranking, scoring negative points in the category. They got - 1.461, -1.201 and -1.158 points respectively. In the small state category, Goa ranked first with 1.745 points, followed by Meghalaya (0.797) and Himachal Pradesh (0.725). Worst performers who scored negative points are Manipur (-0.363), Delhi (-0.289) and Uttarakhand (-0.277), according to the PAC report. Chandigarh emerged the best governed union territory in the category of UTs with 1.05 PAI points, followed by Puducherry (0.52) and Lakshadweep (0.003). Dadar and Nagar Haveli (-0.69), Andaman, Jammu and Kashmir (-0.50) and Nicobar (-0.30) were the least performers. According to the PAC, the governance performance is analysed in the context of sustainable development defined by three pillars of equity, growth and sustainability. Speaking on the occasion, Kasturirangan said: “The evidence that PAI 2020 generates and the insights that it provides must compel us to reflect on the economic and social transition that is underway in India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-goa-and-chandigarh-best-governed-states-and-union-territory-says-pac-ranking/story-LMOxipbRkcbxJ3ULtWj3ZP.html
31-10-2020||India||Mayawati begins work to regain lost ground in UP||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) plans to field new candidates for a majority of seats in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls as part of its plans to regain the lost ground, people aware of the matter said. The move has triggered concerns among the party’s lawmakers many of whom are up in arms against the party leadership and may seek Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Congress’s tickets, they added.BSP chief Mayawati has started preparations for the elections by revamping the party’s organisation. She has also started looking for new candidates and is collecting feedback about the performance of the party’s 18 lawmakers, many of whom have been told they are unlikely to get tickets.Seven BSP lawmakers, who were on Thursday suspended for opposing the nomination of Ramji Gautam for the Rajya Sabha election, have been told they will not be renominated.The lawmakers have said they have been humiliated and left with little option but to oppose Gautam’s nomination. They have met SP leaders to get tickets for the assembly polls.BSP coordinators are holding meetings in their constituencies and the rebels have not called for them while the probable candidates have been introduced to the party cadre.The BSP is expected to take a call on getting into an alliance for the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections after the polls are over in Bihar, where it is a part of the Grand United Secular Front (GUSF). The GUSF comprises Rashtriya Lok Samta Party, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), Samajwadi Janata Dal Democratic, Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and Janvadi Party Socialist.Some parties in the alliance also have a presence in Uttar Pradesh and want the GUSF to contest the polls in the state too.“Fearing that new alliance might damage their prospects, the Samajwadi Party, the Congress and BJP have launched an attack on the BSP,” said a BSP leader.Shaukat Ali, the AIMIM’s Uttar Pradesh unit president, said the GUSF should contest elections in Uttar Pradesh too to stop the BJP from returning to power.SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar said the GUSF alliance partners will hold a meeting for continuing the alliance for the Uttar Pradesh assembly election as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-begins-work-to-regain-lost-ground-in-up/story-f3L8VY1IK2SwHA1fhZUGvK.html
31-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 8.13 million, recoveries cross 7.43 million||India reported 48,268 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), slightly down from 48,648 a day before, and 551 related deaths, the Union health ministry’s data showed on Saturday morning, which has taken the country’s tally to 8,137,119. There were 582,649 active cases of Covid-19, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am. The active caseload fell below 600,000 on Friday for the first time in nearly three months. It was 595,000 last on August 6.The total recovered cases stand at 7,432,829 as 59,454 patients were cured between Friday and Saturday morning. “India continues to be the topmost country with the maximum number of recovered cases globally,” the health ministry has stressed. The difference between active and recovered cases stands at 6,850,180 on Saturday and the rate of recovery is at 91.34%.New Covid-19 infections in Delhi on Friday set yet another single-day record, which was for the fourth day in a row, prompting concerned Union home ministry has called for a meeting on Monday to discuss the issue. The positivity rate also continued to rise at alarming levels with a tenth of all tests in the past 24 hours returning positive results, highlighting what is clearly the third and worst wave yet of the outbreak in the Capital.Also read | Covid-19 vaccine updates: J&J to test shots in children, Novavax plans an ethnicity-based studyThere were 57,386 Covid-19 patients who recovered and were discharged on Friday and 80% of them were observed to be concentrated in 10 states and Union territories. Kerala contributed the maximum with more than 8,000 to the single-day recoveries followed by Maharashtra and Karnataka with more than 7,000 recoveries each.There were 48,648 new cases on Friday and the health ministry said that 78% of these are from 10 states and Union territories. Kerala is still reporting a very high number of new cases with more than 7,000 cases followed by Maharashtra and Delhi with more than 5,000 cases each.Also read | Covid-19 vaccine drive may span over a year, says govtThere were 563 deaths reported on Friday morning and of these, 81% were concentrated in 10 states and Union territories. Maharashtra has reported the highest single-day deaths with 156 fatalities followed by West Bengal with 61 cases.The health ministry has said India has performed remarkably on fulfilling the World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) advise of 140 tests every day per million population. “In another row of achievements, 35 States/UTs have exceeded the advised number of tests. The national average of tests per day per million population stands at 844. The figure for Delhi and Kerala has exceeded 3,000,” it said.Also read | Coronavirus mutation may have made it more contagious, finds studyIndia remains the second worst-hit country after the United States, which has 9,043,957 Covid-19 cases so far. Globally, there more than 45 million people have contracted the disease and 1,188,151 have died till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-over-8-13-million-recoveries-cross-7-43-million/story-wCWV5AgjaDSHrki8vzQjqI.html
31-10-2020||India||Doctors fighting against time to revive Soumitra Chatterjee||A team of specialised doctors treating veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee is fighting against time to get him back on his feet. “Repercussions of a prolonged stay in the hospital’s ICU and medical interventions are taking a toll on his body. Despite every effort, with every passing day, the chances of recovery are getting lower. We are giving our best to get him better. Let’s hope for the best,” Dr Arindam Kar, who is leading the team of doctors treating the actor, told media late on Friday. Chatterjee, 85, had to be hospitalised on October 6 after testing positive for Covid-19. He has been in the ICU for more than 20 days and on ventilator support since October 26. He had shown marginal improvement on Thursday and on Friday his condition was stated to be stable but critical. His cardiac functions were good and his kidney functions started bouncing back as antibiotics were working well, doctors said. “From Saturday, we would try to come with some strategies to improve his neurological parameters. We would try our best to reverse the encephalopathy,” Dr Kar added. One of the most celebrated actors in Bengal, Chatterjee has received many awards and honours, including the Padma Bhushan, the Dadasaheb Phalke Award, National Awards, and Sangeet Natak Akademi Tagore Ratna. He is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-fighting-against-time-to-revive-soumitra-chatterjee/story-zVd4lMu4jWHoyZ45jIFjLP.html
31-10-2020||India||India is fighting Covid-19 and coming out of it: PM Modi at Statue of Unity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday 130 crore Indians have honoured frontline workers or corona warriors in their fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and added that the country has proved its collective potential during the pandemic in an unprecedented way.PM Modi’s comments came as India’s Covid-19 tally rose to 8,137,119 on Saturday after 48,648 fresh cases were registered in a single day and the death toll climbed to 1,21,641 with 551 new fatalities. The number of recoveries crossed the 7.4 million mark, pushing the recovery rate to 91.34 per cent, according to the Union health ministry.“Nobody had imagined last year that Covid-19 pandemic would strike, but the country fought with collective strength and will, which is unprecedented in history. When other countries of the world are struggling against the pandemic, India has fought it bravely and is coming out of it,” he said.Watch: PM Modi pays floral tributes to Sardar Patel at Statue of Unity On the occasion of National Unity Day, PM Modi visited the Statue of Unity in Kevadia and offered flowers at the feet of the monument of Sardar Patel and paid his respects on his 145th birth anniversary. At the same time, rose petals were showered on the statue from helicopters.He then headed to the parade ground and administered ‘national unity pledge’ to the gathering on this occasion.Rashtriya Ekta Diwas, also known as the National Unity Day, is observed to commemorate Sardar Patel, India’s first home minister. Sardar Patel is credited with uniting all the 562 princely states of the pre-Independent country to build the Republic of India.The Prime Minister also witnessed the Rashtriya Ekta Diwas parade by the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and administered a pledge for national unity. “Sardar Patel gave the present form to India by making the diversity of the country, power of free India by uniting the hundreds of princely states of the country. In 2014, we all started celebrating his birthday as a festival of the unity of India,” he said.The Prime Minister said the entire country is paying reverence to the Iron Man of the country. “Today, once again, this country is repeating its pledge for the progress of the country under Sardar Patel’s guidance,” he added. “A humble tribute to Iron Man Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, the pioneer of national unity and integrity, on his birth anniversary. Tributes to the great Sardar Patel on his Jayanti,” PM Modi had tweeted earlier in the day.PM Modi said the seaplane service connecting the Statue of Unity in Kevadia of Gujarat’s Narmada district with Sabarmati riverfront in Ahmedabad will boost tourism in the area. “The seaplane service from Sardar Sarovar to Sabarmati Riverfront is also going to be launched today. For the vision of Sardar Patel, the countrymen will now also have the option of seaplane service to see the Statue of Unity. This will boost tourism in this area,” PM Modi said.He also mentioned Maharishi Valmiki on his birth anniversary during his address. “It is also a wonderful coincidence that today is also Valmiki Jayanti. The cultural unity of India that we see today... The India we experience, the work of making it more vibrant and energetic was done centuries ago by Adikavi Maharishi Valmiki,” he said.PM Modi is on a two-day visit to Gujarat, for the first time since the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the subsequent lockdown in March, to mark the Rashtriya Ekta Diwas..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seaplane-service-from-sabarmati-riverfront-will-boost-tourism-pm-modi-at-statue-of-unity/story-dNqflbcOh6WvjOOKZaM4WO.html
31-10-2020||India||Govt lays out norms for using remote sensing devices for monitoring vehicular emission||The Centre has drafted guidelines for the installation of remote sensing devices to monitor on-road vehicular exhaust emissions, collect data, and recommend pollution thresholds for different vehicles and fuel types.A remote sensing device measures exhaust emission through absorption spectroscopy without interfering with the vehicle or its driver. The device comprises a light source and a detector that is placed on the side of the road or at a height to transmit a laser beam. The beam measures the exhaust fumes remotely through spectroscopy when vehicles cross its light path.The measurement of exhaust emissions from vehicles during normal, on-road operations is key to any effective system for controlling air pollution. Remote sensing can alter the way emissions are currently monitored from on-road vehicles and allow more efficient screening of highly polluting vehicles. It is essential for detecting discrepancies between certification-test performance and actual real-world vehicle emissions.Vehicular emissions are one of the biggest contributors to PM2.5 pollutants, which are fine, inhalable particulate matter with diameters that are generally 2.5 microns, or about 30 times smaller than a strand of human hair. India recorded the world’s highest annual average concentration of PM 2.5 exposure in its air in 2019, according to the State of Global Air 2020 (Soga 2020) report released this month.The norms for installation of remote sensing devices come in the backdrop of a directive issued by the Supreme Court in 2018 on the recommendations of the Environment (Pollution and Prevention) Control Authority (EPCA), instructing the Delhi government to explore remote sensing technology for on-road screening of polluting vehicles.“We have drafted the guidelines to help state governments set up these devices as it is a new technology. They can be installed along roadsides and capture the emissions of the vehicles. It will be instrumental in analysing the emission of vehicles on road. A pilot had been done too after the directions of the Supreme Court,” an official said, requesting anonymity.The transport ministry has drafted guidelines specifying the minimum technical and performance requirements for the remote sensing equipment. HT has reviewed a copy of the guidelines, prepared by the Automotive Industry Standards Committee (AISC). The standards need to be approved by the permanent CMVR Technical Standing Committee (CTSC). CMVR is short for Central Motor Vehicles Rules.After approval by CTSC, the Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI), Pune, being the secretariat of the AISC, will publish the standards.“The matter of control of in-use vehicle emissions was deliberated at the 60th Meeting of Standing Committee on Implementation of Emission Legislation, held on 22nd August 2019 and subsequently an AIS panel under the Chairmanship of Director-ICAT was constituted with a focus to finalise technical guidance on remote sensing equipment, remote sensing data reporting which specifies design, construction, networking and data sharing of the motor vehicle and recommend polluter thresholds for a different vehicle and different fuel types,” the draft guidelines say.“In the 61st Meeting of Standing Committee on Implementation of Emission Legislation held on 13th February 2020, it was directed to consider polluter thresholds based on prevalent emission norms and in the absence of authentic data for these thresholds, the Committee had agreed to consider the first year as monitoring phase to arrive at threshold values. This standard is technology-neutral and does not restrict any arrangement for implementation based on the recommendations for implementing of remote sensing of emissions of in-use vehicles for on-road monitoring as per the directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court and the EPCA Report No 99 dated 26th July 2019,” the guidelines add.The remote sensing devices will be fitted with emission analysers. The devices will be linked to the central vehicle database, Vahan, and also to each vehicle’s FASTag, which allows electronic toll collection at highway plazas, according to the draft guidelines.“The RSD [remote sensing device] must be GPS/IRNSS enabled – to identify the location of the device and communication with the authorized servers for data exchange [real-time data transfer]. There must be a system to capture the image of the registration number of the vehicle at a rate of 99% or greater of the vehicles passing through the RSD measurement location,” the guidelines say.GPS stands for Global Positioning System and IRNSS for Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System.The system must also be equipped with Optical Character Recognition (OCR) or any other suitable technology to identify the registration numbers of vehicles. It will also have a FASTag reader for mapping the registration.The pollution thresholds must be decided categorically while differentiating from the following parameters: category of the vehicle, the emission norms (Bharat Stage), and fuel type. A monitoring phase shall be established to capture vehicular emissions and define accurate polluter thresholds, the guidelines say. The monitoring phase will determine threshold limits for different vehicles, different emission norms and different fuel types with a focus on vehicles of category M (passenger vehicles) and N (goods vehicles).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-lays-out-norms-for-using-remote-sensing-devices-for-monitoring-vehicular-emission/story-5qsnRVGJgiVc0lkW9mLr7L.html
31-10-2020||India||Naga flag and constitution should be part of ongoing talks: NSCN (IM)||The National Socialist Council of Nagaland - Isak Muivah (NSCN-IM) on Friday stated that its demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution (Yehzabo) should be part of the ongoing talks to find a permanent solution to the Naga political issue. The organisation’s statement comes close on the heels of reports that the Centre was engaged in deliberations over the two key demands of the NSCN-IM, which was stalling the negotiations.“There is no scope provided to have separate talk on Naga flag and constitution. By having separate talk on flag and constitution, GoI is sending a wrong signal that is not in sync with the Framework Agreement,” NSCN-IM said in a statement.Pointing out that the framework agreement, signed between the group and the government of India in 2015, embraces the Naga flag and constitution, the NSCN-IM asserted that the Centre should not undo its commitment and backtrack from the agreement by distorting what has been agreed upon.Under the given situation where the focus of the talks is now mainly on Naga flag and constitution, the organisation stated it was critical to dwell deeper into the framework agreement lest reckless interpretation comes into play. The outfit remarked that in the ongoing talks, with both sides respecting each other’s position, shared sovereignty and defined competencies, wherein it was defined how certain part of Naga sovereignty and vice versa was to be shared with the union of India.“With this arrangement, we are confident that it will provide for an enduring inclusive new relationship of peaceful coexistence of the two entities,” the statement read.The NSCN-IM said it should be understood that the Framework Agreement that speaks of the unique history of the Naga people and their sovereign independence identity embraces the flag and the constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naga-flag-and-constitution-should-be-part-of-ongoing-talks-nscn-im/story-5Nf9p5aW5aRIV3O0eAH2LI.html
31-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: AIIMS to submit proposal for phase 3 trials of Covaxin next week and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesAIIMS to submit proposal for phase 3 trials of Covaxin next weekThe All India Institute of Medical Sciences is likely to submit a proposal to start phase 3 clinical trials in the hospital to the Institute of ethics committee for Bharat Biotech’s anti Coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine candidate by early next week. Read more Alarm over new Covid-19 cases in Delhi; Centre may step inCovid-cases in Delhi surged to a new high on Friday even as a concerned home ministry has called for a meeting on Monday to discuss the issue. For the fourth day in a row, new Covid-19 infections in Delhi on Friday set yet another single-day record even as the positivity rate continued to rise at alarming levels with a tenth of all tests in the past 24 hours returning positive results, highlighting what is clearly the third and worst wave yet of the outbreak in the Capital. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘A lot of power for a small guy,’ Fleming believes they have found the right player for CSKChennai Super Kings did not have the best of seasons in 2020. The perennial title contenders were the first team to crash out of the race for the Indian Premier League 2020 playoffs as they suffered their eighth loss. It is for the first time that CSK have failed to get into the top-four in their history. But there have been some positives that have come out in the last few matches. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘It just shows the mindset,’ Gautam Gambhir lambasts Dinesh Karthik for leaving KKR captaincy midwayFormer KKR skipper Gautam Gambhir slammed Dinesh Karthik for handing over the captaincy to Eoin Morgan midway, saying that it didn’t make much sense. Karthik’s decision of stepping down neither helped his batting nor changed team’s fortune as both were inconsistent throughout the tournament. Read more Netflix just got more expensive, prices of most popular plan, premium tier raisedNetflix just raised prices for its US subscribers and bumped up the standard plan to $14/month and the premium plan to $18/month. The basic plan though remains priced at $9. New subscribers will have to pay the updated fees and the current subscribers will see the new prices reflect over the new few weeks as they roll out with billing cycles, The Verge reported. Read more From Audi e-tron to Jaguar I-PACE, a look at luxury EVs coming to India in 2021The ‘EV revolution’ isn’t a distant dream. It is already starting to catch up in India and a number of luxury car makers are aiming towards the market with their top-of-the-line battery powered vehicles. Mercedes EQC being the fire-starter, has already penetrated the market ahead of anything else. Read moreRasika Dugal: ‘I have been trying to learn how to sing, much to the disgust of my neighbours’If digital medium was your fix during the lockdown, you know that it is impossible to miss Rasika Dugal. The actor has been all over the digital space as India stayed at home and was busy doing night shifts for the shooting of Delhi Crime season 2 just before lockdown and went on to witness multiple releases during her time at home. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-aiims-to-submit-proposal-for-phase-3-trials-of-covaxin-next-week-and-all-the-latest-news/story-b9lTjGks17vJ9J04q1BvhK.html
31-10-2020||India||PM Modi pays tribute to Indira Gandhi on 36th death anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid tribute to former prime minister Indira Gandhi on her 36th death anniversary. The then prime minister was assassinated by her bodyguards here in 1984.“Tributes to our former PM Smt. Indira Gandhi Ji on her death anniversary,” Modi tweeted.The prime minister had paid tribute to Gandhi in his monthly Mann ki Baat radio broadcast last Sunday as well. “On the 31st of October we lost former Prime Minister of India, Smt. Indira Gandhi. I most respectfully pay my tributes to her,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-indira-gandhi-on-36th-death-anniversary/story-L6fAfBc5ApESqv7fNlU99N.html
31-10-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine drive may span over a year, says govt||The Union health ministry has said that the drive for the introduction of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will span over a year with multiple groups being included sequentially starting from healthcare workers and therefore it is important to create strong advisory and coordination mechanism at the state and district levels. “It is necessary to guide the process of Covid-19 vaccine introduction while ensuring minimal disruption of other routine health care services including immunisation,” the health ministry said.The health ministry has sought the constitution of committees at state and district levels, which will review preparatory activities in terms of cold chain preparedness, operational planning, strategies for state-specific challenges in terms of geographical terrain and hard-to-reach areas, etc.In a letter to states and Union territories, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has suggested setting up of a state steering committee (SSC) chaired by the chief secretary, a state task force (STF) led by the additional chief secretary or principal secretary (health), and a district task force (DTF) to be headed by the district magistrate.The Centre has asked states to constitute committees for coordination and overseeing Covid-19 vaccination drive while ensuring minimal disruptions in other routine healthcare services and stressed early tracking of social media to dispel rumours which could impact the community acceptance of coronavirus inoculation. “Ensure early tracking of social media and other platforms for possible misinformation and rumours around Covid-19 vaccine that could impact the community acceptance for the vaccine,” it said.The state steering committee will ensure the active involvement of all departments concerned and devise innovative strategies for improving community engagement for improved coverage of Covid-19 vaccine once it is available. The committee will also have to institute a reward or recognition mechanism for the achievement of best performing district, block, urban ward, etc.The state task force will provide guidance, including funding and operational guidelines, fixing timelines for districts to plan and implement Covid-19 vaccine introduction whenever a shot is made available and identifying vaccinators across government and private sectors so as to minimise disruption of routine immunisation services.Activities also include planning and mapping of vaccination sessions where healthcare workers will be vaccinated during the first phase and mapping human resources across departments that could be deployed for vaccination sessions for verification of beneficiaries, crowd management and overall coordination at the session site.The district task force will develop a robust communication planning at all levels to address rumour-mongering as well as vaccine eagerness, track blocks and urban areas for adherence to timelines for various activities required for the introduction of Covid-19 vaccine, besides ensuring timely disbursal of funds at all levels and sharing feedback at the state level for review.India reported 48,648 cases of the Covid-19 cases and 563 related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s tally to 8,088,851, according to the Union health ministry’s data on Friday.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-drive-may-span-over-a-year-says-govt/story-vu2tWQny6MGmf7efAxNeLJ.html
31-10-2020||India||Railway station masters to protest sealing in night duty allowance, work on empty stomach||Around 35,000 station masters across the railway network will work on empty stomach on Saturday to protest the sealing in their night duty allowance. The All India Station Masters Union (AISMU) had said on Thursday they have been protesting the move from October 7 and the decision to organise a token hunger strike was taken after their demands remained unattended.They demanded that the government withdraw an order which stated that all officials above the basic pay of Rs 43,600 per month were not to be paid night duty allowance. “We demand that the sealing of the allowance and the orders to recover the night duty allowance already made since 2017 be withdrawn, a Rs 50 lakh insurance be provided to the line staff and the privatisation and corporatisation of railways be stopped. We will hold a 12-hour hunger strike, which will be the fourth phase of our protest,” AISMU said in a statement. The railway ministry has said that as per Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) instructions in July 2020, all officials who have the basic pay of above Rs 43,600 are not to be paid the night duty allowance. “The directives have already been implemented in other ministries. Implementation of the directives of DoPT is in line with the implementation all across the government. Nothing exclusive is being implemented for Railways. In government, all employees are treated on par across the board on the basis of the basic salary. As far as the issue of recovery of the Night Duty Allowance, the matter is being examined,” a railway spokesperson said according to news agency PTI.The All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) in an official note to the chairman and CEO of the Railway Board had earlier sought withdrawal of upper pay ceiling for entitlement of Night Duty Allowance (NDA). Night Duty Allowance is claimed by the Essential Train Running, Operating and Maintenance Staff for performing night duty, work of whom revolves around train operation, safety, maintenance etc under 7th Pay Commission. AIRF said the upper ceiling of Rs 43,600 for entitlement of night duty allowance by the railway staff be removed immediately.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-station-masters-to-protest-sealing-in-night-duty-allowance-work-on-empty-stomach/story-9VIcDhd0Mm0WG4darHhxYL.html
31-10-2020||India||Congress reiterates demand for Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat’s resignation||Congress general secretary Harish Rawat on Friday said that Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat should resign on moral grounds even after Supreme Court’s stay order on Nainital High Court’s order for CBI probe against him on the basis of allegations against him.Earlier on October 29, Supreme Court stayed an order of the Uttarakhand High Court directing the Central Bureau of Investigation to register an FIR against Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on the basis of allegations levelled against him. A bench of the apex court, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, issued notice to the CBI and two journalists, FIR against whom was quashed by the High Court returnable within four weeks.Attorney General KK Venugopal, appearing for the Trivendra Singh Rawat, submitted that the Chief Minister was not a party to this case even and the Uttarakhand High Court’s single-judge bench had ordered a CBI probe without hearing his side.The Uttarakhand government had approached the Supreme Court against the High Court’s order, which quashed a First Information Report registered against two journalists for cheating and forgery, and directed the CBI to register an FIR against Rawat.Allegations were reportedly levelled against Rawat by a Jharkhand-resident identified as AS Chauhan, who claimed that he had in 2016 struck a deal with Rawat, who was the state in-charge of Jharkhand BJP at the time, worth Rs 25 lakh for his appointment as chairman Jharkhand Gau Sewa Aayog.The Uttarakhand High Court had on Tuesday quashed the FIR registered by the state government against two journalists -- Umesh Sharma and Shiv Prasad Semwal -- for cheating, forgery, and several other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-reiterates-demand-for-uttarakhand-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-s-resignation/story-SbGbZap4aix7zuiCh8DarI.html
31-10-2020||India||10 booked for registering fake trust in PM’s name, 4 taken into custody||A case was lodged against 10 people for committing a fraud by registering a trust in the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday and asking public representatives to donate funds for a university, police said.Four people, including main accused Ajay Pandey, were taken into custody for interrogation, station officer, Varanasi Cantt, Rakesh Kumar said.“A case was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against 10 people, including Ajay Pandey, for committing fraud and cheating by registering a trust in the name of honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Further investigation is on,” he confirmed.He added that Pandey created a letter pad of the trust and used a picture of PM Modi on the letterhead.A senior police officer said Ajay Pandey, a resident of Kabir Nagar area in Varanasi, registered the ‘Adarsh Narendra Damodar Das Modi Jankalyankari Trust’, Varanasi, on July 14. Pandey associated himself with the trust as chief manager/trustee/founder and made some others its members. The so-called members included Pradeep Kumar Singh, Sonu Kumar Gupta, Vikas Mishra, Priya Srivastava, Anil, Ranjita Singh, Shahbaz Khan (all from Varanasi) and Avinash Singh and Rabindranath Pandey from Ballia.The police officer said Pandey wrote a letter to the Varanasi district magistrate on July 24 and July 31, asking him to identify and allocate around 190 bigha land for the Adarsh Narendra Damodar Das Modi Antarrashtriya (International) Vishwavidyalaya to be set up in Varanasi under the trust. Pandey signed the letter as the trustee, the police officer added.Also read: AIIMS to submit proposal for phase 3 trials of Covaxin next weekIn the meantime, he wrote another letter to the district magistrate on October 29, asking him to allocate the land for the university and extend help in its construction.The police officer said that as the matter reached the district magistrate, he suspected something was amiss and instructed the registrar to probe the issue.On the DM’s instructions, sub-registrar-2 (Sadar) Harish Chaturvedi conducted a probe and found that Pandey was cheating prominent people in the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He informed the DM who then instructed Chaturvedi to lodge a case with police immediately.Chaturvedi filed a complaint at Cantt police station, following which a case under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of document), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the IPC was registered against 10 people, the officer said.A person privy to the matter said Pandey wrote letters to several MLAs and MPs, asking them to provide funds for the Adarsh Narendra Damodar Das Modi Antarrashtriya Vishwavidyalaya to be set up under the trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-booked-for-registering-fake-trust-in-pm-s-name-4-taken-into-custody/story-vEnO5Wx3CnTMfS6D3hkHVM.html
31-10-2020||India||Hurriyat Conference to protest against new land laws in J-K today; calls for complete shutdown||The Hurriyat Conference has called for peaceful protests on Saturday against the new land laws in Jammu and Kashmir. In a statement, Hurriyat leaders said the government of India had been issuing incessant anti-people orders at frequent intervals to intimidate and psychologically torture the people of Jammu and Kashmir.“All Parties Hurriyat Conference (APHC) reiterates its principled stand of engagement and dialogue among stakeholders for resolution of the Kashmir dispute. The Union was attempting to undermine all attempts of pursuing a peaceful resolution to the Jammu and Kashmir issue,” the statement said.While denouncing the “incessant anti-people orders” issued by the government of India to “intimidate and psychologically torture” the people of Jammu and Kashmir, Hurriyat said this “imperial approach” was bound to fail. It further stated that the people of Jammu and Kashmir are not ‘dumb driven cattle’ who will ‘withstand assaults upon the motherland.’The statement has also asked people to hold peaceful shutdown to register their resentment against the laws and also demanded their immediate withdrawal.On October 28, the Jammu and Kashmir unit of the Congress party joined the other mainstream parties in opposing the new land laws notified by the Centre for the Union territory. “The Congress party rejects the new land laws and vows to fight for the protection of people’s rights,” JKPCC president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said while addressing a public gathering in the Gurez area of Bandipora district. He termed the new land laws as an assault on the rights of people and said the Congress party would not accept such “anti-J&K decisions” by the Centre.The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, an amalgam of various mainstream parties in Jammu and Kashmir including the National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), had also condemned the amendments to the land laws and pledged to fight it on all fronts.On October 27, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) amended several Jammu and Kashmir land laws and introduced some new one to allow any person from across India to buy land in the region. However, the notification states that land will not be taken for agriculture.Until last year, outsiders were not allowed to buy property including land in Jammu and Kashmir. These rights were exclusives reserved for permanent residents of the region. But in August 2019, the Centre read down Article 370 and Article 35A to remove this protection.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hurriyat-conference-to-protest-against-new-land-laws-in-j-k-today-calls-for-complete-shutdown/story-ZfcZGyCqK4YtSLK96Zp3bL.html
31-10-2020||India||Terror attacks in France not result of ‘lone wolf initiatives’: Harsh Shringla||The recent terror attacks in France are not the result of “lone wolf initiatives” and have the backing of an “infrastructure of radicalism”, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said during an interaction with French academia and media on Friday. France is the first stop of Shringla’s three-nation tour that will also take him to Germany and the UK and his interactions in all three countries are aimed at boosting relations in a wide range of areas. India has already condemned the terror attacks in Paris and Nice and backed President Emmanuel Macron for his stance against radical Islam. During his interaction with a cross-section of leading members of the academia, media and think-tanks, Shringla said India stands by France following the attacks of the past week in Paris and Nice. The two countries cannot pretend such actions “come from lone wolf initiatives and misguided individuals”, as there is “an infrastructure of radicalism, including its online manifestations, that comes into play”, he said. These forces also have the backing of states and organised institutions and the two countries cannot and should not postpone a coordinated and definitive response, he added. As Shringla began his two-day visit to France, a knife-wielding man killed three people during a terror attack at a church in the city of Nice. Samuel Paty, a professor who used controversial caricatures of Prophet Mohammed from the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in a class on freedom of expression, was beheaded in an attack in Paris on October 16. During Friday’s interaction, Shringla described France as India’s oldest strategic partner and a steadfast friend in several domains, ranging from terrorism to global warming, maritime security to sustainable development, and norms-based international institutions to technology and innovation. Following the stressed on the international system due to the Covid-19 pandemic, multilateralism needs to be reformed, he said. As instinctive multilateralists, India and France have to take on responsibilities together, especially at the UN Security Council, he added. India and France also recognise the dangers of climate change with clarity and consistency, and their work on the International Solar Alliance and the Paris agreement are testimony to this, Shringla said. The same globalist philosophy should be taken to new areas such as cyberspace or the Indo-Pacific, since India and France are forces of stability working for the greater common good, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terror-attacks-in-france-not-result-of-lone-wolf-initiatives-harsh-shringla/story-mhQBFI1HDmjabrnBv9TIoL.html
31-10-2020||India||26 newly-elected councillors of 6th Leh council to be administered oath of office||The 26 newly-elected councillors of the sixth Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC)-Leh will be administered oath of office and secrecy on Saturday.Additional district commissioner Sonam Chosjor said, “All 26 councillors will be administered oath by principal district and sessions judge Ranbir Singh Jasrotia at Sindhu Sanskriti Kendra at 9.30am on Saturday.”He added that thereafter, the chief executive councillor and deputy chief executive councillor will be elected. The term of fifth LAHDC-Leh will end on Friday.LAHDC-Leh has a total of 30 seats and four councilors are nominated by the government.Since the formation of the hill council in 1995, the Congress had swept the polls thrice, while the Ladakh Union Territorial Front had won the elections in 2005.The BJP wrested control of the council from Congress for the first time in the last elections by winning 18 out of 26 seats.Celebrations will be held to mark the first anniversary of the UT status to Ladakh after the oath-taking ceremony. On October 31, 2019, Ladakh was made a UT without legislature while Jammu and Kashmir was converted into Union Territory with legislature.The people of Leh have been demanding constitutional safeguards under sixth schedule and on September 28, former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) minister and ex-president of the BJP’s Ladakh unit, Chering Dorjay had cautioned the Centre of a sustained campaign in case the apex body was deceived.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-newly-elected-councillors-of-6th-leh-council-to-be-administered-oath-of-office/story-R99dOfWDChK7dlV3srAm4I.html
31-10-2020||India||Railway Police Force launches ‘Meri Saheli’ for security of women in trains||In view of festival season, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) of the Bengaluru Division on Friday launched ‘Meri Saheli’ or ‘Nanna Sakhi’ initiative for the security of women passengers in trains. “An initiative of RPF, the strategy entails interaction with lady passengers especially those travelling alone by a team of young lady RPF personnel at the originating station. These lady passengers are briefed about all precautions to be taken during the journey and told to dial 182 in case they face or see any problem in the coach,” according to an official statement. The RPF team will collect the seat numbers of the ladies and convey them to stoppages en-route. The platform duty RPF personnel at the stopping stations en-route will keep watch over the concerned coaches and berths and if the need arises, they will interact with the lady passengers. The RPF teams will collect the feedback from the identified lady passengers at the destination point. The feedback is then analysed and corrective action will be taken accordingly. If some distress call comes from a train covered under the ‘Meri Saheli’ initiative, the disposal of the call will be monitored at the level of senior officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-police-force-launches-meri-saheli-for-security-of-women-in-trains/story-5zYaOJ0g17ftzcxlwCgehK.html
31-10-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate seaplane service from Sabarmati Riverfront to Statue of Unity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his two-day visit to Gujarat, on Saturday will pay tributes to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his 145th birth anniversary, by inaugurating the country’s first seaplane service between the Statue of Unity site at Kevadiya colony to the Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad.According to a release from the Defence wing, the seaplane, which will be operated by SpiceJet is a Twin Otter 300 and registered in the name of Spicejet Technic.A parade, named the Ekta Diwas Parade, by the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and the Gujarat Police, will be organised in the PM’s presence.After participating in the parade, PM Modi will interact with Civil Services probationers or Officer Trainees, through video conferencing. They will join him from the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration in Mussoorie, Uttarakhand.PM Modi arrived in Gujarat on Friday to attend the National Unity Day events planned at the Statue of Unity.He inaugurated as many as 17 new projects including new tourist attractions near the Statue of Unity at Kevadiya in Narmada district on Friday. Some of the major attractions inaugurated by Modi were Arogya Van, Ekta Mall, Children Nutrition Park, Sardar Patel Zoological Park or Jungle Safari, and a boat ride. He also laid the foundation stone for four projects.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-seaplane-service-from-sabarmati-riverfront-to-statue-of-unity/story-ZD6fMjPgUpZahwTnPtiZeM.html
31-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Wednesday, October 28, the world saw another grim coronavirus disease (Covid-19) milestone. The number of new cases recorded that day crossed half a million — the first time this was happening. Both the New York Times database and worldometers.info show this. They also show that the trend continued on Thursday. According to the NYT database, the world saw 524,554 cases that day; worldometers.info put the number higher, at 545,936. To be sure, the World Health Organization’s database shows that while the number of daily cases is nudging half a million, it is yet to cross it.The continuing surge of the pandemic highlights another interesting feature: a decline in cases in one region has always been more than offset by a surge elsewhere, with the result that there has been no let-up in the march of numbers. To elaborate, in mid-March, Europe was driving the numbers; between then and mid-August, the Americas took over this role, with some help from Asia (mostly India); then, between mid-August and mid-September, Asia was largely the driver, with some help (albeit, very little) from Europe; starting mid-September, Europe was back in the driver’s seat, initially on its own, and then with the Americas. There have been similar ebbs and flows within the regions too, but the overall numbers have continued to increase.Also Read| Covid-19: Third American wave breaking all recordsMost of the cases continue to be concentrated in the northern hemisphere, and the onset of winter will only make things worse — as it was expected to. Data from the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center shows that things are already getting worse (the seven-day average of infections is trending upward) in nine of the 10 most-affected countries. India (now pushed to the third spot in terms of daily cases by France) is the only one where they seem to be getting better — the country is currently at or towards the end of the first wave of the pandemic, and the second wave is yet to start. The other nine countries (where things are getting worse) are: the US, France, Spain, Brazil, the UK, Italy, Belgium, Russia, and Poland. Seven of these (including Russia) are in Europe; two are in the Americas. In most European countries, the raging second wave of the pandemic has seen daily case numbers reach new highs — just as they have in the US, which is seeing its third wave (on Thursday, the country crossed 90,000 daily cases, and looks set to be the first to record in excess of 100,000 cases a day).Unfortunately, the ebb and flow of Covid-19 cases across regions does not appear to be following a temporal cycle. Instead, this is likely to be a function of the infection rate itself, and the response (in the form of restrictions), with a resurgence in cases usually being preceded by significant opening up. For instance, the UK’s ongoing second wave may have been caused (at least in part) by the country’s “eat out to help out” scheme where the government subsidised, through August, meals in pubs and restaurants. According to a study by the University of Warwick, reported by Reuters on Friday, “between 8% and 17% of newly detected infection clusters could be linked to the scheme during that period”. The link, the study found, was very strong. “Areas where there was a high uptake of the scheme saw an increase in new infections about a week after it started,” the Reuters story added. And “the research said the same areas saw a decline in new infections a week [after] the discount offer finished”.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage In theory, this would mean someone could use mobile phones and the Google Mobility Index to actually build a predictive model of where cases can be expected to spike -- and at a very localised level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-QCsqWdT8H9GAQJUKYPVcHI.html
31-10-2020||India||Alarm over new Covid-19 cases in Delhi; Centre may step in||Covid-cases in Delhi surged to a new high on Friday even as a concerned home ministry has called for a meeting on Monday to discuss the issue.For the fourth day in a row, new Covid-19 infections in Delhi on Friday set yet another single-day record even as the positivity rate continued to rise at alarming levels with a tenth of all tests in the past 24 hours returning positive results, highlighting what is clearly the third and worst wave yet of the outbreak in the Capital.Worried about the continuous spike in Delhi’s infections during the ongoing festive season, and at the start of winter, the Union home ministry has called a special review meeting with Delhi government officials on Monday to check the spiralling rate of Covid-19 cases in the Capital, people familiar with the matter told HT.  The meeting, chaired by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, will take stock of the situation and suggest concrete steps to the Delhi government to address the issue. Apart from Bhalla, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul, and other senior central officials will interact with Delhi health officials, the people cited above added.Also Read: Set up panels for Covid-19 vaccine roll-out, govt tells statesThis will be the second intervention by the Centre into rising Covid cases in Delhi. In July, Union home minister Amit Shah held a round of meetings with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and other officials after which, testing, contact tracing and sero-surveillance were ramped up in Delhi with the two governments working in coordination.Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to messages and calls seeking comment on the matter.Cases in Delhi have risen to unprecedented highs in the past week. With 5,891 new cases on Friday, Delhi set a new record for the highest single-day new infections for the fourth day in a row, pushing the total number of cases to 381,644.On average, Delhi has reported 4,749 cases every day in the past week, which means that the current trajectory is far above the peak of what is considered the second wave (4,174 average cases reported for week ending September 17). In contrast, cases in the rest of the country have steadily declined through at least the past month, making Delhi one of the only two regions (besides West Bengal) currently witnessing a peak.What is alarming experts, though, is the rise in the Union territory’s positivity rate. The seven-day average of positivity rate has risen more than 3.5 percentage points in just three weeks – from 5.3% for the week ending October 8 to 8.8% on Thursday. Experts stressed the need for the Delhi government to further increase testing and said that a fast-rising positivity rate is an indicator that a region is not testing adequately. “Delhi is witnessing a severe spike in cases for the third time. A specific study should be conducted in the city at this juncture. There are also studies that suggest that air pollution contributes to transmission of the virus. That makes the situation in Delhi much worse. The number of tests being conducted needs to be further scaled up,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of clinical virology department at Christian Medical College in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore.Also Read: AIIMS to submit proposal for phase 3 trials of Covaxin next weekPollution levels in Delhi have been worsening recently with the air quality index hovering dangerously close to the ‘severe’ zone in the past 10 days. Many international research papers have found that air pollution worsens Covid-19 mortality rates. A study published on Tuesday in the journal Cardiovascular Research had said that around 17% of Covid-19 deaths in India could be linked to long-term exposure to air pollution, higher than the 15% seen on average across the world. A study from the Harvard University has also shown that with every 1 μg increase in PM2.5 long term exposure, Covid-19 mortality went up by 8%.HT reported on Monday that the data showed the tests need to be scaled up now irrespective of the daily volume since the positivity rate is well over the acceptable 5%-7% level, and rising.Many European nations, such as Germany and France, which are seeing a second wave of cases, have all announced restrictions over the past week, especially keeping in mind the festive season. The Delhi government, however, ruled out the possibility of re-imposing any form of restrictions that were put in place during the lockdown.“We have seen a lockdown. But that has not been able to stop transmission of the virus. People will have to strictly adhere to social distancing and always wear masks. People should consider wearing masks as a vaccine until real Covid-19 vaccines are available for the masses. Masks can save us to a large extent from the winter pollution too,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday.On Thursday, Jain attributed the surge in cases to the festive season and said that a “change” in the administration’s contact tracing strategy was helping identify more patients. “We have changed our strategy by strengthening our contact tracing system now. This is why the positivity rate is increasing. So, now we are trying to test 5-7 contacts per Covid case to break the cycle of infection.” Even at this rate, however, Delhi’s contact tracing target would remain considerably short of what experts say is ideal. At the Union ministry’s health briefing on Tuesday, Dr Paul said that “contact tracing can only be considered successful if at least 10 contacts” of every positive case are traced and tested by the local governments.Experts said the rise in cases is a reflection of the fact that with the festive season and winter here, people are not taking Covid-specific precautions.“Many people are venturing outdoors and participating in gatherings in the light of the festive season. And they are clearly not taking adequate safety measures. That is definitely leading to increased transmission of the virus. This demands innovative awareness campaigns that contribute to behavioural change. Also, the winter months witness more respiratory illnesses and Covid-19 is one. That is contributing to the numbers too,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital. (With inputs from Abhishek Dey)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alarm-over-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-centre-may-step-in/story-yrEwibCGA3GPrkAUq9KpiK.html
31-10-2020||India||Air quality still ‘very poor’; watchdog will take shape next week||The newly constituted Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas — formed through a Central ordinance on Thursday to tackle the bad air crisis in the region — will be appointed next week by a selection committee that includes four Cabinet ministers and the Cabinet secretary, according to people familiar with the matter.The average air quality index on Friday for Delhi was 374, in the “very poor” category — a level at which doctors recommend reduced physical activity for healthy individuals, and vulnerable people face problems.The selection panel for CAQM — Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, commerce minister Piyush Goyal, road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari, health minister Harsh Vardhan (who is in the committee in his capacity as the science and technology minister), and cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba — will pick six full-time members including the chairman of the commission, who will be a former secretary to the Government of India or chief secretary in a state government.Two of the other full-time members need to be former joint secretaries to the Union government, and three must be technical experts with experience in tackling the air pollution problem, according to the guidelines laid down in the ordinance. The other 12 members will be ex-officio — representing the states that are part of the NCR region, and from the central pollution board and other Central scientific agencies. CAQM can also co-opt additional members from the ministries of road transport, power; urban affairs, petroleum,agriculture and commerce, and representatives from industry associations.“Framing of rules for the functioning of the Commission and selection of members will take place simultaneously at the earliest, possibly within a week,” said Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, responding to HT’s query.Senior environment ministry officials on condition of anonymity said they are not aware of who the selection panel has in mind for the six full-time positions. “It is entirely the discretion of the selection panel which includes the cabinet ministers,” an official said. With the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) disbanded, and the Commission yet to be constituted, no body is mandated to take and implement region-wise decisions to tackle a spike in pollution levels in the interim.To be sure, however, Epca in 2016 devised a Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to tackle air pollution in the NCR region, and several measures under the scheme are currently in place.“The decision on what measures are to be implemented in the intermediate period will be taken only if the need arises. The Commission is likely to be appointed next week. The full-time members will be selected by the selection committee and the ex-officio members will be selected by concerned organisations or state governments,” additional secretary Ravi Agarwal said.“We are aware that air pollution can peak during this time. In the absence of Epca and the Commission, decisions may be taken by the [Central and state] pollution control boards,” said another official, who asked not to be named.“The irony is that the petition in SC was filed seeking monitoring by SC of the air pollution and stubble burning situation in addition to SC. Now we have situation where EPCA is gone, the one-man committee to oversee stubble fires is also gone and the Commission has not been constituted yet. We only have an ordinance. Even for the Commission to prepare and start functioning will take time. What was the hurry to bring in an Ordinance?” asked Ritwick Dutta, environmental lawyer.The Delhi government had already expressed its scepticism about the move, with state’s environment minister Gopal Rai saying on Thursday: “The powers to monitor and enforce pollution control norms were with Epca, and are also with our state-level body, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and the central body, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). But unless there is action on the ground, no agency can help.”Punjab cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said the setting up of commission is unjustified and overrides the powers of states, adding that the Centre “needs a rethink”.Officials in the Uttar Pradesh government welcomed the move. “The ordinance and the commission are the steps in the right direction. But we have not yet received a copy of it. Whatever little we know, we have come to know through media. Once we get the copy, the government will study it minutely ...We will have internal meetings. Only then will we be able to comment and start playing our role,” said Sudhir Garg, UP principal secretary (environment).Some experts have suggested that the Commission — both in its composition and functions — may be too centralised.“There is no doubt that Epca long outlived its utility. Unfortunately, it is being replaced by a body which is bureaucratic and has similar limitations as EPCA. Instead of including members from other states, it has excluded significant stakeholders — the most prominent being the farmers and their representative groups,” said lawyer Dutta.Farm fires in Punjab and Haryana contributed to 19% of Delhi’s PM 2.5 load, according to modelling by System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) under Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM). Every year, pollution levels spike in October and November in Delhi when meteorological conditions change—winds become northwesterly and wind speed reduces leading to accumulation of pollutants closer to the surface. The contribution of farm fires in Punjab and Haryana to the northwest of Delhi adds to the local emission sources leading to toxic air in Delhi. “The composition of the selection committee reflects a myopic approach to air pollution. It does not have representation of key ministries such as agriculture, health and urban development. The composition also throws up deeper issues of federalism and democratic decision-making. It has no representation from state governments that the law is seeking to regulate, nor does it have scope of independent expertise that can weigh in on the selection,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research (CPR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-still-very-poor-watchdog-will-take-shape-next-week/story-40Ff2r8TqRtoZDaowSa4dM.html
31-10-2020||India||45-year-old Dalit man abducted, set on fire in Amethi: Police||A Dalit man was abducted and set on fire allegedly by upper caste men in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi after he refused to give them money from the village development fund, the police said on Friday.The victim, identified as Arjun Kumar Kori, suffered severe burn injuries and died while being shifted from the Sultanpur district hospital to a Lucknow hospital on Friday, Amethi superintendent of police Dinesh Singh said. The victim’s family lodged a complaint against five people, of which three have been arrested. Kori (45) was married to Bhadoiya village head Chhotka Devi. His son Surendra Kumar told reporters that Kori had gone to a market to purchase vegetables on Thursday evening but did not return home. Later, he was found with serious burns at a property belonging to one Krishna Kumar Tiwari. Surendra said his father had a strong base in the area, which had perturbed his opponents. He has been killed over electoral rivalry, news agency PTI quoted Kumar as saying. The victim’s son claimed that his father had taken names of four people, who stuffed a piece of cloth into his mouth and set him on fire after beating him up.On the complaint of the family against five people, an FIR was registered. Three of the accused, including Krishna Kumar Tiwari, have been arrested while the hunt is on to nab the remaining two, District Magistrate Arun Kumar and SP Dinesh Singh said in a joint press conference here. Additional director general of Lucknow zone SN Sabat said police have been deployed in the village to avert any untoward incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-year-old-dalit-man-abducted-set-on-fire-in-amethi-police/story-mLdhpLckvRqrS8B5T95KfI.html
31-10-2020||India||Onion, potato prices stabilising: Piyush Goyal||Food, public distribution and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal on Friday said prices of essential commodities, such as onion and potatoes, had started stabilising in the country and quick imports would help to keep rates from rising during the rest of the festive season. Addressing a virtual press conference, the minister also said procurement of paddy had clocked a record 24% increase till October 29 over last year, along with an expansion of procurement across major paddy growing states. “At an all-India level, average retail prices of onions have stabilised at around Rs65 a kg. On Oct 27, the average retail price was Rs65.95 a kg, on Oct 28, it was Rs66.34 a kg and Rs65.88 a kg on Oct 29,” the minister said. The minister said that 7,000 tonne of imported onion had already arrived. “These imports by private traders have arrived from various countries such as Egypt and Afghanistan. Another 25,000 tonne are due to arrive before Diwali,” Goyal said. For the past three days, the all-India average retail prices of potatoes have stabilised at around Rs42, the minister said, adding that 30,000 tonne of potatoes would arrive from Bhutan soon. “Rains in October you know had damaged crops in many growing states. The meteorological department had given advance warning to us because of which we took early proactive steps,” Goyal said. The government had on Sept 14 banned export of onions. To help quicker imports, the government on October 21 also relaxed fumigation norms for onions. The directorate general of foreign trade is facilitating private traders to speed up imports by clearing licences, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/onion-potato-prices-stabilising-goyal/story-6Dghk2Q72Q5rxBGv0TyBRP.html
31-10-2020||India||Protests break out against Emanuel Macron in UP, Maharashtra, Gujarat||Protests against French president Emanuel Macron surfaced in various cities across the country on Friday, amid an escalating row over depiction of Prophet Mohammad in cartoons. In western Uttar Pradesh’s Deoband town, protesters pasted photos of the French president on the road between Jama Masjid and Bada Jiya-ul-Haq locality. Condemning his comments, the protesters also took out a march and handed over a memorandum -- addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind -- to the Deoband sub divisional magistrate of Deoband urging the central government to lodge a protest with the French government. In a similar demonstration in Maharashtra’s capital city, Mumbai, posters were found pasted on a busy road in Bhendi Bazaar late on Thursday. The posters were later removed. Posters calling for boycott of France and the French president also surfaced in a locality in Gujarat’s old Vadodara city and were later removed by police on Friday, an official said. According to Gujarat police, the posters, carrying Macron’s photograph and the words “Boycott Macron” and “Boycott France”, were pasted by some unidentified persons on a small stretch of a road at Nawab Wada. In a suspected act of terrorism, a woman was beheaded and two other people were killed in Nice on Thursday. In a separate incident, a gun-wielding man was shot dead by police in French city Avignon. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condemned the attacks and offered support to France. “I strongly condemn the recent terrorist attacks in France... India stands with France in the fight against terrorism,” PM had tweeted on Thursday. On October 16, Samuel Paty, a French teacher, was beheaded for allegedly showing a cartoon of Prophet Mohammad in his class. At the mourning ceremony, Macron said France would not “renounce the caricatures”, inviting sharp responses from Muslim-majority nations, including Pakistan and Turkey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-break-out-against-macron-in-up-maha-guj/story-eb1k1YHgG3yTBGiHEPTlBI.html
31-10-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir admin prevents Farooq Abdullah from attending prayers: National Conference||Former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah was allegedly prevented from leaving his house on Friday to offer prayers at a holy shrine in Srinagar to mark the birthday of Prophet Muhammad, the National Conference (NC) said, terming the incident a violation of his fundamental rights. The party alleged that the Jammu & Kashmir administration has deployed scores of police personnel, blocking the exit to Abdullah’s residence to prevent him from leaving for Hazratbal. “J-K administration has blocked the residence of party president Dr Farooq Abdullah and stopped him from offering prayers at Dargah Hazratbal. JKNC condemns this infringement of the fundamental right to pray, especially on the auspicious occasion of Milad Un Nabi SAW,” the NC said in a tweet on its official Twitter handle.Farooq Abdullah, who represents Srinagar in the Lok Sabha, was supposed to visit the Hazratbal shrine, on the banks of the Dal Lake, to pray there on the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi, which marks the birth anniversary of Prophet Muhammad and it is observed in the month of Rabi’ al-awwal, the third month in the Islamic calendar.An office-bearer of the NC familiar with the matter said the administration informed the 83-year-old parliamentarian that he would not be allowed to go due to security reasons. No official from the administration responded to the requests for comments on the matter.Political leaders in Jammu & Kashmir condemned the action. Former chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti said the move exposed the administration’s “deep paranoia”. “Preventing Farooq sahab from offering prayers on Milad Un Nabi SAW at Hazratbal exposes GOI’s deep paranoia and their iron fist approach towards JK. It’s a gross violation of our rights and is highly condemnable,” she tweeted. Farooq Abdullah is also the head of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration’s (PAGD) -- a new multi-party political grouping in the Valley that seeks the restoration of Articles 370 and 35A, which until last August gave special status and privileges to the region, and for the restoration of the state of Jammu & Kashmir, which has been divided into the Union territories of J&K and Ladakh -- and Mufti is the vice-president.In a statement, PAGD spokesperson Sajad Lone criticized the UT administration, saying its actions infringed upon Abdullah’s religious rights. “We strongly condemn the actions of the state administration, which is tantamount to interference in the religious rights of Dr. Farooq Abdullah. This marks a new low in the curtailment of the fundamental rights of the people of J&K. We demand that the blockade be removed so that Dr. Farooq Sahib is able to perform his religious duties.”There was a controversy surrounding remarks by Abdullah earlier this month, when he suggested that “China’s might” may help with the restoration of J&K’s laws and status to what they were before August 5, 2019..He was recently questioned by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the alleged misappropriation of funds of the Jammu & Kashmir Cricket Association. Abdullah, who was the president of the association when the alleged irregularities took place, has denied any wrongdoings, and his party ahs described this as “political vendetta”. State spokesperson for the Bharatiya Janata Party, Altaf Thakur, said that Farooq Abdullah has been giving statements which are threat to security. “At Hazratbal there are large number of people assembled for prayers and due to security issues he (Farooq Abdullah) must have been prevented from going there which is a good step.”Javeed Ahmad, a political analyst, said: “There are large number of gatherings at Hazratbal on Friday and Farooq Abdullahs speech could have been problem for government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-admin-prevents-farooq-abdullah-from-attending-prayers-national-conference/story-wofa8FdzWsVM1AoFqKWajP.html
31-10-2020||India||Religious conversion only for sake of marriage not valid: Allahabad HC||The Allahabad high court on Friday dismissed a petition filed by an interfaith couple seeking police protection, reiterating that religious conversion only for the sake of marriage is not valid under law. Justice Mahesh Chandra Tripathi passed the order on a petition seeking directions to the police and the woman’s father not to interfere in their peaceful married life filed by Priyanshi alias Samreen and her partner.The petition mentioned that the couple married in July this year but that the family members of the woman were interfering in the married life of the couple.Justice Tripathi observed, “The court has perused the record in question and found that the petitioner has converted from her religion on 29.6.2020 and just after one month they have solemnized their marriage, which clearly reveals to this court that the said conversion has taken place only for the purpose of marriage.” In this case, the woman was a Muslim and converted to Hinduism. The court referred to Noor Jahan Begum case, a 2014 judgment of the Allahabad high court which ruled that conversion just for the purpose of marriage is unacceptable.The court dismissed the writ petition. In the Noor Jahan Begum case, the high court dismissed a batch of writ petitions praying for protection of a married couple where the woman converted from Hinduism to Islam. The issue considered in the said case was “whether conversion of religion of a Hindu girl at the instance of a Muslim boy, without any knowledge of Islam or faith and belief in Islam and merely for the purpose of marriage (Nikah) is valid”. The court at that time answered the question in negative while relying on teachings of the Quran.The court also referred to a Supreme Court case that said conversion to Islam can be valid only when done of a person’s “free will” and “belief in the oneness of God” and not for “creating a ground for some claim of right”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-conversion-only-for-sake-of-marriage-not-valid-allahabad-hc/story-mxyCxzYU4RP0gzHPpbwODI.html
31-10-2020||India||EC revokes ‘star campaigner’ status of Kamal Nath over violations||The Election Commission of India (EC) on Friday revoked the “star campaigner” status of Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath for repeatedly violating the model code of conduct ahead of the bypolls to 28 assembly constituencies in the state, even as he will be allowed to conduct political rallies with conditions.The costs of star campaigners’ rallies are borne by the party, and are not added to the election spends of the candidates for whom they campaign. The Congress has said it will appeal the decision in the Supreme Court. The elections are scheduled for November 3 and the campaigning ends on November 1.“The Commission has carefully considered the matter and has observed with displeasure that Kamal Nath, despite being a leader of a political party, is repeatedly violating the model code of conduct and breaching the ethical and dignified behaviour,” the EC order said. “For repeated violation of the model code of conduct and for completely disregarding the advisory issued to him, the Commission revokes the status of leader of political party (star campaigner) of Kamal Nath,” it added. While Nath will still be allowed to conduct political rallies, the cost will have to be borne by the candidate of that particular assembly segment. The poll body has taken note of the Congress leader’s speech on October 13 in which he said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan treated the “mafia” and “milawatkhor” (adulterators) like gods. They have also taken note of another statement in which Nath referred to Chouhan as a “performer, who should go act in Mumbai”. On Monday, the commission warned Nath against using derogatory terms, shortly after he referred to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Imarti Devi as an “item” during an election rally.Addressing a campaign meeting for the November 3 by-election in Gwalior’s Dabra town, where the BJP has fielded Devi, Nath had said the Congress candidate was a “simple person” unlike his opponent who was an “item”. The remark triggered an outrage with BJP leaders, led by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, staging protests against Kamal Nath. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also disapproved of Nath’s remark, saying it was “unfortunate”.The state Congress president’s media coordinator Narendra Saluja termed EC’s Monday’s move “prejudiced”. “This is a one-sided and prejudiced action taken by the election commission at someone else’s behest. If action has been taken against our state president Kamal Nath ji then similar action should have been taken against chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya too given their objectionable remarks.,” he said.Rajya Sabha MP and Congress leader Vivek Tankha said the EC did not give a notice to Kamal Nath nor the Congress party. “We are approaching Supreme Court to intervene & save democracy,” he tweeted.State BJP chief spokesperson Deepak Vijayvargiya welcomed the decision, saying: “We welcome Election Commission’s decision which has vindicated the stand of the Bharatiya Janata Party as to how the Congress leaders attacked the ruling party leaders and candidates with use of unparliamentary language during the campaigning. The word used by Kamal Nath ji against the BJP candidate Imrati Devi was highly objectionable and condemnable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-revokes-star-campaigner-status-of-kamal-nath-over-violations/story-sq3zvL1UVRUZR2BfApyMqI.html
31-10-2020||India||De-radicalised twice, Pune woman went back to IS: NIA||A 20-year-old woman from Pune, who wanted to be a suicide bomber, was de-radicalised twice in three years by Indian intelligence agencies, but she kept going back to embracing jihadi ideology, according to a charge sheet by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).Sadiya Anwar Shaikh, a resident of Yerwada in Pune, was de-redicalised once in 2015 and then again in 2018, when she was a minor, the agency said in its charge sheet, filed in the first week of September. She was arrested in July in a conspiracy case linked to the Islamic State (IS) after the second de-radicalisation effort failed.According to the charge sheet, she has been in touch with terrorists of various groups such as the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), Islamic State in Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK), al Qaeda, Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind (AGH) in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Sri Lanka, among other countries, on social media since 2015.She was also in touch with a key IS “online motivator” from the Philippines, Karen Aisha Hamidon, who radicalised several Indian youngsters. NIA officials even travelled to Manila in April 2018 and questioned Hamidon. Sadiya came under the radar of intelligence agencies in 2015, when she was just 15, for radical content on her Facebook account. One of her inspirations was wanted Islamic preacher Dr Zakir Naik, who is hiding in Malaysia,according to the charge sheet.It said the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) of Pune tried to de-radicalise her and let her go. However, she again created multiple fake accounts on Facebook and other social media platforms. Later, in January 2018, she went to Kashmir and was examined by Jammu and Kashmir police. “After de-radicalisation, she was handed over to her mother,” the charge sheet said. It said she once asked Jahanzaib Sami (named in the charge sheet along with her) if she can procure a suicide vest in Pune. She also learnt how to prepare an IED (improvised explosive device) using picric acid. “She was not only inclined towards ISIS (Islamic State) but was even ready to offer her support in the form of becoming a suicide bomber,” the charge sheet said. On one occasion, the NIA charge sheet said, she even asked one of her IS contacts if they can explore the possibility of using the coronavirus to wreak havoc on India. “She desired that corona pandemic should be used to destroy the country, which shows her anti-national mentality,” the NIA said. A senior counter-terrorism official, who did not wish to be named, said: “There was intent from her side to know if they can spread the virus by sending infected persons in crowded places or through other means. There was no implementation of the plan.” Professor David Stadelmann from University of Bayreuth (Germany), who is an expert on terrorism, told HT that terrorist groups have discussed biological attacks in the past. “While deliberate attempts to infect people with corona may induce fear, it is rather unclear how such a systematic transmission of the virus would work because people get infected with the virus anyhow,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/de-radicalised-twice-pune-woman-went-back-to-is-nia/story-soyni1wx8kNrbEyDEhFrOK.html
31-10-2020||India||Set up panels for Covid-19 vaccine roll-out, govt tells states||Union health ministry has asked states and Union territories to set up committees to oversee and coordinate the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination at the ground level while making sure that there are minimal disruptions in other routine health care services.In a letter to states and Union territories (UT), Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan suggested constitution of committees at state and district levels to review preparatory activities. “In all likelihood, the Covid-19 vaccine introduction will span over a year with multiple groups being included sequentially starting from health care workers. Therefore it is important to create a strong advisory and coordination mechanism at the state and district level to guide the process of Covid-19 vaccine introduction while ensuring minimal disruption of other routine healthcare services including immunisation,” according to the terms of references shared with the states.The committees will also coordinate cold chain augmentation, capacity building activities of vaccinators and field staff, wherever needed, it said.The states have been asked to constitute at least three committees at different levels — a state steering committee under the chairmanship of the chief secretary, a state task force chaired by either the additional chief secretary, commissioner, or principal health secretary; and a district task force functional under the district magistrate.The function of the steering committee will be to ensure active engagement of other line departments, oversight on creation of database of health care workers on priority of phase 1 vaccination, review of state’s preparatory activities, mobilising human and other resources, and coordinate planning, among others. The state task force’s role will be to identify vaccinators across government and private sectors so as to minimise disruption of routine immunisation services while introducing the Covid-19 vaccine, and planning and mapping of vaccination sessions where health care workers will be vaccinated, etc. At the district level, the task force will monitor progress of database of beneficiaries, ensure training of all human resource to be involved in the process, and monitor cold chain and vaccine logistics planning, etc. “The vaccine will take some time but logistical arrangements will have to be made early to avoid any last minute glitches,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/set-up-panels-for-covid-19-vaccine-roll-out-govt-tells-states/story-A2eepcRBujhuRDZovKfn1H.html
31-10-2020||India||Gurugram ICU rape: CMO says patient ‘may have been sexually assaulted’||The chief medical officer (CMO) of Gurugram Civil Hospital on Thursday told Gurugram Police that a 21-year-old tuberculosis patient admitted at Fortis Hospital, Sector 44, may have been sexually assaulted while in hospital. The victim’s father lodged a complaint on Tuesday alleging that his daughter was raped by a member of the hospital staff while she was in a semi-conscious state on a ventilator in the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU).A case has been registered at Sushant Lok police station under section 376 (2) (E) of the Indian Penal Code.“A three-member team of doctors was formed on Wednesday to conduct a medical examination of the victim. A sexual assault cannot be ruled out. More tests, including psychological assessment, will be conducted once she regains consciousness and her statement is recorded,” the CMO, Virender Yadav, wrote in a report submitted to the police. The Haryana State Commission for Women (HSCW) took suo motu cognisance of media reports of the incident, and on Thursday constituted an inquiry committee. Its team will visit the hospital to talk to the administration and the victim’s family on Saturday.The commission has sought a detailed report from the CMO and police, and asked the hospital management to submit an “action taken” report. “It was shocking to learn about such an incident inside hospital premises that too with a patient who is in ventilator support,” said Preeti Bhardwaj, vice-chairperson of HSCW.Police said that two members of the hospital staff were under the scanner, but no arrests were made yet. Officers familiar with the probe, however, said they have recovered crucial evidence from the CCTV footage from two floors of the hospital.“The victim is still on ventilator and has breathing issues. Her counselling sessions will also be scheduled once she starts communicating with family and doctors,” said commissioner of police KK Rao. He added that the investigators were waiting for the victim to be declared fit by the doctors before recording her statement, and making arrests.Officers said the family suspected the crime took place between October 21, when she was admitted, and October 27, when she gained consciousness. The victim told her father about her ordeal through a handwritten note on Tuesday, they added.The victim is undergoing treatment for tuberculosis, and was in isolation in a private room of the ICU.The victim was removed from the ventilator on Friday evening but is not in a condition to record her statement.Preeti Bhardwaj, vice chairperson of women commission visited the victim on Friday and met the family members. She said the victim was not in a condition to talk.“The condition of the patient is steadily improving, and she was taken off ventilator support this afternoon. The family and police were immediately informed. Fortis is proud to have 58% of women employees and our ethos is to respect and ensure the dignity and safety of all women. As a responsible healthcare provider, we are committed to working with the authorities to establish the truth,” Fortis Memorial, Gurgaon, said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ggm-icu-rape-cmo-says-patient-may-have-been-sexually-assaulted/story-TKt0PhA72E9fhsvKroRl8J.html
31-10-2020||India||AIIMS to submit proposal for phase 3 trials of Covaxin next week||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences is likely to submit a proposal to start phase 3 clinical trials in the hospital to the Institute of ethics committee for Bharat Biotech’s anti Coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine candidate by early next week. Bharat Biotech last week got an approval from drugs controller general of India to conduct phase 3 clinical trials of its anti Covid-19 vaccine candidate, Covaxin, in India, and AIIMS Delhi is one of the sites selected for trials that will be conducted across India. “The proposal is being prepared for the phase 3 trials, and within a couple of days we will be submitting it to the institute ethics committee for approval,” confirmed Dr Sanjay Rai, professor, department of community medicine, AIIMS Delhi. Dr Rai is also the principal investigator for the Covaxin trials at the hospital. For a trial to start at any of the approved sites, it is mandatory to secure clearance of the institute ethics committee.Also Read: Prioritisation has to be done on criteria for Covid-19 vaccination, says Dr VK Paul As per the rules laid down by country’s biomedical research regulator— the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), it is required for an ethics committee to oversee clinical research and thoroughly review the proposal at any site before allowing the trial to start. AIIMS ethics committee consists 15 members, and is expected to take about 10-14 days to grant the necessary approvals. “The proposal will be at least 200-300 pages and it takes time to go through it properly. The idea is to review and look for gaps, if any, that would address all concerns. The concerns that are usually raised almost always are valid, which you might miss otherwise. It helps,” said Dr Rai. For the phase 1 and 2 trials, Dr Rai’s team had submitted the proposal to the committee on June 30, and the clearance came through on July 18. AIIMS plans to recruit anywhere between 2,000-5,000 participants for the upcoming phase 3 trial once they get the approval. Bharat Biotech had submitted the phase 3 trial application for India to the national drugs controller on October 2, and received its approval on October 22, suggesting minor procedural changes to the trial plan. Also Read: Set up panels for Covid-19 vaccine roll-out, govt tells statesThe company plans to enroll at least 26,000 participants for the phase 3 trials at 25 to 30 hospital sites across 13-14 states. For phase 1 clinical trials, it had recruited 375 subjects, and as part of the phase 2 trials the vaccine candidate was administered to 400 participants. Bharat Biotech has completed phase 1 trial, and the results were submitted to DCGI that showed no major safety concern. For phase 2, the safety test has been completed, and the immunogenicity test to know body’s immune response to the vaccine, is currently underway. Covaxin is India’s first vaccine candidate against Covid-19. Bharat Biotech has developed the vaccine candidate in collaboration with ICMR- National Institute of Virology (NIV) using an inactivated Sars-Cov-2 virus, the virus that causes Covid-19. “Phase 3 trial results will eventually decide which vaccine would work and which wouldn’t,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary medicine department, AIIMS, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-to-submit-proposal-for-phase-3-trials-of-covaxin-next-week/story-5ys9xnOfO8olyk9YPTcwqJ.html
31-10-2020||India||After organisational change in Bengal BJP, central team to monitor progress||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) central leaders want the West Bengal unit to hit the road with full steam in the second week of November and subsequently intensify campaign for the crucial assembly polls due in about five months. The entire movement will be monitored from Delhi, state leaders told HT on condition of anonymity. Strong supervision by the BJP central leadership is being viewed by state office-bearers as a measure to stop internal rumblings and iron out differences between leaders who earlier worked for the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and those who joined in recent years, leaving the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). The most prominent among the former TMC leaders is Mukul Roy, who was recently made a national vice-president. On October 28, BJP president J P Nadda appointed Amitava Chakraborty as the new general secretary (organization) of the Bengal unit, replacing Subrata Chatterjee, a former RSS leader known to be close to state president Dilip Ghosh. Chakraborty is the joint general secretary (organization) of the state BJP since 2019. He too was earlier in the RSS. Differences between Ghosh and Roy and his followers (who switched over from the TMC) made news over the last two months. BJP leaders said the party’s central leaders want this to end so that a strong fight can be put up against the TMC in 2021. “Many leaders from the state have complained to the central leadership that they are not being able to work freely. We will not be surprised if more organisational changes are made,” a state leader said on condition of anonymity. Nadda will be on a two-day tour of the state in the first week of November. He is scheduled to address party leaders from 15 districts in south Bengal. The organisational meetings to be held on November 6 and 7. “The strategy of the coming movements will be decided at these meetings. The party president will brief district and state leaders. Union home minister Amit Shah will also visit Bengal but the dates have not been finalised yet,” a state vice-president told HT on Friday. Although the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019, party leaders said the assembly polls will not be a cakewalk, especially in the 15 south Bengal districts where most of the assembly segments are located. Under instructions from Shah, the party is now strengthening the organisation right down to the polling booth level. In the north Bengal district of Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar, Cooch Behar, North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur and Malda, the BJP won seven seats last year. In sharp contrast, the saffron camp could capture only 11 seats in the south Bengal districts of Bankura, West Burdwan, East Burdwan, Birbhum, Purulia, Murshidabad, Nadia, West Midnapore, Jhargram, East Midnapore, Hooghly, Howrah, Kolkata, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas. The organisational changes are directly related to the party’s election strategy, BJP leaders said. On September 26, the central leadership dropped former Bengal unit president Rahul Sinha from the national committee and inducted two former TMC leaders, Roy and Anupam Hazra. Hazra was made a national secretary in place of Sinha. The announcement was made by Nadda in Delhi. As the reshuffle led to rumblings over elevation of former TMC leaders in the hierarchy, Ghosh and Roy were summoned to Delhi in early October to meet Shah. The former BJP national president, who has set the target to oust the TMC government in 2021, charted out some strategies. The leaders were reportedly told to work as a team. Ghosh, however, recently got into a dispute with former TMC leader and Lok Sabha MP from Bishnupur (Bankura district) Saumitra Khan who was made president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the youth front, about two months ago. A week ago, Ghosh dissolved all BJYM district committees formed by Khan. “This did not go down well with central leaders,” said a senior state BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-organisational-change-in-bengal-bjp-central-team-to-monitor-progress/story-8QAMn85nuWQBFOIsQ805JP.html
31-10-2020||India||Police file charge sheet in Hoshiarpur rape case||The Punjab Police on Friday submitted a charge sheet in a court in connection with the alleged rape and murder of a six-year-old Dalit girl in Hoshiarpur. A special prosecutor has been appointed for expeditious proceedings in the case, in which the state government has sought a fast-track trial to ensure speedy justice for the six-year-old girl, officials said. According to a statement, police completed the investigation into the case in less than 10 days. The minor was allegedly raped, killed and then set on fire last week. Her half-burnt body was found at a house in a village in Tanda in Hoshiarpur. Accused Gurpreet Singh and his grandfather Surjit Singh were arrested on charges of murder, rape and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on October 21. Taking serious note of the Hoshiarpur incident, chief minister Amarinder Singh had directed the Punjab Police to submit its charge sheet in court within 10 days, according to the statement. “In strict compliance of the chief minister’s directive, the police today submitted their final report in the special court (in Hoshiarpur district) of Neelam Arora in a record time of nine days after completing the probe in just eight days of the incident,” the statement said. Giving details of the probe, director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said utmost vigil was practiced during the course of investigation. “Forensic teams were called in to collect evidence from the scene of the crime, while technical evidence and DNA samples were taken for forensic examination to state-of-the art laboratories,” he said. Opposition BJP has been attacking the Congress over the incident, asking why party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have not visited the family of the victim yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-file-charge-sheet-in-hoshiarpur-rape-case/story-sYSp99NIkX9smS5gG2V47O.html
31-10-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray to decide whether Urmila Matondkar will be nominated for Legislative Council seat, says Sanjay Raut||The Maharashtra government may recommend actor Urmila Matondkar’s name for nomination to the state Legislative Council. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a final decision on it, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Friday as speculations of the Bollywood actor’s nomination were rife. On Thursday, the Maharashtra cabinet discussed the proposal of recommending to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari the names of 12 candidates for their nomination to the Upper House of the state legislature from his quota.Apart from Urmila Matondkar, the names of Marathi actor and Shiv Sena leader Aadesh Bandekar, singer Anand Shinde, BJP-turned-NCP leader Eknath Khadse, farmer leader Raju Shetti are also doing rounds.“I have also heard about the speculation that Matondkar will be nominated by the government to the Council. It is the prerogative of the state cabinet, which has authorised CM Uddhav Thackeray to take a decision,” Sanjay Raut said.Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab has said leaders of the three allies of the Maha Vikas Aghadi will finalise the names and then forward it to the governor. These 12 council seats had fallen vacant in June this year.Under Article 171 of the Constitution, the governor can nominate 12 members with special knowledge or practical experience in the field of literature, art, science, cooperative movement and social service to the state Legislative Council.The actor had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Mumbai North constituency on a Congress ticket. Five months after she joined the party, she quit the Congress citing petty in-house politics. “My political and social sensibilities refuse to allow vested interests in the party to use me as a mean to fight petty in-house politics instead of working on a bigger goal in Mumbai Congress,” she had said.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-to-decide-whether-urmila-matondkar-will-be-nominated-for-legislative-council-seat-says-sanjay-raut/story-7cqdCI6L41zgB7kNk4XkIJ.html
31-10-2020||India||2 arrested from Punjab in Bengal BJP leader’s murder||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the West Bengal police on Thursday arrested two alleged contract killers, Sujit Kumar Rai and Roshan Yadav, during a raid at Ludhiana in Punjab in connection with the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manish Shukla on October 4.Rai and Yadav hail from Bihar, CID officials said. They were brought to Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district, where Shukla was gunned down, and produced before Barrackpore court on Friday afternoon. CID officers said on condition of anonymity that Rai and Yadav were deployed by Bihar-based gangster Subodh Singh. Singh was lodged at Beur jail in Bihar during the murder. The alleged hitmen returned to Bihar after the murder and later went to Punjab to evade arrest.CID officers claimed to have found during investigation that Singh contacted Rai and Yadav and even supplied the firearms. The information was given to the probe team by another accused Muhammad Nasir Khan, a resident of North 24 Parganas district, who allegedly approached Singh. Manish Shukla, 39, an outgoing councillor of the Titagarh municipality in North 24 Parganas district was gunned down by motorcycle-borne hitmen on the night of October 4. Five people were arrested earlier but the CID and state government have so far made no official statement on the investigation. Police have seized some firearms and three motorcycles allegedly used in the crime which took place within 100 metres of Titagarh police station. Shukla, a former Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader, joined the BJP after the opposition party won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. One of these seats is Barrackpore, of which Titagarh is a part.In Shukla’s murder, nine people have been named in the First Information Report (FIR) on the basis of the complaint lodged by his father Chandra Mani Shukla. The outgoing chairman of Barrackpore municipality, Uttam Das and his counterpart in Titagarh municipality, Prashanta Choudhury, have been named in the FIR.Barrackpore’s BJP MP Arjun Singh, who also switched camp in 2018, has accused the chairpersons of two civic bodies and TMC lawmaker from Panihati, Nirmal Das, of masterminding the murder with the help of some police officers. On October 11, Bengal BJP leaders alleged before governor Jagdeep Dhankhar that the state CID is trying to implicate leaders from the party in the murder case. A BJP team, led by national vice-president Mukul Roy, met Dhankhar at the Raj Bhawan and said the CID probe was not moving in the right direction. Dhankhar raised the issue before the media in Delhi on Thursday after meeting Union home minister Amit Shah.The BJP and the state’s ruling TMC are locked in a pitched political fight in the run up to next year’s state elections.The BJP claims that more than 140 of its workers and leaders have been killed since 2011. Though the TMC didn’t give any number, but some of its leaders have also been killed in recent months, though mostly in intra-party clashes.   BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said, “The CID may have arrested two people from Punjab but we firmly believe that TMC got Shukla killed.” TMC’s North 24 Parganas district unit chief and minister Jyotipriyo Mullick rejected Basu’s charge and said the CID will unearth the truth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-arrested-from-punjab-in-bengal-bjp-leader-s-murder/story-Zf6abm5esBJElWKkDu4ENI.html
