01-10-2021||India||Punjab government ropes in human rights lawyer RS Bains as special public prosecutor in sacrilege violence cases||Chandigarh: Human rights lawyer, senior advocate Rajwinder Singh Bains, has been named as special public prosecutor by the Punjab government to appear before trial courts and the Punjab & Haryana high court in the politically sensitive sacrilege violence cases of 2015, according to a government notification on Friday.The move appears to be part of the steps being taken to assuage state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu by newly appointed chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi because it effectively keeps the state’s advocate general, APS Deol, out of the sacrilege cases.On September 27, Sidhu objected to the appointment of Deol because the senior advocate had in the past appeared for some of the accused in the matter, including former director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini. Sidhu cited Deol’s appointment as one of the reasons for his sudden decision to quit as Punjab Congress president on September 28, only to change his mind after a meeting with CM Channi on Thursday. To be sure, Deol could not have represented the state in the matter in any case because of his previous appearances for some of the accused.Bains, son of former Punjab and Haryana high court judge Ajit Singh Bains. is a well-known criminal and constitutional lawyer and has appeared in cases from across the political spectrum, including cases of human rights violation in Punjab’s terrorism days in the 1980s. Bains has also been appearing against former DGP Saini in the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case of 1991 and for Ajit Singh, the main complainant in the Kotkapura firing case. Multani, a Chandigarh administration employee, was kidnapped and murdered in Chandigarh. The FIR was registered in May this year and now Saini is accused in the case. “It (the appointment of Bains) will ensure speedy justice in unfortunate sacrilege and firing incidents,” a government spokesman said adding, that the notification comes into effect with immediate force.However, former SIT member and AAP leader Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh questioned the appointment. “Another big fraud with Punjab and Punjabis by Congress government. Appointment of Special Public Prosecutor in Kotkapura -Behbal Kalan cases is only an eyewash. The intention of the government is very clear, to continue with the present advocate general,” he said.In 2015, three incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib, the holy scripture of Sikhs, were reported from Punjab’s Faridkot. Days later protesters broke out in Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan, where two people were killed in police firing. Three FIRs were filed over the desecration and two (one in August 2018, after the Justice Ranjit Singh Commission) over the police firing.The then Parkash Singh Badal government handed the cases to the CBI. But in 2018, after Congress came to power, the Assembly withdrew permission to the agency and formed an SIT from state police. In April, the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed that SIT’s report. The order triggered strong reactions from Navjot Singh Sidhu and other Punjab Congress leaders, who accused Singh of “incompetence” and declared him to be “hand-in-glove with the culprits”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-government-ropes-in-human-rights-lawyer-rs-bains-as-special-public-prosecutor-in-sacrilege-violence-cases-101633112799757.html
01-10-2021||India||‘If TMC from Kolkata can fight…’: Shiv Sena outs its plan for Goa elections||PANAJI: Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday announced the party’s plans to contest 20-25 seats in Goa on its own, a departure from past practice when the party contested seats as part of an alliance.“We are here not because of elections but because we are committed to work here. It is a commitment that we will work here - elections or not. We have now decided that we will fight 22-25 seats. In Goa, we used to opt for alliances that is why we could not expand,” said Rajya Sabha member and Shiv Sena spokesperson.“Even if we are sitting in the opposition, that will do. It is not a bad thing to be sitting in the opposition,” he added. Sanjay Raut said that the party, which used to contest a handful of seats in Goa each election without any success was held back because of coalition compulsions and hence could not expand its base both within Maharashtra as well as now in Goa. The Shiv Sena has contested assembly elections in the past, but the party performed poorly. In the 2017 assembly polls, Shiv Sena contested on three seats in alliance with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and the Goa Suraksha Manch. It lost all of them.The MGP was the only party among the alliance to win any seats.“All this while we focussed on alliances. In Maharashtra, our leader and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had to concede that we could not expand our base (in Maharashtra) because of the alliance for 25 years,” the visiting Shiv Sena leader added.Earlier the party claimed it had as much of a right to contest from Goa as some of the other parties with ‘national’ aspirations. “If Trinamool Congress from Kolkata can contest in Goa, then Maharashtra is right alongside. You have seen how well we have performed in Maharashtra,” Raut said, a reference to former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro’s induction in the Trinamool Congress, who has announced the decision that the TMC will contest on all 40 seats of Goa assembly in elections early next year.“The kind of work carried out by the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, we will work in the same way in Goa. Shiv Sena and Goa share an emotional bond,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-tmc-from-kolkata-can-fight-shiv-sena-outs-its-plan-for-goa-elections-101633111897129.html
01-10-2021||India||Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda expresses concern over multiple desertions||Chandigarh, Sep 30 (PTI) Senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday expressed deep concern over recent developments in the party’s Punjab unit and multiple desertions, and said the party leadership should hold deliberations on these matters. Hooda, who is part of the G-23 group which wrote a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi last year seeking organisational overhaul, said weakening of the Congress is also not in national interest. “Why are such things happening? The party should do ‘manthan’. Efforts should be made to find a solution to these issues,” Hooda told reporters in Rohtak. When asked to comment on former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s emphatic statement that he will quit the party, Hooda said it is his personal decision. Commenting on multiple desertions recently, Hooda, who is also the leader of opposition in the Haryana Assembly, said not just in Punjab, in Goa too, a senior leader has left the party. “I am very much concerned about the future of my party. Weakening of the Congress is also not in national interest,” Hooda told a news channel. Former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro, who recently quit the Congress, had joined the Trinamool Congress on Wednesday and called for uniting various factions of the grand old party under the leadership of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to fight the BJP. Hooda said many others, including some senior leaders, have left the party. Amarinder Singh had resigned as the chief minister of Punjab on September 18 after accusing the Congress leadership of humiliating him. Earlier in the day, while some senior leaders of the party came out in strong defence of the top leadership and attacked Kapil Sibal and other G-23 leaders, Hooda came in Sibal’s support. Referring to the protest by Congress workers outside Sibal’s Delhi residence a day before, Hooda said this is not in line with the party’s culture. “If anyone has any difference of views, it should be brought up and discussed at the party forum,” he said. Sibal said at a press conference that the G-23 grouping is “not a Jee Huzur 23” and will continue to put forth the views and will continue to repeat the demands. Carrying ‘Get Well Soon Kapil Sibal’ placards and raising slogans against Sibal, Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) workers had protested outside his Jor Bagh residence, saying they were “hurt” by his remarks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-bhupinder-singh-hooda-expresses-concern-over-multiple-desertions-101633111778515.html
01-10-2021||India||Paddy procurement row: PM Modi assures CM Channi of early resolution||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday assured Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi of an early resolution to the paddy procurement after a row broke over the same following the Centre's announcement of postponing it till October 10. This comes as the Punjab chief minister held a courtesy meeting with the Prime Minister earlier today.In an official statement following the meeting, Channi said that the Prime Minister told him that he would soon get this issue addressed in consultation with the Union ministry of food on the "top priority".Channi also said that the maiden visit to the national capital was "quite positive as it was held in a congenial atmosphere."The Centre on Thursday postponed the procurement of paddy in Punjab and Haryana till October 11 as the crop maturity is delayed owing to recent heavy rains. The announcement immediately sparked unrest among farmers in the two agrarian states and prompted CM Channi to ask PM Modi to intervene in the matter.Paddy procurement for 2021-22 Kharif marketing season in Punjab was to commence from October 1, while in Haryana it officially started from September 25.The Centre has fixed a minimum support price (MSP) of ₹1,960 per quintal for grade ‘A’ paddy, while ₹1,940 per quintal for common grade paddy for 2021-22 Kharif marketing season.Punjab is a major contributor to the central pool as over 100 lakh tonnes of rice is procured from this state. From Haryana, less than 45 lakh tonnes of rice is purchased during a Kharif marketing season.Meanwhile, at the meeting, CM Channi also discussed the issue of farmers' protest with PM Modi and asked him to resume talks with the protesters. He asked PM Modi to open the Kartarpur Corridor at the earliest. The visa-free border crossing that connects the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan to the border with India is shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paddy-procurement-row-pm-modi-assures-cm-channi-of-early-resolution-101633110761176.html
01-10-2021||India||Sunil Jakhar posts about truce, ceasefire amid Punjab row, says tweet is about LAC||Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Friday posted a cryptic tweet and requested people to not infer anything from the two line he wrote. "Is it finally truce now, armistice sealed? Or is it only a temporary ceasefire?" Sunil Jakhar posted adding that he was referring to the situation at the Line of Actual Control after the recent Chine intrusion into the territory. "No inference please," he added.Sunil Jakhar was replaced to make Navjot Singh Sidhu the chief of the Punjab Congress though the elevation did not solve the crisis and Captain Amarinder Singh resigned from the post of teh chief minister. Though Sunil Jakhar's name was doing the rounds as the next chief minister, he was ruled out for several reasons and one among them was his equation with Sidhu. Is it finally truce now, armistice sealed ? Or is it only a temporary ceasefire ? PS. I’m referring to situation at LAC after the recent Chinese intrusion into our territory. No inferences please.But making Charanjit Singh Channi the CM could not save the situation either as Sidhu resigned in protest against Channi's appointment decision. Following a meeting with Channi on Thursday, Sidhu has reportedly agreed to continue in his post as Channi is believed to have yielded to Sidhu's demands. With this, the immediate problem in the Punjab Congress has been addressed, while a bigger dissent in the Congress needs attention.A day before, Sunil Jakhar slammed Sidhu without naming him and said there has to be an end to the attempts of undermining the authority of the chief minister again and again. " Aspersions being cast on the selection of AG & DGP is actually questioning the integrity/competence of CM and Home Minister to deliver results. It’s time to put the foot down and clear the air," Jakhar said.When Sidhu announced to resign from the post of the party president in Punjab, Sunil Jakhar said it was not cricket. "What stands compromised in this entire ‘episode’ is the faith reposed in the (outgoing ?) PCC President by the Congress Leadership. No amount of grand standing can justify this breach of trust placing his benefactors in a peculiar predicament," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sunil-jakhar-posts-about-truce-ceasefire-amid-punjab-row-says-tweet-is-about-lac-101633107598479.html
01-10-2021||India||PM Modi invites Dubai Expo gathering to invest in ‘land of opportunities’ India||Calling India a “land of opportunities”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday invited the cultural gathering at Dubai Expo to invest in “one of the most open countries in the world.” Speaking at the first world fair in the Middle East, PM Modi congratulated the UAE prime minister and ruler of Dubai Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum for the massive event.The prime minister said that the spirit of the main theme of Expo 2020, Connecting Minds, Creating the Future, is also seen in India's efforts as “we move ahead to create a New India.”“Today's India is one of the most open countries in the world. Open to learning, open to perspectives, open to innovation, open to investment. That is why I invite you to come and invest in our nation,” PM Modi told the gathering.He said that India is a land of opportunities across fields, including arts or commerce, industry, and academia. Noting the opportunities in India to discover, partner, and progress, PM Modi said, “Come to India and explore these opportunities."“Come to India and be a part of our growth story: India is a powerhouse of talent. Our country is making many advances in the world of technology, research and innovation. Our economic growth is powered by a combination of legacy industries and start-ups,” he added.Earlier today, Union minister Piyush Goyal inaugurated the India Pavilion at the Dubai Expo 2020. Speaking at the inaugural event, Goyal said that India Pavilion symbolises the “pride, potential and power of Indian citizens living around the globe.” “It tells a story of aspiration, serves as a symbol of audacity and invitation to the world. You can bet on India and you will certainly win,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-invites-dubai-expo-gathering-to-invest-in-land-of-opportunities-india-101633102215725.html
01-10-2021||India||Top court refuses to interfere with closing of Delhi’s private liquor vends under new policy||The Supreme Court on Friday closed the doors upon 260 private liquor vends in the Capital seeking a last-minute indulgence to remain operational beyond September 30, the cut-off date prescribed under the Delhi Government’s New Excise Policy for private liquor vends to shut shop.As per the new policy that will come into force from November 17, the Delhi Government had required all existing liquor vends to close by September 30. For the period from October 1 till November 16, only government liquor vends were allowed to remain open to cater to the festive season rush. After November 17, even the government liquor vends were to close.Demanding parity with government liquor vends to operate till November 16, the private liquor vends, mostly operating in malls, told the Supreme Court that during Diwali there would be chaos at the government liquor vends and to avoid this, it would be fair and just in public interest for private liquor vends to meet the Capital’s liquor demands.The Court was hearing separate appeals filed by Radinton Tradex Private Limited and one Harish Chauhan against interim orders passed by the Delhi High Court which had refused to stall the rollout of the new Excise Policy. The Delhi Liquor Traders Association had approached the Delhi High Court against the New Excise Policy which is still under consideration.The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar said, “We are not inclined to entertain these petitions” and asked, “What larger public interest will be served if the private liquor vends are allowed to operate till November 16”.Senior advocates Vikas Singh and Sidharth Luthra appearing for the private liquor vends told the Court, “The rush outside government liquor vends is huge and this can be avoided if we are allowed to operate. Also, the state will earn revenue as we sell top quality liquor for which the customers in the Capital will go to neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.”The Delhi Government appeared on caveat and was represented by senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi who argued that the old policy was meant to expire on September 30 to ensure smooth, seamless transfer to the new excise policy. In all, there are 849 liquor stores in Delhi of which more than 260 are privately-run, holding L7 and L10 licenses. Singhvi said that the state had power to bring the new excise policy under the Delhi Excise Act 2009 and the corresponding Rules and this challenge was pending before the Delhi High Court.The Delhi government had earlier stated that the new policy was introduced to usher in reforms to boost revenues, give a better experience to customers, and crack down on the liquor mafia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-refuses-to-interfere-with-closing-of-delhi-s-private-liquor-vends-under-new-policy-101633103085532.html
01-10-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut to be brand ambassador of UP's ODOP; actor meets Yogi Adityanath||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut will be the brand ambassador Uttar Pradesh government's One District One Product Programme, the government announced on Friday, after the actor met Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath at his official residence in Lucknow. The actor wrapped her Moradabad schedule of upcoming movie Tejas and landed in Lucknow, she posted on Instagram, updating her fans about the meeting scheduled between Kangana and Yogi Adityanath. Though the CM's office called it a courtesy meet, soon after the meeting, the government announced Kangana as the brand ambassador of the government's ODOP programme. Famous Actress Kangana Ranawat met @myogiadityanath Hon’ble Chief Minister UP, who presented her with an @UP_ODOP product. Kangna ji will be our Brand Ambassador for ODOP @CMOfficeUP pic.twitter.com/XUJTiStRqvOne District One Product is a flagship programme of the UP government which aims to encourage the indigenous and specialised products and craft that each of the districts of the state has. The government says that Uttar Pradesh districts produce some products like chikankari, zari zardozi, kala namak rice etc which are found nowhere.During the meeting, Kangana appreciated the work of the Yogi government in UP while Adityanath invited Kangana to Ayodhya to pay a visit to the holy land. "Ramchandra ki tarah tapaswee raja ka yahan raaj rahein (May the ‘king’ who is like Lord Ram be in power here)," Kangana said, wishing Adityanath luck for the upcoming elections. A post shared by Kangana Thalaivii (@kanganaranaut)Yogi Adityanath gifted Kangana the coin which was used at the bhumi pujan of the Ram Temple, Kangana said, sharing a video on Instagram. "This is a good omen," the actor posted announcing that she is making a film called Ayodhya. "I thanked Uttar Pradesh government for their cooperation in our film ( Tejas) shooting and wished Honourable Chief Minister best of luck in his upcoming elections…I emphasised that we had a tapasavi Raja from Uttar Pradesh Shri Ram Chandra and now we have Yogi AdityaNath … May your reign continues Maharaj ji. He gifted me a coin which was used at Ram Janm Bhumi Pujan. What a memorable evening thank you Maharaj ji," Kangana posted on Instagram.Talking about Adityanath, Kangana wrote, “He is exceptionally vibrant, genuine and motivating in person…. What a pleasure and privilege to have an audience with this young, fiery and one of the most loved and popular leaders of this nation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-to-be-brand-ambassador-of-up-s-odop-actor-meets-yogi-adityanath-101633102814310.html
01-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Govt declares Chacha Chaudhary mascot for Namami Gange Programme and
all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt declares Chacha Chaudhary mascot for Namami Gange Programme. Here's whyFamous Indian comic book character Chacha Chaudhary was declared as the mascot of the Union government’s 'Namami Gange Programme' at an executive committee meeting of the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) on Friday. Read morePetrol, diesel rates soar to an all-time high as global oil prices softenPrices of fuel soared to another record level on Friday with petrol in Delhi surging to ₹101.89 per litre and diesel at ₹90.17 as state-run retailers raised their rates by 25 paise and 30 paise respectively even as international oil markets softened on prospects of supply ease by the oil cartel. Read moreCovishield: What India and UK's new travel rules making quarantine must meanFrom October 4, India and the United Kingdom will implement their new international travel rules gearing up for a post-vaccination time, though the vaccination status will not be accepted in either of the countries. Read moreRailways runs first AC-parcel train using passenger coachesIndian Railways on Friday operated its first air-conditioned parcel train where it used passenger coaches to carry cargo like chocolates and snacks. The parcel train was operated by the Northern Railways. Read moreSonakshi Sinha says her first serious relationship was in her 20s, lasted over 5 years: 'It was a long one'Actor Sonakshi Sinha has said that she had her first real relationship only after she was already 20, and that it was ‘a long one’. Read moreIPL 2021: Eoin Morgan provides major update on Andre Russell’s injuryKolkata Knight Riders (KKR) skipper Eoin Morgan on Friday provided a major update on the fitness of all-rounder Andre Russell and pacer Lockie Ferguson. Read moreBlood cancer common myths debunked by expertBlood cancers occur when the body produces large number of immature blood cells that are unable to function properly, preventing normal functioning and blocking the bone marrow that prevents infections. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-govt-declares-chacha-chaudhary-mascot-for-namami-gange-programme-and-all-the-latest-news-101633101308283.html
01-10-2021||India||Massive search on for five navy climbers after avalanche hits expedition in Uttarakhand||The military on Friday launched a massive search and rescue operation to locate five members of an Indian Navy mountaineering expedition who were caught in an avalanche while attempting to climb Mount Trishul in the Uttarakhand Himalayas, navy officials familiar with the development said on Friday.The five climbers went missing on Friday morning near the summit camp at Bageshwar in the Kumaon region, said one of the officials cited above. “Search and rescue is being carried out by ground teams and helicopters from the army and the air force,” he said. The state disaster response force (SDRF) also joined the search operation in the mountains. The 20-member naval expedition to Mount Trishul, located at a height of 7,120 metre, was flagged off from Mumbai on September 3. “Ten climbers had started their approach on the final leg to the summit this (Friday) morning, but they were caught in an avalanche short of the summit. While 5 of the 10 climbers are safe, search and rescue of the remaining five is in progress,” the official said. The 15 remaining members of the expedition are also involved in the search and rescue operation. Western Naval Command chief Vice Admiral R Hari Kumar flagged off the expedition from INS Trishul. The event is part of the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ celebrations to commemorate 50 years of the victory in the 1971 war with Pakistan. The theme of the expedition is “Trishul Yudhpoat Se Trishul Parvat Tak” (from Trishul warship to Trishul Mountain). “The team assembled at Mumbai on August 15 and underwent physical fitness sessions, endurance training and trekking practice at Bhimashankar (in Maharashtra) to hone its physical condition and technical skills,” the navy said in an earlier statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-search-on-for-five-navy-climbers-after-avalanche-hits-expedition-in-uttarakhand-101633101877817.html
01-10-2021||India||India gives it back to UK, makes 10-day quarantine must for its nationals||NEW DELHI: UK nationals travelling to India will have to undergo 10-day mandatory quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated under reciprocal measures to be enforced from October 4, marking an escalation in the vaccine certification row between the two countries.The Indian side made the decision on Friday as the UK has not yet taken a call on accepting India’s vaccine certification more than 10 days after the conclusion of technical discussions that were expected to resolve the matter.The row erupted because Indians travelling to the UK will have to undergo a 10-day quarantine under new British travel rules that come into force from October 4. The UK’s failure to recognise Covishield, the Indian variant of the Britain’s AstraZeneca jab, had also given rise to allegations of vaccine racism. Though the UK recently included Covishield in its list of approved vaccines, the process for accepting India’s vaccine certification is expected to take more time. “India has decided to impose reciprocity on British nationals arriving in India from the UK,” a person familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. “Our new regulations will come into effect from October 4, and will be applicable to all UK nationals arriving from the UK,” the person said, adding that the measures will be enforced irrespective of the person’s vaccination status. The mandatory quarantine will have to be done at home or at the destination address. All UK nationals travelling to India will also have to undergo a pre-departure Covid-19 RT-PRC test within 72 hours before travel, another RT-PCR test on arrival at the airport, and a RT-PCR test on the eighth day after arrival. The health and civil aviation ministries will take steps to implement the new measures.The Indian move reflected the growing anger in New Delhi over the vaccine certification issue and appeared to be aimed at pressuring the British side to act for the speedy resolution of the matter.At the moment, British nationals flying to India have to undergo tests before their travel and on arrival, and undergo quarantine for seven days. However, people familiar with developments said the quarantine wasn’t being strictly monitored or enforced at many places, and the onus was largely on individuals to comply with a declaration signed at the airport. From October 4, the 10-day mandatory quarantine will be strictly monitored. The new measures will not apply to Indian nationals flying in from the UK. People familiar with developments said the British side was considering the issue and a resolution was expected soon. The British high commission spokesperson said the UK is continuing to work on expanding its travel policy to countries and territories in a phased approach. “We are continuing to engage with the government of India on technical cooperation to expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India,” the spokesperson said. Britain’s decisions on vaccine recognition are made by ministers, taking into account public health factors. The UK is looking at ways for people who have been fully vaccinated elsewhere to enter the country, and British visa rules are constantly reviewed to keep borders open while safely restarting travel. Visa applications from all categories of Indian travellers continue to be processed and they don’t need to be vaccinated to travel to the UK. A decision on the British side regarding acceptance of India’s vaccine certification requires further consultations between several ministries, including the Department of Health and Social Care and the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office. The inclusion of the complete date of birth in vaccine certification done through India’s CoWIN platform has met a key requirement of the British side, the people said.The Union ministry of health and family welfare has asked states and Union territories that have international airports to enforce the restrictions on arriving UK nationals, and also alerted Integrated Disease and Surveillance Programme (IDSP) officials to monitor the home quarantines and the mandatory test on the 8th day. It has also alerted all Airport Health Organisations and Port Health Organisations that are in charge of screening arriving passengers. A decision on the British side regarding acceptance of India’s vaccine certification requires further consultations between several ministries, including the Department of Health and Social Care and the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, people familiar with the matter said.The inclusion of the complete date of birth in vaccine certification done through India’s CoWIN platform has met a key requirement of the British side, they added.The approval in the UK involves a whole-of-government approach and the British side is aware of the urgency of the matter, they said.Indian officials have so far had two technical meetings with British representatives. British high commissioner Alex Ellis met the chief executive of the National Health Authority, RS Sharma, on September 2, and the second meeting was held on September 21 between the technical teams.Sharma has said the British side had made it clear that the “certificate process is not the issue”.The discussions focused on certification through the CoWIN app, the security of the system, data sharing between the two sides, and reconciling the CoWIN system with the NHS Covid Pass developed by Britain’s National Health Service (NHS).Ellis and Sharma also met on September 23, and the envoy described those talks as “an important step forward in our joint aim to facilitate travel”.The vaccine certification row has come at a time when overall bilateral ties are on the upswing and the two sides are working towards a trade agreement. It has become a problem as growing numbers of Indians, especially students, are travelling to the UK.Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla had warned on September 21 that India could consider imposing “reciprocal measures” against nations that don’t accept the country’s vaccine certification.India is currently in the UK’s so-called amber list of countries because of cases of Covid-19. The UK will phase out the red, amber and green lists when its new travel rules come into force on October 4.(Rhythma Kaul contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-orders-tit-for-tat-rule-for-uk-passengers-says-10-day-quarantine-is-must-101633100196496.html
01-10-2021||India||Railways runs first AC-parcel train using passenger coaches; transports Maggi, chocolates||Indian Railways on Friday operated its first air-conditioned parcel train where it used passenger coaches to carry cargo like chocolates and snacks, people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI. The parcel train was operated by the Northern Railways. The train took off from Sanehwal in the Ferozpur division to Yeshwantpur in the south-western division.Indian Railways said this is the first time that the air-conditioned carriages which carry passengers were used for transporting cargo. “This is for the first time that AC passenger-carrying conventional ICF coaches have been utilised for transporting cargo,” the Railways said.The first AC parcel express train consisted of 20 2nd AC and 3rd AC coaches. “The first AC parcel express train consisting of 20 2nd AC/3rd AC coaches, carrying refrigerated cargo departed from Sanehwal, Ferozpur Division for Yeshwantpur today in South-Western Railway. This is for the first time ever that AC passenger carrying coaches (ICF/ Conventional passenger coaches) have been utilized for transporting cargo” the Railways said.The seats were removed from the passenger coaches to accommodate the cargo. It was done as a part of an experiment where the railways planned to use coaches which were sitting idle. Railway officials said that the cargo contained food items like edible snacks and chocolates. It also contained shipments of Maggi noodles, sauce as well as raw material needed for making chocolates. It also carried textile in the train coaches. The officials said that the total weight of the cargo was 121 tonne.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-runs-first-ac-parcel-train-using-passenger-coaches-101633099885144.html
01-10-2021||India||Army chief takes stock of security in Ladakh sector amid LAC row||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday visited forward areas in eastern Ladakh to carry out a security review in a sensitive sector where the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have been locked in a border standoff for almost 17 months and both sides are carrying out negotiations to cool tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials familiar with the development said on Friday. Naravane visited forward areas in eastern Ladakh where he was briefed on the prevailing security situation and the army’s operational preparedness, the army said in a statement. The army chief interacted with the troops and complimented them “for their resoluteness and high morale”, it added. The two-day visit came barely two months after the rival armies carried out the second round of disengagement in early August when both sides pulled back their forward deployed troops from Gogra or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the friction points on the LAC. The breakthrough came after the 12th round of military talks held on August 2. Earlier, India and China wrapped up the disengagement process in Pangong Tso area in mid-February, with their armies pulling back forward-deployed troops, tanks, infantry combat vehicles and artillery guns from strategic heights where rival soldiers last year fired shots for the first time at the LAC after 45 years. (The last recorded incident when bullets were fired at the LAC was in October 1975, when the PLA ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead). Problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved. To be sure, the problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff. Even after the disengagement from Pangong Tso and Gogra, the two sides still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre. The dates for the 13th round of talks to discuss the other friction points along the LAC are yet to be announceThe visit also came a day after the army chief said at an event in Delhi that developments along the LAC in Ladakh added to challenges faced by the Indian military on the “active and disputed borders” in the western and eastern fronts. The “unprecedented” military standoff with China required an immediate response and large-scale mobilisation of resources at a time when the country was grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic, he said while addressing the annual session of the PHD Chamber Of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) on Thursday. Naravane’s Ladakh visit also came barely a month after multiple PLA patrols consisting of around 100 soldiers crossed the LAC in the central sector in Uttarakhand and damaged a foot bridge before they went back to the other side. The army chief also visited the Rezang La War Memorial in eastern Ladakh and paid homage to the bravehearts killed in action during the 1962 India-China war. The historic Battle of Rezang La, fought at heights of more than 18,000 feet, saw 124 Indian soldiers repel attack after attack by a numerically superior and better-equipped enemy in November 1962.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-takes-stock-of-security-in-ladakh-sector-amid-lac-row-101633098276574.html
01-10-2021||India||Covishield: What India and UK's new travel rules making quarantine must mean||From October 4, India and the United Kingdom will implement their new international travel rules gearing up for a post-vaccination time, though the vaccination status will not be accepted in either of the countries. While UK's travel rules are for all and the differential treatment is only for India, it is the first time India has announced a mandatory quarantine for the vaccinated passengers of a country, people aware of the development said. Here is what the new travel rules mean> As of now, vaccinated Indians travelling to the United Kingdom will have to undergo a mandatory quarantine for 10 days, even if they are fully vaccinated by Covishield.> Covaxin, the other vaccine being administered in India, is yet to receive WHO approval and has not been approved by the UK. But the UK travel rules have made Covishied, Covaxin and no vaccine all equal as everyone will have to undergo the 10-day quarantine in the UK.India makes 10-day quarantine must for all UK travellers, despite vaccination> Covishield is a formulation of Oxford University's vaccine against Covid-19, manufactured locally by the Serum Institute of India. India exported the vaccine to the UK which means many people in the UK got vaccinated with Covishield.> The UK side said it has no problem with Covishield and also mentioned the vaccine in the list of UK-approved vaccines. It said the problem lies with the vaccination certificate given in India.> India said its vaccine certificate has no problem and also agreed to add the full date of birth to the certificate.> India earlier said it will take reciprocatory measures to countries which will refuse to recognise its vaccines.> The new rules announced only for UK travellers starting from October 4 indicate that similar measures will be taken for travellers from other countries too if they refuse to recognise India's vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-what-india-and-uk-s-new-travel-rules-making-quarantine-must-mean-101633097255430.html
01-10-2021||India||BJP’s rebel north Bengal MLA quits party; more to follow, says TMC||Krishna Kalyani, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Raiganj in the North Dinajpur district of north Bengal announced on Friday that he was leaving the party, triggering speculation that he may join the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). Kalyani, an industrialist who stepped into politics by joining the BJP in January this year, had been speaking against the leadership for quite some time. On Friday, he held Debasree Chaudhuri, former Union minister of state and BJP Lok Sabha member from Raiganj, responsible for his decision. “She is conspiring against me. I came into politics to serve people. And now, I am being stabbed in the back. This is unacceptable. It is not possible for me to work with her. I am leaving,” Kalyani said. This was the second time in a month that he spoke against Chaudhuri. Kalyani made the announcement hours before the Bengal BJP felicitated its new state president Sukanta Majumdar, who represents the Balurghat Lok Sabha seat in the adjoining South Dinajpur district. Though Kalyani kept mum on switching sides, TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said, “He was unhappy in the BJP. There are more like him who are ready to quit. We don’t prefer indiscriminate induction but I think Kalyani will be welcomed if he wants to join TMC.” “Picture abhi baaki hai (there is more to the film),” quipped Roy, using a one-liner from a popular Hindi movie to indirectly refer to the four saffron camp MLAs who have joined the TMC since June. The last one to join on September 4 was Soumen Roy who was elected from the Kaliaganj seat in north Bengal. With this, the BJP’s tally in the 294-member Bengal assembly came down from 77 to 71. For the record, BJP outperformed the TMC in north Bengal in all recent polls. In the March-April assembly polls, the BJP bagged 30 of the 54 seats in the eight north Bengal districts although the TMC won 213 seats across the state. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP bagged 18 of the state’s 42 seats. In north Bengal, it secured seven of the eight seats. Debasree Chaudhuri could not be contacted but Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya countered Kalyani. “Unlike Chaudhuri, who is into politics for three decades, Kalyani is a newcomer. She has no reason to conspire against a novice. The BJP wants its members to stay together but if Kalyani wants to leave, he must do so after resigning from the assembly. People elected him as a BJP candidate,” said Bhattacharya. BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the state assembly, said, “Kalyani has been speaking against Chaudhuri and top state leaders for a long time. He is free to leave. The number of MLAs is not important to us. It is allegiance to the party that matters.” Kalyani had shocked the leadership after BJP national president JP Nadda appointed 41-year-old Majumdar as state president on September 18. Majumdar became the youngest state leader to hold the post that Dilip Ghosh, 57, had to vacate after a six-year stint. “Is he (Majumdar) mature enough to run the party across the state? I have doubts. The BJP would have benefitted if an experienced person was given the responsibility. The appointment should have been discussed. Not a single MLA was aware of the decision till it was announced,” Kalyani said on September 19. The BJP’s tally in the assembly came down from 77 to 75 immediately after the polls as two MLAs from north Bengal did not take oath to retain their Lok Sabha seats. The tally climbed down to 71 after four MLA joined the TMC. Three of them are from south Bengal districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-rebel-north-bengal-mla-quits-party-more-to-follow-says-tmc-101633096055959.html
01-10-2021||India||Goa elections: Shiv Sena to contest 22-25 seats, will shut down casinos if voted||The Shiv Sena on Friday announced that it will contest 22 to 25 seats in Goa without forging any pre-poll alliance. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut during a press conference also promised that if voted to power the party will shut down the casinos in the state.Responding to the entry of the Trinamool Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party in Goan politics, Raut said that the coastal state is witnessing a ‘political carnival’. “Have heard that TMC is also fighting the polls in Goa. The political parties from Delhi and West Bengal are contesting in Goa. So many leaders are switching sides. What we are currently witnessing in Goa is a political carnival,” Raut was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Speaking of his party’s chances, Raut said that the Shiv Sena is connected to Goa, emotionally as well as culturally, and has a strong base in the state. Raut was also confident that Sena will be able to win majority seats due to its base in the state. “We are emotionally and culturally connected to Goa. We have our own base and we are sure to win majority seats with it,” Raut said. He added that the Sena has been present in Goa for the last two years.Regarding any alliances with Congress similar to Maharashtra’s Maha Vikas Aghadi, Raut said that the politics of both states are different.Among other promises Sena made, one was to reduce the working hours of Goa’s women police officials.Raut, however, said that Sena’s electoral move will not cause any division of opposition votes.Goa’s elections which are due in February next year will see a multipolar contest with the Trinamool Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) gearing to give the BJP a tough fight. Goa’s veteran Congress leader Luizinho Faleiro announced that under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee, the TMC will contest on all 40-assembly seats. AAP chief and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal also promised free power up to 300 units per month and 80% jobs for locals if his party is voted to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-elections-shiv-sena-to-contest-22-25-seats-will-shut-down-casinos-if-voted-101633095519280.html
01-10-2021||India||Amarinder Singh hits out at Congress Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat||Former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday rejected Congress Punjab in charge Harish Rawat’s statement that the former was not humiliated. “Three weeks before stepping down as chief minister, I offered my resignation to... (Congress chief) Sonia Gandhi but she had asked me to continue,” said Singh. He added the humiliating manner in which he was pushed into resigning just hours before the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meeting that was “clearly convened” to oust him was a matter of public record. “The world saw the humiliation and the insult heaped on me, and yet Rawat is making claims to the contrary,” he said. “If this was not humiliation then what was it?” He said Rawat should put himself in the former’s shoes. Singh added then perhaps Rawat would realise how insulting the entire affair was.He recalled that Rawat himself publicly stated after meeting him that he was satisfied by his government’s track record vis-a-vis the 2017 poll promises. Singh said Rawat categorically said, as recently as September 1, that the 2022 elections would be fought under the former’s leadership and the high command had no intention of replacing him. “So how can he now claim that the party leadership was dissatisfied with me, and if they were, then why did he deliberately keep me in the dark all this time?” He rejected Rawat’s remarks that the former seemed to be under pressure. Singh said the only pressure he had been under for the past few months was that of his own loyalty to the Congress because of which he continued to tolerate insult after insult. “If the party did not intend to humiliate me then why was Navjot Singh Sidhu allowed to openly criticise and attack me on social media and other public platforms for months? Why did the party give the rebels, led by Sidhu, a free hand in undermining my authority? Why was no cognisance given to the uninterrupted spree of electoral wins I handed over to the party through the four and a half years I was in the saddle?” Singh questioned why Congress was allowing Sidhu even now to hold the party to ransom and continue to dictate terms. “What is the pressure he exerts on the party leadership that they are so defenceless against him and are allowing him to have his way even to the cost of the Congress’ future in Punjab?” Responding to Rawat’s comment regarding his secular credentials, Singh said even his worst critics and enemies could not doubt his integrity in this regard. “But I am no longer surprised that a senior and seasoned Congress leader like Rawat is questioning my secular credentials. It is quite evident that I am no longer trusted and respected in the party that I have served loyally all these years.”Singh denied Rawat’s claim the former refused to meet his successor Charanjit Singh Channi after the latter’s swearing-in. He added Channi called him up on the day of his swearing-in and was supposed to come over but failed to turn up.As for not taking Rawat’s calls, Singh said it was all humbug. “We spoke just a day before the CLP meeting was called. Rawat told me then there was nothing in the works and even claimed he had not seen any letter sent by 43 MLAs. I am shocked at the blatant way in which he is now lying about this.”Singh said as a chief minister twice and state Congress chief thrice, he worked with stalwarts like Pranab Mukherjee, Moti Lal Vohra, Mohsina Kidwali, Meira Kumar and Shakeel Ahmed as Congress in-charge for Punjab. “I never had a single problem with any of them. I fail to understand Rawat’s behaviour and actions.”He dismissed as “total nonsense” Rawat’s remarks that he was “circulating the theory of humiliation” after meeting Union home minister Amit Shah. Singh pointed out he clearly said on the day of his resignation that he was being humiliated.As for the implementation of poll promises, Singh said contrary to “Rawat’s lies”, he fulfilled nearly 90% of the pledges made in the 2017 election manifesto. He called it a matter of record that could not be negated with “frivolous and baseless” statements.He said Rawat’s “outrageous claims” and allegations were clearly prompted by the pathetic situation the party now found itself in the state after being on a winning spree for four and a half years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-hits-out-at-congress-punjab-in-charge-harish-rawat-101633094556124.html
01-10-2021||India||Domestic flights of GoAir, 3 other airlines to operate from Mumbai Airport Terminal 1 from Oct 20||The domestic flight operations of four airlines are likely to shift to Terminal 1 of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) starting October 20. Adani Airports Holding Ltd., which took over the management of CSMIA from the GVK Group in July, has informed the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and other stakeholders regarding the decision.However, a spokesperson for the Mumbai airport said that the operations will be shifted only after the pending approvals are cleared. Once the required approvals are received, GoAir, AirAsia, TruJet and Star Air will shift their operation to Terminal 1.The domestic flight operations were herded to Terminal 1 in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and subsequent restrictions, which led to a decline in footfall. But the Covid-19 vaccination drive and relative control over the pandemic has boosted air traffic with the rise in demand.On Thursday, International Air Transport Association (IATA) said in a statement that India and Russia were the only large markets to show a month-to-month improvement compared to July 2021."India’s domestic traffic reversed the trend, as demand fell 44.8% in August, improved from a 58.9% decline in July versus July 2019, owing to positive trends in new cases and vaccination,” the IATA said.Adani Airports Holding Ltd. has also mentioned the substantial increase in domestic passenger numbers in August as compared to May, HT has learnt. It said that the number of passengers at the Mumbai airport has increased due to confidence-building measures and the vaccination drives undertaken by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flights-of-goair-3-other-airlines-to-operate-from-t1-of-mumbai-airport-101633093569989.html
01-10-2021||India||‘Next 6-8 weeks are important as…’: Guleria on how Covid cases can drop||Three days after the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued Covid-19 guidelines for the upcoming festive season, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi director Dr Randeep Guleria on Friday said that people must remain “alert and vigilant” in the next six to eight weeks for the cumulative infection rates to come down.“During the festive season, we have to remain alert and vigilant. If we remain alert for the next six to eight weeks, then we will be able to see a decline in the overall number of Covid-19 cases,” he told news agency ANI.India on Friday reported 26,727 fresh Covid-19 cases – a rise of 13.5 per cent from yesterday, thereby taking the cumulative tally to 3,37,66,707, according to data shared by the Union health ministry. As many as 28,246 new recoveries were registered in the last 24 hours, following which the total number of recovered patients climbed up to 3,30,43,144. With 277 new fatalities, the death toll stands at 4,48,339, the ministry data revealed.The MHA on Tuesday issued a warning to all states and Union territories (UTs) against any reluctance over enforcing strict measures to contain the spread of Covid-19, and also extended the guidelines till the end of October. “Utmost vigil has to be maintained in respect of mass gathering events, so as to avoid any possibility of surge in Covid-19 cases,” Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote in a letter.India has so far vaccinated more than 89 crore eligible beneficiaries, including achieving the feat of administering Covid-19 vaccine shots to over 1 crore individuals in a single day, five times in a month. According to an earlier report by Hindustan Times, Union health ministry officials stated that the central government is planning to reach the nationwide vaccination coverage of 1 billion people by early October.Despite such developments, the delay in emergency approval of Covaxin – India’s indigenous coronavirus vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech, by the World Health Organisation (WHO), has caused concerns. However, Guleria on Friday said that they are “hopeful” the approval should happen soon “rather than…late” because all data have been submitted and studies have also been done.Also Read | Working with WHO to get emergency use listing for Covaxin: Bharat BiotechEmphasising the need for the approval, the AIIMS director told ANI that the move will “make travel easy…encourage people, especially those who have taken both shots of the vaccine to be able to travel abroad.”He added that the emergency approval of Covaxin is also required when the world has started moving out of the pandemic in order for those jabbed with the doses not needing to “quarantine or isolate at any place.”Guleria’s statement comes hours after Australia declared Covishield as the “recognised vaccine” for international travellers as part of its move to reopen the world. The announcement was made via a statement issued by Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and several of his ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/next-6-8-weeks-are-important-as-guleria-on-how-covid-cases-can-drop-101633092372237.html
01-10-2021||India||In meeting with PM Modi, CM Channi asks to resume talks with farmers||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi in a courtesy visit. During the meeting, the chief minister raised various issues concerning Punjab, including the farmers' protests that will complete a year in November. He urged the Prime Minister to resume dialogue with the farmers who are agitating at Delhi borders against the Centre's three agriculture laws."I asked the prime minister to resolve the matter of farmers' protest and resume dialogue with the protesting farmers. I demanded that the three laws should be withdrawn," Channi said, speaking to the media after the meeting.Channi also asked PM Modi to start paddy procurement after the Centre postponed it till October 11 over delayed crop maturity owing to recent heavy rains. "Procurement season usually begins in Punjab on October 1, but this year Centre has decided to begin it on Oct 10. I have requested him to start procurement now," Channi said.He requested the Prime Minister to open Kartarpur Corridor for devotees at the earliest. Kartarpur Corridor is a visa-free border crossing that connects the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan to the border with India. It is closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Dedicated to the 550th Parkash Gurpurb (birth anniversary) of Guru Nanak, the corridor was inaugurated by the Prime Ministers of India and Pakistan in 2019. The corridor remained operational for only four months before governments of both countries closed it to curb the virus spread.The meeting between Channi and PM Modi comes in the backdrop of bitter infighting in the Punjab Congress. Early this week, Navjot Singh Sidhu stepped down as the chief of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, though reports said he will continue in the post as he has been placated.On Thursday, Amarinder Singh who resigned from the post of chief minister in September said he will leave the party due to the mistreatment by the high command. The Congress' veteran leader also clarified that he will not join the BJP.The crisis comes as the state is set to hold legislative assembly elections next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-meeting-with-pm-modi-cm-channi-asks-centre-to-resume-talks-with-farmers-101633092735611.html
01-10-2021||India||A muted puja this year too as Calcutta high court bans entry of visitors into pandals||Visitors will not be allowed inside Durga Puja pandals in West Bengal this year as well, the Calcutta high court ordered on Friday while hearing a Public Interest Litigation seeking curbs during the festive season to prevent a surge in Covid-19 cases. The court said that all the restrictions it imposed in 2020 will remain this year.“This means the ban on the entry of visitors inside the Durga Puja pandals remains. The court had mandated putting up barricades outside the pandals while putting a cap on the number of puja committee members who can enter a pandal,” said Sabyasachi Chatterjee, an advocate.Durga Puja is the biggest festival in West Bengal. Even though the five-day Puja starts this year from October 11, the festival extends for more than a week every year. Mahalaya this year would be held on October 6 and the immersion process would continue till 17.Advocate general Soumendra Nath Mookherjee said the state government has no objections if the court imposes last year’s restrictions.Ruling Trinamool Congress leader Tapas Roy said: “Last year too, West Bengal celebrated a muted festive season. Several restrictions were imposed, and everyone abided by them. (Chief minister) Mamata Banerjee has said whatever measures were introduced last year would be enough and may be followed this year too.”Abhijit Chowdhury, a health expert who is a part of the state’s Covid-19 advisory panel, welcomed the court order. “We are still not out of the Covid-19 situation. Any lapse could trigger another wave. The government, puja committees, and citizens should all work together and maintain the protocols to prevent any surge.”The government on Thursday announced relaxation in the night curfew in the state between 11 pm and 5 am in view of the puja celebrations. It also said the existing restrictions in place to check the spread of Covid-19 have been extended till October 30.The Centre has directed states to enforce adherence to Covid-related guidelines, especially during the festive season. Large scale gatherings in fairs, festivals, and religious events and functions may lead to a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases, the Union home ministry warned states in a letter on Tuesday.Clubs registered with the state government hold at least 36,000 community pujas across the state including 2,500 in Kolkata. Pujas are also held in housing societies and at residences. Women alone organise around 1,500 pujas.According to a study commissioned by the state government in 2018, the economic value of the creative industries that crop up around the puja is worth ₹32,377 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-muted-puja-this-year-too-as-calcutta-high-court-bans-entry-of-visitors-into-pandals-101633091136099.html
01-10-2021||India||Once the oldest party, now a 'joke': BJP leader amid Congress Punjab turmoil||Congress must come out of the shadow of the Gandhi family to become relevant again in national politics, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Shanta Kumar said on Friday amid infighting in its Punjab unit. The former chief minister of Himachal Pradesh stressed that if the Congress is eliminated from the political canvas of the country, then the "democracy will be without a national opposition," news agency PTI reported.The remarks come as Congress is battling bitter infighting in Punjab, months before the assembly elections. Early this week, Navjot Singh Sidhu stepped down as the chief of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, though reports said he will continue in the post as he has been placated.On Thursday, Amarinder Singh said he will leave the party due to the mistreatment by the high command. The Congress' veteran leader also clarified that he will not join the BJP.Speaking in Dharamsala, Shanta Kumar noted the importance of Congress and said it is the "only national party in the country after the BJP." "The chariot of democracy moves on two wheels. One is the ruling party and the other is the opposition," Kumar also said as per PTI report.He further said that the oldest party which was once led by the likes of Nehru, Gandhi, and Patel, has now become a "joke" of late. The only treatment for Congress is to come out of the “slavery” of the Gandhi family, Kumar asserted.Speaking on the Punjab row, Kumar said Amarinder Singh should not leave the Congress but sit together with G-23 leaders like Ghulam Navi Azad, Kapil Sibal and Shashi Tharoor to "fight for freedom" in the party and break out of the "bondage" of one family.The G-23 referred is a group of Congress leaders who had last year written to Sonia Gandhi, seeking an organisational overhaul of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-the-oldest-party-now-a-joke-bjp-leader-amid-congress-punjab-turmoil-101633090467160.html
01-10-2021||India||India makes 10-day quarantine must for all UK travellers, despite vaccination||India has announced a mandatory 10-day quarantine for all travellers coming to the country from the United Kingdom, irrespective of their vaccination status, people familiar with the development said. The measures come in response to the UK government's latest travel rules where Covishield is an approved vaccine against Covid-19 but India's vaccine certificate is not recognised. India's stern measure comes after the Indian government warned of ‘reciprocal measures’ to the UK government's differential treatment of India's vaccination.Despite their vaccination status, all passengers from the United Kingdom will have to undergo a mandatory quarantine upon arrival in India. In addition, they will need to produce the result of the RT-PCR test done within 72 hours before travel. After their arrival and on day 8, they will have to take the RT-PCR tests again. The mandatory quarantine can be done at home or at the destination address. These new rules are exactly in line with UK's travel rules. ‘Not because of CoWIN’: RS Sharma on UK quarantine rule for IndiansThe UK government recently revised its travel guidelines to be effective from October 4 and initially did not mention Covishield in the list of its approved vaccines. Then it included Covishield in the list but did not give approval to CoWin certificate which testifies the vaccination status of someone who has received the jab in India. This brings doubly vaccinated Indians travelling to the UK to the status of unvaccinated travellers and all alike will have to undergo quarantine in the UK if the vaccine certificate is not accepted.Several rounds of meetings took place between Indian and UK representatives and one was attended by National Health Authority chairman RS Sharma and UK high commissioner Alex Ellis. After the meeting, both expressed satisfaction and said there seems to be no problem regarding Covishield or the certificate. Reports said India is mulling to add the full date of birth on the certificate for people travelling abroad.However, the 'reciprocal' move indicates that the issue over Covishield has not been resolved.India strongly condemned the move of the UK government as it clarified that there is no problem with either the Covishield vaccine or the vaccine certificate. Covishield is a formulation of the Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine which India also exported to the UK and the certificate conforms to all standards stipulated by the World Health Organization, the government said.As the health ministry will enforce the new guideline specific to UK travellers, all states and UTs that have international airports and thereby may receive flights from the UK have been alerted. The integrated disease surveillance programme Officers in the States have been informed because they will be monitoring the home quarantine and the 8th day test. All port health organisations and Airport health organisations have been informed as they will also be a critical part of the implementation at the entry level. (With inputs from Bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-makes-10-day-quarantine-mandatory-for-all-uk-travellers-101633089737609.html
01-10-2021||India||‘Make him Congress president,’ says RJD leader in a swipe at Kanhaiya Kumar||The discomfort in the Rashtriya Janata Dal after Kanhaiya Kumar joined the Congress has begun to surface. Cracks have appeared in the relationship between the Congress and the RJD in Bihar after senior RJD leader and former Rajya Sabha MP Shivanand Tiwary took a swipe at Congress leader Kanhaiya Kumar and Rahul Gandhi, after the former Left leader joined the Congress recently. Two days after former JNU Students’ Union president Kanhaiya Kumar joined the Congress, Tiwary took a dig at Kanhaiya and dared the Congress to make him the national president as the post has been lying vacant. Tiwary had earlier too attacked the Congress party and Rahul Gandhi. Describing Kanhaiya “as an expert in the art of delivering speeches”, Tiwary said, “At one point of time Leftists were seeing their future in Kanhaiya Kumar. Now Congress is seeing its future in him. Congress should make him (Kanhaiya Kumar) its president. For the last two years, there is no permanent president in the party,” said Tiwary and added that Congress is looking at him to sail their ship out of the crisis. “He said in his speech at the time of joining that if the big ship does not survive, what will happen to the small boats? It was a historic statement,” he added. The veteran leader rubbished talk that the former student union leader poses a threat to Tejashwi Yadav. “During 2019 Lok Sabha elections, RJD’s candidate stood second in Begusarai. Kanhaiya Kumar was third. In such a situation, he hardly poses a problem to Yadav. He worked to defeat the RJD candidate in the Lok Sabha elections and in fact helped BJP by dividing secular votes,” he alleged. Tiwary, who had criticized Rahul Gandhi took a dig at him again and said that he had full sympathy with him. “Congress trusts outsiders more. The party has not been able to choose its permanent president for the last two years. He must first trust his people. A permanent chairman should be elected. I myself want Congress to be strong. This will strengthen the Grand Alliance,” said Tiwary. The discomfort in the RJD can also be gauged from the fact that even RJD spokesperson Bhai Birendra, MLA, refused to recognize Kanhaiya. Last year, Tiwary had taken a swipe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and said that “he (Rahul Gandhi) is unable to inspire confidence in the public”. RJD’s criticism of Kanhaiya did not go down well with Congress, which alleged that Tiwary “was being guided by RSS ideology.” “Instead of strengthening the Grand Alliance, he is trying to weaken it by toeing a different ideology,” said Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-him-congress-president-says-rjd-leader-in-a-swipe-at-kanhaiya-kumar-101633088735997.html
01-10-2021||India||Govt approves release of ₹7,274 cr to 23 states as central share of SDRF||In a bid to assist the kin of those who died due to Covid-19, the Centre on Friday released ₹7,274.40 crore as the second installment of its share of the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to 23 states, the Union ministry of home affairs said in a press release.The Union ministry of home affairs said that the money will facilitate state governments to have enough funds in their SDRF to meet expenses on granting ex gratia to next of kin of deceased due to Covid-19.“Union minister of Home Affairs and minister of cooperation Amit Shah has approved release of the 2nd instalment of the central share of the SDRF amounting to ₹7,274.40 crore, in advance, to 23 states. Five states have already been released, in advance, the 2nd instalment amounting to ₹1,599.20 crore,” the release said.The Centre said that this has enabled the provision in the SDRF norms to be made so as to implement the guidelines issued by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on September 11 in compliance with the order passed by the Supreme Court on June 30.The government said the decision was taken as part of the government's initiative to facilitate state governments to have enough funds in their SDRF to deal with any emergency arising out of any disaster, according to the release.The Centre said that the state governments will now have ₹23,186.40 crore in their SDRF, including the share of the state government, during the financial year 2021-22. This is in addition to the amount of opening balance available in their SDRF.It said that the expenses will cover for providing relief on other notified calamities as well along with payouts to Covid-19 victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-approves-release-of-rs-7-274-cr-to-23-states-as-central-share-of-sdrf-101633087155528.html
01-10-2021||India||Amarinder Singh admits he was under pressure. ‘Of loyalty to Congress,' he says||Reacting to Harish Rawat's statement against former Punjab chief minister that Amarinder Singh seemed to be under pressure as he announced his decision to quit the Congress on Thursday, the Captain said the only pressure that he has been under is the pressure of his loyalty to the party for which he has put up with the humiliation all these days.A day after Amarinder Singh announced that he will resign from the Congress, public mud-slinging began with Harish Rawat, in charge of Punjab affairs, issuing a detailed statement of how Amarinder Singh was never humiliated, how he lost the support of the MLAs because of his ‘stubbornness’. The Captain too immediately responded to Harish Rawat's attack and said Rawat's statement proves that the party finds itself in a pathetic situation in Punjab. ‘Stubborn’ Amarinder Singh thought he does not need advice: Harish Rawat‘Why was Sidhu allowed to openly critise?’Countering Harish Rawat's claim that the Congress never humiliated Amarinder Singh, the Captain said why Navjot Sidhu was given the free hand to criticise the Congress government in the state. “Why did the party give the rebels, led by Sidhu, a free hand in undermining my authority? Why was no cognizance given to the uninterrupted spree of electoral wins I handed over to the party through the 4 and a half years I was in the saddle?” Amarinder Singh said. Harish Rawat said the humiliation theory was something that will garner sympathy for Amarinder Singh who, as Rawat claimed, seemed to be under pressure after his Delhi visit. In reply, Amarinder Singh said Rawat will have t put himself in the shoes of Captain to understand the humiliation. He also said that the only pressure he was under was his loyalty to the party. He also questioned why Sidhu is still given the authority to hold the party to ransom.'Why you gave a statement saying you were satisfied with govt's work?'As Harish Rawat said Captain failed to implement even a single suggestion made to him by a Congress committee, Amarinder Singh asked why then Rawat himself made a statement claiming that he was satisfied with the government's track record.Amarinder Singh also denied allegations that he is not taking calls from Rawat and did not even meet Charanjit Channi, the new chief minister. “We spoke just a day before the CLP meeting was called. Mr Rawat told me then there was nothing in the works and even claimed he had not seen any letter sent by 43 MLAs. I am shocked at the blatant way in which he is now lying about this,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-admits-he-was-under-pressure-of-loyalty-to-congress-he-says-101633087403784.html
01-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: CDS Rawat, US counterpart Milley hold meeting and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.CDS Rawat meets US counterpart General Mark Milley, discusses regional issuesGeneral Milley and Mrs Milley, ahead of the meeting, welcomed CDS Rawat during an Armed Forces full honour arrival ceremony on Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall. Read more here. Google Pixel Buds A-Series review: Impressive sound, super comfortable fitThe Google Pixel Buds A-Series offers one of the best sound profiles we have seen in this price range. Read more here. VIDEO: No DRS, given not out by umpire but India batter Punam Raut walks off against Australia; experts dividedWhat made Raut's decision to walk off even more interesting is the fact that there is no DRS in this Test match and even after multiple replays it could not confirmed whether she had really nicked it or not. Raut made 36. Read more here. Mercedes to launch Made-in-India S-Class on October 7, to be locally assembledMercedes-Benz had earlier launched the S-Class in India at ₹2.17 crore (ex-showroom). With the luxury sedan now heading for local assembly, the price is likely to go down significantly. Read more here. Shabana Azmi on her parents opposing relationship with ‘married man’ Javed Akhtar; credits first wife Honey IraniShabana Azmi credited her husband Javed Akhtar's first wife, Honey Irani, for not poisoning their children's minds against her, and for being ‘really generous’, given the situation. Read more here. Not just dental health, oil pulling has these other amazing benefits too!Oil pulling an ancient practice in India is regaining popularity in the country after impressing health enthusiasts in western countries. Read more here. US man teaches people how to defend themselves while wearing fake nails. Videos impress people“I find these segments with the acrylics absolutely spectacular,” wrote an Instagram user while reacting to one of the videos. Read more here. Tata Sons wins Air India bid, say reports. Govt says no final decision yet||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-cds-rawat-us-counterpart-milley-hold-meeting-101633087166839.html
01-10-2021||India||Charanjit Singh meets PM Modi amid Punjab crisis, discusses farm issues||In the first meeting after becoming the chief minister of Punjab, Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday arrived at 7 Lok Kalyan Marg to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a time when the Congress is grappling with the Punjab situation. The meeting, though a courtesy visit between a chief minister, after he takes charge of the state, and the Prime Minister, assumes significance in the backdrop of the latest development in Punjab.Reports said Channi will urge PM Modi to withdraw the Centre's letter on postponing the paddy procurement in Punjab from October 1. The Centre on Thursday postponed procurement of Kharif paddy in Punjab and Haryana till October 11 as the crop maturity is delayed owing to recent heavy rains. Delhi: Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi arrives at 7 Lok Kalyan Marg (LKM) to meet PM Narendra Modi pic.twitter.com/7RFBU4YfDNThe new Punjab CM who had extended his support to the call for Bharat Bandh by the farmers is also likely to raise the issue of the farm laws with PM Modi.Channi's New Delhi visit comes after former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh came to Delhi and met Union home minister Amit Shah and national security adviser Ajit Doval. Amarinder Singh said he talked about the farm laws to Amit Shah and discussed security issues with Doval. Amarinder Singh also announced that he would be leaving the Congress party which has humiliated him. Punjab Congress is facing a crisis as Amarinder Singh's exit has not brought any redressal to the chief minister-party president tiff in Punjab as Navjot Singh Sidhu stepped down from the post of the president of the party. On Thursday, Charanjit Channi met Sidhu and as of now, the differences have been addressed. Reports said that Sidhu will continue as the party chief.Channi, during his Delhi visit, will also meet the senior leaders of the Congress, report said as it has been decided that a committee will look into the issues that Sidhu has raised regarding the appointments made by Channi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charanjit-singh-channi-arrives-to-meet-pm-modi-amid-punjab-crisis-101633085649714.html
01-10-2021||India||Centre denies approving Air India bids as rumours start on Tata Sons winning bid||The Union government has not given its final approval to Air India’s financial bids, the department of investment and public asset management said on Friday after reports that Tata Sons had won the financial bid for the national carrier.“Media reports indicating approval of financial bids by Government of India in the AI (Air India) disinvestment case are incorrect. Media will be informed of the Government’s decision as and when it is taken,” Tuhan Kanta Pandey, secretary, DIPAM tweeted.Senior Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) officials told Hindustan Times that the process of opening the bid is being done and it is between four top airlines and ministry officials only. “Such big developments cannot be based upon sourced information. This is a confidential matter and is being dealt only by four senior officials,” said the MoCA official.MoCA has been taking active steps towards the airline’s privatisation. Recently, the evaluation advisor RBSA and transaction advisor EY (Ernst & Young) had reportedly given a presentation on Air India’s evaluation to the aviation ministry. After financial bids for AI disinvestment were submitted by Ajay Singh, chairman and managing director (CMD) of SpiceJet and Tata Sons on September 15, Tata Sons is reportedly said to acquire Air India as it is believed to have submitted a higher bid.Air India has control over 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports as well as 900 slots abroad. AI privatisation was to be completed by late May or June, but the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic led to the delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-denies-approving-air-india-bids-as-rumours-start-on-tata-sons-winning-bid-101633085495434.html
01-10-2021||India||Kerala: 22-year-old killed in St Thomas College by her classmate||A 22-year-old girl was stabbed by her classmate, with whom she was reportedly in a relationship, in Kerala on Friday, multiple news agencies have reported quoting local police. As per the reports, the girl was killed by her classmate named Abhishek. Both were students of food processing technology at St Thomas College in Pala town."The incident happened in the afternoon. As per the preliminary information we have, the couple was earlier in a relationship. However, we are probing all angles," news agency PTI quoted police as saying.Abhishek, a Koothattukulam native, reportedly slit the victim's throat as she was coming out of the exam hall. Soon after this, she was rushed to a nearby hospital, where she succumbed to the injury.Both were reported to be in a relationship and, according to local media reports, Abhishek was disgruntled after the victim broke up with him.The victim was a resident of Vaikom, located northwest of Kottayam district, according to police.An investigation into the murder has been launched and the police have taken Abhishek into custody.In July, a 24-year-old dental student was killed in Kerala’s Ernakulam district after a stalker barged into her home and shot her. Subsequently, he also killed himself.The victim was a house surgeon at Indira Gandhi Dental College in Kothamangalam. The 32-year-old stalker, identified as Rakhil, was from Kannur, the same district as her.Rakhil had allegedly been harassing her for some time.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-22-year-old-killed-in-st-thomas-college-by-her-classmate-101633084547902.html
01-10-2021||India||Amid viral fever spike in UP, Aligarh faces acute shortage of hospital beds||An acute shortage of beds was reported across hospitals in Aligarh district of Uttar Pradesh, which is grappling with a surge in viral fever cases, mostly related to dengue and malaria, amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Aligarh’s district medical officer said that efforts were being made to increase the number of hospital beds to accommodate more patients.“About 2,000 beds are currently available in the district and efforts are being made to increase it... Beds have been provided everywhere,” the district medical officer said, as quoted by news agency ANI.Top hospitals including Deen Dayal and Malkhan Singh District Hospital have run short of beds even as the city conquered the worst of Covid-19 infections. Earlier this week, the management at Deen Dayal Hospital decided to stop taking in more patients and instead referred them to the medical colleges. The hospital said that there was no capacity to admit any more patients.A similar situation unfolded at Malkhan Singh District Hospital, located in the heart of Aligarh, which has a maximum capacity of 200 beds in its wards. Due to a rise in viral fever cases, there has been a shortage of beds and patients are being referred to medical colleges, the hospital said.Aligarh was one of the 24 districts in Uttar Pradesh that was declared free of Covid-19 infections by the chief minister’s office last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-viral-fever-spike-in-up-aligarh-faces-acute-shortage-of-hospital-beds-101633082315577.html
01-10-2021||India||‘Stubborn’ Amarinder Singh thought he does not need advice: What Harish Rawat said on Captain||Amid the ongoing Punjab tussle which culminated in Captain Amarinder Singh announcing that he will resign from the Congress, Congress leader Harish Rawat who is in charge of the Punjab affairs said Captain Amarinder Singh was of the belief that he does not need any advice from anyone, including his own MLAs and ministers and party leadership. While Harish Rawat made this comment referring to the Bargadi desecration issue and the other issues that the Amarinder Singh government was facing, Rawat also said how the Captain was controlling the state and the party from his farmhouse and never paid heed to the suggestions made by the Congress committees.Amarinder quits Congress, fresh U-turn by Navjot Singh Sidhu“There was a general perception throughout the state that Captain and the Badals are helping each other and they have a secret understanding. I was always politely suggesting him to initiate action on our election promises. At least five times I discussed these issues with Captain sahib but with no result,” Rawat said.  Rawat said the Bargadi issue was not deftly handled by the Captain and the Congress high command formed a three-member panel which submitted 18 points for implementation. There were drug issues, power tariffs etc as well in the recommendations. “Captain Amarinder Singh did not implement even one out of these eighteen points,” Rawat said.'Amarinder Singh didn't bother to telephone me'Harish Rawat said when there was a demand for a CLP meeting, he sent the message to Amarinder Singh through one of Singh's well-wishers, but there was no response from him. Amarinder Singh did not call Rawat, he claimed.“Then I suggested to the party high command, that if we delay the matter then many MLAs may form a separate group or may create some more problem for the party. It was then decided to call a CLP meeting. I then officially informed Captain Amarinder Singh that the party has called a CLP meeting and requested him to attend the meeting,” Rawat said.Referring to those 18 points that a Congress panel recommended for Punjab, Harish Rawat said that he discussed those points with the Captain and brought those 18 points to five points. “After this, 20 days passed, and we didn't hear anything from him. The Congress MLAs and ministers were getting restless,” Rawat said, explaining why Amarinder Singh lost the support of the MLAs.'Amarinder Singh did not bless Channi, refuses to meet me'Harish Rawat said Amarinder Singh was expected to bless Charanjit Singh Channi, the new chief minister. But he did nothing. “I tried thrice to meet him, even I used the services of some of our common friends for meeting him at his residence, but he denied meeting me. The newly appointed chief minister also asked for his blessing, and he said that he will call him for lunch or tea, but nothing has happened," Rawat said. 'Theory of humiliation to gain sympathy'Harish Rawat said the theory of being humiliated by the party comes to gain sympathy. “The humiliation-based sympathy politics may help a person, but it will not help Punjab. Captain Amarinder was controlling both the government and the party from his farmhouse (home). No one asks him a question regarding his absence from the secretariat, visits in the districts etc.,” Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stubborn-amarinder-singh-thought-he-does-not-need-advice-what-harish-rawat-said-on-captain-101633082480867.html
01-10-2021||India||Ajit Pawar warns against lowering guard, reveals survey stats on jabbed citizens||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday hit out at vaccinated citizens who were lowering their guards amid fears of an impending third wave of the coronavirus pandemic.Pawar said a survey had revealed about 19 per cent people who were inoculated with the first dose of vaccines against Covid-19 were getting infected with the virus, while another 0.25 per cent of fully jabbed individuals were testing positive.We conducted a survey and found that around 0.19% of people who have taken first dose are found infected with #COVID19 & around 0.25% people were found infected after taking both doses of vaccine: Maharashtra Deputy CM Ajit Pawar in Pune pic.twitter.com/Wba1LAVjCGCiting expert opinions and warnings, the senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader said citizens must continue to take precautions and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour even when the government decided to ease restrictions.Speaking at an event in Pune, Pawar said, “We conducted a survey and found that around 0.19 per cent of people who have taken first dose are found infected with Covid-19 and around 0.25 per cent people were found infected after taking both doses of vaccine.”Also read | Maharashtra to decide on lifting Covid restrictions after a week“On consulting experts, we were informed that those who have taken both the doses are not following Covid protocol and exposing themselves to the virus. Experts say even when we are easing restrictions, citizens must take precautions and follow protocol,” Pawar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.According to last updated data, Maharashtra, one of the worst-hit states in terms of the both waves of the pandemic, registered 3,063 new Covid-19 cases and 56 fresh deaths on Thursday, taking the infection tally to 65,50,856 and the toll to 1,39,067.Also read | Active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra at 7-month lowThe state now has 36,484 active cases with 3,198 patients being declared cured in the last 24 hours. So far, Maharashtra has administered 8,18,94,965 doses of vaccines against the virus.With the pandemic scenario improving, the government is considering lifting the remaining restrictions after reviewing the situation after the first week of October.On Tuesday, Pawar had said the state authorities would meet after October 8 and if the cases continued to decline, the government would lift the remaining restrictions that are still in force in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajit-pawar-warns-against-lowering-guard-reveals-survey-stats-on-jabbed-citizens-101633082214093.html
01-10-2021||India||DU 1st cut-off list 2021: Hansraj College, JMC set bar at 100% for 2 courses||Delhi University colleges are issuing their first cut-off list today. Hansraj College and Jesus and Mary College (JMC) on Friday announced a 100% cutoff in two subjects for admission to their undergraduate programme.While Hansraj has set a cutoff of 100% in BSc (H) Computer Science and 99.75% in BCom (H) as well as Economics (H), JMC said that students not including Psychology in their best of four subjects while seeking admission in Psychology (H) will need 100% to clear the course. Ramjas College announced a 100% cutoff in three courses - Political Science, Physics and a combination of BA Programme.At 98.5%, Aryabhatta College has set its highest cutoff for Psychology (Hons) this is followed by 98% in BCom (Hons) and Economics (Hons).Several principals pointed out that the revised evaluation pattern for Class 12 students led to soaring college cut-offs.In the absence of final end-term board exams due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Class 12 Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) results were prepared on the basis of the internal scores of classes 10, 11, and 12 in a ratio of 30:30:40.Around 220,000 students scored 90% and above marks in CBSE class 12 results this year and 70,000 of them scored around 95% or more. A senior DU official told HT that of the 2.5 lakh paid applicants this year, around 9,600 had scored between 99% and 100% this year. Every year, around 70-80% of the applicants are from CBSE-affiliated schools.Manoj Sinha, principal of the DU principals’ association and head of Aryabhatta College, said his college has increased the cutoff in the range of one to six percentage points.“Based on the response we receive under the first list, there might be some adjustments in the subsequent lists. Since around 70,000 students have scored between 95% and 100% this year in their CBSE results, principals are cautious and may refrain from going below 95% in most popular courses,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/du-1st-cut-off-list-2021-hansraj-college-jmc-set-bar-at-100-for-2-subjects-101633080997207.html
01-10-2021||India||'Shouldn't Rahul Gandhi condemn?' Javed Akhtar on attack on Kapil Sibal's house||Poet, lyricist Javed Akhtar who was recently in news for comparing RSS with the Taliban on Friday condemned the attack on Congress leader Kapil Sibal's house in New Delhi and said those who attacked Kapil Sibal's house for expressing an opinion about the working process of the Congress party are the same who criticise Modi govt for “curbing the freedom of expression”. "Shouldn't Rahul Gandhi condemn these hooligans in the strongest words?" Javed Akhtar said.The 'hooliganism' outside Kapil Sibal's house following his comment that G-23, the group of rebel Congress leaders, is not 'Jee Huzoor 23' has effectively divided the party into two groups -- one who are questioning the high command and the other one which is supporting the high command.
01-10-2021||India||Pulses still pricey, but policy helps tame inflation spirals||Pulses, a common source of protein for most Indians, are still expensive, but higher production and government procurement at minimum support prices (MSP) have broken a pattern of uncontrollable price spirals, a lesson in managing food prices, analysts said.Consumer prices of pulses are rising an average of 9% each year but higher procurement and realisation of MSPs by farmers are lessons in managing other volatile food items, analysts said. MSP is a federally determined floor rate that is meant to serve as a price signal to farmers and traders.Legumes such as arhar or pigeonpea, grown across India, are a staple of millions. Short supply would frequently mean import bills worth ₹7000 crore annually. Spells of soaring prices were one of the reasons why Indians were paying the highest protein prices a decade ago.Average consumer inflation of four key pulses – pigeonpea, gram, urad, and moong – has stabilised around 8.8%, which still stokes food prices, but the country has not suffered a price spiral since 2019, price trends show.Experts say there were four high-price cycles between 2005 and 2017. The swing in prices showed a clear pattern taking hold. According to CRISIL Research, which established the pattern in a 2017 report, wholesale prices of pulses, measured by the headline wholesale price index, prices shot up once in three years.“In the last cycle, wholesale inflation ranged from 46.2% at its peak in November 2015 to -35.5% at the trough in November 2017,” said Dharmakirti Joshi, chief economist of the rating firm Crisil Ltd.There haven’t been such price peaks in pulses, especially after 2019, when pulses inflation soared to 20% in July that year.“A sustained increase in production because of policy push and procurement have tamed the price spirals. This is a lesson for other volatile items,” said Ashok Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.The year 2019 was an inflection point in output. Between 2019 and 2021 so far, India’s annual output of pulses grew 2 million tonnes on average to touch 23.6 million tonnes from 21.6 million tonnes in the preceding three-year period.Farmers tend to grow more of crops that fetched higher prices in the previous season and less of those where realisations were poor, a pattern known as the cobweb phenomenon in farm economics.So, low prices tend to lead to future scarcity, while better prices produce gluts. This was a key reason for the price spirals in pulses. Higher government procurement of pulses has managed to break this pattern in pulses, experts say.Procurement, or the government’s buying of pulses to build state-owned reserves, increased from 7.7% of production in 2017 to 13.6% in 2021. The government had set up a price stabilisation fund in 2015 to tame price volatility in food articles, including pulses. Federal spending under this fund went up from ₹48.5 crore in FY2016 to ₹996 crore in FY2021.“This has lent support to prices of pulses and helped reduce the volatility,” Joshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pulses-still-pricey-but-policy-helps-tame-inflation-spirals-101633078836675.html
01-10-2021||India||IAF officer alleges she was subjected to two-finger test. What does Supreme Court say?||A woman officer of the Indian Air Force (IAF) has accused her colleague of rape and alleged she was subjected to an illegal two-finger test to confirm the sexual assault, which has prompted the National Commission for Women (NCW) to say it violated a Supreme Court ruling as well as her right to privacy and dignity.NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma has also written to the IAF air chief marshal to take necessary steps and impart the necessary knowledge to the force’s doctors about the prevailing government guidelines and the Indian Council of Medical Research in 2014 terming the two-finger test unscientific. "The National Commission for Women is utterly disappointed and strongly condemns the action of Indian Air Force doctors conducting the banned two-finger test on the victim, thereby violating the Supreme Court's decision and also violating the right to privacy and dignity of the victim," the commission said reacting to a media report.The 28-year-old woman officer, who was allegedly raped on the Air Force Administrative College campus in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore district, has said that she was made to "relive the trauma". “Only later did I find out that the two-finger test is not supposed to be done for a rape exam. This action made me nauseous enough to relive the trauma of being raped,” according to the first information report (FIR) she filed with the Tamil Nadu Police on September 20.Also read | NCW takes cognisance of reports about IAF offr being subjected to banned testThe controversial “per vaginal” or the two-finger test test involves a doctor inserting two fingers in the vagina of a rape survivor to detect if the hymen is present or not, and the vagina’s size and laxity. Doctors also check how habituated the woman who has been raped is to sexual intercourse and her sexual history.In 2013, the Supreme Court held that the two-finger test on a rape victim violates her right to privacy, and asked the government to provide better medical procedures to confirm sexual assault. A bench of Justice BS Chauhan and Justice FMI Kalifulla said even if the report of the two-finger test is affirmative, it cannot give rise to the presumption of consent on part of a rape victim.“Undoubtedly, the two-finger test and its interpretation violate the right of rape survivors to privacy, physical and mental integrity and dignity. Thus, this test, even if the report is affirmative, cannot ipso facto, be given rise to thepresumption of consent,” the bench said.Also read | IAF to take over probe into woman officer’s rape caseThe judges said rape survivors are entitled to legal recourse that does not violate their physical or mental integrity and dignity as they referred to various international covenants. “Medical procedures should not be carried out in a manner that constitutes cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment and health should be of paramount consideration while dealing with gender-based violence,” it said.“The state is under an obligation to make such services available to survivors of sexual violence. Proper measures should be taken to ensure their safety and there should be no arbitrary or unlawful interference with her privacy,” the bench said.The top court said that rape survivors are entitled to legal recourse that does not re-traumatise them or violate their physical or mental integrity and dignity. “They are also entitled to medical procedures conducted in a manner that respects their right to consent,” it said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-officer-alleges-she-was-subjected-to-two-finger-test-what-does-sc-say-101633075988623.html
01-10-2021||India||Terrorist killed in encounter with security forces in Shopian, operation on||A terrorist, who had joined militancy ten days ago, was killed in an encounter at Rakhama village in south Kashmir’s Shopian district, officials said. Police and the Army’s Rashtriya Rifles launched a joint operation in Shopian late last night resulting in an encounter in which the terrorist was killed.Defense spokesman Imron Musavi said that on receiving specific intelligence from Jammu and Kadhmir Police about the presence of a terrorist in the vicinity of Village Rakhama, a joint operation was launched by forces and the cordon was established by 2:00 am.“One terrorist was located. Multiple appeals were made to him for surrender but he opened fire on the troops and was finally neutralized by the security forces in the ensuing firefight.”He said as per Police, the terrorist has been identified as Mujeeb Amin Lone of Redwani in Kulgam district. “He had joined ranks in early September 21 and was responsible for creating terror in the locality, He had been coercing innocent citizens to sympathise with the anti-nationals. “In last nine days, eight militants were killed in different operations in Kashmir and a Pakistani militant was captured alive near the Line of Control in Uri Sector. Among the killed militants four are believed to fresh infiltrators who were killed in Hatlanga and Uri while 18 year old Pakistani militant surrendered after his accomplice another foreign militant was killed soon after they crossed the fence on the LoC Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-shopian-operation-on-101633077335769.html
01-10-2021||India||Digvijaya Singh praises RSS, Shah for support during his Narmada Sewa Yatra||Congress leader Digvijaya Singh has praised Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Union home minister Amit Shah for their support during his Narmada Sewa Yatra in 2017.“...(During the yatra) we reached Gujarat in the night at about 10 pm. It was a hilly area, with no road ahead, and no facility to stay. Surprisingly, a forest official came to help us. I asked him why he came to help me. He then informed me that Amit Shah had asked him to take care of us,” said Singh at the launch of his book on the yatra on Thursday. “We were provided good food and accommodation to rest. They also provided help for travel to other places.”Singh said Shah was then busy with the Gujarat election but ensured the former did not face any hardship. “Amit Shah showed how political opponents should behave while discharging their political duties. I had never met Amit Shah in person, but I extended my gratitude.” He added RSS workers would come to ask about his well-being and also provide them food and lodging. “Once in Gujarat, an RSS worker arranged our stay in a Dharmshala. I asked him why you are helping me. He told me that senior leaders of RSS had asked them to ensure that I will not face any hardship.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digvijaya-singh-praises-rss-shah-for-support-during-his-narmada-sewa-yatra-101633075176636.html
01-10-2021||India||MHA extends ‘disturbed area’ tag under AFSPA for 3 Arunachal districts bordering Assam||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Friday issued a notification extending the “disturbed area” tag under the Armed Forces(Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) for three districts of Tirap, Changlang and Longding in Arunachal Pradesh bordering Assam. Areas under Namsai and Mahadevpur police stations in Namsai district have also been declared “disturbed area” under Section 3 of AFSPA, 1958.A further review of the law and order in the area has been undertaken, said an MHA notification, issued by additional secretary Piyush Goyal. The order would remain in force from October 1, 2021, to March 31, 2022, unless withdrawn earlier.Tirap, Changlang and Longding dist in Arunachal Pradesh & areas under Namsai PS & Mahadevpur PS in Namsai dist. bordering Assam,are declared as ‘disturbed area’ under Section 3 of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 from October 1 to March 31, 2022: MHA notification pic.twitter.com/raTPv6gFhl“And whereas a further review of the law and order situation in Tirap, Changlang and Longding districts of Arunachal Pradesh and in the area falling within the jurisdiction of four police stations in other districts of Arunachal Pradesh, bordering the state of Assam has been undertaken,” the notification further read.The AFSPA empowers security forces to arrest a person and enter or search a premises without a warrant along with some other actions.The Centre had first declared the areas as “disturbed” on April 1 and said the order would remain in place for six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-extends-disturbed-area-tag-for-3-arunachal-districts-bordering-assam-101633073907295.html
01-10-2021||India||For cleaner, better cities: PM Modi launches Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban 2.0||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban (SBM-U) 2.0 and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) 2.0 at Dr Ambedkar International Centre, New Delhi.In his speech, the prime minister said that the goal of ‘Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban 2.0’ is to ensure ‘Garbage-Free’ cities. While the next phase of Mission AMRUT will focus on ‘increasing sewage and septic management, making cities water safe’ and ensuring that no sewage drains in rivers.PM Modi lauded children and youth for being mindful of maintaining cleanliness.“I am happy to note that our generation has taken the initiative to strengthen the cleanliness campaign. Toffee wrappers are no longer thrown on the ground but kept in pockets. Today, children remind elders not to spread litter,” he said.The prime minister said that India is processing about one lakh tonnes of waste every day which was less than 20 percent when the campaign started in 2014.“Today we are processing about 70 percent of daily waste. Now we have to take it to 100%,” he said.As per the statement from the Prime Minister’s Office, “In line with the vision of the Prime Minister, SBM-U 2.0 and AMRUT 2.0 have been designed to realize the aspiration to make all our cities ‘Garbage Free’ and ‘Water Secure’. These flagship Missions signify a step forward in our march towards effectively addressing the challenges of rapidly urbanizing India and will also help contribute towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals 2030”According to the press release, SBM-U and AMRUT have contributed significantly to improve the urban landscape during the last seven years. The government said that the two flagship Missions have augmented the capacity to deliver basic services of water supply and sanitation to the citizens.“All urban local bodies have been declared Open Defecation Free (ODF) and 70% solid waste is being scientifically processed now. AMRUT has been ensuring water security by adding 1.1 crore household water tap connections and 85 lakh sewer connections, thus benefiting more than 4 crore people,” the statement added.SBM-U 2.0 envisions to make all cities ‘Garbage Free’ and ensure grey and black water management in all cities. The Mission will focus on source segregation of solid waste, utilizing the principles of 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle), scientific processing of all types of municipal solid waste and remediation of legacy dumpsites for effective solid waste management. The outlay of SBM-U 2.0 is around ₹1.41 lakh crore.AMRUT 2.0 aims to provide 100% coverage of water supply to all households in around 4,700 urban local bodies by providing about 2.68 crore tap connections and 100% coverage of sewerage and septage in 500 AMRUT cities by providing around 2.64 crore sewer/septage connections, which will benefit more than 10.5 crore people in urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-swachh-bharat-mission-urban-2-0-amrut-20-101633073136112.html
01-10-2021||India||Swachh Bharat, AMRUT 2.0: PM Modi launches plans for garbage free, water secure cities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched the Swachh Bharat Mission - Urban (SBM-U) 2.0 and the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) 2.0 mission, two flagship schemes of the central government aimed at making all of India's cities ‘garbage free’ and ‘water secure’. At the launch event, Prime Minister Modi said that the two programmes constitute an important step toward fulfilling the dreams of social reformer Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar. “It is our privilege that today's programme has been organised at the BR Ambedkar centre,” Modi said. “He believed that urban development was pivotal to equality.”The Prime Minister said that with the Swachh Bharat 2.0 mission, his government is aiming to make the urban areas garbage-free. “With this second phase, we are also aiming for sewage and safety management, making cities water-secure and ensuring that the dirty drains do not merge into the rivers,” he said. “The garbage mounts in cities will be processed and removed completely as part of the SBM-U second phase.”Presumably taking a dig at his political rivals, the Prime Minister then said, “One such garbage mountain has been in Delhi for long, it's also waiting to be removed.”Moving on to talk about the humongous amount of waste products that the country processes each day, Modi said, “Today, India is processing about 1 lakh tonnes of waste every day. When we started the campaign in 2014, less than 20 per cent of the waste was being processed. Today, we are processing about 70 per cent of the daily waste; the next step is to take it to a complete 100 per cent.”The Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban 2.0 envisions a plan to make all cities garbage-free by ensuring grey and black water management in all cities except those covered under AMRUT, a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. It also aims to make all urban local bodies with a population of less than 1 lakh Open Defecation Free (ODF), thereby achieving the vision of safe sanitation in urban areas. The mission will also focus on source segregation of solid waste, utilising the principles of the three ₹of reduce, reuse, recycle, scientific processing of all types of municipal solid waste, and remediation of legacy dumpsites for effective solid waste management. The outlay of the entire SBM-U 2.0 mission is around ₹1.41 lakh crore.The Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation 2.0 mission, on the other hand, is focusing on providing 100 per cent coverage of water supply to all households in around 4,700 urban local bodies by providing about 2.68 crore tap connections and 100 per cent coverage of sewerage and septage in 500 AMRUT cities by providing around 2.64 crore sewer or septage connections, which will benefit more than 10.5 crore people in urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swachh-bharat-amrut-2-0-pm-modi-launches-plans-for-garbage-free-water-secure-cities-101633070967552.html
01-10-2021||India||IMD alert: 7 states to see very heavy rainfall due to severe Cyclone Shaheen till Oct 4||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its latest bulletin has forecast very heavy rainfall in as many as seven states across India due to Cyclone Shaheen, which is expected to intensify into a severe cyclonic storm in the next 24 hours. This latest weather alert for Bihar, West Bengal, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and Gujarat comes after Cyclone Gulab made landfall in the coastal regions of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha on September 26, claiming the lives of three people.According to the IMD bulletin, the deep depression that has now intensified into Cyclone Shaheen lies near Pakistan and Iran besides India. As of 5.30am on Friday, Shaheen lay about 400km west-northwest of Devbhoomi Dwarka in Gujarat, 260km south-southwest of Pakistan’s Karachi, and 530km east-southeast of Chabahar Port in Iran. The arrival of Shaheen is an outcome of the remnant of Cyclone Gulab – deep depression, weakening into a depression, only to intensify into a new cyclone over the Arabian Sea. Earlier, IMD cyclones in charge, Sunitha Devi told Hindustan Times that chances of remnants of Cyclone Gulab turning into a new cyclone “are less,” but the possibility cannot be ruled out.Meanwhile, the additional well-marked low-pressure area over south Bihar and its neighbouring state Jharkhand now lies over southwest Bihar and its neighbourhood. The IMD has already stated that the ongoing monsoon is expected to start its withdrawal process from certain regions of northwest India from October 6 onwards. This is marginally later than the typical time – September 17, with monsoon withdrawing from western corners of northwest India on September 28 last year.Cyclone Gulab has so far lashed several states including Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Odisha and West Bengal.Here are the latest IMD alerts for states that will get very heavy rainfall due to the approaching Cyclone Shaheen:1.     The IMD bulletin predicted isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over Bihar, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, and Sikkim on October 1 and 2. Extremely heavy downpour – more than 20cm of rainfall, is very likely in isolated regions in Bihar on Friday.2.     The weather department has further predicted that rainfall activity will increase over south peninsular India from October 1 onwards, thereby bringing heavy rainfall over Tamil Nadu, Kerala, coastal and south interior Karnataka between October 1 and 4. Tamil Nadu is also likely to receive very heavy rainfall in isolated regions between October 2 and 4.3.     The IMD has cautioned fishermen against venturing out into the northeast Arabian Sea as well as along and off Gujarat coast in the subsequent 12 hours. The same alert has been issued for fishermen over north and adjoining central Arabian Sea, along and off Pakistan-Makran coasts, and the Gulf of Oman till the morning of October 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-states-to-see-very-heavy-rainfall-due-to-severe-cyclone-shaheen-till-oct-4-101633070977134.html
01-10-2021||India||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat begins Jammu visit, to hold day-long meetings at Keshav Bhawan||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday will hold day-long meetings on the organisational activities and issues at Keshav Bhawan in Ambphalla in Jammu, officials said. Bhagwat reached Jammu on Thursday afternoon on a four-day visit to Jammu. “Dr Mohan Bhagwat will be holding day-long meetings today on internal issues and activities of the RSS at Keshav Bhawan,” said an RSS leader.Bhagwat has come to the capital city for the first time since the abrogation of Article 370 and 35-A on August 5, 2019.During his four-day visit, Bhagwat will take stock of the organizational activities of the RSS in the Union territory. Earlier in 2016, he visited Jammu on a short visit. “Bhagwat will meet RSS leaders and workers during his stay in Jammu. Since he is here after a gap of more than two years, he has a busy schedule,” said the RSS leader.He informed that on October 2, Bhagwat will meet Brigadier (retd) Suchet Singh and Dr Gautam Mengi at their residences and on the same day he will attend a public programme at General Zorawar Singh Auditorium at Jammu University.On the last day of his visit on October 3, he will address around 50,000 RSS workers via a virtual meeting in 625 branches spread across the region.“Being Sarsanghchalak, he will also review ongoing projects of the RSS in Jammu and Kashmir like social service, education, public awareness, health, rural development, ecology, water conservation, social equality, etc,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-begins-jammu-visit-to-hold-day-long-meetings-at-keshav-bhawan-101633068277178.html
01-10-2021||India||Strangulated city, now want to come inside: SC to farmers' body over nod to Jantar Mantar stir||The Supreme Court on Friday pulled up protesting farmers body for moving court seeking permission to continue its blockade of the highways and holding a Satyagrah at the Jantar Mantar in the national capital.The apex court said the farmers, who have been staging a nearly year-long agitation along the borders of Delhi against three centrally passed farm laws, have strangulated the entire city and now want to come inside Delhi and the national capital region (NCR). A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar told the counsel appearing for petitioners ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’, a body of farmers and agriculturists, and its president, said the ryots are obstructing traffic and blocking trains, besides highways through their agitation. The court said citizens have equal rights to move freely and without fear and their properties are being damaged in the protest. The court said “There has to be some balanced approach.” Also read | Farmers protest: SC asks how can highways be blocked perpetually“There can be no question of protests when you have approached the Court. Once you have approached court against three farm laws, have trust in judicial system and let the matter be decided… You have strangulated the city and now you want to enter the city and hold protests," the court told the Kisan Mahapanchayat.When the petitioner said it is not part of the ongoing protests causing blockades, the court directed it to file an affidavit in this regard and submit a copy of their petition to the Attorney General and Centre. The matter was posed for further hearing on October 4.On Thursday, the apex court called for redressal through judicial forum, agitation or parliamentary debates while referring to the agitation and said highways cannot be blocked perpetually.(With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strangulated-city-now-want-to-come-inside-supreme-court-to-farmers-body-101633067779514.html
01-10-2021||India||Tata Sons said to be selected as winning bidder for Air India: Report||Tata Sons has been selected as the winning bidder for the debt-laden state-run airline Air India, Bloomberg reported on Friday. A panel of ministers accepted a proposal from officials recommending the salt-to-software conglomerate ahead of an offer from Ajay Singh, promoter of India's airline operator Spicejet Ltd, the report said.A spokesperson for Tata Sons declined to comment. A finance ministry spokesperson did not immediately respond to a Reuters message seeking comment, while Air India declined to comment.Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has been pushing to sell its entire interest in the loss-making airline, kept aloft by a bailout since 2012. The government loses nearly 200 million rupees every day to run the national carrier, which has accumulated losses of over 700 billion rupees ($9.53 billion), officials have said.An effort to auction a majority stake almost three years ago drew no bids, forcing the government to ease the terms. It had also extended the deadline multiple times due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tata-sons-wins-air-india-bid-report-101633067326258.html
01-10-2021||India||‘Political friendship’: Why Digvijaya Singh heaped praises on Amit Shah, RSS||Digvijaya Singh has heaped praises on Union home minister Amit Shah and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), who otherwise are at the Congress leader’s crosshairs. Singh thanked Shah and the RSS for helping him during his ‘Narmada Parikrama’ four years ago, news agency PTI reported. Singh added that Shah ensured he did not face any problem during their journey, even though elections were underway in Gujarat at the time, mentioning that all this came despite the fact that he has been their “biggest critic.” “They found [a] way for us through the mountains and also arranged food for all of us,” the Congress leader noted about the RSS workers.Addressing the audience during the launch of Narmada Ke Pathik—a book written by Singh’s long-time associate OP Sharma—the Congress leader talked about his journey on foot he and his journalist wife Amrita undertook along the banks of the Narmada in 2017. “A forest officer arrived, and you will be surprised to know that he told me that Amit Shah had directed him to fully cooperate with us,” Singh was quoted as saying by PTI. Hailing Shah’s gesture during Singh’s more than 3000-km journey that lasted six months, the Congress leader said that it was an example of “political coordination, adjustment and friendship which has nothing to do with politics and ideology.” The Congress veteran also said although he hasn’t met Shah to date but he has expressed his gratitude to the BJP leader through “proper channels.” Singh added that RSS workers, who “had orders” to meet him, arranged the stay for his group at a Manjhi Samaj Dharamshala for a day, where the hall had pictures of RSS stalwarts Keshav Baliram Hedgewar and Madhavrao Sadashivrao Golwalkar hung on the walls. Notably, Singh’s group comprised a leader of BJP’s youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha and three other BJP workers, according to the PTI report.The reason behind mentioning such details of the journey, Singh noted is to let people know that religion and politics are different and that he took help “from all” during his Narmada Parikrama – adding that the BJP leaders and the party’s youth wing leader have now become an inalienable part of his ‘Narmada family’. The former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh also recounted that the late spiritual leader Daddaji had asked his follower and Bollywood actor Ashutosh Rana to make arrangements for a community feast at Barman Ghat in the state for Singh and his group, PTI reported.Singh’s praises for Shah and the RSS come only days after the former claimed that the BJP and RSS have been creating divisions among people for ages. “Time has come when all the parties, who are against the ideology of BJP and Sangh come on one platform,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He spoke at a protest organised in Bhopal on September 26, which saw the participation of as many as 19 opposition parties. In the same event, a video of the Congress veteran saying that RSS-run Saraswati Shishu Mandir schools sow seeds of hatred towards religion among children, also went viral, inviting sharp criticism from the BJP.It also prompted the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) to write to the Madhya Pradesh DGP Vivek Johri for initiating an investigation into the matter and submit a report. NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo has also written to Singh, seeking an explanation over his statement that “appear to hurt the honour and character of all children studying” in the schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-friendship-why-digvijaya-singh-heaped-praises-on-amit-shah-rss-101633065891961.html
01-10-2021||India||Ex-Meghalaya CM Mukul Sangma may join TMC with a dozen Congress MLAs||Former Meghalaya chief minister Mukul Sangma and about a dozen other Congress legislators from the northeastern hill state are likely to switch over to the Trinamool Congress soon.Some reports suggested Sangma, who is now the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, is unhappy with the Congress’ top leadership and feels cornered within the grand old party. He had also made his displeasure clear over the appointment of Lok Sabha MP Vincent H Pala as the president of the party's state unit. He had also stayed away from two major party events along with MLAs, mainly from the Garo Hills region.Sangma had earlier denied the news of his recent meeting Trinamool Congress national general secretary and party supremo Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee in Kolkata. However, buzz over the switchovers has been gaining traction following the visit of Sushmita Dev, who too had moved on from the Congress in search of greener pastures in the Bengal ruling party, to the hill state.If Sangma finally switches camp, several other MLAs may also desert the Congress. A report in News18 said Sangma may make a final announcement after holding talks with Trinamool leaders in Meghalaya.Also read | BJP is the target, says Faleiro after joining TMC. Why it may hurt Cong in GoaThe Trinamool Congress has been on a recruitment-cum-paoching spree ever since the party romped back to power in Bengal for the third straight term. Banerjee has made her national ambitions clear and several leaders, mostly from the Congress, have moved on to the Trinamool Congress in recent times. Even some BJP leaders, including former Union minister Babul Supriyo, have made the switch.On Wednesday, former Goa chief minister and senior Congress leader was inducted into the party in Kolkata. (With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exmeghalaya-cm-mukul-sangma-may-join-tmc-with-a-dozen-congress-mlas-101633066075875.html
01-10-2021||India||Parties gear up for by-polls in Assam||Assam’s Mariani, Thowra, Gossaigaon, Tamulpur, and Bhabanipur are among the seats where assembly by-polls will be held on October 30. The by-polls in the state are being held six months after the assembly elections in March-April. Gossaigaon and Tamulpur fell vacant after the lawmakers representing them died of Covid-19. By-polls were necessitated in Mariani, and Thowra as Congress representatives resigned to join the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The All-India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) lawmaker vacated the Bhabanipur seat to join the BJP. The Majuli seat, which former chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal represented, is also vacant. But it will go to by-polls later as Sonowal, now a Rajya Sabha member, resigned from the seat after the by-polls schedule was announced.BJP’s Assam chief Bhabesh Kalita said they will hold a meeting on Saturday to discuss the by-polls and plan to contest all five seats along with their allies. He added the BJP could contest four seats and leave one seat for its alliance partner even as the final decision is yet to be taken. “For this round of elections, AGP (Asom Gana Parishad) would not be fielding any candidate. ...we are confident of winning all five seats.”The BJP won 60 seats in this year’s assembly polls, while allies AGP got 9 and United Peoples’ Party Liberal 6 in the 126-member House. The Congress managed to win 29 seats, AIUDF 16 and Bodoland Peoples Front 4. This Congress-led Grand Alliance has since disintegrated as the BJP has emerged stronger.State Congress chief Bhupen Kumar Borah said they were scheduled to have a meeting on Friday to discuss the by-polls. “We have received 48 applications to date for the five seats. The list of candidates would be announced within the next few days.” He called defections an unhealthy trend and asked voters to teach a lesson to defectors. “We are hopeful of retaining both seats that we lost and even gain some more.”The Congress is likely to contest four of the seats and leave one for Asom Jatiya Parishad whose chief Lurinjyoti Gogoi is expected to contest from Mariani.AIUDF leader Md Aminul Islam said they will field candidates for Bhabanipur and Gossaigaon seats. “We have won Bhabanipur three times in a row and will win it again,” he said. “In Gossaigaon, the common opposition candidate had won. Our party emerged as the second-largest party in three elections prior to the last assembly polls. We are confident about this seat too.”Akhil Gogoi’s Raijor Dal will contest two of the five seats. It has named its candidate for the Thowra seat and is also planning to field a candidate from Mariani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parties-gear-up-for-by-polls-in-assam-101633065156785.html
01-10-2021||India||Dalit students made to sit separately for meals in Amethi village, probe on||Allegations of indulging in caste-based discrimination have been levelled against the management of a primary school in Amethi. Students belonging to the Dalit community were reportedly made to sit in different queues while being served midday meals at the school in Gaderi village.An FIR has been registered and the school principal has been suspended. A parent has also accused the principal of beating her pupils.However, the principal, Kusum Soni, has now registered a complaint against the village head for creating a ruckus on the school premises and locking the gates, while refuting the allegations against her.“As far as the false allegations are concerned, one Pawan Dubey, claiming to be the village head's representative, had come here, pushed everyone out, locked gates, clicked the school's pictures and posted the same on social media. I have filed a police complaint,” Soni was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The village head, Vinay Kumar Jaiswal, said parents and students had met him to complain about the issues during meals at the school. “I went to the school, but could not find the teacher there. It was told she does not come on time and does not take care of the students,” Jaiswal said.Meanwhile, a detailed probe is underway after the FIR was registered against Soni under relevant sections of the SC/ST Atrocities Prevention Act.When the matter came to his knowledge, district magistrate Arun Kumar ordered an initial probe by the Basic Siksha Adhikari (BSA), who suspended the principal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalit-students-made-to-sit-separately-for-meals-in-amethi-village-probe-on-101633064747438.html
01-10-2021||India||PhD not mandatory for assistant prof recruitment for this year: Govt||The Centre has decided to put on hold the plan to make PhD a minimum qualification for recruitment of assistant professors for this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The University Grants Commission (UGC) in 2018 set the criteria for recruitments for entry-level posts at universities and colleges. It had given a three-year window to candidates to complete their PhDs and asked all universities and colleges to start applying the criteria for recruitment from the 2021-22 academic session. Due to the pandemic, many candidates could not complete their PhDs and were appealing to the government to relax the eligibility this year.“The government has decided to put on hold the mandatory PhD requirement for assistant professors post for this year. We were receiving a lot of requests from candidates who wanted to apply for the post but were unable to fulfil their PhD requirement,” Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said.Candidates with postgraduate degrees, who have cleared the National Eligibility Test, will continue to remain eligible for recruitments to the post. “The UGC will soon release a circular to all higher education institutions regarding this decision. It will help colleges and universities to quickly fill all the vacant seats,” said an official, who did not want to be named.In September, Pradhan asked all the central universities to fill the 6000-odd teaching vacancies by the end of October. Abha Dev Habib, a member of the Delhi University Teachers’ Association, said, “This will help the ad hoc teachers in the university departments whose reappointments were kept pending due to this mandatory PhD clause.”DUTA representatives on September 15 met UGC officials and raised this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phd-not-mandatory-for-assistant-prof-recruitment-for-this-year-govt-101633064015476.html
01-10-2021||India||Congress to set up coordination committee to tackle Punjab crisis. Key points||Punjab will soon have a coordination committee that will be consulted on all major policy matters and decisions of the government in the state, which has been witnessing turmoil in the ruling Congress party. The decision to form the coordination committee for the better functioning of the state government was taken after a meeting of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was upset over the appointments made by the new government and resigned from his post two days ago, on Thursday.According to an official, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) is expected to make an announcement about the committee within 24 hours. People familiar with the matter have said that the panel is likely to be headed by a central leader and may comprise Channi, Sidhu and a third leader for better coordination between the party and the state government. “After the constitution of the new government, I thought my job was done but then this new situation developed. Things will be okay soon. It is just a matter for 5 to 7 days,” Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat told reporters on Thursday.Also read | ‘Everything's fine’: Punjab minister after Sidhu-Channi meeting to avert crisisA senior leader said that Navjot Singh Sidhu will continue as Congress Punjab unit president. Sidhu, miffed with not having a say or being consulted in several key decisions, has also been demanding the removal of director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota and advocate general of Punjab APS Deol. “As for the two appointments, it has been decided that a panel of IPS officers will be sent to the UPSC as per the procedure laid down by the Supreme Court. Till then, Sahota will continue and the new DGP will be named from among the three names received from the commission. The issue of AG’s will be decided after a discussion in the coordination panel,” a person familiar with the development said.Also read | Punjab govt sends panel of 10 officers to UPSC for DGP’s postSidhu was also said to be angry with the induction of former minister Rana Gurjit Singh into the cabinet. “DGP IPS Sahota was head of SIT investigating Beadbi case under Badal govt, he wrongfully indicted two Sikh youth for sacrilege & gave clean chit to Badals. In 2018, I along with INC Ministers, then PCC Pres & present Home minister assured them of our support in fight for Justice (sic),” he tweeted ahead of the meeting on Thursday.After Sidhu’s public criticism of the decision taken by Channi, former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and senior Congress leader Sunil Jakhar hit out at him. “Sidhu should run the party and let Channi run the government. There should be no interference. They can talk to each other, but it is the CM who runs the government. I was CM for nine-and-a-half years and had several state chiefs during that period. We used to discuss, but I never faced the kind of situation he (Sidhu) is creating,” Singh said.Also read | The Congress leadership made a mistake with Sidhu. The party is paying the priceJakhar, the former Punjab Congress president, tweeted to put his view forward. “Put an end to attempts to undermine the authority of the CM time and again. Aspersions being cast on selection of AG and DGP are actually questioning the integrity/competence of the CM and home minister to deliver results. It’s time to put the foot down and clear the air,” he tweeted.Sidhu was made PCC chief by the central leadership in July to stem the infighting in Punjab Congress. However, Sidhu announced his resignation on Twitter on Tuesday, just 72 days after he was appointed the Punjab unit chief, plunging the Congress into a fresh crisis in the poll-bound state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-set-up-coordination-committee-to-tackle-punjab-crisis-key-points-101633060368924.html
01-10-2021||India||Delhi interlocutors find Captain raring for a political fight||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh may have discussed the farmers' issue with Union home minister Amit Shah and shenanigans of Pakistan with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, but his Delhi interlocutors were convinced that the veteran Sikh regiment Captain was raring for an electoral fight in the upcoming state assembly elections and avenge his humiliation at the hands of Congress party.Like a true soldier, Captain has announced his plans to quit the Congress party and defined his targets including state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu for his next innings. As the former CM has made it clear that he is not joining the BJP, it is quite evident that Captain Amarinder Singh will float his own regional political outfit as his interlocutors found that there was a lot of fight left in the Punjab leader.It is quite obvious that Captain’s new innings will be woven around Fauji-nationalist plank, which will show Sidhu’s love and admiration for across the border Prime Minister Imran Khan and Pakistan army chief Qamar Jawed Bajwa in sharp contrast. The former Punjab CM has already identified Sidhu as his political adversary and has announced that he will not let the former cricketer win the forthcoming Assembly election.With the Congress party in ferment nationally as well in Punjab, Delhi will be keenly watching if state party leaders’ rebel against the high command’s over the top accommodation of Sidhu and join hands with former Punjab CM. As late BJP leader Arun Jaitely, once the political mentor of Sidhu, found out when he contested the 2014 Lok Sabha elections from Amritsar against Amarinder Singh, the State Congress President is politically very ambitious and will go to any lengths to achieve his goal. That Sidhu will not play second fiddle to anyone in politics to achieve his objective is known to the top BJP leadership and Captain Amarinder Singh. To this extent, Sidhu is mercurial or unstable as Captain describes him and non-compromising when it comes to his personal political ambitions. Just as Captain likes to delegate work while running the political big picture, Sidhu’s capacity to lead an already fragmented Congress party in Punjab is still untested.To add to the Congress party’s discomfort are statements from senior leaders like Kapil Sibal and Manish Tewari, both from Punjab, criticising the way Captain was unceremoniously removed from the post of CM. The Congress demonstration against Kapil Sibal is also a warning to other members of the G-23 to refrain from questioning the party high command.While the Punjab electorate is still to recover from 10 years of Badal rule in the state, the former Punjab CM has left his anti-incumbency to the Congress party under Charanjit Singh Channi and Sidhu with his political and personal credibility intact. In contrast to the political theatrics of Sidhu, Captain is a steady electoral player without any song and dance. He may not address five political rallies in a day during the election campaign but always has the pulse of the people.The BJP, on the other hand, may not have the capacity of outright winning Assembly seats due to its support for farm laws but has both its cadre and support intact to tip the election away from the Congress and the AAP.All eyes are now on Captain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-interlocutors-find-captain-raring-for-a-political-fight-101633061571159.html
01-10-2021||India||President Kovind turns 76 today; PM Modi, Shah extend greetings||As President Ram Nath Kovind turned 76 on Friday, top leaders of the country extended their greetings and wished him a long life.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the President has endeared himself to the entire nation due to his humble personality. Birthday greetings to Rashtrapati Ji. Due to his humble personality, he has endeared himself to the entire nation. His focus on empowering the poor and marginalised sections of society is exemplary. May he lead a long and healthy life. @rashtrapatibhvn“His focus on empowering the poor and marginalised sections of society is exemplary. May he lead a long and healthy life.”In his birthday greetings to Kovind, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu said the former is known for his simplicity, high ethics and remarkable visions. “My Heartiest greetings to Hon'ble President of India, Shri. Ram Nath Kovind Ji on his birthday today. He is known for his simplicity, high ethics & remarkable vision. May he be blessed with good health, happiness and many more years in the service of the nation,” he wrote.Union home minister Amit Shah said the President’s commitment towards the welfare of every section of society is inspiring. In a tweet in Hindi, Shah further said, “The country has benefited continuously from your knowledge and experience.”Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also greeted the President on his birthday.Defence minister Rajnath Singh said, “Warm wishes to the President of India, Shri Ramnath Kovind ji on his birthday. He is admired by everyone for his wisdom, intellect and contribution to public life. The nation has been benefited from his wide experience. Praying for his long and healthy life.”Kovind was born in a small village in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur district and became a lawyer at the age of 16. He served as a Rajya Sabha member before taking over as the governor of Bihar in 2015.   He assumed office as 14th President of India on July 25, 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-turns-76-pm-modi-shah-extend-greetings-101633061632692.html
01-10-2021||India||"I'll do a Bhajpa here...': Abhishek Singhvi urges J&K Lakes Authority to change its name. Here's the likely reason||Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi has requested the Jammu and Kashmir administration to “change or slightly amend” the name of the Union Territory’s Lakes and Waterways Development Authority. Taking to Twitter, Singhvi urged authorities to do a “Bhajpa” and undertake the name change, referring to the practice of changing names of cities and towns by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state governments. “Although not a big fan of name change, I’ll do a Bhajpa here and request the J&K authorities to change/slightly amend the name of the Lakes and Waterways Development Authority,” Singhvi tweeted on Thursday. Although not a big fan of name change, I'll do a Bhajpa here and request the J&K authorities to change / slightly amend the name of Lakes and Waterways Development Authority.While Singhvi did not mention the reason behind this “request,” it is likely that this is because the body’s acronym, i.e, the first letter of each word, from Lakes to Authority, when read together, sounds exactly like a common Hindi cuss word.“The cleanliness drive of the Dal Lake is in full swing. It was paused last year due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Lakes and Waterways Development Authority has taken the initiative to clean the lake,” news agency ANI tweeted on Thursday, mentioning the acronym.“We’ve deployed 15-16 more machines. Along with high tech machinery, authorities have also resorted to manual cleaning process,” the tweet further quoted Dr Bashir Ahmad Bhat, the vice chairman of the Authority, as saying. We've deployed 15-16 more machines. Along with high tech machinery, authorities have also resort to manual cleaning process: Dr Bashir Ahmad Bhat, Vice Chairman, LAWDA (29.09) pic.twitter.com/eI5Ycq2vY8The acronym was used twice by ANI. Within minutes of being posted, the tweet, predictably, led to a meme fest on social media. The J&K Lake and Waterways Development Authority trended throughout Thursday, and into early morning hours of Friday.Interestingly, there is no mention of the acronym on the agency’s official website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ill-do-a-bhajpa-abhishek-singhvi-urges-j-k-lakes-development-authority-to-change-its-name-here-s-why-101633059936223.html
01-10-2021||India||Delhi to see cloudy sky, air quality to be ‘satisfactory’||Delhi is likely to see a generally cloudy sky with a possibility of very light rain in some parts of the city on Friday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be at 26 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 34 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 26.4 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal and the maximum temperature was 35.2 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal. No rainfall has been recorded in the last 24 hours while the humidity has varied between 59% to 86% level. The regional meteorological department has predicted a partly cloudy sky over the next 7 days.Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Friday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 97. The prominent pollutants in the air were PM2.5, PM10 and CO. In comparison, the average 24-hour AQI was 84 on Thursday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.On Friday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the satisfactory category as dry conditions are prevailing and winds are flowing from the Indo-Gangetic Plain region. However, wind direction will change to westerly from tomorrow, and AQI is forecasted to slightly deteriorate to remain in satisfactory category for next 3 days.”Based on its extended range outlook of air quality over the next one week, SAFAR has stated, “the satellite data indicates some sporadic fire count signatures in north India, but a drastic deterioration is not expected until 10th October. However, delayed monsoon retreat is not a good sign for air quality. The anticyclone which forms immediately after the withdrawal will make the atmosphere very stable beneath which favour rapid fine particulate matter formation and accumulation of pollutants. The situation becomes worse if it is encountered with any external emission source like stubble burning . If such conditions coincide then it will deteriorate the AQI significantly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-see-cloudy-sky-air-quality-to-be-satisfactory-101633059515110.html
01-10-2021||India||Both Adani brothers now in top 10. Check the Hurun India Rich List 2021 here||Reliance Industries head Mukesh Ambani has retained the top spot as the richest Indian once again—now his 10th year of enjoying the title—according to the Hurun India Rich List 2021 published on Thursday. Both the Adani brothers have stormed up to the top 10 positions for the first time ever and there are four new faces in the Hurun India top ten rich list, including those of industrialists Lakshmi Mittal and Kumar Mangalam Birla. Perhaps the newest face in this list is Jay Chaudhry, the California-based entrepreneur of the cloud cybersecurity firm Zscaler, who made it to the list for the first time.Hurun India Rich List 2021: Top 10 richest Indians this year1. Mukesh Ambani (Reliance Industries): ₹7,18,000 crore net worth2. Gautam Adani (Adani Group): ₹5,05,900 crore net worth3. Shiv Nadar (HCL): ₹2,36,600 crore net worth4. SP Hinduja (Hinduja Group): ₹2,20,000 crore net worth5 . Lakshmi Mittal (Arcelor Mittal): ₹1,74,400 crore net worth6. Cyrus Poonawalla (Serum Institute of India): ₹1,63,700 crore net worth7. Radhakishan Damani (Avenue Supermarts): ₹1,54,300 crore net worth8. Vinod Shantilal Adani (Adani Group): ₹1,31,600 crore net worth9. Kumar Mangalam Birla (Aditya Birla): ₹1,22,200 crore net worth10. Jay Chaudhry (Zscaler): ₹1,21,600 crore net worthThe IIFL Wealth Hurun India Rich List 2021 shows that India has more than 1,000 individuals who have a net worth of ₹1,000 crore or more across 119 cities. The cumulative wealth in the country has gone up by 51 per cent, while the average wealth has also increased by 25 per cent, the report by Hurun India said. However, as many as 113 people saw their wealth go down from the previous year; there were 51 dropouts from the 2020 list, while six individuals who were up there passed away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/both-adani-brothers-now-in-top-10-check-the-hurun-india-rich-list-2021-here-101633056174441.html
01-10-2021||India||NCW takes cognisance of reports about IAF offr being subjected to banned test||The National Commission for Women (NCW) has taken cognisance of media reports that an Indian Air Force (IAF) officer was subjected to the banned two-finger test by IAF doctors after she accused a colleague of sexual assault. It said the panel is “utterly disappointed and strongly condemns” the action of the doctors. In a statement, NCW said the test violated a Supreme Court ruling as well as the right to privacy and dignity.The Supreme Court in 2013 held the results of such tests cannot be used against rape survivors and that it was irrelevant whether the victim was seemingly “habituated to sexual intercourse”.NCW chief Rekha Sharma has also written to the IAF chief requesting him to look into the matter and take necessary steps and impart “necessary knowledge” to the IAF doctors about the guidelines laid down by the government. She noted the Indian Council of Medical Research in 2014 declared the two-finger test “unscientific”.The officer was allegedly raped on the Air Force Administrative College campus in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncw-takes-cognisance-of-reports-about-iaf-officer-being-subjected-to-banned-test-101633059093938.html
01-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Ordnance Factory Board to be dissolved today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ordnance Factory Board to be dissolved today, employees retain service conditionsThe board's assets, employees, and management are being divided into seven newly established defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs). Read moreFrom today, no private retailing of liquor in Delhi till November 16From today, private liquor shops in Delhi will shut down their shutters for the next month-and-a-half as mandated by the new excise policy of the Delhi government. Read more‘I told bowlers...’: The MS Dhoni advice that turned the match in CSK's favour against SRHDhoni, the captain had shown that he is light years ahead of the others in this UAE leg of the IPL, on Friday against Sunrisers Hyderabad in Sharjah, it was time to show Dhoni the finisher is still alive. Read moreKashmera Shah reacts to Sunita Ahuja's comment, says a 'bad daughter-in-law' is one who's got 'cruel mother-in-law'Actor Kashmera Shah has responded to actor Govinda's wife, Sunita Ahuja's recent comments against her. Kashmera is married to Govinda's nephew, Krushna Abhishek. Read moreDaniel Craig slays deep fuchsia pink velvet tuxedo at ‘No Time to Die’ premierJames Bond Daniel Craig's deep fuchsia pink velvet tuxedo becomes the talk of the town at the world premiere of ‘No Time To Die’, his final turn as 007, in London’s Royal Albert Hall. Read moreTaliban plan to adopt 1964 Afghan monarch's constitutionAs the world watches Afghanistan, Taliban have announced to adopt the 1964 constitution drafted by an Afghan monarch. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ordnance-factory-board-to-be-dissolved-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101633055907395.html
01-10-2021||India||Cyclone Shaheen to form over Arabian Sea today; heavy rain likely in Kutch, Saurashtra||Cyclone Shaheen is likely to form over the northeast Arabian Sea later today. It is likely to intensify into a severe cyclone tonight or on early Saturday morning, as per the weather department. Though Shaheen will not cross the Indian coast, it’s likely to bring heavy to very heavy rain over Kutch and Saurashtra region according to the India Meteorological Department.The depression over the northeast Arabian Sea off Gujarat coast intensified into a deep depression on Thursday night about 255 km west-northwest of Devbhoomi Dwarka (Gujarat), 180 km south-southwest of Karachi (Pakistan) and 660 km east-southeast of Chabahar Port (Iran). It is very likely to further move west-northwestwards and intensify into a cyclonic storm, Shaheen, during the next few hours.It may intensify further to a severe cyclonic storm (90 to 100 kmph gusting to 110 kmph). Thereafter, it is likely to continue to move west-north westwards towards Pakistan – Makran coasts, moving away from the Indian coast.The system will not hit the Indian coast. Heavy to very heavy rain is likely at isolated places over Saurashtra and Kutch during the next 12 hours. Squally wind speed reaching 50-60 kmph gusting to 70 kmph likely to prevail over the northeast Arabian Sea and along and off south Gujarat coast and 40 – 50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph over the east-central Arabian Sea along and off north Maharashtra coast during next 12 hours. It would gradually increase thereafter, becoming squally wind speed reaching 65-75 kmph gusting to 85 kmph over the northeast Arabian Sea, 50-60 kmph gusting to 70 kmph along and off Gujarat coast and 45 – 55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph over the east-central Arabian Sea along and off north Maharashtra coast during next 6 hours.It would further increase becoming gale wind speed reaching 90-100 kmph gusting to 110 kmph over the northeast and adjoining northwest Arabian Sea and along and off Pakistan – Makran coasts.A well-marked low-pressure area is also lying over south Bihar and adjoining Jharkhand. The system and its remnant is very likely to move over Bihar and adjoining Sub-Himalayan West Bengal Sikkim during next 3-4 days.A trough in easterly is running from Southeast Bay of Bengal to south Andhra Pradesh coast at lower tropospheric levels and likely to persists during next 2-3 days. Isolated heavy rain is very likely over Bihar and Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim till October 3 due to the system.Rainfall activity is likely to increase over south Peninsular India from October 1 with heavy rain over Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Coastal & South Interior Karnataka during till October 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-shaheen-to-form-over-arabian-sea-today-heavy-rain-likely-in-kutch-saurashtra-101633058674143.html
01-10-2021||India||Gandhi Jayanti 2021: Remembering the Mahatma||On Saturday, October 2, 2021, the nation will pay homage to Mahatma Gandhi on what will be the 152nd birth anniversary of the “Father of the Nation.” Gandhi Jayanti, as the occasion is known, coincides this year with the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, which was inaugurated on March 12 by prime minister Narendra Modi, on the 91st anniversary of a significant event in Gandhi's life, the Dandi March.The Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav will be celebrated till August 15, 2023, the 77th Independence Day.Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, who shares his birthday with another legendary personality, former PM Lal Bahadur Shastri (born 1904), was born on October 2, 1869, in Porabandar, in present-day Gujarat. A lawyer whose life changed through his experiences in South Africa, Gandhi played the most significant role in India's independence movement, holding demonstrations through non-violent means. Though it is commonly believed that the title “Mahatma” was bestowed upon Gandhi by India's first Nobel laureate, “Gurudev” Rabindranath Tagore, the Gujarat government has disputed this, claiming instead that this title was given by a local journalist from Saurashtra. However, the leader is also commonly referred to as “Bapu” (father).Gandhi is the most frequently invoked Indian personality by world leaders, most of whom, during a visit to India, visit his resting place in Delhi. US president Joe Biden quoted the freedom fighter during his meeting with PM Modi at the White House last week.Also Read | PM Modi-Biden meeting at White House: Here's what the two leaders saidInternationally, October 2 is observed as the Day of Nonviolence in remembrance of the “Mahatma.” In India, it is a full holiday, and one of three national festivals, along with Republic Day (January 26) and Independence Day (August 15).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhi-jayanti-2021-paying-tribute-to-the-mahatma-101633052602639.html
01-10-2021||India||Ordnance Factory Board to be dissolved today, employees retain service conditions||The Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) will be dissolved with effect on Friday in line with a decision taken by the Union cabinet earlier this year. The board's assets, employees, and management are being divided into seven newly established defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs), according to an official order issued by the defence ministry. Although the nearly 70,000 employees of the Ordnance Factory Board are being transferred to these new PSUs, there will be no change in their service conditions, defence minister Rajnath Singh clarified. The names of these seven new defence PSUs are – Munition India Ltd, Armoured Vehicles Nigam Ltd, Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Ltd, Troop Comforts Ltd, Yantra India Ltd, India Optel Ltd and Gliders India Ltd.Also Read | Centre dissolves ordnance factory board, transfers assets to seven DPSUsThere had been a long-pending proposal to restructure the over 200-year-old defence ministry entity – the Ordnance Factory Board –  which, with its 41 ammunition and military equipment production facilities, supplied critical arms and ammunition to the three armed forces and the paramilitary. The proposal aimed to transfer the existing framework into seven state-owned corporate entities to improve the board's accountability, efficiency and competitiveness. Finally, the Union cabinet decided to take the issue up on June 16 and approved the major reform initiative.In an order issued later on September 24, the defence ministry said, “Government of India has decided to transfer, with effect from October 1, the management, control, operations and maintenance of these 41 production units and identified non-production units to seven government companies.”Service conditions of employeesAll the employees of OFB (Groups A, B, and C), belonging to the production units and also the identified non-production units, are to be transferred en masse to the new DPSUs on terms of foreign service. They will, however, not be provided with any deputation allowance (deemed deputation) initially for a period of two years from the appointed date, an official order stated.It said each of the new DPSUs is required to frame rules and regulations related to service conditions of the absorbed employees and seek an option for permanent absorption from the employees on deemed deputation to the respective DPSUs within a period of two years.“The service conditions of the absorbed employees would not be inferior to the existing ones,” the order said, adding a committee would be constituted by the Department of Defence Production (DDP) for guiding the new DPSUs that the absorption package given is attractive.It said the pension liabilities of the retirees and existing employees will continue to be borne by the government from the defence ministry's budget. “For the employees recruited after January 1, 2004, the National Pension Scheme applicable to the Central Government employees is in vogue and the same may be adopted by the new DPSUs, including the continuation of all special provisions applicable to Central government employees under the National Pension System,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ordnance-factory-board-to-be-dissolved-today-employees-retain-service-conditions-101633048371381.html
01-10-2021||India||On Sivaji Ganesan's 93rd birth anniversary, a Google Doodle tribute||Friday, October 1, marks the 93rd birth anniversary of late actor Sivaji Ganesan, and Google has paid tribute to the legendary thespian by coming up with a Doodle on him. Bengaluru-based artist Noopur Rajesh Choksi has created the Doodle, Google noted.Actor Vikram Prabhu, the ace actor's grandson, was among those who shared the Doodle on Twitter. “Here is the #Googledoodle honouring the Legendary #SivajiGanesan on his 93rd birthday. Appreciate the people from Google India and their guest artist Noopur Rajesh Choksi for the doodle art. Another proud moment! Love him and miss him more every year,” Prabhu said in his post. Here is the #Googledoodle honouring the Legend #SivajiGanesan on his 93rd birthday. Appreciate the people from Google India & their guest artist Noopur Rajesh Choksi for the doodle art. Another proud moment!😍 Love him and miss him more every year!❤️🙏 https://t.co/jq7WkUsBCw pic.twitter.com/A1aczdPEPlGanesan was born on October 1, 1928, as Ganesamoorthy in Villupuram in Madras Presidency (present-day Tamil Nadu) of what was then the British India. At the age of just seven, he left his home to join a theatre group. In December 1945, Ganesamoorthy portrayed Maratha ruler Shivaji in a play titled “Shivaji Kanda Hindu Rajyam.” Such iconic was his performance that the name stuck, and Ganesamoorthy earned the moniker of “Sivaji,” being known by that name for the rest of his life.Though he was mainly active in Tamil cinema, where he made his debut in 1952's “Parasakthi,” Ganesan appeared in nearly 300 films, including those in languages such as Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam and Hindi. In a career that spanned nearly five decades, he won several awards, and was the first Indian actor to win a Best Actor award at an international film festival (Afro-Asian Film Festival in Cairo, Egypt), winning for his performance in 1960's “Veerapandiya Kattabomman.”Ganesan, who also dabbled in politics, was described by the Los Angeles Times as the “Marlon Brando of south India's film industry.” He passed away on July 21, 2001, at the age of 72.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-sivaji-ganesan-s-93rd-birth-anniversary-google-pays-tribute-with-doodle-101633047905596.html
01-10-2021||India||‘Everything's fine’: Punjab minister after Sidhu-Channi meeting to avert crisis||Amid the ongoing crisis in the Congress’ Punjab unit, a decision on a coordination committee seems to have resolved the issue in the state heading to assembly elections early next year. The decision to form the panel was taken after a three-hour meeting attended by Navjot Singh Sidhu, who resigned as the president of the Congress’ Punjab unit, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and the state ministers Pargat Singh and Raj Kumar Verka and leaders like Pawan Goyal, Kuljit Nagra and Harish Chaudhary. "Everything is fine," Pargat Singh told the media after the meeting.According to people familiar with the matter, the coordination panel will be consulted before any major decision is take-in the state. And Sidhu is likely to retain his post as the Punjab unit chief of the party. The people cited above said the panel is likely to be headed by a central leader and may comprise Channi, Sidhu and a third leader. Reports said AICC in-charge of Punjab Harish Rawat, senior Congress leader Ambika Soni and a few senior leaders of the party's state unit could be part of the committee.Also read | Sidhu, Channi buy peace, agree on panel for better coordinationDuring the meeting held at the Punjab Bhawan on Thursday, Sidhu demanded the removal of the director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota and Punjab’s advocate general APS Deol. Their names are linked to the desecration of a religious text in Punjab’s Faridkot district in 2015, whose investigation was handed over by the then Parkash Singh Badal-led government to an SIT led by Sahota. Deol was a counsel for former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and represented him in cases related to police firing on Sikhs protesting against the sacrilege cases.“DGP IPS Sahota was head of SIT investigating Beadbi case under Badal govt, he wrongfully indicted two Sikh youth for sacrilege & gave a clean chit to Badals...” Sidhu tweeted earlier in the day attacking Sahota.Also read | The Congress leadership made a mistake with Sidhu. The party is paying the priceThursday’s meeting was held after Sidhu abruptly resigned as the Congress Punjab unit chief on September 28, thrusting the party into a fresh crisis. The party was already battling the bitter tussle between Sidhu and former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Charanjeet Singh Channi took oath as the 16th chief minister of Punjab on September 20, days after Captain Amarinder Singh stepped down from the top job in the state following months of infighting between him and Navjot Singh Sidhu.Amarinder Singh resigned as the Punjab chief minister on September 18 and told the media that the Congress leadership had let him down and he felt insulted and humiliated. He also took a dig at Sidhu over his resignation, saying he is not a stable man. Sidhu was made PCC chief by Congress leadership in July to stem infighting in Punjab Congress ahead of next year's assembly polls.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/everythings-fine-punjab-minister-after-sidhu-channi-meeting-to-avert-crisis-101633048718789.html
01-10-2021||India||PM Modi to launch flagship schemes today to make all cities ‘garbage free’, ‘water secure’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch two flagship missions of his government—the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban (SBM-U) 2.0 and the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) 2.0—on Friday. The programmes take on the ambitious challenge to make all the cities in India garbage-free and water-secure as part of the journey towards achieving sustainable development goals by 2030, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement.The SBM-U 2.0 and AMRUT 2.0 programmes signify a “step forward in the march towards effectively addressing the challenges of rapidly urbanising India”, the PMO said. The Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban 2.0 envisions a plan to make all cities garbage free by ensuring grey and black water management in all cities except those covered under AMRUT. It also aims to make all urban local bodies with a population of less than 1 lakh Open Defecation Free (ODF), thereby achieving the vision of safe sanitation in urban areas. The mission will also focus on source segregation of solid waste, utilising the principles of the three ₹of reduce, reuse, recycle, scientific processing of all types of municipal solid waste, and remediation of legacy dumpsites for effective solid waste management. The outlay of the entire SBM-U 2.0 mission is around ₹1.41 lakh crore.Also Read | PM Modi lays foundation stone for 4 Rajasthan colleges, praises Ashok GehlotThe Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation 2.0 mission, on the other hand, is focusing on providing 100 per cent coverage of water supply to all households in around 4,700 urban local bodies by providing about 2.68 crore tap connections and 100 per cent coverage of sewerage and septage in 500 AMRUT cities by providing around 2.64 crore sewer or septage connections, which will benefit more than 10.5 crore people in urban areas.AMRUT 2.0 will adopt the principles of circular economy and promote conservation and rejuvenation of surface and groundwater bodies, according to the PMO. The mission will promote data-led governance in water management and technology sub-mission to leverage the latest global technologies and skills. 'Pey Jal Survekshan' will be conducted to promote progressive competition among cities. The outlay of AMRUT 2.0 is around ₹2.87 lakh crore.Also Read | Don't forget Swachh Bharat amid Covid-19, says PM Modi in Mann Ki BaatBoth the SBM-U and AMRUT missions have contributed significantly to improve India's urban landscape during the past seven years, the PMO said, adding that the two flagship missions have augmented the capacity to deliver basic water supply and sanitation services to citizens. “Swachhta (cleanliness) has become a Jan Andolan today,” the statement read. “All urban local bodies have been declared ODF and 70 per cent of solid waste is being scientifically processed now. AMRUT has been ensuring water security by adding 1.1 crore household water tap connections and 85 lakh sewer connections, thus benefiting more than 4 crore people,” it added.According to a statement from the PMO, the launch will take place at 11am at the Dr Ambedkar International Centre in New Delhi. Union minister for housing and urban affairs and his counterparts in states and Union territories are also expected to be present at the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-flagship-schemes-today-to-make-all-cities-garbage-free-water-secure-101633045593575.html
01-10-2021||India||India, Australia to conclude early harvest trade deal by December||India and Australia on Thursday agreed to conclude an early harvest trade deal by December before signing a comprehensive free trade agreement (FTA) by the end of 2022.The two countries decided to expedite the long-pending trade deal at a meeting between commerce minister Piyush Goyal and his Australian counterpart Dan Tehan, which marked the formal resumption of the India-Australia Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA) negotiations.“We have agreed on aggressive timelines,” Goyal said at a joint press conference after the 17th India-Australia Joint Ministerial Commission meeting. India has been negotiating the CECA covering trade in goods, services, investment and related issues since 2011.Key issues included the expeditious negotiation of a bilateral CECA, resolution of tax-related issues faced by Indian software firms in Australia, ensuring increased two-way trade and the 12th Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) scheduled to be held at the end of this year, a commerce ministry statement said.“Both India and Australia reaffirmed commitment to conclude a CECA, including to reach an interim agreement by December 2021 to liberalise and deepen bilateral trade in goods and services, and to conclude the negotiations on a full CECA by the end of 2022,” it said.They also agreed to explore government procurement. It was agreed that there would be an exchange of offers by the end of October 2021, the statement said. The ministers agreed on the need for a balanced trade deal that will benefit the two economies, and reflects shared commitment to the rules-based international trading system.They also agreed to work towards an ambitious and balanced outcome at the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference (MC12) in Geneva, Switzerland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-to-conclude-early-harvest-trade-deal-by-december-101633046870916.html
01-10-2021||NA||Breaking News: UP govt recommends CBI probe in Kanpur realtor Manish Gupta's death case||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:China sends 38 fighter planes toward Taiwan on National DayChina sent 38 fighter jets toward self-ruled Taiwan in the largest display of force this year on China's National Day.UP govt recommends CBI probe in Kanpur realtor Manish Gupta's death caseUP government recommends CBI probe in the death of Kanpur realtor Manish Gupta in an incident at a hotel in Gorakhpur.Australia looking to diversify trade ties amid difficulties with China: Trade minister Dan TehanAustralia is seeking to diversify its trading relations with countries such as India against the backdrop of difficulties in its economic ties with China, Australian trade and investment minister Dan Tehan said on Friday.Brazil's Amazon records least September fires in 20 yearsThe number of fires in Brazil's Amazon during September dropped to the lowest for the month in two decades, according to data from the Brazilian National Institute for Space Research.Pak govt in talks with TTP for reconciliation process: Imran KhanPakistan government is in talks with some groups of the banned Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) with the aim of having the group lay down their weapons and making them agree to adhere to the country's Constitution, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has said, according to an ANI report. Top court refuses to interfere with closing of Delhi’s private liquor vends under new policyThe Supreme Court on Friday closed the doors upon 260 private liquor vends in the Capital seeking a last-minute indulgence to remain operational beyond September 30, the cut-off date prescribed under the Delhi Government’s New Excise Policy for private liquor vends to shut shop.PM Modi invites investors to India at Dubai ExpoThere is opportunity to discover, opportunity to partner and opportunity to progress. Come to India and explore these opportunities. India also offers you maximum growth. Growth in scale, growth in ambition, growth in results. Come to India and be a part of our growth story, says PM ModiExpo2020 will go long way in further building deep relations with UAE, says PM ModiIndia is participating with one of the largest pavillion in this Expo. I am sure that this Expo will go a long way in further building our deep and historical relations with UAE and Dubai, says PM Narendra Modi at the launch of the India Pavilion at Dubai Expo 2020.India's Covid-19 vaccination crosses 89.67 crore-markIndia’s Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 89.67 crores today. More than 62 lakh vaccine doses have been administered till 7 pm today, says Union health ministry.Actress Kangana Ranaut meets CM Yogi Adityanath in LucknowBangladesh police arrest man in in Rohingya leader's deathPolice in Bangladesh said Friday they arrested a suspect in the killing of a key Rohingya leader, who was a prominent voice for the repatriation of the refugees to Myanmar.Chacha Chaudhary to be mascot of the Namami Gange programmeChacha Chaudhary has been declared as the mascot of the Namami Gange programme, announces ministry of jal shakti.Allahabad high court grants protection from arrest to Ex-Governor of UP Dr Aziz QureshiThe Allahabad High Court on Friday granted protection from arrest to Ex-Governor of UP Dr Aziz Qureshi booked in a sedition case for making derogatory remarks against UP CM Yogi Adityanath.‘Next 6-8 weeks are important as…’: Guleria on how Covid cases can dropThree days after the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued Covid-19 guidelines for the upcoming festive season, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi director Dr Randeep Guleria on Friday said that people must remain “alert and vigilant” in the next six to eight weeks for the cumulative infection rates to come down. Read MoreDelhi reports 32 fresh Covid casesDelhi recorded 32 fresh Covid-19 cases during the last 24 hours, said the health bulletin issued by the Delhi government on Friday.According to the health bulletin, the positivity rate in the city currently stands at 0.05 per cent.India makes 10-day quarantine mandatory for all UK travellersIndia to impose reciprocal measures on UK citizens from Oct 4. Under the measures, UK citizens will have to quarantine for 10 days irrespective of vaccination status.Domestic flights of GoAir, 3 other airlines may shift to Terminal 1 of Mumbai Airport from Oct 20Domestic flight operations of GoAir, Air Asia, TruJet and Star Air might be shifted to terminal 1 of Mumbai airport starting October 20. Adani Airports Holding Ltd. (AAHL) has written to Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and other stake holders informing the same. However, the airport spokesperson said that the shift will be done after getting the needed pending approvals.Punjab CM meets PM Modi; asks him to resolve farmer crisisI asked the Prime Minister to resolve the matter of farmers' protest and resume dialogue with the protesting farmers. I demanded that the three laws should be withdrawn: Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi after meeting PM Modi in Delhi.Primary data from CP smog tower shows 80% reduction in pollution levels: RaiDelhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai says smog tower at Connaught Place has started working at full capacity and primary results show 80% reduction in pollution levelsRahul Gandhi asks questions to govt without any fear: Newly recruit Kanhaiya KumarRahul Gandhi asks questions to govt without any fear, maybe because he isn't afraid of ED (Enforcement Directorate). Those who are honest are asking questions to govt without any fear: Kanhaiya Kumar, CongressRamjas College announces 100% cutoff in three coursesRamjas College announces 100% cutoff in three courses. Political Science, Physics and one combination of BA Programme.Punjab CM Channi arrives at Delhi to meet PM ModiPunjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi arrives at 7 Lok Kalyan Marg (LKM) to meet PM Narendra Modi.Russia records highest Covid-19 daily increase since July 19Russia recorded 24,522 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, up from 23,888 the day before, bringing the cumulative total to 7,535,548, the federal response center said on Friday.Australia to lift 18-month Covid-19 travel ban next monthAustralia has outlined plans to lift a pandemic ban on its vaccinated citizens travelling overseas from November. But no date has yet been set for welcoming international tourists back.Sensex falls 360 points to end at 58,765Sensex slumps 360.78 points to end at 58,765.58; Nifty tumbles 86.10 points to 17,532.Govt claims reports of Tata Sons winning Air India bid 'incorrect'The finance ministry on Friday clarified that reports suggesting that Tata Sons has won the bid for Air India were not correct after it was reported that a panel of ministers accepted a proposal from officials which recommended Tata Sons, ahead of SpiceJet Limited promoter Ajay Singh's bid.Delhi University's Hansraj, Jesus and Mary colleges declare 100% cutoff in two subjectsDelhi University's Hansraj College and Jesus and Mary College declare 100% cutoff in two subjects.While Hansraj has set a cutoff of 100% in BSc (H) Computer Science and 99.75% in Bcom (H) as well as Economics(H), JMC said that students not including Psychology in their best of four subjects while seeking admission in Psychology (H) will need 100% to clear the course.Centre refutes reports of approval of Air India disinvestmentMedia reports indicating approval of financial bids by Government of India in the AI disinvestment case are incorrect. Media will be informed of the Government decision as and when it is taken: Department of Investment and Public Asset ManagementNeed to stay alert during festive season, says Dr Randeep GuleriaDuring the festive season, we have to remain alert and vigilant. If we remain careful for the next 6-8 weeks, then we will be able to see a decline in the overall number of Covid-19 cases: AIIMS Director Dr. Randeep GuleriaNot true that Congress ‘insulted’ Captain Amarinder Singh: Harish Rawat No facts in reports that state Captain Amarinder Singh was insulted by Congress. It appears from his recent statements that he is under some sort of pressure. He should rethink, and not help BJP directly or indirectly: Harish Rawat, Congress Punjab in-chargeMHA declares several districts in Arunachal Pradesh as ‘disturbed areas’ under AFSPATirap, Changlang and Longding districts in Arunachal Pradesh, and areas under Namsai and Mahadevpur police stations in Namsai district of the state, bordering Assam,,are declared as ‘disturbed area’ under Section 3 of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 from October 1 to March 31, 2022: MHAForeign secretary Shringla to visit Sri Lanka: MEAForeign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will visit Sri Lanka from 2-5 October, to review the bilateral ties, the progress of ongoing bilateral projects and ongoing cooperation to tackle Covid-19 related disruptions: MEAPM Modi launches Swachh Bharat Mission 2.0Prime Minister Narendra Modi launches Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban 2.0 and AMRUT 2.0, which is designed to make all the cities ‘Garbage Free’ and ‘Water Secure'.Police use water cannon on farmers protesting Haryana deputy CM's visitJhajjar Police use water cannon to disperse protesters who trespassed barricades ahead of Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala's programme.Punjab CM Channi to meet PM Modi today Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi to meet PM Narendra Modi in Delhi today. After taking over as the chief minister, Channi had written to PM Modi seeking time for a courtesy call.Tata Sons wins Air India bid: ReportsTata Sons reportedly wins bid for Air India; to become owner of the national carrier.Punjab CM Channi to visit Delhi todayPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to arrive in Delhi today; scheduled to leave for the national capital at around 12 noon.Australia to consider Covishield as ‘recognised vaccine’ for arrivalsTGA published its initial assessment of data on protection offered by Coronavac (Sinovac) and Covishield (AstraZeneca/SII) and has advised that these should be considered as ‘recognised vaccines’ for determining incoming international travellers as being appropriately vaccinated: Scott Morrison, Australian PMCongress top brass in Meghalaya to join TMC: ReportsTop Congress brass in Meghalaya, including former CM Mukul Sangma, and 12 other MLAs likely to join Trinamool Congress (TMC).Religious places in Delhi to open: DDMAReligious places permitted to open for visitors/devotees subject to strict compliances of SOPs issued by the Union Health ministry and adherence of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Order applicable till intervening night of 15th October or till further orders: Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA)India records 26,727 new Covid-19 cases and 277 deathsIndia records 26,727 new Covid-19 cases, up from 23,529 from a day ago. 28,246 fresh recoveries and 277 deaths also recorded.Madhya Pradesh: At least 7 dead in road accident in BhindMajor road accident in Madhya Pradesh's Bhind after collision between bus and container truck; at least seven dead, 13 injured. Four critical passengers referred to Gwalior.Army chief on 2-day visit to LadakhGeneral MM Naravane, Chief of Army Staff, is on a two-day visit to Ladakh sector to review the prevailing security situation and operational preparedness. He will also interact with troops deployed in the harshest terrain and weather conditions: Indian ArmyColombian vice president arrives in DelhiColombian vice president, Marta Lucia Ramirez, also the country's foreign minister, arrives in Delhi with a business delegation, for extensive engagements covering all aspects of bilateral relations. Special focus on science & technology, vaccine development and biotechnology: Ministry of External Affairs (MEA)Submarine row: EU-Australia postpone trade talksTrade talks between European Union, Australia postponed amid latter's row with France over Canberra's submarine deal with the United States.CDS General Bipin Rawat meets US counterpart General Mark MilleyChief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat met his US counterpart General Mark Milley, and the two officers discussed a range of issues, including ways to ensure regional security and their respective roles as principal military advisors to civilian leadership: PentagonNorth Korea claims it tested new anti-aircraft missileNorth Korea said on Friday it test-fired a newly developed anti-aircraft missile in the fourth round of weapons firings in recent weeks, even as it pushes to reopen dormant communication channels with South Korea in a small reconciliation step.BBMP bans animal slaughter on Gandhi JayantiBruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) orders a ban on animal slaughter and sale of meat on October 2, on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti.Unidentified terrorist killed in J&K's ShopianUnidentified terrorist killed in operation in J&K's Shopian. Operation in progress: Jammu and Kashmir Police||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-1-2021-101633045092774.html
01-10-2021||India||Kerala govt to slash motor vehicle tax on tourist caravans||KochiThe Kerala government will slash the motor-vehicle tax on tourist caravans by one-fourth, considering the immense scope of Caravan Tourism in the state, the state tourism department said on Thursday.Kerala transport inister Antony Raju has agreed in-principle to a proposal in this regard from tourism minister P A Mohamed Riyas, the department said in a release.The proposal will soon be approved by the government after going through the formalities required, Raju said while inaugurating a joint workshop of tourism and transport departments held here to deliberate on the operational details of the Caravan Tourism policy and sensitise regional transport officers (RTOs) on the procedural and regulatory aspects of the project. Hailing the policy announced recently as a major step forward in tourism development, Raju pledged support and cooperation of the motor vehicles department for its success. Presiding over the inaugural session of the workshop, Riyas asked the motor vehicles department to ensure that the registration of caravan vehicles and issue of permits to them are carried out in a hassle-free manner. The tax on caravans must be reduced to ₹250 per square metre from the current ₹1,000 per sqm, he said in his address.The government’s policy is that every panchayat and municipality must have at least one tourist destination.For their smooth day-to-day running, the government has decided to enlist active participation of local self-government institutions. Since suitable staying facilities in such set-ups will be difficult, the solution is caravan tourism, Riyas said.Raju said the government would provide green channel passage for caravans that carry a special sticker suggesting the joint recognition of the Tourism and Transport departments.They would also get preference while testing for pollution. Caravans will be given registration within 24 hours of application, the minister said.The additional transport commissioner would be the state nodal officer for caravans. The practice of on-road inspections will be avoided to facilitate smooth passage of caravans. The workshop mainly focused on the rules and regulations pertaining to the operation of tourist caravans. It also looked into the procedural protocols relating to the standardisation of caravans and their smooth movement in any part of the state and comfortable stay of tourists at the caravan parks and other stop-over spots. The state government had recently announced the country’s most stakeholder-friendly Caravan Tourism Policy, promising the visitors a safe, customized and closest-to-nature travel experience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-to-slash-motor-vehicle-tax-on-tourist-caravans-101633033952020.html
01-10-2021||India||‘Will be guarded in sermons’, says Kerala Catholic church after row over ‘narcotic jihad’||ThiruvananthapuramThe Catholic Church in Kerala has decided to be “guarded” in its official communications and religious sermons in future to ensure their words do not cause pain to other communities and their faith or create uneasiness in the society, a top church official said on Thursday.The decision, seeking to put an end to the controversy over “love and narcotic jihad” remarks made by a bishop recently, was taken at the meeting of the Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC) held in Kochi on Wednesday.In an interaction with PTI, a Church official also said the Church will continue to do its “prophetic responsibility” of fighting against all sorts of social evils.However, statements, speeches and reactions of the church and its officials on such matters will be presented before the public only after proper studies and discussions at its appropriate forum.“In future, our statements, speeches and responses will be guarded. We will be very cautious as we do not want to hurt the sentiments of other communities. The Church always stands for openness and strengthening the secular fabric of the society by enriching the communal harmony,” the official said in his first of such interaction after the bishop’s remarks rocked the state.The KCBC has observed that the recent controversy over the “love and narcotic jihad” remarks made by the bishop of Pala diocese of Syro-Malabar Church was an “eye opener” for the Church as it was “misinterpreted” by a section of media and politicians for serving their “narrow political and business interests” causing “pain and anguish” among members of another community, he said.After their meeting on Wednesday, the KCBC, which includes bishops of Syro-Malabar, Syro-Malankara, Knanaya Catholic and Latin Catholic churches, had issued a statement saying social evils pointed out by the church require a deeper study and serious enquiry instead of giving it a “different hue” and diverting it to other directions.Choosing not to use controversial terminologies like narcotic jihad or love jihad in its statement, the council said that it rejects in unison all forms of interpretations which undermine religious harmony and weaken healthy co-existence in society by mischievously twisting the warnings of the pastors of this church.“The KCBC disapproves of any covert attempts to show that there exists disunity among the Churches. The fundamental values of truth, love and justice, which the Catholic Church upholds, constitute the basis of all inter-religious dialogue and harmony among religions,” it had said in the release.Addressing the laity in Kuravilangad near Kottayam recently, Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt of Pala diocese had said that Christian girls were falling prey to what he claimed was “love and narcotic jihad” in Kerala and that wherever arms cannot be used, extremists were using such methods to destroy the youth.The comment had resulted in a verbal duel and blame game amongst the major political parties -- CPI(M), BJP and Congress -- in the state.The Congress, which criticised the Bishop for his remarks and the BJP, which supported the Bishop’s remarks, had attacked the Left government and the Chief Minister for their silence on the issue.Thereafter, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on September 21 rejected outright the comments made by the Bishop, saying the southern state is a firm terrain of secularism and society would take strong stand against those who try to upset it.The KCBC said that the Catholic Church in Kerala has been working towards peaceful co-existence and harmony of religions and for the cultural development of society in the state, through its varied services in the field of education and healthcare, as well as social and charitable actions.The KCBC said it wants secularism and religious harmony always and vows to work for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-be-guarded-in-sermons-says-kerala-catholic-church-after-row-over-narcotic-jihad-101633033831861.html
01-10-2021||India||Six arrested for gang rape of 18-year-old student in Telangana||HyderabadSix people were arrested in connection with the gang rape of an 18-year-old student in Nizamabad town, police said on Thursday.Three people sexually assaulted the woman at a hospital, where renovation work is underway, when she was in “inebriated” state, police said.After receiving a ‘Dial 100’ call around 1.50 am on Wednesday, a police team rushed to the spot and rescued the woman after finding her in a semiconscious state and got her shifted to a hospital, Nizamabad commissioner of police Kartikeya said.During inquiry, the woman said she had gone to meet her male acquaintance in Nizamabad on September 28 and both decided to have food and alcohol. Three of his friends also joined them. Later, the four accused took her to the hospital, where two more men joined them.Taking advantage of her inebriated condition, three of them sexually assaulted her, she said.Based on the woman’s statement a case was registered under IPC sections and SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act and all the six accused were arrested during the course of investigation and produced before a court which sent them to judicial remand, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-arrested-for-gang-rape-of-18-year-old-student-in-telangana-101633033651835.html
01-10-2021||India||Revenge killings linked to caste rattle Tamil Nadu again||Chennai: In a dramatic penultimate scene in the 1992 Tamil-film “Thevar Magan”, actor Kamal Haasan swipes his large sickle and decapitates the “villain” whose headless body falls to the ground. This final fight after all is a culmination of retributive violence that plays throughout the film pegged on the Thevar caste which was celebrated inside theatres in Madurai - a location where violence and caste dominance is often set.This set a trend for Tamil films to follow on the combination of caste pride and violence as the fictional accounts gave identity to life in the 1990s in Tamil Nadu when revenge killings had peaked before it was brought down by police intervention.But, vestiges of such macabre killings have emerged once again in Tamil Nadu. In just September, four beheadings have been committed in a span of 10 days.Three of these beheadings are said to be revenge killings as the victims severed heads were “offered” to previous murder victims belonging to rival gangs.The latest beheading happened on September 23 borne out of a rivalry that dates back to the early 1990s in Dindigul district near Madurai. On that day, three men on a bike murdered and decapitated a 61-year-old woman, Nirmala Devi. She is an accused in the sensational murder of a Dalit leader C Pasupathy Pandian in January 2012. They carried her severed head to Pandian’s home which was 1.5 km away away from the spot of murder and placed the lifeliess head below his poster. Police have arrested nine men for Devi’s killing. She is a labourer under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme.“They murdered her around 10 am when she had sat down to eat her breakfast,” said a police officer investigating the case. Devi was one of accused in Pandian’s murder case for providing asylum to his killers. These retaliatory murders have reinforced caste-based identities, dominance and loyalty to their communities. Devi is the fifth victim to be killed by Pandian’s supporter, continuing a gruesome bloody trail. The rivalry between the two factions -- the Dalits and the Nadar community in the region dates back to 1990.In this closed world, it’s a local gang war between Pasupathy Pandian, a growing influential Dalit leader and Subash Pannaiyar, a salt pan baron in Thoothukudi district belonging to the Nadar community- a backward but powerful trading community in southern Tamil Nadu. “Devi and Pandian belonged to the same caste and Pannaiyar planted her as a mole. Because of this caste-factor, the locals aren’t even sad that Devi was killed. They feel it was rightful vengence for Pandian’s murder,” the Dindigul police officer said. The first murder happened in January 1993 with the victim being an elderly man from Pannaiyar’s family and they suspected Panidan to be behind the killing. This began to spiral into retaliatory killings which were solidified by caste identity for three decades now.“The Dalits used to be labourers in lands owned by the Nadars who were very dominant and oppressed the schedule caste people like slaves and harrased their women,” explains a retired police officer and an author on police investigations, V Sithannan.“Panidan grew as a resistance force to support Dalits but over time he and his gang began indulging in criminal activities like extortion, land grabbing and murders.” Sithanan, who joined the police force in 1976 and has worked in southern regions, said that beheadings and revenge killings had been prevalent since the 1980s.“Both Pandian and Pannaiyar always moved around with at least 20-gang members with them because they feared they could be killed anytime,” he says. “Their cars would always carry sickles and country bombs.”Despite protecting themselves, including Devi’s murder, 12 lives have been lost from both sides over the generational rivalry. The case even spilled over to Chennai when Venkatesa Pannaiyar, who had sought to avenge his relative’s killings, was shot by the police. Pandian also faced several death threats and fearing for his life, Pandian moved from Thoothukudi to Dindigul in 1997. But in 2006, Panidan’s wife was killed in a country bomb attack in which Pandian escaped. A few years later, when he was alone at home at night, a gang murdered Pandian in his Dindigul residence in 2012.Devi and Pannaiyar are accused in the case among a dozen others. The case is pending in the trial stage at a special court for SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act in the Dindigul court.Though revenge killings and murders have happened everywhere, police say that the culture of crime in southern Tamil Nadu is different.“The people of this region are very affectionate but at the same time they can go to the other extreme of murdering in the most gruesome ways for taking revenge,” says Sithanan. “They don’t care about the consequences. The case may be in court, the rival gangs may be standing just outside the police station but they will kill.”T Kannappan, another retired Inspector General of Police in the intelligence bureau, is credited for bringing down these revenge killings during his two stints in Tirunelveli district as an SP and DIG between the late 1990s and mid-2000s.“In a revenge killing, after murdering the victim, they maim their hands and legs, cut off their heads or crush it. Their methods often show how deep the emotion of revenge is ingrained, In some cases the motive also can be understood,” said Kannapan. Like in the case of Devi, their heads are ‘offered’ to the previous victim for whom the murder of reveneg was committed. “Like making an offering to God, these people offer their rivals’ heads to the previous victims,” Kannapan says. The beheadings this September began in Tirunelveli. On September 13, a farmer Sankara Subramanian (38) who belongs to the Thevar caste was murdered. Police found his severed head at a crematorium ground placed on the grave of a Dalit man named Manirathnam who was murdered back in 2013. This led the police to conclude that this was a revenge killing. Police arrested six persons including Manithiram’s son Maharaja (20). And as the police formed special teams suspecting that there could be a counter-killing, it happened two days later. On September 15, a gang murdered a Dalit man, Mariappan (32) and head was found in the same spot where Subramanian was murdered. Mariappan was accused in a murder case of 2014. Police arrested eight people in the case. “My reading is when such revenge killing happened in Tirunelveli it would have spurred the gangs lying low in Dindigul to act,” says Kannappan.“Suspects usually find a favourable time to commit such crimes.” He says that while the crimes are steeped in caste-rivalry, it usually stems out from even petty issues. In the 1990s when such revenge killings had peaked, Kannappan says they were steeped in caste fanaticism which could stem out from even petty issues because of the production and consumption of alcohol and unemployment.“One caste group would want to monopolise illicit arrack and if another group tries to interfere, it’s a loss of economic activity,” says Kannappan. He and other officers helped the bootleggers to set up other professions using financial assistance from the government.Some of the ‘rowdies’ shifted to Mumbai and other parts of Tamil Nadu during this time. But over the years the bootlegging issue was settled in the southern districts. “But the caste-violence continued in other forms like over land disputes. Even a cattle grazing from a land belonging to an SC caste to another will end up in murders.”And there was a lull in the years that followed. A former SP of Dindigul, who did not wish to be named, said that during his stint four years ago, “nothing of this sort happened.” He was however briefed on all the previous crimes. “There had been a lot of retaliation killings and we had a ‘bandobast’ even if the accused was going to court,” he said. “I’m not sure why this has re-emerged now.”A social activist, who did not wish to be named, said they don’t take up these revenge killings though these are also caste killings.“When a Dalit dies, we have to question the motive,” the anti-caste activist from Madurai said. “These crimes are not solely based on their caste identity. They are also equally involved in criminal activities like money extortion so it’s not the same as honour killings and other caste-based crimes. Their caste is only an extension for their gang wars.”Sithannan and Kannappan explain that such cases are never over. “When a person was murdered his son may have been a minor and after years as an adult, he re-organises the old gang members to seek vengeance for his father,” says Kannappan.“The accused may have money and political power due to which he may not be punished for several years. That gives space to grooming situations. Unless these murder cases are disposed immediately, the revenge killings will continue.”And hence the dramatic method of killing and then decapitating a person to carry their head for a distance and then placing it as ‘offerings’ in homes and graves and statues. “Revenge killings always leave it opens for more retaliation murders to follow,” says Sithannan. “Pandian’s associates about 60-70 of them are still in the southern belt who have become active now after 8 years to avenge his murder. The nine men we have arrested belong to this group,” said an officer investigating the case. Pandian’s house is currently empty. Devi is survived by two sons and one of them works in the Indian army, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/revenge-killings-linked-to-caste-rattle-tamil-nadu-again-101633033172033.html
01-10-2021||India||No political angle in MLAs’ Delhi visit: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel||Amid speculation of a possible change of guard in Chhattisgarh, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday played down the visit of 10 Congress MLAs to the national capital, ruling out any “political angle” in the trip.“The MLAs can’t even go anywhere? If someone has gone there, it shouldn’t be seen from a political angle. If a politician is going somewhere, it’s obvious that he’ll meet political persons only,” Baghel told reporters in Raipur.On the possibility of the MLAs meeting AICC in-charge for Chhattisgarh, P L Punia, Baghel said, “Is Punia ji in Delhi? If Punia ji is not in Delhi, there is no question of meeting him.”The chief minister’s remarks came a day after 10 legislators flew to Delhi, adding to the buzz over a possible leadership change as a part of purported power-sharing formula in the Congress government.Baghel and his cabinet colleague, T S Singh Deo, have been locked in a tussle for the chief minister’s chair. As Baghel completed two-and-a-half years in office in June this year, the Singh Deo camp claimed that the high command in 2018 had agreed to hand over the post to him after the government completed half its term. Punia, however, has time and again denied that any such deal was struck in 2018.Reacting to the visit of the Congress MLAs, Singh Deo on Wednesday said: “We all know what kind of talks are going on regarding Chhattisgarh’s politics. Earlier, there was nothing but now the talk of a possible change of guard is in the public domain and probably that’s the reason for MLAs flying to Delhi, though they are saying that their agenda is development and not political.”Congress leader Brihaspat Singh, who led the group, insisted that there was no issue over the chief minister’s post and that they wanted to meet Punia over a proposed tour of party leader Rahul Gandhi to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-political-objective-says-baghel-on-chhattisgarh-congress-mlas-delhi-visit-101633032271619.html
01-10-2021||India||Sameer Sharma takes charge as Andhra Pradesh chief secretary||AmaravatiIndian Administrative Service officer of the 1985 batch, Sameer Sharma, on Thursday assumed charge as the chief secretary of Andhra Pradesh.He succeeded 1987-batch officer Aditya Nath Das, who retired at the end of his extended tenure. Das has now been appointed as the state government’s chief advisor in New Delhi, with the rank of a cabinet minister.Sharma is due to retire from service on November 30 this year. It is expected that he too may get an extension in service, like his predecessors, government sources said.He returned to the state cadre from the Central deputation in July this year, after having served as the director general of the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs.An academician and scholar, Sharma has authored many books like Smart Cities Unbundled, A Textbook on Urban Planning and Geography and Hourglass Management Paradigm.An expert in urban development affairs, Sharma had earlier served as director of National Smart Cities Mission.He was the only IAS officer to have served as the Commissioner of three major municipal corporations of Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Greater Hyderabad in the united AP and contributed to their financial turnaround.He did his Masters and doctorate in Community Planning in the United States of America.As Chairman and Managing Director of Indian Tourism Development Corporation, Sharma designed a model for strategic planning and executed the Balance Scorecard system that led to a 30 per cent increase in revenues of the hotel chain.He worked as a consultant for UN Habitat in Cambodia and International Federation of Red Cross Societies.Sharma received awards from the President and the Prime Minister for his initiatives in promotion of community organisations in slums and reforms in governance under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sameer-sharma-takes-charge-as-andhra-pradesh-chief-secretary-101633032092616.html
01-10-2021||India||Accused of raping and murdering 18 women and children, former cop Umesh Reddy’s decades-old saga of brutality close to an end||Bengaluru: He often gained access to his victims’ houses on the pretext of asking for water. His targets were mostly women, who he stalked for days before attacking.This was the modus operandi adopted by Umesh Reddy, a man convicted in nine rape and murder cases. A former policeman, he is accused of raping and murdering at least 18 women and children.Taking serious note of his criminal record, the Karnataka high court on Wednesday rejected Reddy’s appeal for commuting the death penalty awarded to him to a life sentence after his mercy petition was rejected by the President in 2012. While dismissing the plea, a bench of Justices Aravind Kumar and Pradeep Singh Yerur noted that the nature of the crimes did not merit any leniency. According to officers who investigated him, he was a smart criminal, who not only planned his heinous crimes but also had tricks up his sleeves to escape police custody multiple times. BN Nyamagouda, the police inspector who arrested Reddy said he was a ruthless killer, who managed to escape the police at least five times. Reddy’s criminal history started after he joined the Central Armed Reserve Force (CRPF) in 1996. He was posted in Kashmir after training and after he raped the daughter of his commandant, he escaped from the camp. “There were no systems in place then to check backgrounds of people, so after running away from CRPF, he came to Chitradurga and became a constable in District Armed Reserve (DAR) in November 1996. But he didn’t stick around there either, because he was caught in a rape case there as well,” said Nyamegowda. He initially tried to rape a girl in the KEB Colony in Chitradurga, but the girl raised alarm. Just days later, he raped and murdered a woman in the same district. He was arrested for rape in 1997. But within two months he escaped from jail. “Reddy escaped for the first time when he was being shifted from Bellary jail in March 1997. He was later arrested in July 1997 while attempting to steal women’s undergarments. But he escaped within 24 hours. He was picked up by Peenya police on February 28, 1998, while he was trying to escape after killing another woman. But he managed to escape while being brought to court. It had become an embarrassment for the department,” added the officer. His escapes proved fatal over the years as he got involved in the rape and murders of at least 18 women including five minors. “He entered their houses on the pretext of seeking drinking water or rooms for rent. He made sure the women were alone. He carried weapons that he used to threaten them. He used to tie them or chock them before committing rape. We have some cases where he had sex while the victims were unconscious or dead. He always took the inner clothing of the victims with him. He was a psychopath,” said the officer. Reddy was finally arrested on May 17, 2002, by Yeshwantpur police after he was spotted in a saloon by an autorickshaw driver. In the trial that followed, the court made some powerful observations. In February 2009, while reading out the verdict, the judge ruled that the accused, being a habitual offender, the sentences of imprisonment imposed on him in several cases had no deterrent effect on him. Justice Bannurmath in the verdict said: “It is evident that even after punishments in cases of robbery, dacoity, and rape, he has not reformed; no reformation can be expected from such a habitual offender and pervert criminal.” “I do not understand why such a devil in man’s garb should be maintained by society by locking him up in jail for life. It is a known fact that whenever there is an opportunity, he has a tendency to run away from custody and commit new, heinous crimes.” “The accused, being a habitual offender, the sentences of imprisonment imposed on him in several cases had no deterrent effect on him,” he had observed. According to officers who investigated the case, the conviction is a recognition of the thorough police investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accused-of-raping-and-murdering-18-women-and-children-former-cop-umesh-reddy-s-decades-old-saga-of-brutality-close-to-an-end-101633031912038.html
01-10-2021||India||ZyCoV-D likely to be rolled out in vaccine drive soon: Official||A second Indian vaccine for Covid-19, ZyCoV-D, will be included in the immunisation campaign “very shortly”, officials said at the health ministry’s briefing on Thursday, and the drive is likely to be opened up to children 12 years old and above, other people aware of the matter added separately.ZyCoV-D has been granted an emergency use authorisation by India’s drug regulators after interim clinical trial data showed is was 66% effective in preventing symptomatic Covid-19. The trial included volunteers in the 12-18 age group and was among the first doses in the country to have shown to be safe and efficacious in children.Union secretary for health and family welfare Rajesh Bhushan said the government was in talks with the vaccine manufacturer regarding pricing and procurement. “As far as the price of the vaccine at which it will be procured is concerned, we are in conversations with the manufacturer. Since it is a three-dose vaccine and comes with a needleless delivery system, it would have a differential pricing than the existing vaccines that are being used in the Covid-19 vaccination drive,” said Bhushan during the media briefing.“It will be introduced in the programme (Covid-19) very shortly,” Bhushan added.A person aware of the matter separately said the vaccine will likely be offered to 12-18 year-olds as well.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, while announcing that India will restart vaccine exports in the quarter beginning October, said in a statement on September 20 that manufacturers were going to make nearly 300 million doses available for use in October.Globally, at least 50 countries have begun giving doses to children. In most cases, children above the age of 12 are being inoculated. The shots being used for these ages are typically the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna doses – both have shown to be safe in children and their efficacy has been established.In India, makers of Covaxin and the Novavax vaccine are carrying out supplementary – also known as bridging -- trials in children. In adults, India has largely been using Covishield and Covaxin.“The production is going to go up further in the next quarter with the Zydus vaccine doses also getting added in some time. The supply lines have been streamlined...,” said a second senior government official aware of the matter, requesting anonymity.On the issue of Covaxin’s pending recognition by the World Health Organization, ICMR director general, Balram Bhargava said: “We know that scientific data, public health considerations and international health requirements are all considered on which the clearance is given by the WHO. All these have been provided and are being looked at.”The country has administered at least one vaccine dose to 69% of the adult population since January 16, when the drive began. At least 25% of the population is fully vaccinated, according to the government data released on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-indian-vaccine-to-be-part-of-vaccination-drive-soon-saysgovernment-101633031524577.html
01-10-2021||India||Breastfeeding an inalienable right of lactating mother: Karnataka high court||Bengaluru The Karnataka high court has said that “breastfeeding needs to be recognized as an inalienable right of a lactating mother” and is protected under the fundamental rights in the Constitution of India.The observation was made by Justice Krishna S Dixit on Wednesday in which one woman had approached the court seeking the return of her child who was taken away from the maternity home soon after birth from her foster mother.In its order, the HC said: “In the light of domestic law and the international law as briefly discussed above, breastfeeding needs to be recognized as an inalienable right of lactating mother; similarly, the right of the suckling infant for being breastfed too, has to be assimilated with mother’s right; arguably, it is a case of concurrent rights; this important attribute of motherhood, is protected under the umbrella of Fundamental Rights guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India; it is unfortunate that this pretty child for no fault remained un-breastfed, its lactating mother having had no access to it till now; in a civilized society such things should never happen.”The court added that between the claim of the foster mother and the biological parent, the latter should have priority over the child.The court said that the contention by the foster mother that she does not have any children while the biological parent has two at home to continue living with the former is “ludicrous”. The court said that “children are not chattel for being apportioned between their genetic mother and a stranger, on the basis of their numerical abundance; the principle of distributive justice which intends to bridge the gap between “haves and have nots” is not invocable, at least in this case.” The court added that a genetic mother “treats all her children as being an integral part of her body and soul, regardless of what the children do to her; this contention of foster mother is abhorrent to the very notion of motherhood.”However, the court also said that such cases are uncommon so as to enable any given judge to “profit merely by experience and thereby enable him to lay down thumb rules, especially when the elements involved are so complex”.It, however, added that the broad norm, in matters of child custody, should be that the claim of strangers yield to that of the genetic parents.Following the intervention of the court, the foster mother handed over the child to the biological parent. Further, the genetic parent has allowed the foster mother to see the child whenever she would like to do so, which the court order appropriately terms as “grace” on both their parts.“Such kind gestures coming from two women hailing from two different religious backgrounds are marked by their rarity, nowadays; thus, this legal battle for the custody of the pretty child is drawn to a close with a happy note, once for all,” the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breastfeeding-an-inalienable-right-of-lactating-mother-karnataka-high-court-101633031626393.html
01-10-2021||India||Karnataka government plans to make all Bengaluru roads free of potholes in 30 days||Bengaluru The Karnataka government said on Thursday that all roads in Bengaluru will be pothole-free in 30 days, setting another deadline, after many missed ones, to provide one of the most basic amenities to the city’s over 12 million residents.R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for revenue and interim incharge of Bengaluru city, said an additional ₹1,000 crore has been released for the purpose of fixing roads in the newly added localities of Bengaluru, where damaged roads have added to the nightmarish experience of residents, especially during monsoons. “Every day we were supposed to get 16 loads of bitumen from separate plants we have set up. But for 12 days, we did not get the load due to constant rains. The stone got wet and hot-mix was not working,” Ashok said. The assurance on road repair comes ahead of the elections to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the city’s civic body, that are expected to be held early next year. Bengaluru has 13,847 kms of arterial and sub-arterial roads, of which only 295 kms are said to be in good condition and another 246 kms have now been ridden of potholes, Ashok said. The new deadline comes even as huge amounts of money spent for road work were revealed in the just concluded monsoon session of the state legislature between September 13-24. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai had revealed in the upper house of the legislature last week that the state government had spent ₹20,060 crore on road works in Bengaluru in the last five years. Bommai, who holds the Bengaluru portfolio, said that only 1344 kms of roads, out of the over 11,200 kms, were motrable in the city, admitting to the one of the biggest infrastructural challenges gnawing at India’s IT capital. He also announced a road maintenance audit to monitor the money spent on roads, initial estimates and final cost, maintenance history, and potholes. Bommai said he would seek responses from contractors, officials and every person involved in the works to keep a watch on the amount spent on these projects. Though Bengaluru aspires to be a global city, its administrators have focused on a few parts of the over 800 square kms area, leaving most of its residents without basic amenities despite it being one of the revenue generators in the country, experts say. Successive governments have often fallen back on the same excuse of “developing city” as a way to circumvent taking responsibility on providing motorable roads without potholes, slush, and dust. Its infrastructure challenges have continued to impact the lives of its residents. The poor quality of roads has led to higher amounts of dust kicking up into the air, slowing down traffic and even taking lives. On an average, Ashoka said, each of the 198 wards has been allocated ₹20 lakh for the pothole-filling exercise. There have also been at least three major incidents in the city in the last one week, with two dilapidated buildings collapsing. Though there has been no loss of lives in these incidents, they have brought focus on the BBMP’s building plan approvals. Ashok said that all dilapidated buildings will get a notice in the next one week. As per a 2019 survey report, as many as 185 buildings were identified in the city and that the cost of demolition will be added to the existing property tax dues of the owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-government-plans-to-make-all-bengaluru-roads-free-of-potholes-in-30-days-101633031440710.html
01-10-2021||India||Electric buses spark hope for sustainable transport in Bengaluru city||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Thursday received the first of its planned 90 electric buses to ply as Bengaluru Metro feeder service, a move that is seen as part of the larger initiative to introduce more sustainable technologies to bring down pollution in the public transport sector. “Our government is dedicated to ensure people get the best transport facilities. In addition, electric buses are being introduced in larger numbers to protect the environment. Request all people to make best use of this transport facility and also help reduce traffic congestion,” B Sriramulu, Karnataka’s minister for transport and scheduled tribe (ST) welfare said in a post on Twitter on Thursday. The Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. will provide financial assistance of ₹50 crore for the operation of 90 electric buses and an incentive of ₹50 lakh per bus have been provided to the bidder, Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) said, adding an additional ₹5 crore is set aside to set up charging infrastructure. “The tender has been finalised and letter of award has been issued to M/s. NTPC Vypar Vidyut Nigam at GCC rate of ₹51.67/ km with electricity for 180 assured km for a period of 10 years. The buses have a seating capacity of 34 persons and can operate 120 kms on a single charge,” the BMTC said in a statement on Thursday. People aware of the developments said the buses would begin in a phase-wise manner from next month when the government will flag off these services. The 90 buses will be operate in Yeswanthpura, KR Puram and Kengeri.The EV (electric vehicle) initiative in the intra-city bus services is part of a larger plan of the state government to introduce more eco-friendly commute options for the public in a city that has seen its quality of air and water deteriorate in recent years, amplified by the intensifying construction and road repair works. Experts said that ever since the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown were lifted, the AQI (air quality index) has oscillated more sharply than before, HT reported on June 25. In the 13 monitoring stations across Bengaluru, only one station near Mysuru Road had a rating of ‘good’ in the AQI index in August while most others were ‘satisfactory’ while two were in ‘moderate’ category, according to the Karnataka state Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) data. Bengaluru has 9.4 million vehicles and pollution caused by them is the biggest reason for the deteriorating AQI in the city and its over 12 million residents. The KSPCB claims have been contested be experts in the past as most of the monitoring stations are placed away from high-density roads and tucked away near lakes and open spaces that lead to inaccurate findings. “If they acknowledge the problem then there has to be an intervention, action, followed by more work which they don’t want to do,” Madhusudhan Anand, chief technical officer at, Ambee, a Bengaluru-based startup that works to find solutions for air pollution earlier told HT.For instance, the air monitoring centre in BTM Layout, one of the most congested localities in Bengaluru, is placed around a canopy of trees near Madiwala lake, away from the main road, which is unlikely to capture the true extent of the pollution. According to KSPCB, in its revised action plan for the control of air pollution in Bengaluru, the city’s AQI -- a metric of daily air quality -- has fallen from 107.1 in 2014-15 to 88.1 in 2018-19, which shows a decreasing trend in the five-year annual average. This data has been disputed even by elected representatives, apart from scientists and experts on the subject. A 41-point action plan to mitigate air pollution, introduced by the state government, includes the implementation of LPG and bio-fuels, promoting battery operated vehicles, effective disposal of construction debris and operations of the metro among other measures to decrease the harmful pollutants entering the air. Electric vehicles are a way forward but the lack of infrastructure and government support has led to hesitancy among the public who still prefer vehicles that use fossil fuels. On September 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Union cabinet approved a $3.5-billion incentive scheme aimed at boosting electric and hydrogen fuel powered vehicles production in the country. But the difference between announcing a policy and implementing it has been the biggest challenge in cities like Benglauru, experts said. The government has set a target of one charging station in a 3km radius grid in Bengaluru, as part of its 2017 EV Policy. Companies like Ola, Uber, Bounce, Vogo and several others are looking at increasing EVs in their respective fleets to bring down capital and operational expenditure for service providers, reduce cost per km for users and help bring down pollution by keeping out smoke-emitting gasoline vehicles off the road. But none of this has come with government support and has been an investment of the private sector, according to people familiar with the matter.Ola is investing ₹2,400 crore to set up a two-million per annum EV plant in Tamil Nadu. The Karnataka government earlier this year approved investments of ₹22,419 crore in three different proposals involving EV and lithium-ion battery manufacturing that has the potential to create nearly 5,000 new jobs. But these projects are yet to see any traction on the ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/electric-buses-spark-hope-for-sustainable-transport-in-bengaluru-city-101633031131739.html
01-10-2021||India||20 monkeys found dead in Karnataka’s Kolar district, probe ordered||Bengaluru: Nearly 20 monkeys were found dead after they were allegedly poisoned on Wednesday near RN Jalappa Hospital, Bypass road in Kolar district of Karnataka, officials said on Thursday, adding that a case has been registered in the incident. Superintendent of police, Kolar, D Kishore Babu, said a case has been registered at Gulpet police station. According to the police, the carcasses were identified by some local residents who found the bags on the road. On opening the bags, they found some monkeys gasping for breath, which later died, said police. On Thursday, deputy commissioner of Kolar, Dr Selvamani R, ordered a detailed investigation in the incident, directing the forest department and police to work together to identify the culprits and arrest them at the earliest. In a statement to the media, the deputy commissioner urged people not to resort to such steps. “If any area is facing a monkey menace, just inform the forest department. They will make arrangements and relocate the primates immediately,” said Selvamani. This is third such incident in the state in the past two-three months. On July 26, seven people, including a woman, were arrested for killing 38 macaque monkeys at Chowdenahalli in Hassan district. The bonnet macaque monkeys were poisoned to death and found stuffed in a gunny bag at a road junction at Belur taluk in Hassan district. On September 9, more than 100 stray dogs were found killed in Shivamogga district. Police have arrested 12 people, including two members of Kambadal Hosur gram panchayat, in connection with the death of the stray dogs. Officials of the Bhadravati Rural police station said the gram panchayat issued an order for catching and sterilising stray dogs within panchayat limits and gave the contract to private contractors. The decision was taken during a meeting of the panchayat and an amount was set aside for the task. However, some members of the panchayat, including the secretary, conspired with the private contractors to kill the dogs by poisoning them. Meanwhile, wildlife activists raised concerns over the rising instances of cruelty towards animals. “People say there is a monkey menace etc, but the fact is we encroaching the forests. Since they don’t have any resources in the natural habitat they are coming to the cities,” said Joseph Hoover, a Bengaluru-based wildlife activist. Activists also highlighted that loophole in law enables such crime as under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), offences against animals are treated as damage to property or assets. “Under Section 428 of the IPC, a person can face a two-year jail term for killing or maiming a pet animal worth ₹10 and a five-year jail term if the pet animal was worth ₹50 or more. However, as strays belong to no one, they cannot be considered an asset and are thus not covered under the law,” said Rashmi Nair, a Bengaluru-based lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-monkeys-found-dead-in-karnataka-s-kolar-district-probe-ordered-101633030891528.html
01-10-2021||India||Unclear if Afghanistan will have inclusive government: S Jaishankar||India was not taken into confidence on all aspects of the deal signed by the US and the Taliban last year and it still isn’t clear whether Afghanistan will have an inclusive government or whether Afghan soil will not be used for terror, external affairs minister (EAM) S Jaishankar said on Thursday.These issues have given rise to justified concerns in India and other countries about the situation in Afghanistan, he said while speaking virtually at the annual leadership summit of the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF).Participating in a conversation with former American ambassador Frank Wisner, Jaishankar responded to a question about the threat from recent developments in Afghanistan by saying: “I think to some degree, we’ll all be justified in having levels of concern. And to some degree, the jury is still out.”“When I say levels of concern, there were commitments which were made by the Taliban at Doha... US knows that best, we were not taken into confidence on various aspects of that.”He added, “So, whatever were the deals which were struck in Doha – one has a broad sense but beyond that, are we going to see an inclusive government, are we going to see respect for the rights of women, children and minorities? Most important, are we going to see an Afghanistan whose soil is not used for terrorism against other states and the rest of the world?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-clear-if-afghanistan-will-have-inclusive-govt-or-its-soil-won-t-be-used-for-terror-jaishankar-101633030531576.html
01-10-2021||India||Assam human rights panel asks govt to give details of probe into eviction drive violence||The Assam Human Rights Commission (AHRC) on Thursday asked the state government to give details on whether any inquiry has been ordered into last week’s violence during an eviction drive that claimed lives of two civilians and injured nearly 20 others including 11 policemen. The commission’s move comes a week after the clashes at Garukhuti in Darrang district based on a letter by senior Congressman and leader of opposition in the state assembly Debabrata Saikia urging AHRC to take suo-motu cognizance of the incident. The AHRC letter addressed to principal secretary of home and political department asks the government to inform whether any commission has been constituted to probe the incident. The government has been asked to treat the matter as urgent and file a reply within 21 days. Following the incident that took place on September 23, the state government had announced that an inquiry into the incident would be conducted by a retired judge of the Gauhati High Court. No notification in that regard has been issued yet. “I had submitted the letter to AHRC seeking their intervention as there was human rights violation during the eviction drive that claimed 2 lives. But since the state government has already announced an inquiry, a separate probe by AHRC is unlikely to take place,” said Debabrata Saikia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-human-rights-panel-asks-govt-to-give-details-of-probe-into-eviction-drive-violence-101633030171759.html
01-10-2021||India||Manson Mavunkal case: Kerala police seek ASI help to find details of ‘antiques’||Thiruvananthapuram The Kerala Crime Branch on Thursday sought the help of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to find out details of so-called “antiques” seized from the house of the alleged master conman Manson Mavunkal (52) even as a luxury car registered in the name of Bollywood actor Kareena Kapoor was found in his possession. “We have approached the ASI to find details of artefacts seized from his (Mavunkal’s) house. We registered three fresh cases in Kochi and we will also check his degrees and other details,” said additional director general of police S Sreejith, crime branch head. Forest officials who seized ivory products from Mavunkal’s house later confirmed that they were fake. Mavunkal was arrested by the crime branch last Sunday and at least 14 cases have been registered against him under various police stations in Kerala. Close to several senior police officers and politicians, he allegedly cheated many showing his contact with powerful people, collection of his “antiques” and his upcoming international art museum. Lying idle in Cherthala police station (Alapuzha) for almost a year, Porschse Boxster was registered in Kareena’s name and registration certificate mentions Randhir Kapoor as her father and their Bandra (Mumbai) address was given. A motor vehicles department official said 2007 model vehicle was seized by the police last year in connection with a cheating case filed by a business group and that he might have got it from a used car dealer. The actor was not available for her comments. Out of his 30-odd cars found in his house, most of them are high-end luxury vehicles that he reportedly brought from used car dealers. His former driver A Ajith said besides antiques he collected luxury cars from various parts of the country and displayed before his house to attract influential people. Even disposed and faulty luxury cars were carted to his house. “With the fleet of cars he attracted many in the cinema industry also. He allegedly cheated a Karnataka-based luxury car dealer Thyagarajan after buying 8 used high-end cars. When Thyagarajan approached him for payment, he was intimidated using his police connections,” said Ajith. At times he also used to show off saying it was gifted by cine actors, he said. There are unconfirmed reports that many conned cinema personalities are unwilling to come up fearing bad publicity. Meanwhile former DGP Loknath Behra, who was appointed as the managing director of Kochi Metro after his retirement four months ago, has proceeded on leave. But people close to him said he took leave due to some personal reasons. During his tenure as police chief, a beat box was installed outside his house after Mavunkal complained that “he possessed priceless antiques”. Behra’s photo sitting on the throne of Mavunkal was also surfaced in social media inviting embarrassment to the police. Though there were many complaints against him, Mavunkal got away easily using his influence with the police and politicians. Confidential documents with the Hindustan Times suggest inquiries were ordered in 2019 and 2020 but they failed to pick up speed till his arrest on last Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manson-mavunkal-case-kerala-police-seek-asi-help-to-find-details-of-antiques-101633030051631.html
01-10-2021||India||Param Bir Singh untraceable, Maharashtra minister says agencies trying to find whereabouts||Mumbai: Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse-Patil on Thursday said that investigating agencies were looking for former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who has been incommunicado for the past two months, amid reports of his leaving the country in a section of the media, adding the state government was in touch with the Centre on the issue. “Any civil service officer needs the approval of the central government (for leaving the country). The Union home ministry is also searching for his whereabouts. We have no clue about his whereabouts and we too are searching him,” he said.The minister said it was not appropriate if Singh has fled the country. “There will be action taken against him. It could be under various provisions of the law. It could be a disciplinary action for remaining absent from the duty without informing the authorities. The action is not important, his appearance before the agencies is important. The action against him by the state government is not out of any vendetta but it is a routine procedure which will be followed,” Walse-Patil said in Mumbai.Singh was removed as Mumbai top cop on March 17, following the Antilia explosives scare and subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. He was shifted to the Maharashtra home guards on March 22.On April 7, Singh appeared before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for recording his statement in connection with the two cases. Later, he was summoned by the federal agency, but he did not respond to the summons.Meanwhile, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole questioned whether the Centre had helped Singh to flee the country. “Had he been detained by the central agencies investigating Antilia explosive scare case, significant information could have been extracted from him. The investigating agencies have raised doubts about his whereabouts but the question remains unanswered if the Centre facilitated him to go out of the country,” he said.Singh last attended his office on May 4 and went on leave from May 5, on account of health issues. It is believed that Singh had gone to his hometown in Chandigarh. In between, he had communicated with the Maharashtra government, requesting for extension of his leave due to health issues. He also claimed that he had undergone a surgery. In mid-August, he again requested extension for leave over health grounds. But, thereafter, no request has come from him, said a police officer requesting anonymity.An inquiry commission headed by retired Bombay high court judge, justice (retired) Kailas Uttamchand Chandiwal in early September issued a bailable warrant against Singh for not appearing before it.A team of the state crime investigation department (CID) that went to three of his (Singh’s) known residences in Chandigarh and Mumbai did not find him there and could not serve the warrant. As he failed to appear before the commission, it re-issued the bailable warrant against him on September 21.The next hearing of the commission is scheduled on October 6.The commission earlier had imposed a fine of ₹50,000 on Singh twice for not appearing before the commission.People aware of the matter said that NIA too has issued summons to him to join the investigation, but he failed to appear before them as well.Three days after his removal as commissioner, Singh on March 20 wrote an explosive letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, accusing state’s former home minister Anil Deshmukh of instructing controversial crime branch officer API Sachin Vaze and some other Mumbai Police officers to extort monthly ₹100 crore from bars, pubs, hookah parlours and such other establishments in Mumbai.Singh also approached courts with his complaint, following which the Bombay high court ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/param-bir-singh-untraceable-maharashtra-minister-says-agencies-trying-to-find-whereabouts-101633029991628.html
01-10-2021||India||Farmers protest near BJP meeting venue in Karnal||KARNAL: Hundreds of farmers on Thursday breached police barricades to protest at the venue of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meeting at Indri town in Haryana’s Karnal district. Earlier, the district administration had made elaborate security arrangements with the deployment of two companies of paramilitary forces besides the state police personnel. Farmers, who are protesting against the three central farm laws, reached the venue by jumping barricades from the residential colonies. Some farm union leaders told reporters that they wanted to hold a peaceful protest and show black flags to BJP leaders, but police allegedly tried to stop and confine them to a particular spot. Expressing their unhappiness, the protesters then tried to march towards the venue.“We wanted to hold a peaceful protest, but police today again wanted to create a situation of confrontation as was witnessed when they lathicharged farmers at Bastara toll plaza in Karnal recently,” said a farm union leader. The situation came under control after Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia, along with Indri sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Sumit Sihag, reached the spot and held a meeting with the farmer leaders. The SP said farmers agreed to hold a protest outside the venue peacefully and assured them that they would not enter the venue and disrupt the meeting. The protest, however, continued until the meeting was over after which the police escorted the leaders of the ruling party out of the venue. BJP’s Karnal district president Yogendra Rana and party legislator from Indri Ram Kumar Kashyap were addressing the meeting, Tridev Sammelan, in which nearly 600 booth-level workers of the party were invited. “The meeting was called as per the party’s directions and such meetings are being called in every assembly segment,” said Rana. MLA Kashyap said everybody has a right to protest in a democratic way, but they should not create disturbance to others. The farmers from all across the country, mainly from the states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act passed by Parliament last year. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Charuni) Karnal district president Jagdip Singh Aulakh said they had come to protest at the venue of the BJP’s meeting on the call of Samyukt Kisan Morcha. “It is shameful that the leaders of the ruling party are taking shields in the police vehicles. It seems that the state police were only working for the protection of BJP leaders,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-near-bjp-meeting-venue-in-karnal-101633029751429.html
01-10-2021||India||Telangana: Prashant Kishor to help Jagan’s sister Sharmila chart political roadmap||HyderabadY S Sharmila, president of YSR Telangana Party, a newly-founded regional outfit in Telangana, has engaged the services of political strategist Prashant Kishor to work out a long-term road map for her party for the next assembly elections in the state scheduled to be held in 2023.Kishor had earlier been hired by her brother and YSR Congress party president Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy and had played a major role in bringing the party to victory in the 2019 assembly elections in Andhra Pradesh.The strategist also played a major role in the formation of governments in Bihar, Punjab, West Bengal and more recently Tamil Nadu.In an interview to a Telugu television channel telecast on Sunday, Sharmila announced that she had entered into an agreement with Kishor, the founder of Indian Political Action Committee (IPAC), for working out strategies for her political party for the next assembly elections in Telangana.Sharmila, in fact, had been in consultations with Kishor much before she announced the launch of her political party in July 8 this year. Initially, Kishor’s close aide Priya Rajendran, daughter of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MLA R Rajendran, helped Sharmila in the launch of the party and her social media campaign.“Priya was of great help in working out strategies for the party. It has only been in the last few days that Kishor’s team has started working for the party,” a YSRTP leader familiar with the development said.On Wednesday, a team of Kishor’s IPAC held lengthy discussions with Sharmila at her Lotus Pond office in Hyderabad to finalise the blueprint for her proposed padayatra (foot march) across the length and breadth of the state, starting October 20.The team, which will continue to hold a series of meetings with Sharmila in the next few days, will also come out with suggestions to strengthen the party, expand the party network from grassroots level and prepare the party philosophy. “The team will set up its office at Lotus Pond premises itself,” the party leader said.Sharmila, who named her proposed padayatra as “Praja Prasthanam” (People’s journey), is planning to cover 90 out of the 119 assembly constituencies in Telangana over a period of one year.Sharmila chose to kickstart her padayatra from Chevella assembly constituency in Ranga Reddy district, the same place from where her father Y S Rajasekhar Reddy began his padayatra in 2003 and brought the Congress to power in 2004 assembly elections in combined Andhra Pradesh.Sharmila is planning to walk for 12-15 km a day and hopes to complete her walkathon in a year. During her journey, she wants to understand the people’s problems personally and highlight what they had lost in the seven years of Telangana Rashtra Samithi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-prashant-kishor-to-help-jagan-s-sister-sharmila-chart-political-roadmap-101633029691605.html
01-10-2021||India||Farmers protest near BJP meeting in Karnal||Hundreds of farmers on Thursday breached police barricades to protest at the venue of a Bharatiya Janata Party meeting at Indri town in Haryana’s Karnal district.The district administration had made elaborate security arrangements with the deployment of two companies of paramilitary forces besides the state police personnel. Farmers, who are protesting against the three central farm laws, reached the venue by jumping barricades from the residential colonies.Some farm union leaders told reporters they wanted to hold a peaceful protest and show black flags to BJP leaders, but police allegedly tried to stop and confine them to a particular spot.“We wanted to hold a peaceful protest, but police today again wanted to create a situation of confrontation as was witnessed when they lathicharged farmers at Bastara toll plaza in Karnal recently,” said a farm leader.Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia said farmers agreed to hold a protest outside the venue peacefully and assured them they would not enter the venue and disrupt the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-near-bjp-meeting-in-karnal-101633028479948.html
01-10-2021||India||‘India wasn’t fully in the loop on US-Taliban deal’: Jaishankar explains concerns||New Delhi: India was not taken into confidence on all aspects of the deal signed by the US and the Taliban last year and it still isn’t clear whether Afghanistan will have an inclusive government or whether Afghan soil will not be used for terror, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday.These issues have given rise to justified concerns in India and other countries about the situation in Afghanistan, he said while speaking virtually at the annual leadership summit of the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF).Jaishankar described the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad as a grouping that brings together four countries with shared values and a shared vision for the Indo-Pacific, and said it should not be perceived as “some kind of ganging up” against China.Participating in a conversation with former American ambassador Frank Wisner, Jaishankar responded to a question about the threat from recent developments in Afghanistan by saying: “I think to some degree, we’ll all be justified in having levels of concern. And to some degree, the jury is still out.“When I say levels of concern, there were commitments which were made by the Taliban at Doha...The US knows that best, we were not taken into confidence on various aspects of that.”He added, “So, whatever were the deals which were struck in Doha – one has a broad sense but beyond that, are we going to see an inclusive government, are we going to see respect for the rights of women, children and minorities? Most important, are we going to see an Afghanistan whose soil is not used for terrorism against other states and the rest of the world?”The concerns of India and other countries were captured by the UN Security Council resolution 2593, which was adopted in August, though it remained to be seen how these worries would be addressed, Jaishankar said. India will take its time and study the matter because many of the understandings reached by the US and the Taliban “are not known to the entire international community”, he added.India’s concerns related to Afghanistan were discussed when Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently met US President Joe Biden in Washington and both countries “are on similar pages at a principal level on many of these issues”.He said: “We have been victims of cross-border terrorism from that region and...that has shaped in many ways our view of some of the neighbours of Afghanistan. How much the US shares that view and where is it that the US makes its tactical compromises, that is for the Americans to figure out.”Jaishankar also said India and the US share some aspects of their assessment of Pakistan’s role in Afghanistan, while there were also aspects “where maybe our positions are not exactly the same”.He described the Quad, which recently held its first in-person leaders’ summit in Washington, as four countries with shared interests and common values that have a high degree of comfort in working together on immediate and long-term concerns in the Indo-Pacific. In the past, these concerns included maritime security, humanitarian aid and military exercises, but the Quad has now moved towards addressing new issues such as Covid-19 vaccines, and principles for design, development, governance and use of technology, and semiconductor supply chains. “The beauty of Quad is precisely because it is not rigid, it is not formal, it’s very comfortable and easy-going. The agenda is made up responding to the requirements of the times,” Jaishankar said.He made it clear that the Quad “is for things, it’s not against somebody”. The grouping works for rule of law, democratic values, freedom of overflight, peaceful resolution of disputes and territorial integrity of states.“I think it’s very important not to be railroaded into some kind of negative discourse which actually is not from our script, it is somebody else’s script,” he said, adding that the members of Quad – India, Australia, Japan and the US – have the fundamental right to cooperate with partners, and “others should not have a veto on our choices”.Jaishankar indicated the Quad shouldn’t be seen as an anti-China grouping. “The rise of China has had a fundamental impact on the international order. So participants in the international order...need to assess that and respond to that in the light of our own interests. It’s essential to normalise this conversation – this should not end up as though it’s some kind of ganging up and a negatively driven event,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-wasn-t-fully-in-the-loop-on-us-taliban-deal-jaishankar-explains-concerns-101633028671323.html
